Packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale, if classified with the good for which preferential tariff treatment under the US-CFTA is claimed, will be disregarded in determining whether all non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo the applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 26(n), HTSUS. If the good is subject to a regional value content requirement, the value of such packaging materials and containers will be taken into account as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of the good.

# Example 1.
Chilean Producer A of good C imports 100 non-originating blister packages to be used as retail packaging for good C. As provided in § 10.455(a)(1), the value of the blister packages is their adjusted value, which in this case is $10. Good C has a regional value content requirement. The United States importer of good C decides to use the build-down method, RVC = ((AV-VNM)/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.454(a) of this subpart), in determining whether good C satisfies the regional value content requirement. In applying this method, the non-originating blister packages are taken into account as non-originating. As such, their $10 adjusted value is included in the VNM, value of non-originating materials, of good C.

# Example 2.
Same facts as in Example 1, but the blister packages are originating. In this case, the adjusted value of the originating blister packages would not be included as part of the VNM of good C under the build-down method. However, if the United States importer had used the build-up method, RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.454(b)), the adjusted value of the blister packaging would be included as part of the VOM, value of originating material.
[CBP Dec. 05-07, 70 FR 10873, Mar. 7, 2005, as amended by CBP Dec. 06-39, 71 FR 76134, Dec. 20, 2006]
§ 10.462
Packing materials and containers for shipment.
(a) Packing materials and containers for shipment, as defined in § 10.450(m), are to be disregarded in determining whether the non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo an applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 26(n), HTSUS. Accordingly, such materials and containers do not have to undergo the applicable change in tariff classification even if they are non-originating.
(b) Packing materials and containers for shipment, as defined in § 10.450(m), are to be disregarded in determining the regional value content of a good imported into the United States. Accordingly, in applying either the build-down or build-up method for determining the regional value content of the good imported into the United States, the value of such packing materials and containers for shipment (whether originating or non-originating) is disregarded and not included in AV, adjusted value, VNM, value of non-originating materials, or VOM, value of originating materials.

# Example.
Chilean Producer A produces good C. Producer A ships good C to the United States in a shipping container which it purchased from Company B in Chile. The shipping container is originating. The value of the shipping container determined under section § 10.455(a)(2) is $3. Good C is subject to a regional value content requirement. The transaction value of good C is $100, which includes the $3 shipping container. The U.S. importer decides to use the build-up method, RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.454(b)), in determining whether good C satisfies the regional value content requirement. In determining the AV, adjusted value, of good C imported into the U.S., paragraph (b) of this section requires a $3 deduction for the value of the shipping container. Therefore, the AV is $97 ($100-$3). In addition, the value of the shipping container is disregarded and not included in the VOM, value of originating materials.
§ 10.463
Transit and transshipment.
(a)
General.
A good will not be considered an originating good by reason of having undergone production that occurs entirely in the territory of Chile, the United States, or both, that would
enable the good to qualify as an originating good if subsequent to that production the good undergoes further production or any other operation outside the territories of Chile and the United States, other than unloading, reloading, or any other process necessary to preserve the good in good condition or to transport the good to the territory of Chile or the United States.
(b)
Documentary evidence.
An importer making a claim that a good is originating may be required to demonstrate, to CBP's satisfaction, that no further production or subsequent operation, other than permitted under paragraph (a) of this section, occurred outside the territories of Chile or the United States. An importer may demonstrate compliance with this section by submitting documentary evidence. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, bills of lading, packing lists, commercial invoices, and customs entry and exit documents.

# Origin Verifications and Determinations
§ 10.470
Verification and justification of claim for preferential tariff treatment.
(a)
Verification.
A claim for preferential tariff treatment made under § 10.410 or § 10.442 of this subpart, including any statements or other information submitted to CBP in support of the claim, will be subject to such verification as the Center director deems necessary. In the event that the Center director is provided with insufficient information to verify or substantiate the claim, the Center director may deny the claim for preferential tariff treatment. A verification of a claim for preferential treatment may involve, but is not limited to, a review of:
(1) All records required to be made, kept, and made available to CBP by the importer or any other person under part 163 of this chapter;
(2) Documentation and other information regarding the country of origin of an article and its constituent materials, including, but not limited to, production records, supporting accounting and financial records, information relating to the place of production, the number and identification of the types of machinery used in production, and the number of workers employed in production; and
(3) Evidence that documents the use of U.S. or Chilean materials in the production of the article subject to the verification, such as purchase orders, invoices, bills of lading and other shipping documents, customs import and clearance documents, and bills of material and inventory records.
(b)
Applicable accounting principles.
When conducting a verification of origin to which Generally Accepted Accounting Principles may be relevant, CBP will apply and accept the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles applicable in the country of production.
[CBP Dec. 05-07, 70 FR 10873, Mar. 7, 2005, as amended by CBP Dec. 06-39, 71 FR 76134, Dec. 20, 2006; CBP Dec. 10-29, 75 FR 52450, Aug. 26, 2010]
§ 10.471
Special rule for verifications in Chile of U.S. imports of textile and apparel products.
(a)
Procedures to determine whether a claim of origin is accurate.
For the purpose of determining that a claim of origin for a textile or apparel good is accurate, CBP may request that the government of Chile conduct a verification, regardless of whether a claim is made for preferential tariff treatment. While a verification under this paragraph is being conducted, CBP may take appropriate action, as directed by The Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements (CITA), which may include suspending the application of preferential treatment to the textile or apparel good for which a claim of origin has been made. If CBP is unable to make the determination described in this paragraph within 12 months after a request for a verification, CBP may take appropriate action with respect to the textile and apparel good subject to the verification, and with respect to similar goods exported or produced by the entity that exported or produced the good, if directed by CITA.
(b)
Procedures to determine compliance with applicable customs laws and regulations of the U.S.
For purposes of enabling CBP to determine that an exporter or producer is complying with applicable customs laws, regulations, and procedures in cases in which CBP has a reasonable suspicion that a Chilean exporter or producer is engaging in unlawful activity relating to trade in textile and apparel goods, CBP may request that the government of Chile conduct a verification, regardless of whether a claim is made for preferential tariff treatment. A “reasonable suspicion” for the purpose of this paragraph will be based on relevant factual information, including information of the type set forth in Article 5.5 of the US-CFTA, that indicates circumvention of applicable laws, regulations or procedures regarding trade in textile and apparel goods. CBP may undertake or assist in a verification under this paragraph by conducting visits in Chile, along with the competent authorities of Chile, to the premises of an exporter, producer or any other enterprise involved in the movement of textile or apparel goods from Chile to the United States. While a verification under this paragraph is being conducted, CBP may take appropriate action, as directed by CITA, which may include suspending the application of preferential tariff treatment to the textile and apparel goods exported or produced by the Chilean entity where the reasonable suspicion of unlawful activity relates to those goods. If CBP is unable to make the determination described in this paragraph within 12 months after a request for a verification, CBP may take appropriate action with respect to any textile or apparel goods exported or produced by the entity subject to the verification, if directed by CITA.
(c)
Assistance by CBP to Chilean authorities.
CBP may undertake or assist in a verification under this section by conducting visits in Chile, along with the competent authorities of Chile, to the premises of an exporter, producer or any other enterprise involved in the movement of textile or apparel goods from Chile to the United States.
(d)
Treatment of documents and information provided to CBP.
Any production, trade and transit documents and other information necessary to conduct a verification under this section, provided to CBP by the government of Chile consistent with the laws, regulations, and procedures of Chile, will be considered confidential as provided for in Article 5.6 of the US-CFTA.
(e)
Notification to Chile.
Prior to commencing appropriate action under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, CBP will notify the government of Chile. CBP may continue to take appropriate action under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section until it receives information sufficient to enable it to make the determination described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(f)
Retention of authority by CBP.
If CBP requests a verification before Chile fully implements its obligations under Article 3.21 of the US-CFTA, the verification will be conducted principally by CBP, including through means described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. CBP retains the authority to exercise its rights under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
§ 10.472
Verification in the United States of textile and apparel goods.
(a)
Procedures to determine whether a claim of origin is accurate.
CBP will endeavor, at the request of the government of Chile, to conduct a verification for the purpose of determining that a claim of origin for a textile or apparel good is accurate. A verification will be conducted under this paragraph regardless of whether a claim is made for preferential tariff treatment. If the government of Chile is unable to make the determination described in this paragraph within 12 months after a request for a verification, Chile may take appropriate action with respect to the textile and apparel good subject to the verification, and with respect to similar goods exported or produced by the entity that exported or produced the good.
(b)
Procedures to determine compliance with applicable customs laws and regulations of Chile.
CBP will endeavor to conduct a verification at the request of the government of Chile for purposes of enabling Chile to determine that the U.S. exporter or producer is complying with applicable customs laws, regulations,
and procedures, if Chile has a reasonable suspicion that a U.S. exporter or producer is engaging in unlawful activity relating to trade in textile and apparel goods. A verification will be conducted under this paragraph regardless of whether a claim is made for preferential tariff treatment. A “reasonable suspicion” for the purpose of this paragraph will be based on relevant factual information, including information of the type set forth in Article 5.5 of the US-CFTA, that indicates circumvention of applicable laws, regulations or procedures regarding trade in textile and apparel goods. If the government of Chile is unable to make the determination described in this paragraph within 12 months after a request for a verification, it may take action as permitted under its laws with respect to any textile or apparel goods exported or produced by the entity subject to the verification.
(c)
Visits by CBP.
CBP may conduct visits to the premises of a U.S. exporter or producer or any other enterprise involved in the movement of textile or apparel goods from the United States to Chile in order to undertake or assist in a verification pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(d)
Initiation of verification by CBP.
CBP may conduct, on its own initiative, a verification for the purpose of determining that a claim of origin for a textile or apparel good is accurate.
(e)
Treatment of documents and information.
CBP will endeavor to provide to the government of Chile, consistent with U.S. laws, regulations, and procedures, production, trade, and transit documents and other information necessary to conduct a verification under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Such information will be considered confidential as provided for in Article 5.6 of the US-CFTA.
§ 10.473
Issuance of negative origin determinations.
If CBP determines, as a result of an origin verification initiated under this subpart, that the good which is the subject of the verification does not qualify as an originating good, it will issue a determination in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to the importer that sets forth the following:
(a) A description of the good that was the subject of the verification together with the identifying numbers and dates of the export and import documents pertaining to the good;
(b) A statement setting forth the findings of fact made in connection with the verification and upon which the determination is based;
(c) With specific reference to the rules applicable to originating goods as set forth in General Note 26, HTSUS, and in §§ 10.450 through 10.463 of this subpart, the legal basis for the determination; and
(d) A notice of intent to deny preferential tariff treatment on the good which is the subject of the determination.
[CBP Dec. 05-07, 70 FR 10873, Mar. 7, 2005, as amended by CBP Dec. 06-39, 71 FR 76134, Dec. 20, 2006]
§ 10.474
Repeated false or unsupported preference claims.
Where verification or other information reveals indications of a pattern of conduct by an importer of false or unsupported representations that a good imported into the United States qualifies as originating, CBP may deny subsequent claims for preferential tariff treatment on identical goods imported by that person until compliance with the rules applicable to originating goods as set forth in General Note 26, HTSUS is established to the satisfaction of CBP.
[CBP Dec. 05-07, 70 FR 10873, Mar. 7, 2005, as amended by CBP Dec. 06-39, 71 FR 76134, Dec. 20, 2006]

# Penalties
§ 10.480
General.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, all criminal, civil or administrative penalties which may be imposed on U.S. importers, exporters and producers for violations of the customs and related laws and regulations will also apply to U.S. importers, exporters and producers for violations of the laws and regulations relating to the US-CFTA.
§ 10.481
Corrected declaration by importers.
A U.S. importer who makes a corrected declaration under § 10.410(b) will not be subject to civil or administrative penalties for having made an incorrect declaration, provided that the corrected declaration was voluntarily made.
§ 10.482
Corrected certifications of origin by exporters or producers.
Civil or administrative penalties provided for under the U.S. customs laws and regulations will not be imposed on an exporter or producer in the United States who voluntarily provides written notification pursuant to § 10.430(b) with respect to the making of an incorrect certification.
§ 10.483
Framework for correcting declarations and certifications.
(a)
“Voluntarily” defined.
For purposes of this subpart, the making of a corrected declaration or the providing of written notification of an incorrect certification will be deemed to have been done voluntarily if:
(1) Done before the commencement of a formal investigation; or
(2) Done before any of the events specified in § 162.74(i) of this chapter have occurred; or
(3) Done within 30 calendar days after either the U.S. importer, exporter or producer had reason to believe that the declaration or certification was not correct; and is
(4) Accompanied by a written statement setting forth the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section; and
(5) In the case of a corrected declaration, accompanied or followed by a tender of any actual loss of duties and merchandise processing fees, if applicable, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(b)
Cases involving fraud.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a person who acted fraudulently in making an incorrect declaration or certification may not make a voluntary correction. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “fraud” will have the meaning set forth in paragraph (B)(3) of appendix B to part 171 of this chapter.
(c)
Statement.
For purposes of this subpart, each corrected declaration or notification of an incorrect certification must be accompanied by a statement, submitted in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system, which:
(1) Identifies the class or kind of good to which the incorrect declaration or certification relates;
(2) In the case of a corrected declaration, identifies each affected import transaction, including each port of importation and the approximate date of each importation, and in the case of a notification of an incorrect certification, identifies each affected exportation transaction, including each port of exportation and the approximate date of each exportation. A U.S. producer who provides written notification that certain information in a certification of origin is incorrect and who is unable to identify the specific export transactions under this paragraph must provide as much information concerning those transactions as the producer, by the exercise of good faith and due diligence, is able to obtain;
(3) Specifies the nature of the incorrect statements or omissions regarding the declaration or certification; and
(4) Sets forth, to the best of the person's knowledge, the true and accurate information or data which should have been covered by or provided in the declaration or certification, and states that the person will provide any additional pertinent information or data which is unknown at the time of making the corrected declaration or certification within 30 calendar days or within any extension of that 30-day period as CBP may permit in order for the person to obtain the information or data.
(d)
Substantial compliance.
For purposes of this section, a person will be deemed to have voluntarily corrected a declaration or certification even though that person provides corrected information in a manner which does not conform to the requirements of the written statement specified in paragraph (c) of this section, provided that:
(1) CBP is satisfied that the information was provided before the commencement of a formal investigation; and
(2) The information provided includes, orally or in writing, substantially the same information as that specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(e)
Tender of actual loss of duties.
A U.S. importer who makes a corrected declaration must tender any actual loss of duties at the time of making the corrected declaration, or within 30 calendar days thereafter, or within any extension of that 30-day period as CBP may allow in order for the importer to obtain the information or data necessary to calculate the duties owed.
(f)
Applicability of prior disclosure provisions.
Where a person fails to meet the requirements of this section because the correction of the declaration or the written notification of an incorrect certification is not considered to be done voluntarily as provided in this section, that person may nevertheless qualify for prior disclosure treatment under 19 U.S.C. 1592(c)(4) and § 162.74 of this chapter.
[CBP Dec. 05-07, 70 FR 10873, Mar. 7, 2005, as amended by CBP Dec. 06-39, 71 FR 76134, Dec. 20, 2006]

# Goods Returned After Repair or Alteration
§ 10.490
Goods re-entered after repair or alteration in Chile.
(a)
General.
This section sets forth the rules which apply for purposes of obtaining duty-free treatment on goods returned after repair or alteration in Chile as provided for in subheadings 9802.00.40 and 9802.00.50, HTSUS. Goods returned after having been repaired or altered in Chile, whether or not pursuant to a warranty, are eligible for duty-free treatment, provided that the requirements of this section are met. For purposes of this section, “repairs or alterations” means restoration, addition, renovation, re-dyeing, cleaning, re-sterilizing, or other treatment which does not destroy the essential characteristics of, or create a new or commercially different good from, the good exported from the United States.
(b)
Goods not eligible for treatment.
The duty-free treatment referred to in paragraph (a) of this section will not apply to goods which, in their condition as exported from the United States to Chile, are incomplete for their intended use and for which the processing operation performed in Chile constitutes an operation that is performed as a matter of course in the preparation or manufacture of finished goods.
(c)
Documentation.
The provisions of § 10.8(a), (b), and (c) of this part, relating to the documentary requirements for goods entered under subheading 9802.00.40 or 9802.00.50, HTSUS, will apply in connection with the entry of goods which are returned from Chile after having been exported for repairs or alterations and which are claimed to be duty free.

# Subpart I—United States-Singapore Free Trade Agreement

# Source:
CBP Dec. 07-28, 72 FR 31995, June 11, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 10.501
Scope.
This subpart implements the duty preference and related customs provisions applicable to imported goods under the United States-Singapore Free Trade Agreement (the SFTA) signed on May 6, 2003, and under the United States-Singapore Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (the Act; 117 Stat. 948). Except as otherwise specified in this subpart, the procedures and other requirements set forth in this subpart are in addition to the customs procedures and requirements of general application contained elsewhere in this chapter. Additional provisions implementing certain aspects of the SFTA and the Act are contained in parts 24, 162, and 163 of this chapter.
§ 10.502
General definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following terms will have the meanings indicated unless either the context in which they are used requires a different meaning or a different definition is prescribed for a particular section of this subpart:
(a)
Claim for preferential tariff treatment.
“Claim for preferential tariff treatment” means a claim that a good is entitled to the duty rate applicable under the SFTA to an originating good or other good specified in the SFTA,
and to an exemption from the merchandise processing fee;
(b)
Customs duty.
“Customs duty” includes any customs or import duty and a charge of any kind imposed in connection with the importation of a good, including any form of surtax or surcharge in connection with such importation, but, for purposes of implementing the SFTA, does not include any:
(1) Charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently with Article III:2 of GATT 1994 in respect of the like domestic good or in respect of goods from which the imported good has been manufactured or produced in whole or in part;
(2) Antidumping or countervailing duty that is applied pursuant to a Party's domestic law;
(3) Fee or other charge in connection with importation commensurate with the cost of services rendered; or
(4) Duty imposed pursuant to Article 5 of the WTO Agreement on Agriculture.
(c)
Customs Valuation Agreement.
“Customs Valuation Agreement” means the
Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994
, which is part of the WTO Agreement;
(d)
Days.
“Days” means calendar days;
(e)
Enterprise.
“Enterprise” means an entity constituted or organized under applicable law, whether or not for profit, and whether privately-owned or governmentally-owned, including any corporation, trust, partnership, sole proprietorship, joint venture, or other association;
(f)
GATT 1994.
“GATT 1994” means the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994
, which is part of the
WTO Agreement
;
(g)
Harmonized System.
“Harmonized System (HS)” means the
Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System
, including its General Rules of Interpretation, Section Notes, and Chapter Notes, as adopted and implemented by the Parties in their respective tariff laws;
(h)
Heading.
“Heading” means the first four digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(i)
HTSUS.
“HTSUS” means the
Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States
as promulgated by the U.S. International Trade Commission;
(j)
Indirect material.
“Indirect material” means a good used in the production, testing, or inspection of a good in the territory of the United States or Singapore but not physically incorporated into the good, or a good used in the maintenance of buildings or the operation of equipment associated with the production of a good in the territory of the United States or Singapore, including:
(1) Fuel and energy;
(2) Tools, dies, and molds;
(3) Spare parts and materials used in the maintenance of equipment and buildings;
(4) Lubricants, greases, compounding materials, and other materials used in production or used to operate equipment and buildings;
(5) Gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, safety equipment, and supplies;
(6) Equipment, devices, and supplies used for testing or inspecting the good;
(7) Catalysts and solvents; and
(8) Any other goods that are not incorporated into the good but whose use in the production of the good can reasonably be demonstrated to be a part of that production;
(k)
Originating.
“Originating” means qualifying for preferential tariff treatment under the rules of origin set out in SFTA Chapter Three (Rules of Origin) and General Note 25, HTSUS;
(l)
Party.
“Party” means the United States or the Republic of Singapore;
(m)
Person.
“Person” means a natural person or an enterprise;
(n)
Preferential tariff treatment.
“Preferential tariff treatment” means the duty rate applicable under the SFTA to an originating good, and an exemption from the merchandise processing fee;
(o)
Subheading.
“Subheading” means the first six digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(p)
Tariff preference level.
“Tariff preference level” means a quantitative limit for certain non-originating textiles and textile apparel goods that may be entitled to preferential tariff treatment based on the goods meeting
the production requirements set forth in § 10.521 of this subpart;
(q)
Textile or apparel good.
“Textile or apparel good” means a good listed in the Annex to the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing (commonly referred to as “the ATC”), which is part of the WTO Agreement;
(r)
Territory.
“Territory” means:
(1) With respect to Singapore, its land territory, internal waters and territorial sea as well as the maritime zones beyond the territorial sea, including the seabed and subsoil over which the Republic of Singapore exercises sovereign rights or jurisdiction under its national laws and international law for the purpose of exploration and exploitation of the natural resources of such areas; and
(2) With respect to the United States;
(i) The customs territory of the United States, which includes the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico;
(ii) The foreign trade zones located in the United States and Puerto Rico; and
(iii) Any areas beyond the territorial seas of the United States within which, in accordance with international law and its domestic law, the United States may exercise rights with respect to the seabed and subsoil and their natural resources; and
(s)
WTO Agreement.
“WTO Agreement” means the
Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization
of April 15, 1994.

# Import Requirements
§ 10.510
Filing of claim for preferential tariff treatment upon importation.
(a)
Claim.
An importer may make a claim for SFTA preferential tariff treatment, including an exemption from the merchandise processing fee, based on the importer's knowledge or information in the importer's possession that the good qualifies as an originating good. For goods that qualify as originating goods under the Integrated Sourcing Initiative (
see
subdivisions (b)(ii) and (m) of General Note 25, HTSUS, and § 10.532 of this subpart), the claim is made by including on the entry summary, or equivalent documentation, the tariff item 9999.00.84, HTSUS, or by the method specified for equivalent reporting via an authorized electronic data interchange system. For all other qualifying goods, the claim is made by including on the entry summary, or equivalent documentation, the letters “SG” as a prefix to the subheading of the HTSUS under which each qualifying good is classified, or by the method specified for equivalent reporting via an authorized electronic data interchange system.
(b)
Corrected claim.
If, after making the claim required under paragraph (a) of this section, the importer becomes aware that the claim is invalid, the importer must promptly correct the claim and pay any duties that may be due. The importer must submit a statement either in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to the CBP office where the original claim was filed specifying the correction (
see
§§ 10.561 and 10.562 of this subpart).
§ 10.511
Supporting statement.
(a)
Contents.
An importer who makes a claim under § 10.510(a) of this subpart must submit, at the request of the Center director, a statement setting forth the reasons that the good qualifies as an originating good, including pertinent cost and manufacturing data. A statement submitted to CBP under this paragraph:
(1) Need not be in a prescribed format but must be in writing or must be transmitted electronically pursuant to any electronic means authorized by CBP for that purpose;
(2) Must include the following information:
(i) The legal name, address, telephone, and e-mail address (if any) of the importer of record of the good;
(ii) The legal name, address, telephone, and e-mail address (if any) of the responsible official or authorized agent of the importer signing the supporting statement (if different from the information required by paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section);
(iii) The legal name, address, telephone, and e-mail address (if any) of the exporter of the good (if different from the producer);
(iv) The legal name, address, telephone, and e-mail address (if any) of the producer of the good (if known);
(v) A description of the good for which preferential tariff treatment is claimed, which must be sufficiently detailed to relate it to the invoice and the HS nomenclature;
(vi) The HTSUS tariff classification, to six or more digits, as necessary for the specific change in tariff classification rule for the good set forth in General Note 25(o), HTSUS;
(vii) The applicable rule of origin set forth in General Note 25, HTSUS, under which the good qualifies as an originating good; and
(3) Must include a statement, in substantially the following form:
I certify that:
The information on this document is true and accurate and I assume the responsibility for proving such representations. I understand that I am liable for any false statements or material omissions made on or in connection with this document;
I agree to maintain and present upon request, documentation necessary to support these representations;
The goods originated or are considered to have originated in the territory of one or more of the Parties, and comply with the origin requirements specified for those goods in the United States-Singapore Free Trade Agreement; there has been no further production or any other operation outside the territories of the parties, other than unloading, reloading, or any other operation necessary to preserve the goods in good condition or to transport the goods to the United States; and
This document consists of ______ pages, including all attachments.”
(b)
Responsible official or agent.
The supporting statement required to be submitted under paragraph (a) of this section must be signed and dated by a responsible official of the importer or by the importer's authorized agent having knowledge of the relevant facts.
(c)
Language.
The supporting statement required to be submitted under paragraph (a) of this section must be completed in the English language.
(d)
Applicability of supporting statement.
The supporting statement required to be submitted under paragraph (a) of this section may be applicable to:
(1) A single importation of a good into the United States, including a single shipment that results in the filing of one or more entries and a series of shipments that results in the filing of one entry; or
(2) Multiple importations of identical goods into the United States that occur within a specified blanket period, not exceeding 12 months, set out in the statement. For purposes of this paragraph, “identical goods” means goods that are the same in all respects relevant to the particular rule of origin that qualifies the goods as originating.
§ 10.512
Importer obligations.
(a)
General.
An importer who makes a claim under § 10.510(a) of this subpart is responsible for the truthfulness of the claim and of all the information and data contained in the supporting statement provided for in § 10.511 of this subpart, for submitting any supporting documents requested by CBP, and for the truthfulness of the information contained in those documents. However, an importer will not be subject to civil or administrative penalties under 19 U.S.C. 1592 for making an invalid claim for preferential tariff treatment or submitting an incorrect supporting statement, provided that the importer promptly and voluntarily corrects the claim or supporting statement and pays any duty owing (
see
§§ 10.561 and 10.562 of this subpart). In instances in which CBP requests the submission of supporting documents, CBP will allow for the direct submission by the exporter or producer of business confidential or other sensitive information, including cost and sourcing information.
(b)
Compliance.
In order to make a claim for preferential tariff treatment under § 10.510(a) of this subpart, the importer:
(1) Must have records that explain how the importer came to the conclusion that the good qualifies for preferential tariff treatment. Those records must include documents that support a claim that the article in question qualifies for preferential tariff treatment because it meets the applicable rules of origin set forth in General Note 25, HTSUS, and in this subpart. Those records may include a properly completed importer's supporting statement as set forth in § 10.511 of this subpart; and
(2) May be required to present evidence that the conditions set forth in
§ 10.542 of this subpart were met if the imported article was shipped through an intermediate country.
(c)
Information provided by exporter or producer.
The fact that the importer has made a claim or supporting statement based on information provided by an exporter or producer will not relieve the importer of the responsibility referred to in the first sentence of paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 10.513
Supporting statement not required.
(a)
General.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an importer will not be required to submit a supporting statement under § 10.511 of this subpart for:
(1) A non-commercial importation of a good; or
(2) A commercial importation for which the value of the goods does not exceed U.S. $2,500.
(b)
Exception.
If the Center director determines that an importation described in paragraph (a) of this section may reasonably be considered to have been carried out or planned for the purpose of evading compliance with the rules and procedures governing claims for preference under the SFTA, the Center director will notify the importer that for that importation the importer must submit to CBP a supporting statement. The importer must submit such a statement within 30 days from the date of the notice. Failure to timely submit the supporting statement will result in denial of the claim for preferential treatment.
§ 10.514
Maintenance of records.
(a)
General.
An importer claiming preferential tariff treatment for a good imported into the United States under § 10.510(a) of this subpart must maintain, for five years after the date of importation of the good, any records and documents that the importer has relating to the origin of the good, including records and documents associated with:
(1) The purchase of, cost of, value of, and payment for, the good;
(2) Where appropriate, the purchase of, cost of, value of, and payment for, all materials, including recovered goods and indirect materials, used in the production of the good; and
(3) Where appropriate, the production of the good in the form in which the good was exported.
(b)
Applicability of other recordkeeping requirements.
The records and documents referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are in addition to any other records that the importer is required to prepare, maintain, or make available to CBP under part 163 of this chapter.
(c)
Method of maintenance.
The records and documents referred to in paragraph (a) of this section must be maintained by importers as provided in § 163.5 of this chapter.
§ 10.515
Effect of noncompliance; failure to provide documentation regarding third country transportation.
(a)
Effect of noncompliance.
If the importer fails to comply with any requirement under this subpart, including submission of a complete supporting statement under § 10.511 of this subpart, when requested, the Center director may deny preferential treatment to the imported good.
(b)
Failure to provide documentation regarding third country transportation.
Where the requirements for preferential treatment set forth elsewhere in this subpart are met, the Center director nevertheless may deny preferential treatment to an originating good if the good is shipped through or transshipped in a country other than Singapore or the United States, and the importer of the good does not provide, at the request of the Center director, evidence demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Center director that the conditions set forth in § 10.542 of this subpart were met.

# Tariff Preference Level
§ 10.520
Filing of claim for tariff preference level.
A cotton or man-made fiber apparel good described in § 10.521 of this subpart that does not qualify as an originating good under § 10.531 of this subpart may nevertheless be entitled to preferential tariff treatment under the SFTA under an applicable tariff preference level (TPL). To make a TPL claim, the importer must include on the entry summary, or equivalent documentation,
the applicable tariff item in Chapter 99 of the HTSUS (9910.61.01 through 9910.61.89) and the applicable subheading in Chapter 61 or 62 of the HTSUS under which each non-originating cotton or man-made fiber apparel good is classified. For TPL goods, the letters “SG” must be inserted as a prefix to the applicable HTSUS 9910 tariff item when the entry is filed. The importer must also submit a certificate of eligibility as set forth in § 10.522 of this subpart.
§ 10.521
Goods eligible for tariff preference level claims.
Goods eligible for a TPL claim consist of cotton or man-made fiber apparel goods provided for in Chapters 61 and 62 of the HTSUS that are both cut (or knit-to-shape) and sewn or otherwise assembled in Singapore from fabric or yarn produced or obtained outside the territory of Singapore or the United States, and that meet the applicable conditions for preferential tariff treatment under the SFTA, other than the condition that they are originating goods. The preferential tariff treatment is limited to the quantities specified in U.S. Note 13, Subchapter X, Chapter 99, HTSUS.
§ 10.522
Submission of certificate of eligibility.
An importer who claims preferential tariff treatment on a non-originating cotton or man-made fiber apparel good must submit a certificate of eligibility issued by the Government of Singapore, demonstrating that the good is eligible for entry under the applicable TPL, as set forth in § 10.521 of this subpart.

# Rules of Origin
§ 10.530
Definitions.
For purposes of §§ 10.530 through 10.542:
(a)
Adjusted value.
“Adjusted value” means the value determined in accordance with Articles 1 through 8, Article 15, and the corresponding interpretative notes of the Customs Valuation Agreement, adjusted, if necessary, to exclude:
(1) Any costs, charges, or expenses incurred for transportation, insurance and related services incident to the international shipment of the merchandise from the country of exportation to the place of importation; and
(2) The value of packing materials and containers for shipment as defined in paragraph (j) of this section;
(b)
Exporter.
“Exporter” means a person who exports goods from the territory of a Party;
(c)
Fungible goods or materials.
“Fungible goods or materials” means goods or materials, as the case may be, that are interchangeable for commercial purposes and the properties of which are essentially identical;
(d)
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
“Generally Accepted Accounting principles” means the recognized consensus or substantial authoritative support in the territory of a Party, with respect to the recording of revenues, expenses, costs, assets, and liabilities, the disclosure of information, and the preparation of financial statements. These standards may encompass broad guidelines of general application as well as detailed standards, practices, and procedures;
(e)
Good.
“Good” means any merchandise, product, article, or material;
(f)
Goods wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties.
“Goods wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties” means:
(1) Mineral goods extracted in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(2) Vegetable goods, as such goods are defined in the Harmonized System, harvested in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(3) Live animals born and raised in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(4) Goods obtained from hunting, trapping, fishing, or aquaculture conducted in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(5) Goods (fish, shellfish and other marine life) taken from the sea by vessels registered or recorded with a Party and flying its flag;
(6) Goods produced exclusively from products referred to in subparagraph (f)(5) of this section on board factory ships registered or recorded with a Party and flying its flag;
(7) Goods taken by a Party or a person of a Party from the seabed or beneath the seabed outside territorial waters, provided that a Party has rights to exploit such seabed;
(8) Goods taken from outer space, provided they are obtained by a Party or a person of a Party and not processed in the territory of a non-Party;
(9) Waste and scrap derived from:
(i) Production in the territory of one or both of the Parties; or
(ii) Used goods collected in the territory of one or both of the Parties, provided such goods are fit only for the recovery of raw materials;
(10) Recovered goods derived in the territory of one or both of the Parties from used goods; or
(11) Goods produced in one or both of the Parties exclusively from goods referred to in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(9) of this section or from the derivatives of such goods;
(g)
Material.
“Material” means a good that is used in the production of another good;
(h)
Non-originating good.
“Non-originating good” means a good that does not qualify as originating under General Note 25, HTSUS;
(i)
Non-originating material.
“Non-originating material” means a material that does not qualify as originating under General Note 25, HTSUS;
(j)
Packing materials and containers for shipment.
“Packing materials and containers for shipment” means the goods used to protect a good during its transportation to the United States, and does not include the packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale;
(k)
Producer.
“Producer” means a person who grows, raises, mines, harvests, fishes, traps, hunts, manufactures, processes, assembles or disassembles a good;
(l)
Production.
“Production” means growing, mining, harvesting, fishing, raising, trapping, hunting, manufacturing, processing, assembling, or disassembling a good;
(m)
Recovered goods.
“Recovered goods” means materials in the form of individual parts that are the result of:
(1) The complete disassembly of used goods into individual parts; and
(2) The cleaning, inspecting, testing, or other processing of those parts as necessary for improvement to sound working condition by one or more of the following processes: Welding, flame spraying, surface machining, knurling, plating, sleeving, and rewinding, in order for such parts to be assembled with other parts, including other recovered parts, in the production of a remanufactured good as defined in paragraph (o) of this section;
(n)
Relationship.
“Relationship” means whether the buyer and seller are related parties in accordance with Article 15.4 of the Customs Valuation Agreement;
(o)
Remanufactured good.
“Remanufactured good” means an industrial good assembled in the territory of Singapore or the United States that is enumerated in Annex 3C, SFTA, and:
(1) Is entirely or partially comprised of recovered goods;
(2) Has the same life expectancy and meets the same performance standards as a new good; and
(3) Enjoys the same factory warranty as such a new good;
(p)
Self-produced material.
“Self-produced material” means a good, such as a part or ingredient, produced by the producer and used by the producer in the production of another good; and
(q)
Value.
“Value” means the value of a good or material for purposes of calculating customs duties or for purposes of applying this subpart.
§ 10.531
Originating goods.
Except as provided in § 10.543 of this subpart, a good imported into the customs territory of the United States will be considered an originating good under the SFTA only if:
(a) The good is wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(b) The good is transformed in one or both of the Parties so that:
(1) Each non-originating material undergoes an applicable change in tariff classification specified in General Note 25(o), HTSUS, as a result of production occurring entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties; and
(2) The good otherwise satisfies any applicable regional value content or
other requirements specified in General Note 25(o), HTSUS; or
(c) The good, in its condition as imported into the United States, is enumerated as an Integrated Sourcing Initiative good in General Note 25(m), HTSUS, and is imported from the territory of Singapore.
§ 10.532
Integrated Sourcing Initiative.
(a) For purposes of General Note 25(b)(ii), HTSUS, a good is eligible for treatment as an originating good under the Integrated Sourcing Initiative if:
(1) The good, in its condition as imported, is both classified in a tariff provision enumerated in the first column of General Note 25(m), HTSUS, and described opposite that tariff provision in the list of information technology articles set forth in the second column of General Note 25(m), HTSUS;
(2) The good, regardless of its origin, is imported into the territory of the United States from the territory of Singapore. If a product of a non-Party, the good must have been imported into Singapore prior to its importation into the territory of the United States; and
(3) The good satisfies the conditions and requirements of § 10.542 relating to third country transportation.
(b) A good enumerated in General Note 25(m), HTSUS, that is used in the production of another good in Singapore will not be considered an originating material for purposes of determining the eligibility for preferential tariff treatment of such other good unless:
(1) The good enumerated in General Note 25(m), HTSUS, satisfies an applicable rule of origin set out in General Note 25(o), HTSUS; or
(2) The good enumerated in General Note 25(m), HTSUS, is imported into the territory of Singapore from the territory of the United States prior to being used in the production of a good in Singapore.
§ 10.533
De minimis.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a good that does not undergo a change in tariff classification pursuant to General Note 25(o), HTSUS, will nonetheless be considered to be an originating good if:
(1) The value of all non-originating materials used in the production of the good that do not undergo the applicable change in tariff classification does not exceed 10 percent of the adjusted value of the good;
(2) The value of the non-originating materials described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is included in calculating the value of non-originating materials for any applicable regional value content requirement for the good under General Note 25(o), HTSUS; and
(3) The good meets all other applicable requirements of General Note 25, HTSUS.
(b) Paragraph (a) does not apply to:
(1) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 4, HTSUS, or in subheading 1901.90, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in Chapter 4, HTSUS;
(2) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 4, HTSUS, or in subheading 1901.90, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in one of the following HTSUS provisions: Subheading 1901.10, 1901.20 or 1901.90; heading 2105; or subheading 2106.90, 2202.90 or 2309.90;
(3) A non-originating material provided for in heading 0805, HTSUS, or subheadings 2009.11 through 2009.39, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in subheadings 2009.11 through 2009.39, HTSUS, or in subheading 2106.90 or 2202.90, HTSUS;
(4) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 15, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in headings 1501 through 1508, 1512, 1514 or 1515, HTSUS;
(5) A non-originating material provided for in heading 1701, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in headings 1701 through 1703, HTSUS;
(6) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 17, HTSUS, or heading 1805, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in subheading 1806.10, HTSUS;
(7) A non-originating material provided for in headings 2203 through 2208, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in heading 2207 or 2208, HTSUS; and
(8) A non-originating material used in the production of a good provided for
in Chapters 1 through 21, HTSUS, unless the non-originating material is provided for in a different subheading than the good for which origin is being determined.
(c) A textile or apparel good provided for in Chapters 50 through 63, HTSUS, that is not an originating good because certain fibers or yarns used in the production of the component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good do not undergo an applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 25(o), HTSUS, will nevertheless be considered to be an originating good if the total weight of all such fibers or yarns in that component is not more than 7 percent of the total weight of that component. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a textile or apparel good containing elastomeric yarns in the component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good will be considered an originating good only if such yarns are wholly formed in the territory of a Party.
§ 10.534
Accumulation.
(a) Originating materials of Singapore or the United States that are used in the production of a good in the territory of the other party will be considered to originate in the territory of the other party.
(b) A good that is produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties by one or more producers, will be considered an originating good if the good satisfies:
(1) The applicable requirements of § 10.531 of this subpart and General Note 25, HTSUS; or
(2) The provisions of § 10.532 of this subpart.
§ 10.535
Regional value content.
(a)
General.
Where General Note 25(o), HTSUS, sets forth a rule that specifies a regional value content test for a good, the regional value content of such good must be calculated, at the choice of the person claiming the preferential tariff treatment for such good, on the basis of the build-down method or the build-up method described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, unless otherwise specified in General Note 25(o), HTSUS.
(b)
Build-down method.
Under the build-down method, the regional value content must be calculated on the basis of the formula RVC = ((AV −VNM)/AV) × 100, where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; AV is the adjusted value; and VNM is the value of non-originating materials that are acquired and used by the producer in the production of the good.
(c)
Build-up method.
Under the build-up method, the regional value content must be calculated on the basis of the formula RVC = (VOM /AV) × 100, where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; AV is the adjusted value; and VOM is the value of originating materials that are acquired or self-produced and used by the producer in the production of the good.
§ 10.536
Value of materials.
(a)
Calculating the value of materials.
Except as provided in § 10.541, for purposes of calculating the regional value content of a good under General Note 25(o), HTSUS, and for purposes of applying the
de minimis
(
see
§ 10.533 of this subpart) provisions of General Note 25(o), HTSUS, the value of a material is:
(1) In the case of a material imported by the producer of the good, the adjusted value of the material;
(2) In the case of a material acquired by the producer in the territory where the good is produced, except for a material to which paragraph (a)(3) of this section applies, the adjusted value of the material with reasonable modifications to the provisions of the Customs Valuation Agreement so as to permit their application to the domestic acquisition by the producer. Such reasonable modifications include, but are not limited to, treating a domestic purchase by the producer as if it were a sale for export to the country of importation; or

# Example 1.
The producer in Singapore purchases material x from an unrelated seller in Singapore for $100. Under the provisions of Article 1 of the Customs Valuation Agreement, transaction value is the price actually paid or payable for the goods when sold for export to the country of importation adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8. In order to apply Article 1 to this
domestic purchase by the producer, such purchase is treated as if it were a sale for export to the country of importation. Therefore, for purposes of determining the adjusted value of material x, Article 1 transaction value is the price actually paid or payable for the goods when sold to the producer in Singapore ($100), adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8. In this example, it is irrelevant whether material x was initially imported into Singapore by the seller (or by anyone else). So long as the producer acquired material x in Singapore, it is intended that the value of material x will be determined on the basis of the price actually paid or payable by the producer adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8.

# Example 2.
Same facts as in Example 1, except the sale between the seller and the producer is subject to certain restrictions that preclude the application of Article 1. Under Article 2 of the Customs Valuation Agreement, the value is the transaction value of identical goods sold for export to the same country of importation and exported at or about the same time as the goods being valued. In order to permit the application of Article 2 to the domestic acquisition by the producer, it should be modified so that the value is the transaction value of identical goods sold within Singapore at or about the same time the goods were sold to the producer in Singapore. Thus, if the seller of material x also sold an identical material to another buyer in Singapore without restrictions, that other sale would be used to determine the adjusted value of material x.
(3) In the case of a self-produced material, or in a case in which the relationship between the producer of the good and the seller of the material influenced the price actually paid or payable for the material, including a material obtained without charge, the sum of:
(i) All expenses incurred in the production of the material, including general expenses; and
(ii) A reasonable amount for profit.
(b)
Permissible additions to, and deductions from, the value of materials
—(1)
Additions to originating materials.
For originating materials, the following expenses, if not included under paragraph (a) of this section, may be added to the value of the originating material:
(i) The costs of freight, insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in transporting the material to the location of the producer;
(ii) Duties, taxes, and customs brokerage fees on the material paid in the territory of one or both of the Parties, other than duties and taxes that are waived, refunded, refundable or otherwise recoverable, including credit against duty or tax paid or payable; and
(iii) The cost of waste and spoilage resulting from the use of the material in the production of the good, less the value of renewable scrap or by-product; and
(2)
Deductions from non-originating materials.
For non-originating materials, if included under paragraph (a) of this section, the following expenses may be deducted from the value of the non-originating material:
(i) The costs of freight, insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in transporting the material to the location of the producer;
(ii) Duties, taxes, and customs brokerage fees on the material paid in one or both of the Parties, other than duties and taxes that are waived, refunded, refundable or otherwise recoverable, including credit against duty or tax paid or payable;
(iii) The cost of waste and spoilage resulting from the use of the material in the production of the good, less the value of renewable scrap or by-products;
(iv) The cost of processing incurred in the territory of Singapore or the United States in the production of the non-originating material; and
(v) The cost of originating materials used in the production of the non-originating material in the territory of Singapore or the United States.
(c)
Accounting method.
Any cost or value referenced in General Note 25, HTSUS and this subpart, must be recorded and maintained in accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles applicable in the territory of the country in which the good is produced (whether Singapore or the United States).
§ 10.537
Accessories, spare parts, or tools.
Accessories, spare parts, or tools that are delivered with a good and that form part of the good's standard accessories, spare parts, or tools will be treated as originating goods if the good is an originating good, and will be disregarded in
determining whether all the non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo an applicable change in tariff classification specified in General Note 25(o), HTSUS, provided that:
(a) The accessories, spare parts, or tools are not invoiced separately from the good;
(b) The quantities and value of the accessories, spare parts, or tools are customary for the good; and
(c) If the good is subject to a regional value content requirement, the value of the accessories, spare parts, or tools will be taken into account as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of the good under § 10.535 of this subpart.
§ 10.538
Fungible goods and materials.
(a) A person claiming preferential treatment under the SFTA for a good may claim that a fungible good or material is originating either based on the physical segregation of each fungible good or material or by using an inventory management method. For purposes of this subpart, the term “inventory management method” means:
(1) Averaging;
(2) “Last-in, first-out;”
(3) “First-in, first-out;” or
(4) Any other method that is recognized in the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles of the Party in which the production is performed or otherwise accepted by that country.
(b) A person selecting an inventory management method under paragraph (a) of this section for particular fungible goods or materials must continue to use that method for those fungible goods or materials throughout the fiscal year of that person.
§ 10.539
Retail packaging materials and containers.
Packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale, if classified with the good for which preferential treatment under the SFTA is claimed, will be disregarded in determining whether all non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo the applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 25(o), HTSUS. If the good is subject to a regional value content requirement, the value of such packaging materials and containers will be taken into account as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of the good.

# Example 1.
Singaporean Producer A of good C imports 100 non-originating blister packages to be used as retail packaging for good C. As provided in § 10.536(a)(1) of this subpart, the value of the blister packages is their adjusted value, which in this case is $10. Good C has a regional value content requirement. The United States importer of good C decides to use the build-down method, RVC = ((AV−VNM)/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.535(b) of this subpart), in determining whether good C satisfies the regional value content requirement. In applying this method, the non-originating blister packages are taken into account as non-originating. As such, their $10 adjusted value is included in the VNM, value of non-originating materials, of good C.

# Example 2.
Same facts as in Example 1, but the blister packages are originating. In this case, the adjusted value of the originating blister packages would not be included as part of the VNM of good C under the build-down method. However, if the U.S. importer had used the build-up method, RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.535(c) of this subpart), the adjusted value of the blister packaging would be included as part of the VOM, value of originating material.
§ 10.540
Packing materials and containers for shipment.
(a) Packing materials and containers for shipment, as defined in § 10.530(j) of this subpart, are to be disregarded in determining whether the non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo an applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 25(o), HTSUS. Accordingly, such materials and containers are not required to undergo the applicable change in tariff classification even if they are non-originating.
(b) Packing materials and containers for shipment, as defined in § 10.530(j) of this subpart, are to be disregarded in determining the regional value content of a good imported into the United States. Accordingly, in applying either the build-down or build-up method for determining the regional value content of the good imported into the United States, the value of such packing materials and containers for shipment
(whether originating or non-originating) is disregarded and not included in AV, adjusted value, VNM, value of non-originating materials, or VOM, value of originating materials.

# Example.
Singaporean Producer A produces good C. Producer A ships good C to the U.S. in a shipping container which it purchased from Company B in Singapore. The shipping container is originating. The value of the shipping container determined under section § 10.536(a)(2) of this subpart is $3. Good C is subject to a regional value content requirement. The transaction value of good C is $100, which includes the $3 shipping container. The United States importer decides to use the build-up method, RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.535(c) of this subpart), in determining whether good C satisfies the regional value content requirement. In determining the AV, adjusted value, of good C imported into the U.S., paragraph (b) of this section requires a $3 deduction for the value of the shipping container. Therefore, the AV is $97 ($100−$3). In addition, the value of the shipping container is disregarded and not included in the VOM, value of originating materials.
§ 10.541
Indirect materials.
An indirect material, as defined in § 10.502(j) of this subpart, will be considered to be an originating material without regard to where it is produced, and its value will be the cost registered in the accounting records of the producer of the good.

# Example.
Singaporean Producer C produces good C using non-originating material A. Producer C imports non-originating rubber gloves for use by workers in the production of good C. Good C is subject to a tariff shift requirement. As provided in § 10.531(b)(1) of this subpart and General Note 25(o), each of the non-originating materials in good C must undergo the specified change in tariff classification in order for good C to be considered originating. Although non-originating material A must undergo the applicable tariff shift in order for good C to be considered originating, the rubber gloves do not because they are indirect materials and are considered originating without regard to where they are produced.
§ 10.542
Third country transportation.
(a)
General.
A good will not be considered an originating good by reason of having undergone production that would enable the good to qualify as an originating good if subsequent to that production the good undergoes further production or any other operation outside the territories of the Parties, other than unloading, reloading, or any other process necessary to preserve the good in good condition or to transport the good to the territory of a Party.
(b)
Documentary evidence.
An importer making a claim that a good is originating may be required to demonstrate, to CBP's satisfaction, that no further production or subsequent operation, other than permitted under paragraph (a) of this section, occurred outside the territories of the Parties. An importer may demonstrate compliance with this section by submitting documentary evidence. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, bills of lading, airway bills, packing lists, commercial invoices, receiving and inventory records, and customs entry and exit documents.
§ 10.543
Certain apparel goods made from fabric or yarn not available in commercial quantities.
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 10.531 of this subpart, a textile apparel article of Chapter 61 or 62, HTSUS, will be considered an originating good under the SFTA if it is both cut (or knit to shape) and sewn or otherwise assembled in one or both of the Parties from fabric or yarn, regardless of origin, designated by the Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements (“CITA”) as not available in commercial quantities in a timely manner in the United States. Such designations by CITA, identifying apparel goods made from such fabric or yarn as eligible for entry under subheading 9819.11.24 or 9820.11.27, HTSUS, must have been made by notices published in the
Federal Register
no later than November 15, 2002.
1
For purposes of this section, any reference in these notices to fabric or yarn formed in the United States will be interpreted as also including fabric or yarn formed in Singapore.
1
These designations are set forth in notices published in the
Federal Register
on September 25, 2001 (66 FR 49005), November 19, 2001 (66 FR 57942), April 10, 2002 (67 FR 17412), May 28, 2002 (67 FR 36858), and September 5, 2002 (67 FR 56806).

# Origin Verifications and Determinations
§ 10.550
Verification and justification of claim for preferential treatment.
(a)
Verification.
A claim for preferential treatment made under § 10.510(a) of this subpart, including any statements or other information submitted to CBP in support of the claim, will be subject to such verification as the Center director deems necessary. In the event that the Center director is provided with insufficient information to verify or substantiate the claim, the Center director may deny the claim for preferential treatment. A verification of a claim for preferential tariff treatment may be conducted by means of one or more of the following:
(1) Requests for information from the importer;
(2) Written requests for information to the exporter or producer;
(3) Requests for the importer to arrange for the exporter or producer to provide information directly to CBP;
(4) Visits to the premises of the exporter or producer in Singapore, in accordance with procedures that the Parties adopt pertaining to verification; and
(5) Such other procedures as the Parties may agree.
(b)
Applicable accounting principles.
When conducting a verification of origin to which Generally Accepted Accounting Principles may be relevant, CBP will apply and accept the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles applicable in the country of production.
§ 10.551
Issuance of negative origin determinations.
If, as a result of an origin verification initiated under § 10.550 of this subpart, CBP denies a claim for preferential treatment made under § 10.510(a) of this subpart, it will issue a determination in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to the importer that sets forth the following:
(a) A description of the good that was the subject of the verification together with the identifying numbers and dates of the import documents pertaining to the good;
(b) A statement setting forth the findings of fact made in connection with the verification and upon which the determination is based; and
(c) With specific reference to the rules applicable to originating goods as set forth in General Note 25, HTSUS, and in §§ 10.530 through 10.543 of this subpart, the legal basis for the determination.
§ 10.552
Information sharing by CBP regarding textile and apparel goods produced in the United States.
(a)
Documents or information in the possession of U.S. enterprises.
Upon written request from the Government of Singapore containing a brief statement of the matter at issue and the cooperation requested, CBP will promptly request from a U.S. enterprise and provide to the Government of Singapore, to the extent available, all correspondence, reports, bills of lading, invoices, order confirmations, and other documents or information relevant to circumvention that the Government of Singapore considers may have taken place.
(b)
Circumvention defined.
For purposes of this section and § 10.554 of this subpart, “circumvention” means providing a false claim or false information for the purpose of, or with the effect of, violating or evading existing customs, country of origin labeling, or trade laws of the Party into which the textile or apparel goods are imported, if such action results in the avoidance of tariffs, quotas, embargoes, prohibitions, restrictions, trade remedies, including antidumping or countervailing duties, or safeguard measures, or in obtaining preferential tariff treatment. Examples of circumvention include: Illegal transshipment; rerouting; fraud; false claims concerning country of origin, fiber content, quantities, description, or classification; falsification of documents; and smuggling.
§ 10.553
Textile and apparel site visits.
(a)
Visits to enterprises of Singapore.
U.S. officials may undertake to conduct site visits to enterprises in the territory of Singapore. U.S. officials will conduct such visits together with responsible officials of the Government
of Singapore and in accordance with the laws of Singapore.
(b)
Denial of permission to visit.
If the responsible officials of an enterprise of Singapore that is proposed to be visited do not consent to the site visit, CBP will, if directed by The Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements (CITA), exclude from the territory of the United States textile or apparel goods produced or exported by the enterprise until CITA determines that the enterprise's production of, and capability to produce, such goods is consistent with statements by the enterprise that textile or apparel goods it produces or has produced are originating goods or products of Singapore.
§ 10.554
Exclusion of textile or apparel goods for intentional circumvention.
(a)
General.
If CITA finds that an enterprise of Singapore has knowingly or willfully engaged in circumvention, CBP will, if directed by CITA, exclude from the customs territory of the United States textile or apparel goods produced or exported by that enterprise for a period no longer than the applicable period described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Time periods.
An exclusion from entry imposed under paragraph (a) of this section will begin on the date a finding of knowing or willful circumvention is made by CITA and will remain in effect for the following applicable time period:
(1) With respect to a first finding, the applicable period is six months;
(2) With respect to a second finding, the applicable period is two years; or
(3) With respect to a third or subsequent finding, the applicable period is two years. If, at the time of a third or subsequent finding, an exclusion of goods with respect to an enterprise is in effect as a result of a previous finding, the two-year period applicable to the third or subsequent finding will begin on the day after the day on which the previous exclusion period terminates.

# Penalties
§ 10.560
General.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, all criminal, civil or administrative penalties which may be imposed on U.S. importers for violations of the customs and related laws and regulations will also apply to U.S. importers for violations of the laws and regulations relating to the SFTA.
§ 10.561
Corrected claim or supporting statement.
An importer who makes a corrected claim under § 10.510(b) will not be subject to civil or administrative penalties under 19 U.S.C. 1592 for having made an incorrect claim or supporting statement, provided that the corrected claim is promptly and voluntarily made.
§ 10.562
Framework for correcting claims or supporting statements.
(a)
“Promptly and voluntarily” defined.
Except as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, for purposes of this subpart, the making of a corrected claim or supporting statement will be deemed to have been done promptly and voluntarily if:
(1)(i) Done within one year following the date on which the importer made the incorrect claim; or
(ii) Done later than one year following the date on which the importer made the incorrect claim, provided that the corrected claim is made:
(A) Before the commencement of a formal investigation, within the meaning of § 162.74(g) of this chapter; or
(B) Before any of the events specified in § 162.74(i) of this chapter has occurred; or
(C) Within 30 days after the importer initially becomes aware that the incorrect claim is not valid; and
(2) Accompanied by a statement setting forth the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section; and
(3) Accompanied or followed by a tender of any actual loss of duties and merchandise processing fees, if applicable, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(b)
Exception in cases involving fraud or subsequent incorrect claims
—(1)
Fraud.
An importer who acted fraudulently in
making an incorrect claim may not make a voluntary correction of that claim. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “fraud” will have the meaning set forth in paragraph (C)(3) of appendix B to part 171 of this chapter.
(2)
Subsequent incorrect claims.
An importer who makes one or more incorrect claims after becoming aware that a claim involving the same merchandise and circumstances is invalid may not make a voluntary correction of the subsequent claims pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(C) of this section.
(c)
Statement.
For purposes of this subpart, each corrected claim must be accompanied by a statement, submitted in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system, which:
(1) Identifies the class or kind of good to which the incorrect claim relates;
(2) Identifies each affected import transaction, including each port of importation and the approximate date of each importation.
(3) Specifies the nature of the incorrect statements or omissions regarding the claim; and
(4) Sets forth, to the best of the person's knowledge, the true and accurate information or data which should have been covered by or provided in the claim, and states that the person will provide any additional information or data which is unknown at the time of making the corrected claim within 30 days or within any extension of that 30-day period as CBP may permit in order for the person to obtain the information or data.
(d)
Substantial compliance.
For purposes of this section, a person will be deemed to have submitted the statement described in paragraph (c) of this section even though that person provided corrected information in a manner which does not conform to the requirements of the statement specified in paragraph (c) of this section, provided that the information submitted includes, orally or otherwise, substantially the same information as that specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(e)
Tender of actual loss of duties.
A U.S. importer who makes a corrected claim must tender any actual loss of duties at the time of making the corrected claim, or within 30 days thereafter, or within any extension of that 30-day period as CBP may allow in order for the importer to obtain the information or data necessary to calculate the duties owed.
(f)
Applicability of prior disclosure provisions.
Where a person fails to meet the requirements of this section, that person may nevertheless qualify for prior disclosure treatment under 19 U.S.C. 1592(c)(4) and 162.74 of this chapter.

# Goods Returned After Repair or Alteration
§ 10.570
Goods re-entered after repair or alteration in Singapore.
(a)
General.
This section sets forth the rules which apply for purposes of obtaining duty-free treatment on goods returned after repair or alteration in Singapore as provided for in subheadings 9802.00.40 and 9802.00.50, HTSUS. Goods returned after having been repaired or altered in Singapore, whether or not pursuant to a warranty, are eligible for duty-free treatment, provided that the requirements of this section are met. For purposes of this section, “repairs or alterations” means restoration, addition, renovation, re-dyeing, cleaning, re-sterilizing, or other treatment which does not destroy the essential characteristics of, or create a new or commercially different good from, the good exported from the United States.
(b)
Goods not eligible for duty-free treatment after repair or alteration.
The duty-free treatment referred to in paragraph (a) of this section will not apply to goods which, in their condition as exported from the United States to Singapore, are incomplete for their intended use and for which the processing operation performed in Singapore constitutes an operation that is performed as a matter of course in the preparation or manufacture of finished goods.
(c)
Documentation.
The provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of § 10.8 of this part, relating to the documentary requirements for goods entered under subheading 9802.00.40 or 9802.00.50, HTSUS, will apply in connection with the entry of goods which are returned
from Singapore after having been exported for repairs or alterations and which are claimed to be duty free.

# Subpart J—Dominican Republic—Central America—United States Free Trade Agreement

# Source:
CBP Dec. 08-22, 73 FR 33678, June 13, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 10.581
Scope.
This subpart implements the duty preference and related customs provisions applicable to imported and exported goods under the Dominican Republic—Central America—United States Free Trade Agreement (the CAFTA-DR) signed on August 5, 2004, and under the Dominican Republic—Central America—United States Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (the Act; Pub. L. 109-53, 119 Stat. 462 (19 U.S.C. 4001
et seq.
), as amended by section 1634 of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (Pub. L. 109-280, 120 Stat. 1167). Except as otherwise specified in this subpart, the procedures and other requirements set forth in this subpart are in addition to the customs procedures and requirements of general application contained elsewhere in this chapter. Additional provisions implementing certain aspects of the CAFTA-DR and the Act are contained in parts 24, 162, and 163 of this chapter.
§ 10.582
General definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following terms will have the meanings indicated unless either the context in which they are used requires a different meaning or a different definition is prescribed for a particular section of this subpart:
(a)
Claim for preferential tariff treatment.
“Claim for preferential tariff treatment” means a claim that a good is entitled to the duty rate applicable under the CAFTA-DR to an originating good or other good specified in the CAFTA-DR, and to an exemption from the merchandise processing fee;
(b)
Claim of origin.
“Claim of origin” means a claim that a textile or apparel good is an originating good or a good of a Party;
(c)
Customs authority.
“Customs authority” means the competent governmental unit that is responsible under the law of a Party for the administration of customs laws and regulations;
(d)
Customs duty.
“Customs duty” includes any customs or import duty and a charge of any kind imposed in connection with the importation of a good, including any form of surtax or surcharge in connection with such importation, but, for purposes of implementing the CAFTA-DR, does not include any:
(1) Charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently with Article III:2 of GATT 1994 in respect of like, directly competitive, or substitutable goods of the Party, or in respect of goods from which the imported good has been manufactured or produced in whole or in part;
(2) Antidumping or countervailing duty that is applied pursuant to a Party's domestic law; or
(3) Fee or other charge in connection with importation commensurate with the cost of services rendered;
(e)
Customs Valuation Agreement.
“Customs Valuation Agreement” means the
Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994,
which is part of the WTO Agreement;
(f)
Days.
“Days” means calendar days;
(g)
Enterprise.
“Enterprise” means any entity constituted or organized under applicable law, whether or not for profit, and whether privately owned or governmentally owned, including any corporation, trust, partnership, sole proprietorship, joint venture, or other association;
(h)
GATT 1994.
“GATT 1994” means the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994,
which is part of the
WTO Agreement;
(i)
Harmonized System.
“Harmonized System” means the
Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System,
including its General Rules of Interpretation, Section Notes, and Chapter Notes, as adopted and implemented by the Parties in their respective tariff laws;
(j)
Heading.
“Heading” means the first four digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(k)
HTSUS.
“HTSUS” means the
Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States
as promulgated by the U.S. International Trade Commission;
(l)
Identical goods.
“Identical goods” means goods that are produced in the same country and are the same in all respects, including physical characteristics, quality, and reputation, but excluding minor differences in appearance.
(m)
Indirect material.
“Indirect material” means a good used in the production, testing, or inspection of a good in the territory of one or more of the Parties but not physically incorporated into the good, or a good used in the maintenance of buildings or the operation of equipment associated with the production of a good in the territory of one or more of the Parties, including:
(1) Fuel and energy;
(2) Tools, dies, and molds;
(3) Spare parts and materials used in the maintenance of equipment or buildings;
(4) Lubricants, greases, compounding materials, and other materials used in production or used to operate equipment or buildings;
(5) Gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, safety equipment, and supplies;
(6) Equipment, devices, and supplies used for testing or inspecting the good;
(7) Catalysts and solvents; and
(8) Any other goods that are not incorporated into the good but the use of which in the production of the good can reasonably be demonstrated to be a part of that production;
(n)
Originating.
“Originating” means qualifying for preferential tariff treatment under the rules of origin set out in CAFTA-DR Chapter Four (Rules of Origin and Origin Procedures) and General Note 29, HTSUS;
(o)
Party.
“Party” means:
(1) The United States; and
(2) Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, or Nicaragua, for such time as the CAFTA-DR is in force between the United States and that country;
(p)
Person.
“Person” means a natural person or an enterprise;
(q)
Preferential tariff treatment.
“Preferential tariff treatment” means the duty rate applicable under the CAFTA-DR to an originating good or other good specified in the CAFTA-DR, and an exemption from the merchandise processing fee;
(r)
Subheading.
“Subheading” means the first six digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(s)
Tariff preference level.
“Tariff preference level” means a quantitative limit for certain non-originating apparel goods that may be entitled to preferential tariff treatment based on the goods meeting the requirements set forth in §§ 10.606 through 10.610 of this subpart.
(t)
Textile or apparel good.
“Textile or apparel good” means a good listed in the Annex to the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing (commonly referred to as “the ATC”), which is part of the WTO Agreement, except for those goods listed in Annex 3.29 of the CAFTA-DR;
(u)
Territory.
“Territory” means:
(1) With respect to each Party other than the United States, the land, maritime, and air space under its sovereignty and the exclusive economic zone and the continental shelf within which it exercises sovereign rights and jurisdiction in accordance with international law and its domestic law;
(2) With respect to the United States:
(i) The customs territory of the United States, which includes the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico;
(ii) The foreign trade zones located in the United States and Puerto Rico; and
(iii) Any areas beyond the territorial seas of the United States within which, in accordance with international law and its domestic law, the United States may exercise rights with respect to the seabed and subsoil and their natural resources;
(v)
WTO.
“WTO” means the World Trade Organization; and
(w)
WTO Agreement.
“WTO Agreement” means the
Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization
of April 15, 1994.
[CBP Dec. 08-22, 73 FR 33678, June 13, 2008, as amended by CBP Dec. 10-26, 75 FR 50698, Aug. 17, 2010]

# Import Requirements
§ 10.583
Filing of claim for preferential tariff treatment upon importation.
(a)
Basis of claim.
An importer may make a claim for CAFTA-DR preferential tariff treatment, including an exemption from the merchandise processing fee, based on:
(1) A certification, as specified in § 10.584 of this subpart, that is prepared by the importer, exporter, or producer of the good; or
(2) The importer's knowledge that the good qualifies as an originating good, including reasonable reliance on information in the importer's possession that the good is an originating good.
(b)
Making a claim.
The claim is made by including on the entry summary, or equivalent documentation, the letter “P” or “P + ” as a prefix to the subheading of the HTSUS under which each qualifying good is classified, or by the method specified for equivalent reporting via an authorized electronic data interchange system.
(c)
Corrected claim.
If, after making the claim specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the importer has reason to believe that the claim is based on inaccurate information or is otherwise invalid, the importer must, within 30 calendar days after the date of discovery of the error, correct the claim and pay any duties that may be due. The importer must submit a statement either in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to the CBP office where the original claim was filed specifying the correction (
see
§§ 10.621 and 10.623 of this subpart).
[CBP Dec. 08-22, 73 FR 33678, June 13, 2008, as amended by CBP Dec. 10-26, 75 FR 50699, Aug. 17, 2010]
§ 10.584
Certification.
(a)
General.
An importer who makes a claim under § 10.583(b) of this subpart based on a certification of the importer, exporter, or producer that the good qualifies as originating must submit, at the request of the Center director, a copy of the certification. The certification:
(1) Need not be in a prescribed format but must be in writing or must be transmitted electronically pursuant to any electronic means authorized by CBP for that purpose;
(2) Must be in the possession of the importer at the time the claim for preferential tariff treatment is made if the certification forms the basis for the claim;
(3) Must include the following information:
(i) The legal name, address, telephone, and e-mail address (if any) of the importer of record of the good, the exporter of the good (if different from the producer), and the producer of the good;
(ii) The legal name, address, telephone, and e-mail address (if any) of the responsible official or authorized agent of the importer, exporter, or producer signing the certification (if different from the information required by paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section);
(iii) A description of the good for which preferential tariff treatment is claimed, which must be sufficiently detailed to relate it to the invoice and the HS nomenclature;
(iv) The HTSUS tariff classification, to six or more digits, as necessary for the specific change in tariff classification rule for the good set forth in General Note 29(n), HTSUS; and
(v) The applicable rule of origin set forth in General Note 29, HTSUS, under which the good qualifies as an originating good; and
(4) Must include a statement, in substantially the following form:
“I certify that:
The information on this document is true and accurate and I assume the responsibility for proving such representations. I understand that I am liable for any false statements or material omissions made on or in connection with this document;
I agree to maintain and present upon request, documentation necessary to support these representations;
The goods originated or are considered to have originated in the territory of one or more of the Parties, and comply with the origin requirements specified for those goods in the Dominican Republic—Central America—United States Free Trade Agreement; there has been no further production or any other operation outside the territories of the Parties, other than unloading, reloading, or any other operation necessary to preserve the goods in good condition or to transport
the goods to the United States; the goods remained under the control of customs authorities while in the territory of a non-Party; and
This document consists of ____ pages, including all attachments.”
(b)
Responsible official or agent.
The certification provided for in paragraph (a) of this section must be signed and dated by a responsible official of the importer, exporter, or producer, or by the importer's, exporter's, or producer's authorized agent having knowledge of the relevant facts.
(c)
Language.
The certification provided for in paragraph (a) of this section must be completed in either the English language or the language of the exporting Party. In the latter case, the Center director may require the importer to submit an English translation of the certification.
(d)
Certification by the exporter or producer.
A certification may be prepared by the exporter or producer of the good on the basis of:
(1) The exporter's or producer's knowledge that the good is originating; or
(2) In the case of an exporter, reasonable reliance on the producer's certification that the good is originating.
(e)
Applicability of certification.
The certification provided for in paragraph (a) of this section may be applicable to:
(1) A single shipment of a good into the United States; or
(2) Multiple shipments of identical goods into the United States that occur within a specified blanket period, not exceeding 12 months, set out in the certification.
(f)
Validity of certification.
A certification that is properly completed, signed, and dated in accordance with the requirements of this section will be accepted as valid for four years following the date on which it was signed.
§ 10.585
Importer obligations.
(a)
General.
An importer who makes a claim for preferential tariff treatment under § 10.583(b) of this subpart:
(1) Will be deemed to have certified that the good is eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the CAFTA-DR;
(2) Is responsible for the truthfulness of the claim and of all the information and data contained in the certification provided for in § 10.584 of this subpart;
(3) Is responsible for submitting any supporting documents requested by CBP, and for the truthfulness of the information contained in those documents. When a certification prepared by an exporter or producer forms the basis of a claim for preferential tariff treatment, and CBP requests the submission of supporting documents, the importer will provide to CBP, or arrange for the direct submission by the exporter or producer, all information relied on by the exporter or producer in preparing the certification.
(b)
Information provided by exporter or producer.
The fact that the importer has made a claim or submitted a certification based on information provided by an exporter or producer will not relieve the importer of the responsibility referred to in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Exemption from penalties.
An importer will not be subject to civil or administrative penalties under 19 U.S.C. 1592 for making an incorrect claim for preferential tariff treatment or submitting an incorrect certification, provided that the importer promptly and voluntarily corrects the claim or certification and pays any duty owing (see §§ 10.621 and 10.623 of this subpart).
§ 10.586
Certification not required.
(a)
General.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an importer will not be required to submit a copy of a certification under § 10.584 of this subpart for:
(1) A non-commercial importation of a good; or
(2) A commercial importation for which the value of the originating goods does not exceed U.S. $2,500.
(b)
Exception.
If the Center director determines that an importation described in paragraph (a) of this section is part of a series of importations carried out or planned for the purpose of evading compliance with the certification requirements of § 10.584 of this subpart, the Center director will notify the importer that for that importation the importer must submit to CBP a copy of the certification. The importer must submit such a copy within 30 days from the date of the notice. Failure to
timely submit a copy of the certification will result in denial of the claim for preferential tariff treatment.
§ 10.587
Maintenance of records.
(a)
General.
An importer claiming preferential tariff treatment for a good imported into the United States under § 10.583(b) of this subpart must maintain, for a minimum of five years after the date of importation of the good, all records and documents that the importer has demonstrating that the good qualifies for preferential tariff treatment under the CAFTA-DR. These records are in addition to any other records that the importer is required to prepare, maintain, or make available to CBP under part 163 of this chapter.
(b)
Method of maintenance.
The records and documents referred to in paragraph (a) of this section must be maintained by importers as provided in § 163.5 of this chapter.
§ 10.588
Effect of noncompliance; failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment.
(a)
General.
If the importer fails to comply with any requirement under this subpart, including submission of a complete certification prepared in accordance with § 10.584 of this subpart, when requested, the Center director may deny preferential tariff treatment to the imported good.
(b)
Failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment.
Where the requirements for preferential tariff treatment set forth elsewhere in this subpart are met, the Center director nevertheless may deny preferential tariff treatment to an originating good if the good is shipped through or transshipped in a country other than a Party to the CAFTA-DR, and the importer of the good does not provide, at the request of the Center director, evidence demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Center director that the conditions set forth in § 10.604(a) of this subpart were met.

# Export Requirements
§ 10.589
Certification for goods exported to a Party.
(a)
Submission of certification to CBP.
Any person who completes and issues a certification for a good exported from the United States to a Party must provide a copy of the certification (or such other medium or format approved by the Party's customs authority for that purpose) to CBP upon request.
(b)
Notification of errors in certification.
Any person who completes and issues a certification for a good exported from the United States to a Party and who has reason to believe that the certification contains or is based on incorrect information must promptly notify every person to whom the certification was provided of any change that could affect the accuracy or validity of the certification. Notification of an incorrect certification must also be given either in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to CBP specifying the correction (
see
§§ 10.622 and 10.623 of this subpart).
(c)
Maintenance of records
—(1)
General.
Any person who completes and issues a certification for a good exported from the United States to a Party must maintain, for a period of at least five years after the date the certification was signed, all records and supporting documents relating to the origin of a good for which the certification was issued, including the certification or copies thereof and records and documents associated with:
(i) The purchase, cost, and value of, and payment for, the good;
(ii) The purchase, cost, and value of, and payment for, all materials, including indirect materials, used in the production of the good; and
(iii) The production of the good in the form in which the good was exported.
(2)
Method of maintenance.
The records referred to in paragraph (c) of this section must be maintained as provided in § 163.5 of this chapter.
(3)
Availability of records.
For purposes of determining compliance with the provisions of this part, the records required to be maintained under this section must be stored and made available for examination and inspection by the Center director or other appropriate CBP officer in the same manner as provided in part 163 of this chapter.

# Post-Importation Duty Refund Claims
§ 10.590
Right to make post-importation claim and refund duties.
Notwithstanding any other available remedy, where a good would have qualified as an originating good when it was imported into the United States but no claim for preferential tariff treatment was made, the importer of that good may file a claim for a refund of any excess duties at any time within one year after the date of importation of the good in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 10.591 of this subpart. Subject to the provisions of § 10.588 of this subpart, CBP may refund any excess duties by liquidation or reliquidation of the entry covering the good in accordance with § 10.592(c) of this subpart.
§ 10.591
Filing procedures.
(a)
Place of filing.
A post-importation claim for a refund must be filed with CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically.
(b)
Contents of claim.
A post-importation claim for a refund must be filed by presentation of the following:
(1) A written declaration stating that the good qualified as an originating good at the time of importation and setting forth the number and date of the entry or entries covering the good;
(2) A copy of a certification prepared in accordance with § 10.584 of this subpart if a certification forms the basis for the claim, or other information demonstrating that the good qualifies for preferential tariff treatment;
(3) A written statement indicating whether the importer of the good provided a copy of the entry summary or equivalent documentation to any other person. If such documentation was so provided, the statement must identify each recipient by name, CBP identification number, and address and must specify the date on which the documentation was provided; and
(4) A written statement indicating whether or not any person has filed a protest relating to the good under any provision of law; and if any such protest has been filed, the statement must identify the protest by number and date.
§ 10.592
CBP processing procedures.
(a)
Status determination.
After receipt of a post-importation claim under § 10.591 of this subpart, the Center director will determine whether the entry covering the good has been liquidated and, if liquidation has taken place, whether the liquidation has become final.
(b)
Pending protest or judicial review.
If the Center director determines that any protest relating to the good has not been finally decided, the Center director will suspend action on the claim filed under § 10.591 of this subpart until the decision on the protest becomes final. If a summons involving the tariff classification or dutiability of the good is filed in the Court of International Trade, the Center director will suspend action on the claim filed under § 10.591 of this subpart until judicial review has been completed.
(c)
Allowance of claim
—(1)
Unliquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under § 10.591 of this subpart should be allowed and the entry covering the good has not been liquidated, the Center director will take into account the claim for refund in connection with the liquidation of the entry.
(2)
Liquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under § 10.591 of this subpart should be allowed and the entry covering the good has been liquidated, whether or not the liquidation has become final, the entry must be reliquidated in order to effect a refund of duties under this section. If the entry is otherwise to be reliquidated based on administrative review of a protest or as a result of judicial review, the Center director will reliquidate the entry taking into account the claim for refund under § 10.591 of this subpart.
(d)
Denial of claim
—(1)
General.
The Center director may deny a claim for a refund filed under § 10.591 of this subpart if the claim was not filed timely, if the importer has not complied with the requirements of §§ 10.588 and 10.591 of this subpart, or if, following an origin verification under § 10.616 of this subpart, the Center director determines either that the imported good did not qualify as an originating good at the time of importation or that a
basis exists upon which preferential tariff treatment may be denied under § 10.616 of this subpart.
(2)
Unliquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under this subpart should be denied and the entry covering the good has not been liquidated, the Center director will deny the claim in connection with the liquidation of the entry, and notice of the denial and the reason for the denial will be provided to the importer in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system.
(3)
Liquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under this subpart should be denied and the entry covering the good has been liquidated, whether or not the liquidation has become final, the claim may be denied without reliquidation of the entry. If the entry is otherwise to be reliquidated based on administrative review of a protest or as a result of judicial review, such reliquidation may include denial of the claim filed under this subpart. In either case, the Center director will provide notice of the denial and the reason for the denial to the importer in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system.
[CBP Dec. 08-22, 73 FR 33678, June 13, 2008, as amended by CBP Dec. 10-26, 75 FR 50699, Aug. 17, 2010]

# Rules of Origin
§ 10.593
Definitions.
For purposes of §§ 10.593 through 10.605:
(a)
Adjusted value.
“Adjusted value” means the value determined in accordance with Articles 1 through 8, Article 15, and the corresponding interpretative notes of the Customs Valuation Agreement, adjusted, if necessary, to exclude:
(1) Any costs, charges, or expenses incurred for transportation, insurance and related services incident to the international shipment of the good from the country of exportation to the place of importation; and
(2) The value of packing materials and containers for shipment as defined in paragraph (m) of this section;
(b)
Class of motor vehicles.
“Class of motor vehicles” means any one of the following categories of motor vehicles:
(1) Motor vehicles provided for in subheading 8701.20, 8704.10, 8704.22, 8704.23, 8704.32, or 8704.90, or heading 8705 or 8706, HTSUS, or motor vehicles for the transport of 16 or more persons provided for in subheading 8702.10 or 8702.90, HTSUS;
(2) Motor vehicles provided for in subheading 8701.10 or any of subheadings 8701.30 through 8701.90, HTSUS;
(3) Motor vehicles for the transport of 15 or fewer persons provided for in subheading 8702.10 or 8702.90, HTSUS, or motor vehicles provided for in subheading 8704.21 or 8704.31, HTSUS; or
(4) Motor vehicles provided for in subheadings 8703.21 through 8703.90, HTSUS;
(c)
Exporter.
“Exporter” means a person who exports goods from the territory of a Party;
(d)
Fungible good or material.
“Fungible good or material” means a good or material, as the case may be, that is interchangeable with another good or material for commercial purposes and the properties of which are essentially identical to such other good or material;
(e)
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
“Generally Accepted Accounting Principles” means the recognized consensus or substantial authoritative support in the territory of a Party, with respect to the recording of revenues, expenses, costs, assets, and liabilities, the disclosure of information, and the preparation of financial statements. These principles may encompass broad guidelines of general application as well as detailed standards, practices, and procedures;
(f)
Good.
“Good” means any merchandise, product, article, or material;
(g)
Goods wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or more of the Parties.
“Goods wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or more of the Parties” means:
(1) Plants and plant products harvested or gathered in the territory of one or more of the Parties;
(2) Live animals born and raised in the territory of one or more of the Parties;
(3) Goods obtained in the territory of one or more of the Parties from live animals;
(4) Goods obtained from hunting, trapping, fishing, or aquaculture conducted in the territory of one or more of the Parties;
(5) Minerals and other natural resources not included in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(4) of this section that are extracted or taken in the territory of one or more of the Parties;
(6) Fish, shellfish, and other marine life taken from the sea, seabed, or subsoil outside the territory of one or more of the Parties by vessels registered or recorded with a Party and flying its flag;
(7) Goods produced on board factory ships from the goods referred to in paragraph (g)(6) of this section, if such factory ships are registered or recorded with a Party and flying its flag;
(8) Goods taken by a Party or a person of a Party from the seabed or subsoil outside territorial waters, if a Party has rights to exploit such seabed or subsoil;
(9) Goods taken from outer space, provided they are obtained by a Party or a person of a Party and not processed in the territory of a non-Party;
(10) Waste and scrap derived from:
(i) Manufacturing or processing operations in the territory of one or more of the Parties; or
(ii) Used goods collected in the territory of one or more of the Parties, if such goods are fit only for the recovery of raw materials;
(11) Recovered goods derived in the territory of one or more of the Parties from used goods, and used in the territory of a Party in the production of remanufactured goods; and
(12) Goods produced in the territory of one or more of the Parties exclusively from goods referred to in any of paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(10) of this section, or from the derivatives of such goods, at any stage of production;
(h)
Material.
“Material” means a good that is used in the production of another good, including a part or an ingredient;
(i)
Model line.
“Model line” means a group of motor vehicles having the same platform or model name;
(j)
Net cost.
“Net cost” means total cost minus sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, and non-allowable interest costs that are included in the total cost;
(k)
Non-allowable interest costs.
“Non-allowable interest costs” means interest costs incurred by a producer that exceed 700 basis points above the applicable official interest rates for comparable maturities of the Party in which the producer is located;
(l)
Non-originating good or non-originating material.
“Non-originating good” or “non-originating material” means a good or material, as the case may be, that does not qualify as originating under General Note 29, HTSUS, or this subpart;
(m)
Packing materials and containers for shipment.
“Packing materials and containers for shipment” means the goods used to protect a good during its transportation to the United States, and does not include the packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale;
(n)
Producer.
“Producer” means a person who engages in the production of a good in the territory of a Party;
(o)
Production.
“Production” means growing, mining, harvesting, fishing, raising, trapping, hunting, manufacturing, processing, assembling, or disassembling a good;
(p)
Reasonably allocate.
“Reasonably allocate” means to apportion in a manner that would be appropriate under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles;
(q)
Recovered goods.
“Recovered goods” means materials in the form of individual parts that are the result of:
(1) The disassembly of used goods into individual parts; and
(2) The cleaning, inspecting, testing, or other processing that is necessary to improve such individual parts to sound working condition;
(r)
Remanufactured good.
“Remanufactured good” means a good that is classified in Chapter 84, 85, or 87, or heading 9026, 9031, or 9032, HTSUS, other than a good classified in heading 8418 or 8516, HTSUS, and that:
(1) Is entirely or partially comprised of recovered goods; and
(2) Has a similar life expectancy and enjoys a factory warranty similar to a new good that is classified in one of the enumerated HTSUS chapters or headings;
(s)
Royalties.
“Royalties” means payments of any kind, including payments under technical assistance agreements or similar agreements, made as consideration for the use of, or right to use, any copyright, literary, artistic, or scientific work, patent, trademark, design, model, plan, secret formula or process, excluding those payments under technical assistance agreements or similar agreements that can be related to specific services such as:
(1) Personnel training, without regard to where performed; and
(2) If performed in the territory of one or more of the Parties, engineering, tooling, die-setting, software design and similar computer services;
(t)
Sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs.
“Sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs” means the following costs related to sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service:
(1) Sales and marketing promotion; media advertising; advertising and market research; promotional and demonstration materials; exhibits; sales conferences, trade shows and conventions; banners; marketing displays; free samples; sales, marketing and after-sales service literature (product brochures, catalogs, technical literature, price lists, service manuals, sales aid information); establishment and protection of logos and trademarks; sponsorships; wholesale and retail restocking charges; entertainment;
(2) Sales and marketing incentives; consumer, retailer or wholesaler rebates; merchandise incentives;
(3) Salaries and wages, sales commissions, bonuses, benefits (for example, medical, insurance, pension), traveling and living expenses, membership and professional fees, for sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service personnel;
(4) Recruiting and training of sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service personnel, and after-sales training of customers' employees, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer;
(5) Product liability insurance;
(6) Office supplies for sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service of goods, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer;
(7) Telephone, mail and other communications, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer;
(8) Rent and depreciation of sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service offices and distribution centers;
(9) Property insurance premiums, taxes, cost of utilities, and repair and maintenance of sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service offices and distribution centers, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer; and
(10) Payments by the producer to other persons for warranty repairs;
(u)
Self-produced material.
“Self-produced material” means an originating material that is produced by a producer of a good and used in the production of that good;
(v)
Shipping and packing costs.
“Shipping and packing costs” means the costs incurred in packing a good for shipment and shipping the good from the point of direct shipment to the buyer, excluding the costs of preparing and packaging the good for retail sale;
(w)
Total cost.
“Total cost” means all product costs, period costs, and other costs for a good incurred in the territory of one or more of the Parties. Product costs are costs that are associated with the production of a good and include the value of materials, direct labor costs, and direct overhead. Period costs are costs, other than product costs, that are expensed in the period in which they are incurred, such as selling expenses and general and administrative expenses. Other costs are all costs recorded on the books of the producer that are not product costs or
period costs, such as interest. Total cost does not include profits that are earned by the producer, regardless of whether they are retained by the producer or paid out to other persons as dividends, or taxes paid on those profits, including capital gains taxes;
(x)
Used.
“Used” means used or consumed in the production of goods; and
(y)
Value.
“Value” means the value of a good or material for purposes of calculating customs duties or for purposes of applying this subpart.
[CBP Dec. 08-22, 73 FR 33678, June 13, 2008, as amended by CBP Dec. 10-26, 75 FR 50699, Aug. 17, 2010]
§ 10.594
Originating goods.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart and General Note 29(m), HTSUS, a good imported into the customs territory of the United States will be considered an originating good under the CAFTA-DR only if:
(a) The good is wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or more of the Parties;
(b) The good is produced entirely in the territory of one or more of the Parties and:
(1) Each non-originating material used in the production of the good undergoes an applicable change in tariff classification specified in General Note 29(n), HTSUS, and the good satisfies all other applicable requirements of General Note 29, HTSUS; or
(2) The good otherwise satisfies any applicable regional value content or other requirements specified in General Note 29(n), HTSUS, and satisfies all other applicable requirements of General Note 29, HTSUS; or
(c) The good is produced entirely in the territory of one or more of the Parties exclusively from originating materials.
§ 10.595
Regional value content.
(a)
General.
Except for goods to which paragraph (d) of this section applies, where General Note 29(n), HTSUS, sets forth a rule that specifies a regional value content test for a good, the regional value content of such good must be calculated by the importer, exporter, or producer of the good on the basis of the build-down method described in paragraph (b) of this section or the build-up method described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Build-down method.
Under the build-down method, the regional value content must be calculated on the basis of the formula RVC = ((AV−VNM)/AV) × 100, where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; AV is the adjusted value of the good; and VNM is the value of non-originating materials that are acquired and used by the producer in the production of the good, but does not include the value of a material that is self-produced.
(c)
Build-up method.
Under the build-up method, the regional value content must be calculated on the basis of the formula RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100, where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; AV is the adjusted value of the good; and VOM is the value of originating materials that are acquired or self-produced and used by the producer in the production of the good.
(d)
Special rule for certain automotive goods
—(1)
General.
Where General Note 29(n), HTSUS, sets forth a rule that specifies a regional value content test for an automotive good provided for in any of subheadings 8407.31 through 8407.34, subheading 8408.20, heading 8409, or headings 8701 through 8708, HTSUS, the regional value content of such good may be calculated by the importer, exporter, or producer of the good on the basis of the net cost method described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2)
Net cost method.
Under the net cost method, the regional value content is calculated on the basis of the formula RVC = ((NC-VNM)/NC) × 100, where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; NC is the net cost of the good; and VNM is the value of non-originating materials that are acquired and used by the producer in the production of the good, but does not include the value of a material that is self-produced. Consistent with the provisions regarding allocation of costs set out in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, the net cost of the good must be determined by:
(i) Calculating the total cost incurred with respect to all goods produced by the producer of the automotive good,
subtracting any sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, and non-allowable interest costs that are included in the total cost of all such goods, and then reasonably allocating the resulting net cost of those goods to the automotive good;
(ii) Calculating the total cost incurred with respect to all goods produced by the producer of the automotive good, reasonably allocating the total cost to the automotive good, and then subtracting any sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, and non-allowable interest costs that are included in the portion of the total cost allocated to the automotive good; or
(iii) Reasonably allocating each cost that forms part of the total costs incurred with respect to the automotive good so that the aggregate of these costs does not include any sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, or non-allowable interest costs.
(3)
Motor vehicles
—(i)
General.
For purposes of calculating the regional value content under the net cost method for an automotive good that is a motor vehicle provided for in any of headings 8701 through 8705, an importer, exporter, or producer may average the amounts calculated under the formula set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section over the producer's fiscal year using any one of the categories described in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section either on the basis of all motor vehicles in the category or those motor vehicles in the category that are exported to the territory of one or more Parties.
(ii)
Categories.
The categories referred to in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section are as follows:
(A) The same model line of motor vehicles, in the same class of vehicles, produced in the same plant in the territory of a Party, as the motor vehicle for which the regional value content is being calculated;
(B) The same class of motor vehicles, and produced in the same plant in the territory of a Party, as the motor vehicle for which the regional value content is being calculated; and
(C) The same model line of motor vehicles produced in the territory of a Party as the motor vehicle for which the regional value content is being calculated.
(4)
Other automotive goods
—(i)
General.
For purposes of calculating the regional value content under the net cost method for automotive goods provided for in any of subheadings 8407.31 through 8407.34, subheading 8408.20, heading 8409, 8706, 8707, or 8708, HTSUS, that are produced in the same plant, an importer, exporter, or producer may:
(A) Average the amounts calculated under the formula set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section over any of the following: The fiscal year, or any quarter or month, of the motor vehicle producer to whom the automotive good is sold, or the fiscal year, or any quarter or month, of the producer of the automotive good, provided the goods were produced during the fiscal year, quarter, or month that is the basis for the calculation;
(B) Determine the average referred to in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section separately for such goods sold to one or more motor vehicle producers; or
(C) Make a separate determination under paragraph (d)(4)(i) or (d)(4)(ii) for automotive goods that are exported to the territory of one or more Parties.
(ii)
Duration of use.
A person selecting an averaging period of one month or quarter under paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) of this section must continue to use that method for that category of automotive goods throughout the fiscal year.
[CBP Dec. 08-22, 73 FR 33678, June 13, 2008, as amended by CBP Dec. 10-26, 75 FR 50699, Aug. 17, 2010]
§ 10.596
Value of materials.
(a)
Calculating the value of materials.
Except as provided in § 10.603, for purposes of calculating the regional value content of a good under General Note 29(n), HTSUS, and for purposes of applying the
de minimis
(
see
§ 10.598 of this subpart) provisions of General Note 29(n), HTSUS, the value of a material is:
(1) In the case of a material imported by the producer of the good, the adjusted value of the material;
(2) In the case of a material acquired by the producer in the territory where the good is produced, the value, determined in accordance with Articles 1 through 8, Article 15, and the corresponding interpretative notes of the Customs Valuation Agreement, of the material with reasonable modifications to the provisions of the Customs Valuation Agreement as may be required due to the absence of an importation by the producer (including, but not limited to, treating a domestic purchase by the producer as if it were a sale for export to the country of importation); or
(3) In the case of a self-produced material, the sum of:
(i) All expenses incurred in the production of the material, including general expenses; and
(ii) An amount for profit equivalent to the profit added in the normal course of trade.
(b)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate application of the principles set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section:

# Example 1.
A producer in El Salvador purchases material x from an unrelated seller in El Salvador for $100. Under the provisions of Article 1 of the Customs Valuation Agreement, transaction value is the price actually paid or payable for the goods when sold for export to the country of importation adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8. In order to apply Article 1 to this domestic purchase by the producer, such purchase is treated as if it were a sale for export to the country of importation. Therefore, for purposes of determining the adjusted value of material x, Article 1 transaction value is the price actually paid or payable for the goods when sold to the producer in El Salvador ($100), adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8. In this example, it is irrelevant whether material x was initially imported into El Salvador by the seller (or by anyone else). So long as the producer acquired material x in El Salvador, it is intended that the value of material x will be determined on the basis of the price actually paid or payable by the producer adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8.

# Example 2.
Same facts as in Example 1, except that the sale between the seller and the producer is subject to certain restrictions that preclude the application of Article 1. Under Article 2 of the Customs Valuation Agreement, the value is the transaction value of identical goods sold for export to the same country of importation and exported at or about the same time as the goods being valued. In order to permit the application of Article 2 to the domestic acquisition by the producer, it should be modified so that the value is the transaction value of identical goods sold within El Salvador at or about the same time the goods were sold to the producer in El Salvador. Thus, if the seller of material x also sold an identical material to another buyer in El Salvador without restrictions, that other sale would be used to determine the adjusted value of material x.
(c)
Permissible additions to, and deductions from, the value of materials
—(1)
Additions to originating materials.
For originating materials, the following expenses, if not included under paragraph (a) of this section, may be added to the value of the originating material:
(i) The costs of freight, insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in transporting the material within or between the territory of one or more of the Parties to the location of the producer;
(ii) Duties, taxes, and customs brokerage fees on the material paid in the territory of one or more of the Parties, other than duties and taxes that are waived, refunded, refundable, or otherwise recoverable, including credit against duty or tax paid or payable; and
(iii) The cost of waste and spoilage resulting from the use of the material in the production of the good, less the value of renewable scrap or byproducts.
(2)
Deductions from non-originating materials.
For non-originating materials, if included under paragraph (a) of this section, the following expenses may be deducted from the value of the non-originating material:
(i) The costs of freight, insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in transporting the material within or between the territory of one or more of the Parties to the location of the producer;
(ii) Duties, taxes, and customs brokerage fees on the material paid in the territory of one or more of the Parties, other than duties and taxes that are waived, refunded, refundable, or otherwise recoverable, including credit against duty or tax paid or payable;
(iii) The cost of waste and spoilage resulting from the use of the material in the production of the good, less the value of renewable scrap or by-products; and
(iv) The cost of originating materials used in the production of the non-originating material in the territory of one or more of the Parties.
(d)
Accounting method.
Any cost or value referenced in General Note 29, HTSUS, and this subpart, must be recorded and maintained in accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles applicable in the territory of the Party in which the good is produced.
§ 10.597
Accumulation.
(a) Originating materials from the territory of one or more of the Parties that are used in the production of a good in the territory of another Party will be considered to originate in the territory of that other Party.
(b) A good that is produced in the territory of one or more of the Parties by one or more producers is an originating good if the good satisfies the requirements of § 10.594 of this subpart and all other applicable requirements of General Note 29, HTSUS.
§ 10.598
De minimis.
(a)
General.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a good that does not undergo a change in tariff classification pursuant to General Note 29(n), HTSUS, is an originating good if:
(1) The value of all non-originating materials used in the production of the good that do not undergo the applicable change in tariff classification does not exceed 10 percent of the adjusted value of the good;
(2) The value of the non-originating materials described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is included in the value of non-originating materials for any applicable regional value content requirement for the good under General Note 29(n), HTSUS; and
(3) The good meets all other applicable requirements of General Note 29, HTSUS.
(b)
Exceptions.
Paragraph (a) does not apply to:
(1) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 4, HTSUS, or a non-originating dairy preparation containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 1901.90 or 2106.90, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in Chapter 4, HTSUS;
(2) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 4, HTSUS, or a non-originating dairy preparation containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 1901.90, HTSUS, that is used in the production of the following goods:
(i) Infant preparations containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 1901.10, HTSUS;
(ii) Mixes and doughs, containing over 25 percent by weight of butterfat, not put up for retail sale, provided for in subheading 1901.20, HTSUS;
(iii) Dairy preparations containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 1901.90 or 2106.90, HTSUS;
(iv) Goods provided for in heading 2105, HTSUS;
(v) Beverages containing milk provided for in subheading 2202.90, HTSUS; and
(vi) Animal feeds containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 2309.90, HTSUS; and
(3) A non-originating material provided for in heading 0805, HTSUS, or any of subheadings 2009.11 through 2009.39, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in any of subheadings 2009.11 through 2009.39, HTSUS, or in fruit or vegetable juice of any single fruit or vegetable, fortified with minerals or vitamins, concentrated or unconcentrated, provided for in subheading 2106.90 or 2202.90, HTSUS;
(4) A non-originating material provided for in heading 0901 or 2101, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in heading 0901 or 2101, HTSUS;
(5) A non-originating material provided for in heading 1006, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in heading 1102 or 1103, HTSUS, or subheading 1904.90, HTSUS;
(6) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 15, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in Chapter 15, HTSUS;
(7) A non-originating material provided for in heading 1701, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in any of headings 1701 through 1703, HTSUS;
(8) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 17, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in subheading 1806.10, HTSUS; and
(9) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(8) of this section and General Note 29(n), HTSUS, a non-originating material used in the production of a good provided for in any of Chapters 1 through 24, HTSUS, unless the non-originating material is provided for in a different subheading than the good for which origin is being determined under this subpart.
(c)
Textile and apparel goods
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a textile or apparel good that is not an originating good because certain fibers or yarns used in the production of the component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good do not undergo an applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 29(n), HTSUS, will nevertheless be considered to be an originating good if:
(i) The total weight of all such fibers or yarns in that component is not more than 10 percent of the total weight of that component; or
(ii) The yarns are nylon filament yarns (other than elastomeric yarns) that are provided for in subheading 5402.11.30, 5402.11.60, 5402.31.30, 5402.31.60, 5402.32.30, 5402.32.60, 5402.45.10, 5402.45.90, 5402.51.00, or 5402.61.00, HTSUS, and that are products of Canada, Mexico, or Israel.
(2)
Exception for goods containing elastomeric yarns.
A textile or apparel good containing elastomeric yarns (excluding latex) in the component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good will be considered an originating good only if such yarns are wholly formed in the territory of a Party. For purposes of this paragraph, “wholly formed” means that all the production processes and finishing operations, starting with the extrusion of filaments, strips, film, or sheet, and including slitting a film or sheet into strip, or the spinning of all fibers into yarn, or both, and ending with a finished yarn or plied yarn, took place in the territory of a Party.
(3)
Yarn, fabric, or fiber.
For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, in the case of a textile or apparel good that is a yarn, fabric, or fiber, the term “component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good” means all of the fibers in the good.
[CBP Dec. 08-22, 73 FR 33678, June 13, 2008, as amended by CBP Dec. 10-26, 75 FR 50699, Aug. 17, 2010]
§ 10.599
Fungible goods and materials.
(a)
General.
A person claiming that a fungible good or material is an originating good may base the claim either on the physical segregation of the fungible good or material or by using an inventory management method with respect to the fungible good or material. For purposes of this section, the term “inventory management method” means:
(1) Averaging;
(2) “Last-in, first-out;”
(3) “First-in, first-out;” or
(4) Any other method that is recognized in the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles of the Party in which the production is performed or otherwise accepted by that country.
(b)
Duration of use.
A person selecting an inventory management method under paragraph (a) of this section for a particular fungible good or material must continue to use that method for that fungible good or material throughout the fiscal year of that person.
§ 10.600
Accessories, spare parts, or tools.
(a)
General.
Accessories, spare parts, or tools that are delivered with a good and that form part of the good's standard accessories, spare parts, or tools will be treated as originating goods if the good is an originating good, and will be disregarded in determining whether all the non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo an applicable change in tariff
classification specified in General Note 29(n), HTSUS, provided that:
(1) The accessories, spare parts, or tools are classified with, and not invoiced separately from, the good, regardless of whether they appear specified or separately identified in the invoice for the good; and
(2) The quantities and value of the accessories, spare parts, or tools are customary for the good.
(a)
Regional value content.
If the good is subject to a regional value content requirement, the value of the accessories, spare parts, or tools is taken into account as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of the good under § 10.595 of this subpart.
§ 10.601
Retail packaging materials and containers.
(a)
Effect on tariff shift rule.
Packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale, if classified with the good for which preferential tariff treatment under the CAFTA-DR is claimed, will be disregarded in determining whether all non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo the applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 29(n), HTSUS.
(b)
Effect on regional value content calculation.
If the good is subject to a regional value content requirement, the value of such packaging materials and containers will be taken into account as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of the good.

# Example 1.
Guatemalan Producer A of good C imports 100 non-originating blister packages to be used as retail packaging for good C. As provided in § 10.596(a)(1) of this subpart, the value of the blister packages is their adjusted value, which in this case is $10. Good C has a regional value content requirement. The United States importer of good C decides to use the build-down method, RVC = ((AV-VNM)/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.595(b) of this subpart), in determining whether good C satisfies the regional value content requirement. In applying this method, the non-originating blister packages are taken into account as non-originating. As such, their $10 adjusted value is included in the VNM, value of non-originating materials, of good C.

# Example 2.
Same facts as in Example 1, except that the blister packages are originating. In this case, the adjusted value of the originating blister packages would
not
be included as part of the VNM of good C under the build-down method. However, if the U.S. importer had used the build-up method, RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.595(c) of this subpart), the adjusted value of the blister packaging would be included as part of the VOM, value of originating material.
§ 10.602
Packing materials and containers for shipment.
(a)
Effect on tariff shift rule.
Packing materials and containers for shipment, as defined in § 10.593(m) of this subpart, are to be disregarded in determining whether the non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo an applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 29(n), HTSUS. Accordingly, such materials and containers are not required to undergo the applicable change in tariff classification even if they are non-originating.
(b)
Effect on regional value content calculation.
Packing materials and containers for shipment, as defined in § 10.593(m) of this subpart, are to be disregarded in determining the regional value content of a good imported into the United States. Accordingly, in applying the build-down, build-up, or net cost method for determining the regional value content of a good imported into the United States, the value of such packing materials and containers for shipment (whether originating or non-originating) is disregarded and not included in AV, adjusted value, VNM, value of non-originating materials, VOM, value of originating materials, or NC, net cost of a good.

# Example.
Producer A of the Dominican Republic produces good C. Producer A ships good C to the United States in a shipping container that it purchased from Company B in the Dominican Republic. The shipping container is originating. The value of the shipping container determined under section § 10.596(a)(2) of this subpart is $3. Good C is subject to a regional value content requirement. The transaction value of good C is $100, which includes the $3 shipping container. The United States importer decides to use the build-up method, RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.595(c) of this subpart), in determining whether good C satisfies the regional value content requirement. In determining
the AV, adjusted value, of good C imported into the U.S., paragraph (b) of this section and the definition of AV require a $3 deduction for the value of the shipping container. Therefore, the AV is $97 ($100−$3). In addition, the value of the shipping container is disregarded and not included in the VOM, value of originating materials.
§ 10.603
Indirect materials.
An indirect material, as defined in § 10.582(m) of this subpart, will be considered to be an originating material without regard to where it is produced.

# Example.
Honduran Producer C produces good C using non-originating material A. Producer C imports non-originating rubber gloves for use by workers in the production of good C. Good C is subject to a tariff shift requirement. As provided in § 10.594(b)(1) of this subpart and General Note 29(n), each of the non-originating materials in good C must undergo the specified change in tariff classification in order for good C to be considered originating. Although non-originating material A must undergo the applicable tariff shift in order for good C to be considered originating, the rubber gloves do not because they are indirect materials and are considered originating without regard to where they are produced.
§ 10.604
Transit and transshipment.
(a)
General.
A good that has undergone production necessary to qualify as an originating good under § 10.594 of this subpart will not be considered an originating good if, subsequent to that production, the good:
(1) Undergoes further production or any other operation outside the territories of the Parties, other than unloading, reloading, or any other operation necessary to preserve the good in good condition or to transport the good to the territory of a Party; or
(2) Does not remain under the control of customs authorities in the territory of a non-Party.
(b)
Documentary evidence.
An importer making a claim that a good is originating may be required to demonstrate, to CBP's satisfaction, that the conditions and requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section were met. An importer may demonstrate compliance with this section by submitting documentary evidence. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, bills of lading, airway bills, packing lists, commercial invoices, receiving and inventory records, and customs entry and exit documents.
§ 10.605
Goods classifiable as goods put up in sets.
Notwithstanding the specific rules set forth in General Note 29(n), HTSUS, goods classifiable as goods put up in sets for retail sale as provided for in General Rule of Interpretation 3, HTSUS, will not be considered to be originating goods unless:
(a) Each of the goods in the set is an originating good; or
(b) The total value of the non-originating goods in the set does not exceed;
(1) In the case of textile or apparel goods, 10 percent of the adjusted value of the set; or
(2) In the case of a good other than a textile or apparel good, 15 percent of the adjusted value of the set.

# Tariff Preference Level
§ 10.606
Filing of claim for tariff preference level.
Apparel goods of a Party described in § 10.607 of this subpart that do not qualify as originating goods under § 10.594 of this subpart may nevertheless be entitled to preferential tariff treatment under the CAFTA-DR under an applicable tariff preference level (TPL). To make a TPL claim, the importer must include on the entry summary, or equivalent documentation, the applicable subheading in Chapter 98 or 99 of the HTSUS immediately above the applicable subheading in Chapter 61 or 62 of the HTSUS under which each non-originating apparel good is classified. The applicable Chapter 98 and 99 subheadings are:
(a) Subheading 9822.05.11 or 9822.05.13 for goods described in § 10.607(a);
(b) Subheading 9915.61.01 for goods described in § 10.607(b) and (c);
(c) Subheading 9915.62.05 for goods described in § 10.607(d);
(d) Subheading 9915.62.15 for goods described in § 10.607(e); and
(e) Subheading 9915.61.03 or 9915.61.04 for goods described in § 10.607(f);
[CBP Dec. 10-26, 75 FR 50699, Aug. 17, 2010]
§ 10.607
Goods eligible for tariff preference level claims.
The following goods are eligible for a TPL claim filed under § 10.606 of this subpart:
(a)
Cumulation for certain woven apparel goods of a Party.
In accordance with General Note 29(d)(vii), HTSUS, for purposes of determining whether a good of Chapter 62, HTSUS, is an originating good, materials used in the production of the good produced in the territory of Mexico that would have been considered originating if produced in the territory of a Party, will be considered as having been produced in the territory of a Party. The applicable product-specific and chapter rules for Chapter 62, HTSUS, set forth in General Note 29, HTSUS, must be satisfied. The preferential tariff treatment is limited to the quantities specified in U.S. Note 21(b), Subchapter XXII, Chapter 98, HTSUS, except that the following goods made from wool fabric are not subject to these limits: men's and boys' and women's and girls' suits, trousers, suit-type jackets and blazers and vests and women's and girls' skirts, provided that such goods are not made of carded wool fabric or made from wool yarn having an average fiber diameter of not over 18.5 microns. Subheading 9822.05.11, HTSUS, applies to the goods described above that are subject to quantitative limits while subheading 9822.05.13, HTSUS, applies to the goods described above that are not subject to such limits;
(b)
Cotton or man-made fiber apparel goods of Nicaragua.
Cotton or man-made fiber apparel goods described in U.S. Note 15(b), Subchapter XV, Chapter 99, HTSUS, that are both cut (or knit-to-shape) and sewn or otherwise assembled in the territory of Nicaragua, and that meet the applicable conditions for preferential tariff treatment under the CAFTA-DR, other than the condition that they are originating goods. The preferential tariff treatment is limited to the quantities specified in U.S. Note 15(c), Subchapter XV, Chapter 99, HTSUS;
(c)
Men's wool sport coats of Nicaragua.
Men's sport coats described in U.S. Note 15(b), Subchapter XV, Chapter 99, HTSUS, provided that the component that determines the tariff classification of the good is of carded wool fabric of subheading 5111.11.70, 5111.19.60, or 5111.90.90, HTSUS, the goods are both cut (or knit-to-shape) and sewn or otherwise assembled in the territory of Nicaragua, and the goods meet the applicable conditions for preferential tariff treatment under the CAFTA-DR, other than the condition that they are originating goods. The preferential tariff treatment is limited to the quantities specified in U.S. Note 15(c), Subchapter XV, Chapter 99, HTSUS;
(d)
Apparel goods of Costa Rica, not knitted or crocheted.
Apparel goods described in U.S. Note 16(b), Subchapter XV, Chapter 99, HTSUS, not knitted or crocheted, containing 36 percent or more by weight of wool or subject to wool restraints, provided that the goods are both cut and sewn or otherwise assembled in the territory of Costa Rica, meet the applicable conditions for preferential tariff treatment under the CAFTA-DR, other than the condition that they are originating goods, and comply with the requirements set forth in chapter rules 1, 3, 4, and 5 for Chapter 62 of General Note 29, HTSUS. The preferential tariff treatment is limited to the quantities specified in U.S. Note 16(a), Subchapter XV, Chapter 99, HTSUS.;
(e)
Apparel goods of Costa Rica made from wool fabric.
Apparel goods described in U.S. Note 16(d), Subchapter XV, Chapter 99, HTSUS, made from fabric of wool (except fabric of carded wool or fabric made from wool yarn having an average fiber diameter of less than or equal to 18.5 microns), provided that the goods are both cut and sewn or otherwise assembled in the territory of Costa Rica, and meet the applicable conditions for preferential tariff treatment under the CAFTA-DR, other than the condition that they are originating goods. The preferential tariff treatment is limited to the quantities specified in U.S. Note 16(c), Subchapter XV, Chapter 99, HTSUS; and
(f)
Mastectomy swimsuits of Costa Rica.
Women's knitted or crocheted swimwear, classified in subheading 6112.41.00 (of synthetic fibers) or 6112.49.00, HTSUS (of other textile fibers), specially designed to accommodate post-mastectomy breast prostheses, containing two full size interior pockets
with side openings, two preformed cups, a supporting elastic band below the breast and vertical center stitching to separate the two pockets, provided that the goods are both cut (or knit-to-shape) and sewn or otherwise assembled in the territory of Costa Rica, and meet the applicable conditions for preferential tariff treatment under the CAFTA-DR, other than the condition that they are originating goods. Subheading 9915.61.03, HTSUS, applies to the swimsuits described above classified in subheading 6112.41.00, HTSUS, while subheading 9915.61.04, HTSUS, applies to the swimsuits described above classified in subheading 6112.49.00, HTSUS. The preferential tariff treatment is limited to the quantities specified in U.S. Note 17(a), Subchapter XV, Chapter 99, HTSUS.
[CBP Dec. 10-26, 75 FR 50699, Aug. 17, 2010]
§ 10.608
Submission of certificate of eligibility for certain apparel goods of Nicaragua.
An importer who claims preferential tariff treatment on a non-originating apparel good of Nicaragua specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of § 10.607 of this subpart must submit a certificate of eligibility issued by an authorized official of the Government of Nicaragua, demonstrating that the good is eligible for entry under the applicable TPL. The certificate of eligibility must be in writing or must be transmitted electronically pursuant to any electronic means authorized by CBP for that purpose.
[CBP Dec. 08-22, 73 FR 33678, June 13, 2008, as amended by CBP Dec. 10-26, 75 FR 50700, Aug. 17, 2010]
§ 10.609
Transshipment of non-originating cotton or man-made fiber apparel goods.
(a)
General.
A good will not be considered eligible for preferential tariff treatment under an applicable TPL by reason of having undergone production that would enable the good to qualify for preferential tariff treatment if subsequent to that production the good:
(1) Undergoes production or any other operation outside the territories of the Parties, other than unloading, reloading, or any other operation necessary to preserve the good in good condition or to transport the good to the territory of a Party; or
(2) Does not remain under the control of customs authorities in the territory of a non-Party.
(b)
Documentary evidence.
An importer making a claim for preferential tariff treatment under an applicable TPL may be required to demonstrate, to CBP's satisfaction, that the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section were met. An importer may demonstrate compliance with these requirements by submitting documentary evidence. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, bills of lading, airway bills, packing lists, commercial invoices, receiving and inventory records, and customs entry and exit documents.
§ 10.610
Effect of noncompliance; failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment of non-originating cotton or man-made fiber apparel goods.
(a)
Effect of noncompliance.
If an importer of a good for which a TPL claim is made fails to comply with any applicable requirement under this subpart, the Center director may deny preferential tariff treatment to the imported good.
(b)
Failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment.
Where the requirements for preferential tariff treatment set forth elsewhere in this subpart are met, the Center director nevertheless may deny preferential tariff treatment to a good for which a TPL claim is made if the good is shipped through or transshipped in a country other than a Party, and the importer of the good does not provide, at the request of the Center director, evidence demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Center director that the requirements set forth in § 10.609(a) of this subpart were met.

# Origin Verifications and Determinations
§ 10.616
Verification and justification of claim for preferential tariff treatment.
(a)
Verification.
A claim for preferential tariff treatment made under
§ 10.583(b) or § 10.591 of this subpart, including any statements or other information submitted to CBP in support of the claim, will be subject to such verification as the Center director deems necessary. In the event that the Center director is provided with insufficient information to verify or substantiate the claim, or the exporter or producer fails to consent to a verification visit, the Center director may deny the claim for preferential treatment. A verification of a claim for preferential tariff treatment under CAFTA-DR for goods imported into the United States may be conducted by means of one or more of the following:
(1) Written requests for information from the importer, exporter, or producer;
(2) Written questionnaires to the importer, exporter, or producer;
(3) Visits to the premises of the exporter or producer in the territory of the Party in which the good is produced, to review the records of the type referred to in § 10.589(c)(1) of this subpart or to observe the facilities used in the production of the good, in accordance with the framework that the Parties develop for conducting verifications; and
(4) Such other procedures to which the United States and the exporting Party may agree.
(b)
Applicable accounting principles.
When conducting a verification of origin to which Generally Accepted Accounting Principles may be relevant, CBP will apply and accept the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles applicable in the country of production.
[CBP Dec. 08-22, 73 FR 33678, June 13, 2008, as amended by CBP Dec. 10-26, 75 FR 50700, Aug. 17, 2010]
§ 10.617
Special rule for verifications in a Party of U.S. imports of textile and apparel goods.
(a)
Procedures to determine whether a claim of origin is accurate
—(1)
General.
For the purpose of determining that a claim of origin for a textile or apparel good is accurate, CBP may request that the government of a Party conduct a verification, regardless of whether a claim is made for preferential tariff treatment.
(2)
Actions during a verification.
While a verification under this paragraph is being conducted, CBP may take appropriate action, which may include:
(i) Suspending the application of preferential tariff treatment to the textile or apparel good for which a claim for preferential tariff treatment has been made, if CBP determines there is insufficient information to support the claim;
(ii) Denying the application of preferential tariff treatment to the textile or apparel good for which a claim for preferential tariff treatment has been made that is the subject of a verification if CBP determines that an enterprise has provided incorrect information to support the claim;
(iii) Detention of any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information to determine the country of origin of any such good; and
(iv) Denying entry to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines that the enterprise has provided incorrect information as to the country of origin of any such good.
(3)
Actions following a verification.
On completion of a verification under this paragraph, CBP may take appropriate action, which may include:
(i) Denying the application of preferential tariff treatment to the textile or apparel good for which a claim for preferential tariff treatment has been made that is the subject of a verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information, or that the enterprise has provided incorrect information, to support the claim; and
(ii) Denying entry to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information to determine, or that the enterprise has provided incorrect information as to, the country of origin of any such good.
(b)
Procedures to determine compliance with applicable customs laws and regulations of the U.S.
—(1)
General.
For purposes of enabling CBP to determine that an exporter or producer is complying with applicable customs laws,
regulations, and procedures regarding trade in textile and apparel goods, CBP may request that the government of a Party conduct a verification.
(2)
Actions during a verification.
While a verification under this paragraph is being conducted, CBP may take appropriate action, which may include:
(i) Suspending the application of preferential tariff treatment to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information to support a claim for preferential tariff treatment with respect to any such good;
(ii) Denying the application of preferential tariff treatment to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines that the enterprise has provided incorrect information to support a claim for preferential tariff treatment with respect to any such good;
(iii) Detention of any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information to determine the country of origin of any such good; and
(iv) Denying entry to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines that the enterprise has provided incorrect information as to the country of origin of any such good.
(3)
Actions following a verification.
On completion of a verification under this paragraph, CBP may take appropriate action, which may include:
(i) Denying the application of preferential tariff treatment to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information, or that the enterprise has provided incorrect information, to support a claim for preferential tariff treatment with respect to any such good; and
(ii) Denying entry to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information to determine, or that the enterprise has provided incorrect information as to, the country of origin of any such good.
(c)
Denial of permission to conduct a verification.
If an enterprise does not consent to a verification under this section, CBP may deny preferential tariff treatment to the type of goods of the enterprise that would have been the subject of the verification.
(d)
Assistance by U.S. officials in conducting a verification abroad.
U.S. officials may undertake or assist in a verification under this section by conducting visits in the territory of a Party, along with the competent authorities of the Party, to the premises of an exporter, producer or any other enterprise involved in the movement of textile or apparel goods from a Party to the United States.
(e)
Continuation of appropriate action.
CBP may continue to take appropriate action under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section until it receives information sufficient to enable it to make the determination described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
[CBP Dec. 08-22, 73 FR 33678, June 13, 2008, as amended by CBP Dec. 10-26, 75 FR 50700, Aug. 17, 2010]
§ 10.618
Issuance of negative origin determinations.
If, as a result of an origin verification initiated under this subpart, CBP determines that a claim for preferential tariff treatment made under § 10.583(b) of this subpart should be denied, it will issue a determination in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to the importer that sets forth the following:
(a) A description of the good that was the subject of the verification together with the identifying numbers and dates of the import documents pertaining to the good;
(b) A statement setting forth the findings of fact made in connection with the verification and upon which the determination is based; and
(c) With specific reference to the rules applicable to originating goods as set forth in General Note 29, HTSUS, and in §§ 10.593 through 10.605 of this subpart, the legal basis for the determination.
§ 10.619
Repeated false or unsupported preference claims.
Where verification or other information reveals a pattern of conduct by an importer, exporter, or producer of false or unsupported representations that goods qualify under the CAFTA-DR rules of origin set forth in General Note 29, HTSUS, CBP may suspend preferential tariff treatment under the CAFTA-DR to entries of identical goods covered by subsequent representations by that importer, exporter, or producer until CBP determines that representations of that person are in conformity with General Note 29, HTSUS.

# Penalties
§ 10.620
General.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, all criminal, civil, or administrative penalties which may be imposed on U.S. importers, exporters, and producers for violations of the customs and related laws and regulations will also apply to U.S. importers, exporters, and producers for violations of the laws and regulations relating to the CAFTA-DR.
§ 10.621
Corrected claim or certification by importers.
An importer who makes a corrected claim under § 10.583(c) of this subpart will not be subject to civil or administrative penalties under 19 U.S.C. 1592 for having made an incorrect claim or having submitted an incorrect certification, provided that the corrected claim is promptly and voluntarily made.
§ 10.622
Corrected certification by U.S. exporters or producers.
Civil or administrative penalties provided for under 19 U.S.C. 1592 will not be imposed on an exporter or producer in the United States who promptly and voluntarily provides written notification pursuant to § 10.589(b) with respect to the making of an incorrect certification.
§ 10.623
Framework for correcting claims or certifications.
(a) “
Promptly and voluntarily” defined.
Except as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, for purposes of this subpart, the making of a corrected claim or certification by an importer or the providing of written notification of an incorrect certification by an exporter or producer in the United States will be deemed to have been done promptly and voluntarily if:
(1)(i) Done before the commencement of a formal investigation, within the meaning of § 162.74(g) of this chapter; or
(ii) Done before any of the events specified in § 162.74(i) of this chapter have occurred; or
(iii) Done within 30 days after the importer, exporter, or producer initially becomes aware that the claim or certification is incorrect; and
(2) Accompanied by a statement setting forth the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section; and
(3) In the case of a corrected claim or certification by an importer, accompanied or followed by a tender of any actual loss of duties and merchandise processing fees, if applicable, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Exception in cases involving fraud or subsequent incorrect claims
—(1)
Fraud.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a person who acted fraudulently in making an incorrect claim or certification may not make a voluntary correction of that claim or certification. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “fraud” will have the meaning set forth in paragraph (C)(3) of appendix B to part 171 of this chapter.
(2)
Subsequent incorrect claims.
An importer who makes one or more incorrect claims after becoming aware that a claim involving the same merchandise and circumstances is invalid may not make a voluntary correction of the subsequent claims pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Statement.
For purposes of this subpart, each corrected claim or certification must be accompanied by a statement, submitted in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system, which:
(1) Identifies the class or kind of good to which the incorrect claim or certification relates;
(2) In the case of a corrected claim or certification by an importer, identifies each affected import transaction, including each port of importation and
the approximate date of each importation;
(3) Specifies the nature of the incorrect statements or omissions regarding the claim or certification; and
(4) Sets forth, to the best of the person's knowledge, the true and accurate information or data which should have been covered by or provided in the claim or certification, and states that the person will provide any additional information or data which are unknown at the time of making the corrected claim or certification within 30 days or within any extension of that 30-day period as CBP may permit in order for the person to obtain the information or data.
(d)
Tender of actual loss of duties.
A U.S. importer who makes a corrected claim must tender any actual loss of duties at the time of making the corrected claim, or within 30 days thereafter, or within any extension of that 30-day period as CBP may allow in order for the importer to obtain the information or data necessary to calculate the duties owed.

# Goods Returned After Repair or Alteration
§ 10.624
Goods re-entered after repair or alteration in a Party.
(a)
General.
This section sets forth the rules which apply for purposes of obtaining duty-free treatment on goods returned after repair or alteration in a Party as provided for in subheadings 9802.00.40 and 9802.00.50, HTSUS. Goods returned after having been repaired or altered in a Party, whether or not pursuant to a warranty, are eligible for duty-free treatment, provided that the requirements of this section are met. For purposes of this section, “repairs or alterations” means restoration, addition, renovation, re-dyeing, cleaning, re-sterilizing, or other treatment that does not destroy the essential characteristics of, or create a new or commercially different good from, the good exported from the United States.
(b)
Goods not eligible for duty-free treatment after repair or alteration.
The duty-free treatment referred to in paragraph (a) of this section will not apply to goods which, in their condition as exported from the United States to a Party, are incomplete for their intended use and for which the processing operation performed in the Party constitutes an operation that is performed as a matter of course in the preparation or manufacture of finished goods.
(c)
Documentation.
The provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of § 10.8 of this part, relating to the documentary requirements for goods entered under subheading 9802.00.40 or 9802.00.50, HTSUS, will apply in connection with the entry of goods which are returned from a Party after having been exported for repairs or alterations and which are claimed to be duty free.

# Retroactive Preferential Tariff Treatment for Textile and Apparel Goods
§ 10.625
Refunds of excess customs duties.
(a)
Applicability.
Section 205 of the Dominican Republic—Central America—United States Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act, as amended by section 1634(d) of the Pension Protection Act of 2006, provides for the retroactive application of the Agreement and payment of refunds for any excess duties paid with respect to entries of textile and apparel goods of eligible CAFTA-DR countries that meet certain conditions and requirements. Those conditions and requirements are set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
General.
Notwithstanding 19 U.S.C. 1514 or any other provision of law, and subject to paragraph (c) of this section, a textile or apparel good of an eligible CAFTA-DR country that was entered or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption on or after January 1, 2004, and before January 1, 2009, will be liquidated or reliquidated at the applicable rate of duty for that good set out in the Schedule of the United States to Annex 3.3 of the Agreement, and CBP will refund any excess customs duties paid with respect to such entry, with interest accrued from the date of entry, provided:
(1) The good would have qualified as an originating good under section 203 of the Act if the good had been entered
after the date of entry into force of the Agreement for that country; and
(2) Customs duties in excess of the applicable rate of duty for that good set out in the Schedule of the United States to Annex 3.3 of the Agreement were paid.
(c)
Request for liquidation or reliquidation.
Liquidation or reliquidation may be made under paragraph (b) of this section with respect to an entry of a textile or apparel good of an eligible CAFTA-DR country only if a request for liquidation or reliquidation is filed with the CBP port where the entry was originally filed by April 1, 2009, and the request contains sufficient information to enable CBP:
(1) To locate the entry or to reconstruct the entry if it cannot be located; and
(2) To determine that the good satisfies the conditions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Eligible CAFTA-DR country defined.
For purposes of this section, the term “eligible CAFTA-DR country” means a country that the United States Trade Representative has determined, by notice published in the
Federal Register,
to be an eligible country for purposes of section 205 of the Act.
[CBP Dec. 08-22, 73 FR 33678, June 13, 2008, as amended by CBP Dec. 10-26, 75 FR 50700, Aug. 17, 2010]

# Subpart K—United States-Jordan Free Trade Agreement

# Source:
CBP Dec. 07-50, 72 FR 35156, June 27, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 10.701
Scope.
This subpart implements the duty preference and related customs provisions applicable to imported goods under the United States-Jordan Free Trade Agreement (the US-JFTA) signed on October 24, 2000, and under the United States-Jordan Free Trade Area Implementation Act (the Act; 115 Stat. 243). Except as otherwise specified in this subpart, the procedures and other requirements set forth in this subpart are in addition to the customs procedures and requirements of general application contained elsewhere in this chapter. Additional provisions implementing certain aspects of the US-JFTA are contained in part 163 of this chapter.
§ 10.702
Definitions.
The following definitions apply for purposes of §§ 10.701 through 10.712:
(a)
Claim for preferential tariff treatment.
“Claim for preferential tariff treatment” means a claim that a good is entitled to the duty rate applicable under the US-JFTA;
(b)
Customs authority.
“Customs authority” means the competent authority that is responsible under the law of a country for the administration of customs laws and regulations;
(c)
Customs territory of the United States.
“Customs territory of the United States” means the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico;
(d)
Days.
“Days” means calendar days unless otherwise specified;
(e)
Entered.
“Entered” means entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, in the customs territory of the United States;
(f)
Good.
“Good” means any merchandise, product, article, or material;
(g)
Harmonized System.
“Harmonized System” means the
Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System,
including its General Rules of Interpretation, Section Notes, and Chapter Notes, as adopted and implemented by the Parties in their respective tariff laws;
(h)
Heading.
“Heading” means the first four digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(i)
HTSUS.
“HTSUS” means the
Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States
as promulgated by the U.S. International Trade Commission;
(j)
Material.
“Material” means a good that is used in the production of another good;
(k)
New or different article of commerce.
“New or different article of commerce” means a good that has been substantially transformed into a new and different article of commerce having a new name, character, or use distinct from the good or material from which it was so transformed;
(l)
Party.
“Party” means the United States or the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan;
(m)
Preferential tariff treatment.
“Preferential tariff treatment” means the duty rate applicable under the US-JFTA;
(n)
Subheading.
“Subheading” means the first six digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(o)
Territory.
“Territory” means:
(1) With respect to Jordan, the land, maritime and air space under its sovereignty, and the exclusive economic zone within which it exercises sovereign rights and jurisdiction in accordance with international law and its domestic law; and
(2) With respect to the United States,
(i) The customs territory of the United States, which includes the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico,
(ii) The foreign trade zones located in the United States and Puerto Rico, and
(iii) Any areas beyond the territorial seas of the United States within which, in accordance with international law and its domestic law, the United States may exercise rights with respect to the seabed and subsoil and their natural resources;
(p)
Textile or apparel good.
“Textile or apparel good” means a good listed in the Annex to the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing (commonly referred to as “the ATC”), which is part of the WTO Agreement;
(q)
WTO Agreement.
“WTO Agreement” means the
Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization
of April 15, 1994;
(r)
Wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of Jordan.
“Wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of Jordan” refers both to any good which has been entirely grown, produced, or manufactured in Jordan and to all materials incorporated in a good which have been entirely grown, produced, or manufactured in Jordan, as distinguished from goods or materials imported into Jordan from another country, whether or not such goods or materials were substantially transformed into new or different articles of commerce after their importation into Jordan.

# Import Requirements
§ 10.703
Filing of claim for preferential tariff treatment.
An importer may make a claim for US-JFTA preferential tariff treatment by including on the entry summary, or equivalent documentation, the symbol “JO” as a prefix to the subheading of the HTSUS under which each qualifying good is classified, or by the method specified for equivalent reporting via an authorized electronic data interchange system.
§ 10.704
Declaration.
(a)
Contents.
An importer who claims preferential tariff treatment for a good under the US-JFTA must submit, at the request of the Center director, a declaration setting forth all pertinent information concerning the production or manufacture of the good. A declaration submitted to CBP under this paragraph:
(1) Need not be in a prescribed format but must be in writing or must be transmitted electronically pursuant to any electronic means authorized by CBP for that purpose;
(2) Must include the following information:
(i) The legal name, address, telephone, and e-mail address (if any) of the importer of record of the good;
(ii) The legal name, address, telephone, and e-mail address (if any) of the responsible official or authorized agent of the importer signing the declaration (if different from the information required by paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section);
(iii) The legal name, address, telephone and e-mail address (if any) of the exporter of the good (if different from the producer);
(iv) The legal name, address, telephone and e-mail address (if any) of the producer of the good (if known);
(v) A description of the good, quantity, numbers, and marks of packages, invoice numbers, and bills of lading;
(vi) A description of the operations performed in the production of the good in Jordan and identification of the direct costs of processing operations;
(vii) A description of any materials used in the production of the good that
are wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of Jordan or the United States, and a statement as to the cost or value of such materials;
(viii) A description of the operations performed on, and a statement as to the origin and cost or value of, any foreign materials used in the good that are claimed to have been sufficiently processed in Jordan so as to be materials produced in Jordan; and
(ix) A description of the origin and cost or value of any foreign materials used in the good that have not been substantially transformed in Jordan.
(3) Must include a statement, in substantially the following form:
“I certify that:
The information on this document is true and accurate and I assume the responsibility for proving such representations. I understand that I am liable for any false statements or material omissions made on or in connection with this document;
I agree to maintain, and present upon request, documentation necessary to support these representations;
The goods comply with all the requirements for preferential tariff treatment specified for those goods in the United States-Jordan Free Trade Agreement; and
This document consists of ____ pages, including all attachments.”
(b)
Responsible official or agent.
The declaration must be signed and dated by a responsible official of the importer or by the importer's authorized agent having knowledge of the relevant facts.
(c)
Language.
The declaration must be completed in the English language.
(d)
Applicability of declaration.
The declaration may be applicable to:
(1) A single importation of a good into the United States, including a single shipment that results in the filing of one or more entries and a series of shipments that results in the filing of one entry; or
(2) Multiple importations of identical goods into the United States that occur within a specified blanket period, not exceeding 12 months, set out in the declaration. For purposes of this paragraph, “identical goods” means goods that are the same in all respects relevant to the production that qualifies the goods for preferential tariff treatment.
§ 10.705
Importer obligations.
(a)
General.
An importer who makes a claim for preferential tariff treatment under § 10.703 of this subpart:
(1) Will be deemed to have certified that the good is eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the US-JFTA:
(2) Is responsible for the truthfulness of the information and data contained in the declaration provided for in § 10.704 of this subpart;
(3) Is responsible for submitting any supporting documents requested by CBP and for the truthfulness of the information contained in those documents. CBP will allow for the direct submission by the exporter or producer of business confidential or other sensitive information, including cost and sourcing information.
(b)
Information provided by exporter or producer.
The fact that the importer has made a claim for preferential tariff treatment or prepared a declaration based on information provided by an exporter or producer will not relieve the importer of the responsibility referred to in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 10.706
Declaration not required.
(a)
General.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an importer will not be required to submit a declaration under § 10.704 of this subpart for:
(1) A non-commercial importation of a good; or
(2) A commercial importation for which the value of the goods does not exceed U.S. $2,500.
(b)
Exception.
If the Center director determines that an importation described in paragraph (a) of this section may reasonably be considered to have been carried out or planned for the purpose of evading compliance with the rules and procedures governing claims for preference under the US-JFTA, the Center director will notify the importer that for that importation the importer must submit to CBP a declaration. The importer must submit such a declaration within 30 days from the date of the notice. Failure to timely submit the declaration will result in denial of the claim for preferential tariff treatment.
§ 10.707
Maintenance of records.
(a)
General.
An importer claiming preferential tariff treatment for a good under § 10.703 of this subpart must maintain, for five years after the date of the claim for preferential tariff treatment, all records and documents necessary for the preparation of the declaration.
(b)
Applicability of other recordkeeping requirements.
The records and documents referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are in addition to any other records required to be made, kept, and made available to CBP under part 163 of this chapter.
(c)
Method of maintenance.
The records and documents referred to in paragraph (a) of this section must be maintained by importers as provided in § 163.5 of this chapter.
§ 10.708
Effect of noncompliance; failure to provide documentation regarding third-country transportation.
(a)
Effect of noncompliance.
If the importer fails to comply with any requirement under this subpart, including submission of a complete declaration under § 10.704 of this subpart, when requested, the Center director may deny preferential tariff treatment to the imported good.
(b)
Failure to provide documentation regarding third country transportation.
Where the requirements for preferential tariff treatment set forth elsewhere in this subpart are met, the Center director nevertheless may deny preferential treatment to a good if the good is shipped through or transshipped in a country other than Jordan or the United States, and the importer of the good does not provide, at the request of the Center director, evidence demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Center director that the good was “imported directly”, as that term is defined in § 10.711(a) of this subpart.

# Rules of Origin
§ 10.709
Country of origin criteria.
(a)
General.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a good imported directly from Jordan into the customs territory of the United States will be eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the US-JFTA only if:
(1) The good is either:
(i) Wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of Jordan; or
(ii) A new or different article of commerce that has been grown, produced, or manufactured in Jordan; and
(2) With respect to a good described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the good satisfies the value-content requirement specified in § 10.710 of this subpart.
(b)
Exceptions
—(1)
Combining, packaging, and diluting operations.
No good will be considered to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section by virtue of having merely undergone simple combining or packaging operations, or mere dilution with water or mere dilution with another substance that does not materially alter the characteristics of the good. The principles and examples set forth in § 10.195(a)(2) of this part will apply equally for purposes of this paragraph.
(2)
Certain juices.
A good will not be considered to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section if the good:
(i) Is imported into Jordan, and, at the time of importation, would be classified in heading 0805, HTSUS; and
(ii) Is processed in Jordan into a good classified in any of subheadings 2009.11 through 2009.30, HTSUS.
(c)
Textile and apparel goods.
For purposes of determining whether a textile or apparel good meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the provisions of § 102.21 of this chapter will apply.
§ 10.710
Value-content requirement.
(a)
General.
A good described in § 10.709(a)(1)(ii) may be eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the US-JFTA only if the sum of the cost or value of the materials produced in Jordan, plus the direct costs of processing operations performed in Jordan, is not less than 35 percent of the appraised value of the good at the time it is entered.
(b)
Materials produced in the United States.
For purposes of determining the percentage referred to paragraph (a) of this section, an amount not to exceed 15 percent of the appraised value of the
good at the time it is entered may be attributed to the cost or value of materials produced in the customs territory of the United States. A material is “produced in the customs territory of the United States” for purposes of this paragraph if it is either:
(1) Wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of the United States; or
(2) Subject to the exceptions specified in § 10.709(b) of this subpart, substantially transformed in the United States into a new and different article of commerce that has a new name, character, or use, which is then used in Jordan in the production or manufacture of a new or different article of commerce that is imported into the United States. Except where the context otherwise requires, the examples set forth in § 10.196(a) of this part will apply for purposes of this paragraph.
(c)
Cost or value of materials
—(1)
Materials produced in Jordan defined.
For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the words “materials produced in Jordan” refer to those materials incorporated into a good that are either:
(i) Wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of Jordan; or
(ii) Subject to the exceptions specified in § 10.709(b) of this subpart, substantially transformed in Jordan into a new and different article of commerce that has a new name, character, or use, which is then used in Jordan in the production or manufacture of a new or different article of commerce that is imported into the United States. Except where the context otherwise requires, the examples set forth in § 10.196(a) of this part will apply for purposes of this paragraph.
(2)
Determination of cost or value of materials.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, the cost or value of materials produced in Jordan or in the United States includes:
(A) The manufacturer's actual cost for the materials;
(B) When not included in the manufacturer's actual cost for the materials, the freight, insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in transporting the materials to the manufacturer's plant;
(C) The actual cost of waste or spoilage, less the value of recoverable scrap; and
(D) Taxes and/or duties imposed on the materials by a Party, provided they are not remitted upon exportation.
(ii) Where a material is provided to the manufacturer without charge, or at less than fair market value, its cost or value will be determined by computing the sum of:
(A) All expenses incurred in the growth, production, or manufacture of the material, including general expenses;
(B) An amount for profit; and
(C) Freight, insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in transporting the material to the manufacturer's plant.
(iii) If the pertinent information needed to compute the cost or value of a material is not available, the Center director may ascertain or estimate the value thereof using all reasonable ways and means at his or her disposal.
(d)
Direct costs of processing operations
—(1)
Items included.
For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the words “direct costs of processing operations” mean those costs either directly incurred in, or which can be reasonably allocated to, the growth, production, manufacture, or assembly of the specific goods under consideration. Such costs include, but are not limited to the following, to the extent that they are includable in the appraised value of the imported goods:
(i) All actual labor costs involved in the growth, production, manufacture, or assembly of the specific goods, including fringe benefits, on-the-job training, and the cost of engineering, supervisory, quality control, and similar personnel;
(ii) Dies, molds, tooling, and depreciation on machinery and equipment which are allocable to the specific goods;
(iii) Research, development, design, engineering, and blueprint costs insofar as they are allocable to the specific goods; and
(iv) Costs of inspecting and testing the specific goods.
(2)
Items not included.
For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the words
“direct costs of processing operations” do not include items that are not directly attributable to the goods under consideration or are not costs of manufacturing the product. These include, but are not limited to:
(i) Profit; and
(ii) General expenses of doing business that either are not allocable to the specific goods or are not related to the growth, production, manufacture, or assembly of the goods, such as administrative salaries, casualty and liability insurance, advertising, and salesmen's salaries, commissions, or expenses.
§ 10.711
Imported directly.
(a)
General.
To be eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the US-JFTA, a good must be imported directly from Jordan into the customs territory of the United States. For purposes of this requirement, the words “imported directly” mean:
(1) Direct shipment from Jordan to the United States without passing through the territory of any intermediate country;
(2) If shipment is from Jordan to the United States through the territory of an intermediate country, the goods in the shipment do not enter into the commerce of the intermediate country and the invoices, bills of lading, and other shipping documents show the United States as the final destination; or
(3) If shipment is through an intermediate country and the invoices and other documents do not show the United States as the final destination, the goods in the shipment are imported directly only if they:
(i) Remained under the control of the customs authority in the intermediate country;
(ii) Did not enter into the commerce of the intermediate country except for the purpose of a sale other than at retail, provided that the goods are imported as a result of the original commercial transaction between the importer and the producer or the producer's sales agent; and
(iii) Have not been subjected to operations other than loading and unloading, and other activities necessary to preserve the goods in good condition.
(b)
Documentary evidence.
An importer making a claim for preferential tariff treatment under the US-JFTA may be required to demonstrate, to CBP's satisfaction, that the goods were “imported directly” as that term is defined in paragraph (a) of this section. An importer may demonstrate compliance with this section by submitting documentary evidence. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, bills of lading, airway bills, packing lists, commercial invoices, receiving and inventory records, and customs entry and exit documents.

# Origin Verifications
§ 10.712
Verification of claim for preferential tariff treatment.
A claim for preferential tariff treatment made under § 10.703 of this subpart, including any statements or other information submitted to CBP in support of the claim, will be subject to such verification as the Center director deems necessary. In the event that the Center director for any reason is prevented from verifying the claim, or is provided with insufficient information to verify or substantiate the claim, the Center director may deny the claim for preferential tariff treatment.

# Subpart L—United States-Australia Free Trade Agreement

# Source:
CBP Dec. 15-03, 80 FR 7308, Feb. 10, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 10.721
Scope.
This subpart implements the duty preference and related customs provisions applicable to imported goods under the United States-Australia Free Trade Agreement (the AFTA) signed on May 18, 2004, and under the United States-Australia Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (“the Act”), Pub. L. 108-286, 118 Stat. 919 (19 U.S.C. 3805 note). Except as otherwise specified in this subpart, the procedures and other requirements set forth in this subpart are in addition to the customs procedures and requirements of general application contained elsewhere in this
chapter. Additional provisions implementing certain aspects of the AFTA and the Act are contained in parts 24, 162, and 163 of this chapter.
§ 10.722
General definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following terms will have the meanings indicated unless either the context in which they are used requires a different meaning or a different definition is prescribed for a particular section of this subpart:
(a)
Claim for preferential tariff treatment.
“Claim for preferential tariff treatment” means a claim that a good is entitled to the duty rate applicable under the AFTA to an originating good, and to an exemption from the merchandise processing fee;
(b)
Claim of origin.
“Claim of origin” means a claim that a textile or apparel good is an originating good or a good of a Party or satisfies the non-preferential rules of origin of a Party;
(c)
Customs duty.
“Customs duty” includes any customs or import duty and a charge of any kind imposed in connection with the importation of a good, including any form of surtax or surcharge in connection with such importation, but does not include any:
(1) Charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently with Article III:2 of GATT 1994 in respect of the like domestic good or in respect of goods from which the imported good has been manufactured or produced in whole or in part;
(2) Antidumping or countervailing duty that is applied pursuant to a Party's law; or
(3) Fee or other charge in connection with importation commensurate with the cost of services rendered;
(d)
Customs Valuation Agreement.
“Customs Valuation Agreement” means the
Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994,
contained in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement;
(e)
Days.
“Days” means calendar days;
(f)
Enterprise.
“Enterprise” means any entity constituted or organized under applicable law, whether or not for profit, and whether privately-owned or governmentally-owned or controlled, including any corporation, trust, partnership, sole proprietorship, joint venture, association, or similar organization;
(g)
Enterprise of a Party.
“Enterprise of a Party” means an enterprise constituted or organized under a Party's law;
(h)
GATT 1994.
“GATT 1994” means the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994,
contained in Annex 1A to the
WTO Agreement;
(i)
Goods of a Party.
“Goods of a Party” means domestic products as these are understood in the GATT 1994 or such goods as the Parties determine under the rules of origin as applied in the normal course of trade, and includes originating goods of a Party.
(j)
Harmonized System.
“Harmonized System” means the
Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System,
including its General Rules of Interpretation, Section Notes, and Chapter Notes, as adopted and implemented by the Parties in their respective tariff laws;
(k)
Heading.
“Heading” means the first four digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(l)
HTSUS.
“HTSUS” means the
Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States
as promulgated by the U.S. International Trade Commission;
(m)
Identical goods.
“Identical goods” means goods that are the same in all respects relevant to the rule of origin that qualifies the goods as originating goods;
(n)
Originating.
“Originating” means qualifying for preferential tariff treatment under the rules of origin set out in AFTA Chapters Four (Textiles and Apparel) and Five (Rules of Origin) and General Note 28, HTSUS;
(o)
Party.
“Party” means the United States or Australia;
(p)
Person.
“Person” means a natural person or an enterprise;
(q)
Preferential tariff treatment.
“Preferential tariff treatment” means the duty rate applicable under the AFTA to an originating good, and an exemption from the merchandise processing fee;
(r)
Subheading.
“Subheading” means the first six digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(s)
Territory.
“Territory” means:
(1) With respect to Australia, the territory of the Commonwealth of Australia:
(i) Excluding all external territories other than the Territory of Norfolk Island, the Territory of Christmas Island, the Territory of Cocos (Keeling) Islands, the Territory of Ashmore and Cartier Islands, the Territory of Heard Island and McDonald Islands, and the Coral Sea Islands Territory; and
(ii) Including Australia's territorial sea, contiguous zone, exclusive economic zone, and continental shelf; and
(2) With respect to the United States:
(i) The customs territory of the United States, which includes the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico;
(ii) The foreign trade zones located in the United States and Puerto Rico; and
(iii) Any areas beyond the territorial seas of the United States within which, in accordance with international law and its domestic law, the United States may exercise rights with respect to the seabed and subsoil and their natural resources;
(t)
Textile or apparel good.
“Textile or apparel good” means a good listed in the Annex to the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing (commonly referred to as “the ATC”), which is part of the WTO Agreement;
(u)
WTO.
“WTO” means the World Trade Organization; and
(v)
WTO Agreement.
“WTO Agreement” means the
Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization
of April 15, 1994.

# Import Requirements
§ 10.723
Filing of claim for preferential tariff treatment upon importation.
(a)
Claim.
An importer may make a claim for AFTA preferential tariff treatment, including an exemption from the merchandise processing fee, based on the importer's knowledge or information in the importer's possession that the good qualifies as an originating good. The claim is made by including on the entry summary, or equivalent documentation, the letters “AU” as a prefix to the subheading of the HTSUS under which each qualifying good is classified, or by the method specified for equivalent reporting via an authorized electronic data interchange system.
(b)
Corrected claim.
If, after making the claim required under paragraph (a) of this section, the importer becomes aware that the claim is invalid, the importer must promptly and voluntarily correct the claim and pay any duties that may be due. The importer must submit a statement either in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to the CBP office where the original claim was filed specifying the correction (
see
§§ 10.746 and 10.747 of this subpart).
§ 10.724
Supporting statement.
(a)
Contents.
An importer who makes a claim under § 10.723(a) of this subpart must submit, at the request of the port director, a supporting statement setting forth the reasons that the good qualifies as an originating good, including pertinent cost and manufacturing data. A statement submitted to CBP under this paragraph:
(1) Need not be in a prescribed format but must be in writing or must be transmitted electronically pursuant to any electronic means authorized by CBP for that purpose;
(2) Must include the following information:
(i) The legal name, address, telephone, and email address of the importer of record of the good;
(ii) The legal name, address, telephone, and email address of the responsible official or authorized agent of the importer signing the supporting statement (if different from the information required by paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section);
(iii) The legal name, address, telephone, and email address of the exporter of the good (if different from the producer);
(iv) The legal name, address, telephone, and email address of the producer of the good, if known;
(v) A description of the good for which preferential tariff treatment is claimed, which must be sufficiently detailed to relate it to the invoice and the HS nomenclature;
(vi) The HTSUS tariff classification, to six or more digits, as necessary for
the specific change in tariff classification rule for the good set forth in General Note 28(n), HTSUS;
(vii) The applicable rule of origin set forth in General Note 28, HTSUS, under which the good qualifies as an originating good; and
(3) Must include a statement, in substantially the following form:
I certify that:
The information on this document is true and accurate and I assume the responsibility for proving such representations. I understand that I am liable for any false statements or material omissions made on or in connection with this document;
I agree to maintain and present upon request, documentation necessary to support these representations;
The goods originated or are considered to have originated in the territory of one or more of the Parties, and comply with the origin requirements specified for those goods in the United States-Australia Free Trade Agreement; there has been no further production or any other operation outside the territories of the parties, other than unloading, reloading, or any other operation necessary to preserve the goods in good condition or to transport the goods to the United States; and
This document consists of ______ pages, including all attachments.
(b)
Responsible official or agent.
The supporting statement required to be submitted under paragraph (a) of this section must be signed and dated by a responsible official of the importer or by the importer's authorized agent having knowledge of the relevant facts.
(c)
Language.
The supporting statement required to be submitted under paragraph (a) of this section must be completed in the English language.
(d)
Applicability of supporting statement.
The supporting statement required to be submitted under paragraph (a) of this section may be applicable to:
(1) A single importation of a good into the United States, including a single shipment that results in the filing of one or more entries and a series of shipments that results in the filing of one entry; or
(2) Multiple importations of identical goods into the United States that occur within a specified blanket period, not exceeding 12 months, set out in the statement. For purposes of this paragraph, “identical goods” means goods that are the same in all respects relevant to the particular rule of origin that qualifies the goods as originating.
§ 10.725
Importer obligations.
(a)
General.
An importer who makes a claim under § 10.723(a) of this subpart:
(1) Is responsible for the truthfulness of the claim and of all the information and data contained in the supporting statement provided for in § 10.724 of this subpart; and
(2) Is responsible for submitting any supporting documents requested by CBP and for the truthfulness of the information contained in those documents. If CBP requests the submission of supporting documents, CBP will allow for the direct submission by the exporter or producer of business confidential or other sensitive information, including cost and sourcing information.
(b)
Information provided by exporter or producer.
The fact that the importer has made a claim or submitted a supporting statement based on information provided by an exporter or producer will not relieve the importer of the responsibility referred to in the first sentence of paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Exemption from penalties.
An importer will not be subject to civil or administrative penalties under 19 U.S.C. 1592 for making an invalid claim for preferential tariff treatment or submitting an incorrect supporting statement, provided that the importer promptly and voluntarily corrects the claim or supporting statement and pays any duty owing pursuant to §§ 10.746 and 10.747 of this subpart.
[CBP Dec. 15-03, 80 FR 7308, Feb. 10, 2015, as amended by CBP Dec. 16-1, 81 FR 2086, Jan. 15, 2016]
§ 10.726
Supporting statement not required.
(a)
General.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an importer will not be required to submit a supporting statement under § 10.724 for:
(1) A non-commercial importation of a good; or
(2) A commercial importation for which the value of the originating goods does not exceed U.S. $2,500.
(b)
Exception.
If the port director determines that an importation described in paragraph (a) of this section may reasonably be considered to have been carried out or planned for the purpose of evading compliance with the rules and procedures governing claims for preference under the AFTA, the port director will notify the importer that for that importation the importer must submit to CBP a supporting statement. The importer must submit such a statement within 30 days from the date of the notice. Failure to timely submit the supporting statement will result in denial of the claim for preferential tariff treatment.
§ 10.727
Maintenance of records.
(a)
General.
An importer claiming preferential tariff treatment for a good imported into the United States under § 10.723(a) of this subpart must maintain, for five years after the date of importation of the good, records and documents necessary to demonstrate that the good qualifies as an originating good, including records and documents associated with:
(1) The purchase of, cost of, value of, and payment for, the good;
(2) Where appropriate, the purchase of, cost of, value of, and payment for, all materials, including recovered goods and indirect materials, used in the production of the good; and
(3) Where appropriate, the production of the good in the form in which the good was exported.
(b)
Applicability of other recordkeeping requirements.
The records and documents referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are in addition to any other records that the importer is required to prepare, maintain, or make available to CBP under part 163 of this chapter.
(c)
Method of maintenance.
The records and documents referred to in paragraph (a) of this section must be maintained by importers as provided in § 163.5 of this chapter.
§ 10.728
Effect of noncompliance; failure to provide documentation regarding third country transportation.
(a)
General.
If the importer fails to comply with any requirement under this subpart, including submission of a complete supporting statement prepared in accordance with § 10.724 of this subpart, when requested, the port director may deny preferential treatment to the imported good.
(b)
Failure to provide documentation regarding third country transportation.
Where the requirements for preferential treatment set forth elsewhere in this subpart are met, the port director nevertheless may deny preferential treatment to an originating good if the good is shipped through or transshipped in a country other than a Party to the AFTA, and the importer of the good does not provide, at the request of the port director, evidence demonstrating to the satisfaction of the port director that the conditions set forth in § 10.741 of this subpart were met.

# Rules of Origin
§ 10.729
Definitions.
For purposes of §§ 10.729 through 10.741 of this subpart:
(a)
Adjusted value.
“Adjusted value” means the value determined in accordance with Articles 1 through 8, Article 15, and the corresponding interpretative notes of the Customs Valuation Agreement, adjusted, if necessary, to exclude:
(1) Any costs, charges, or expenses incurred for transportation, insurance and related services incidental to the international shipment of the good from the country of exportation to the place of importation; and
(2) The value of packing materials and containers for shipment as defined in paragraph (n) of this section;
(b)
Class of motor vehicles.
“Class of motor vehicles” means any one of the following categories of motor vehicles:
(1) Motor vehicles classified under subheading 8701.20, motor vehicles for the transport of 16 or more persons classified under subheading 8702.10 or 8702.90, and motor vehicles classified under subheading 8704.10, 8704.22, 8704.23, 8704.32, or 8704.90, or heading 8705 or 8706, HTSUS;
(2) Motor vehicles classified under subheading 8701.10 or under any of subheadings 8701.30 through 8701.90, HTSUS;
(3) Motor vehicles provided for the transport of 15 or fewer persons classified under subheading 8702.10 or 8702.90, HTSUS, or motor vehicles classified under subheading 8704.21 or 8704.31; or
(4) Motor vehicles classified under subheadings 8703.21 through 8703.90, HTSUS;
(c)
Exporter.
“Exporter” means a person who exports goods from the territory of a Party;
(d)
Fungible goods or materials.
“Fungible goods or materials” means goods or materials, as the case may be, that are interchangeable for commercial purposes and the properties of which are essentially identical;
(e)
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
“Generally Accepted Accounting Principles” means the recognized consensus or substantial authoritative support in the territory of a Party, with respect to the recording of revenues, expenses, costs, assets, and liabilities, the disclosure of information, and the preparation of financial statements. These standards may encompass broad guidelines of general application as well as detailed standards, practices, and procedures;
(f)
Good.
“Good” means any merchandise, product, article, or material;
(g)
Goods wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties.
“Goods wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties” means:
(1) Mineral goods extracted in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(2) Vegetable goods, as such goods are defined in the Harmonized System, harvested in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(3) Live animals born and raised in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(4) Goods obtained from hunting, trapping, fishing, or aquaculture conducted in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(5) Goods (fish, shellfish, and other marine life) taken from the sea by vessels registered or recorded with a Party and flying its flag;
(6) Goods produced exclusively from products referred to in paragraph (g)(5) of this section on board factory ships registered or recorded with a Party and flying its flag;
(7) Goods taken by a Party or a person of a Party from the seabed or beneath the seabed outside territorial waters, provided that a Party has rights to exploit such seabed;
(8) Goods taken from outer space, provided they are obtained by a Party or a person of a Party and not processed in the territory of a non-Party;
(9) Waste and scrap derived from:
(i) Production in the territory of one or both of the Parties; or
(ii) Used goods collected in the territory of one or both of the Parties, provided such goods are fit only for the recovery of raw materials;
(10) Recovered goods derived in the territory of one or both of the Parties from goods that have passed their life expectancy, or are no longer useable due to defects, and utilized in the territory of one or both of the Parties in the production of remanufactured goods; or
(11) Goods produced in one or both of the Parties exclusively from goods referred to in paragraphs (g)(1) through (9) of this section, or from the derivatives of such goods, at any stage of production;
(h)
Indirect material.
“Indirect material” means a good used in the production, testing, or inspection of another good in the territory of one or both of the Parties but not physically incorporated into that other good, or a good used in the maintenance of buildings or the operation of equipment associated with the production of another good, including:
(1) Fuel and energy;
(2) Tools, dies, and molds;
(3) Spare parts and materials used in the maintenance of equipment or buildings;
(4) Lubricants, greases, compounding materials, and other materials used in production or used to operate equipment or buildings;
(5) Gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, safety equipment, and supplies;
(6) Equipment, devices, and supplies used for testing or inspecting the good;
(7) Catalysts and solvents; and
(8) Any other good that is not incorporated into the other good but the use of which in the production of the other good can reasonably be demonstrated to be a part of that production.
(i)
Material.
“Material” means a good that is used in the production of another good;
(j)
Model line.
“Model line” means a group of motor vehicles having the same platform or model name;
(k)
Net cost.
“Net cost” means total cost minus sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, and non-allowable interest costs that are included in the total cost;
(l)
Non-allowable interest costs.
“Non-allowable interest costs” means interest costs incurred by a producer that exceed 700 basis points above the applicable official interest rates for comparable maturities of the United States or Australia;
(m)
Non-originating good or non-originating material.
“Non-originating good” or “non-originating material” means a good or material, as the case may be, that does not qualify as originating under General Note 28, HTSUS, or this subpart;
(n)
Packing materials and containers for shipment.
“Packing materials and containers for shipment” means the goods used to protect a good during its transportation to the United States, and does not include the packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale;
(o)
Producer.
“Producer” means a person who grows, raises, mines, harvests, fishes, traps, hunts, manufactures, processes, assembles or disassembles a good;
(p)
Production.
“Production” means growing, raising, mining, harvesting, fishing, trapping, hunting, manufacturing, processing, assembling, or disassembling a good;
(q)
Reasonably allocate.
“Reasonably allocate” means to apportion in a manner that would be appropriate under generally accepted accounting principles;
(r)
Recovered goods.
“Recovered goods” means materials in the form of individual parts that result from:
(1) The complete disassembly of goods which have passed their life expectancy, or are no longer useable due to defects, into individual parts; and
(2) The cleaning, inspecting, or testing, or other processing that is necessary for improvement to sound working condition of such individual parts;
(s)
Remanufactured good.
“Remanufactured good” means an industrial good assembled in the territory of a Party that is classified in Chapter 84, 85, or 87, or heading 9026, 9031, or 9032, HTSUS, other than a good classified in heading 8418 or 8516 or any of headings 8701 through 8706, HTSUS, and that:
(1) Is entirely or partially comprised of recovered goods;
(2) Has a similar life expectancy to, and meets the same performance standards as, a like good that is new; and
(3) Enjoys a factory warranty similar to a like good that is new;
(t)
Royalties.
“Royalties” means payments of any kind, including payments under technical assistance agreements or similar agreements, made as consideration for the use of, or right to use, any copyright, literary, artistic, or scientific work, patent, trademark, design, model, plan, secret formula or process, excluding those payments under technical assistance agreements or similar agreements that can be related to specific services such as:
(1) Personnel training, without regard to where performed; and
(2) If performed in the territory of one or both of the Parties, engineering, tooling, die-setting, software design and similar computer services;
(u)
Sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs.
“Sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs” means the following costs related to sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service:
(1) Sales and marketing promotion; media advertising; advertising and market research; promotional and demonstration materials; exhibits; sales conferences, trade shows and conventions; banners; marketing displays; free samples; sales, marketing and after-sales service literature (product brochures, catalogs, technical literature, price lists, service manuals, sales aid information); establishment and protection of logos and trademarks; sponsorships; wholesale and retail restocking charges; entertainment;
(2) Sales and marketing incentives; consumer, retailer or wholesaler rebates; merchandise incentives;
(3) Salaries and wages, sales commissions, bonuses, benefits (for example, medical, insurance, pension), traveling and living expenses, membership and professional fees, for sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service personnel;
(4) Recruiting and training of sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service personnel, and after-sales training of customers' employees, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer;
(5) Product liability insurance;
(6) Office supplies for sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service of goods, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer;
(7) Telephone, mail and other communications, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer;
(8) Rent and depreciation of sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service offices and distribution centers;
(9) Property insurance premiums, taxes, cost of utilities, and repair and maintenance of sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service offices and distribution centers, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer; and
(10) Payments by the producer to other persons for warranty repairs;
(v)
Self-produced material.
“Self-produced material” means an originating material that is produced by a producer of a good and used in the production of that good;
(w)
Shipping and packing costs.
“Shipping and packing costs” means the costs incurred in packing a good for shipment and shipping the good from the point of direct shipment to the buyer, excluding the costs of preparing and packaging the good for retail sale;
(x)
Total cost.
“Total cost” means all product costs, period costs, and other costs for a good incurred in the territory of one or both of the Parties. Product costs are costs that are associated with the production of a good and include the value of materials, direct labor costs, and direct overhead. Period costs are costs, other than product costs, that are expensed in the period in which they are incurred, such as selling expenses and general and administrative expenses. Other costs are all costs recorded on the books of the producer that are not product costs or period costs, such as interest. Total cost does not include profits that are earned by the producer, regardless of whether they are retained by the producer or paid out to other persons as dividends, or taxes paid on those profits, including capital gains taxes;
(y)
Used.
“Used” means used or consumed in the production of goods; and
(z)
Value.
“Value” means the value of a good or material for purposes of calculating customs duties or for purposes of applying this subpart.
§ 10.730
Originating goods.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart and General Note 28, HTSUS, a good imported into the customs territory of the United States will be considered an originating good under the AFTA only if:
(a) The good is wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(b) The good is produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties and:
(1) Each non-originating material used in the production of the good undergoes an applicable change in tariff classification specified in General Note 28(n), HTSUS;
(2) The good otherwise satisfies any applicable regional value content or other requirements specified in General Note 28(n), HTSUS; or
(3) The good meets any other requirements specified in General Note 28(n), HTSUS;
(c) The good is produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties exclusively from originating materials; or
(d) The good otherwise qualifies as an originating good under General Note 28(n), HTSUS.
§ 10.731
Textile and apparel goods classifiable as goods put up in sets.
Notwithstanding the specific rules set forth in General Note 28(n), HTSUS, textile or apparel goods classifiable as goods put up in sets for retail sale as provided for in General Rule of Interpretation 3, HTSUS, will not be considered to be originating goods unless each of the goods in the set is an originating good or the total value of the non-originating goods in the set does not exceed 10 percent of the value of the set.
§ 10.732
De minimis.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a good that does not undergo a change in tariff classification pursuant to General Note 28(n), HTSUS, is an originating good if:
(1) The value of all non-originating materials used in the production of the good that do not undergo the applicable change in tariff classification does not exceed 10 percent of the adjusted value of the good;
(2) The value of the non-originating materials described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is included in the value of non-originating materials for any applicable regional value content requirement for the good under General Note 28(n), HTSUS; and
(3) The good meets all other applicable requirements of General Note 28, HTSUS.
(b) Paragraph (a) does not apply to:
(1) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 4, HTSUS, or in subheading 1901.90, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in Chapter 4, HTSUS;
(2) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 4, HTSUS, or in subheading 1901.90, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in one of the following HTSUS provisions: subheading 1901.10, 1901.20 or 1901.90; heading 2105; or subheading 2106.90, 2202.90 or 2309.90;
(3) A non-originating material provided for in heading 0805, HTSUS, or subheadings 2009.11 through 2009.39, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in subheadings 2009.11 through 2009.39, HTSUS, or in subheading 2106.90 or 2202.90, HTSUS;
(4) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 15, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in headings 1501 through 1508, 1512, 1514 or 1515, HTSUS;
(5) A non-originating material provided for in heading 1701, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in headings 1701 through 1703, HTSUS;
(6) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 17, HTSUS, or heading 1805, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in subheading 1806.10, HTSUS;
(7) A non-originating material provided for in headings 2203 through 2208, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in heading 2207 or 2208, HTSUS; or
(8) A non-originating material used in the production of a good provided for in Chapters 1 through 21, HTSUS, unless the non-originating material is provided for in a different subheading than the good for which origin is being determined.
(c) A textile or apparel good provided for in Chapters 42, 50 through 63, 70, or 94, HTSUS, that is not an originating good because certain fibers or yarns used in the production of the component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good do not undergo an applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 28(n), HTSUS, will nevertheless be considered to be an originating good if the total weight of all such fibers or yarns in that component is not more than 7 percent of the total weight of that component. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a textile or apparel good containing elastomeric yarns in the component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good will be considered an originating good only if such yarns are wholly formed in the territory of a Party. For purposes of this paragraph, in the case of a textile or apparel good that is a yarn, fabric, or group of fibers, the term “component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good” means all of the fibers in the yarn, fabric, or group of fibers.
§ 10.733
Accumulation.
(a) Originating materials from the territory of a Party that are used in the production of a good in the territory of another Party will be considered to originate in the territory of that other Party.
(b) A good that is produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties by one or more producers is an originating good if the good satisfies the requirements of § 10.730 of this subpart and all other applicable requirements of General Note 28, HTSUS.
§ 10.734
Regional value content.
(a)
General.
Except for goods to which paragraph (d) of this section applies, where General Note 28(n), HTSUS, sets forth a rule that specifies a regional value content test for a good, the regional value content of such good must be calculated by the importer, exporter, or producer of the good on the basis of the build-down method described in paragraph (b) of this section or the build-up method described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Build-down method.
Under the build-down method, the regional value content must be calculated on the basis of the formula RVC = ((AV − VNM)/AV) × 100, where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; AV is the adjusted value of the good; and VNM is the value of non-originating materials that are acquired and used by the producer in the production of the good, but does not include the value of a material that is self-produced.
(c)
Build-up method.
Under the build-up method, the regional value content must be calculated on the basis of the formula RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100, where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; AV is the adjusted value of the good; and VOM is the value of originating materials that are acquired or self-produced and used by the producer in the production of the good.
(d)
Special rule for certain automotive goods
—(1)
General.
Where General Note 28(n), HTSUS, sets forth a rule that specifies a regional value content test for an automotive good provided for in subheadings 8407.31 through 8407.34 (engines), subheading 8408.20 (diesel engine for vehicles), heading 8409 (parts of engines), or any of headings 8701 through 8705 (motor vehicles), and headings 8706 (chassis), 8707 (bodies), and 8708 (motor vehicle parts), HTSUS, the regional value content of such good must be calculated by the importer, exporter, or producer of the good on the basis of the net cost methods described in paragraphs (d)(2) through (4) of this section.
(2)
Net cost method.
Under the net cost method, the regional value content must be calculated on the basis of the formula RVC = ((NC − VNM)/NC) × 100, where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; NC is the net cost of the good; and VNM is the value of non-originating materials that are acquired and used by the producer in the production of the good, but does not include the value of a material that is self-produced. Consistent with the provisions regarding allocation of costs set out in generally accepted accounting principles, the net cost of the good must be determined by:
(i) Calculating the total cost incurred with respect to all goods produced by the producer of the automotive good, subtracting any sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, and non-allowable interest costs that are included in the total cost of all such goods, and then reasonably allocating the resulting net cost of those goods to the automotive good;
(ii) Calculating the total cost incurred with respect to all goods produced by the producer of the automotive good, reasonably allocating the total cost to the automotive good, and then subtracting any sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, and non-allowable interest costs that are included in the portion of the total cost allocated to the automotive good; or
(iii) Reasonably allocating each cost that forms part of the total costs incurred with respect to the automotive good so that the aggregate of these costs does not include any sales promotion, marketing and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, or non-allowable interest costs.
(3)
Motor vehicles
—(i)
General.
For purposes of calculating the regional value content under the net cost method for an automotive good that is a motor vehicle provided for in headings 8701 through 8705, an importer, exporter, or producer may average the amounts calculated under the formula set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section over the producer's fiscal year using any one of the categories described in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section either on the basis of all motor vehicles in the category or only those motor vehicles in the category that are exported to the territory of a Party.
(ii)
Categories.
The categories referred to in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section are as follows:
(A) The same model line of motor vehicles, in the same class of vehicles, produced in the same plant in the territory of a Party, as the motor vehicle for which the regional value content is being calculated;
(B) The same class of motor vehicles, produced in the same plant in the territory of a Party, as the motor vehicle for which the regional value content is being calculated; and
(C) The same model line of motor vehicles produced in the territory of a Party as the motor vehicle for which the regional value content is being calculated.
(4)
Other automotive goods
—(i)
General.
For purposes of calculating the regional value content under the net cost method for automotive goods provided for in subheadings 8407.31 through 8407.34, subheading 8408.20, heading 8409, 8706, 8707, or 8708, HTSUS, that are produced in the same plant, an importer, exporter, or producer may:
(A) Average the amounts calculated under the formula set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section over any of the following: The fiscal year, or any quarter or month, of the motor vehicle producer to whom the automotive good is sold, or the fiscal year, or any quarter or month, of the producer of the automotive good, provided the goods were produced during the fiscal year, quarter, or month that is the basis for the calculation;
(B) Determine the average referred to in paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) of this section separately for such goods sold to one or more motor vehicle producers; or
(C) Make a separate determination under paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) or (B) for automotive goods that are exported to the territory of a Party.
(ii)
Duration of use.
A person selecting an averaging period of one month or quarter under paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) of this section must continue to use that method for that category of automotive goods throughout the fiscal year.
§ 10.735
Value of materials.
(a)
Calculating the value of materials.
For purposes of calculating the regional value content of a good under General Note 28(n), HTSUS, and for purposes of applying the
de minimis
(
see
§ 10.732 of this subpart) provisions of General Note 28(n), HTSUS, the value of a material is:
(1) In the case of a material imported by the producer of the good, the adjusted value of the material;
(2) In the case of a material acquired by the producer in the territory where the good is produced, the value, determined in accordance with Articles 1 through 8, Article 15, and the corresponding interpretative notes of the Customs Valuation Agreement, of the material with reasonable modifications to the provisions of the Customs Valuation Agreement as may be required due to the absence of an importation by the producer (including, but not limited to, treating a domestic purchase by the producer as if it were a sale for exportation to the country of importation); or
(3) In the case of a self-produced material, the sum of:
(i) All expenses incurred in the production of the material, including general expenses; and
(ii) An amount for profit equivalent to the profit added in the normal course of trade.
(b)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate application of the principles set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section:

# Example 1.
The producer in Australia purchases material x from an unrelated seller in Australia for $100. Under the provisions of Article 1 of the Customs Valuation Agreement, transaction value is the price actually
paid or payable for the goods when sold for exportation to the country of importation adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8. In order to apply Article 1 to this domestic purchase by the producer, such purchase is treated as if it were a sale for export to the country of importation. Therefore, for purposes of determining the adjusted value of material x, the Article 1 transaction value is the price actually paid or payable for the goods when sold to the producer in Australia ($100), adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8. In this example, it is irrelevant whether material x was initially imported into Australia by the seller (or by anyone else). So long as the producer acquired material x in Australia, it is intended that the value of material x will be determined on the basis of the price actually paid or payable by the producer adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8.

# Example 2.
Same facts as in Example 1, except that the sale between the seller and the producer is subject to certain restrictions that preclude the application of Article 1. Under Article 2 of the Customs Valuation Agreement, the value is the transaction value of identical goods sold for exportation to the same country of importation and exported at or about the same time as the goods being valued. In order to permit the application of Article 2 to the domestic acquisition by the producer, the price paid by the producer should be modified so that the value is the transaction value of identical goods sold within Australia at or about the same time the goods were sold to the producer in Australia. Thus, if the seller of material x also sold an identical material to another buyer in Australia without restrictions, that other sale would be used to determine the adjusted value of material x.
(c)
Permissible additions to, and deductions from, the value of materials
—(1)
Additions to originating materials.
For originating materials, the following expenses, if not included under paragraph (a) of this section, may be added to the value of the originating material:
(i) The costs of freight, insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in transporting the material within or between the territory of one or both of the Parties to the location of the producer;
(ii) Duties, taxes, and customs brokerage fees on the material paid in the territory of one or both of the Parties, other than duties and taxes that are waived, refunded, refundable or otherwise recoverable, including credit against duty or tax paid or payable; and
(iii) The cost of waste and spoilage resulting from the use of the material in the production of the good, less the value of renewable scrap or byproducts.
(2)
Deductions from non-originating materials.
For non-originating materials, if included under paragraph (a) of this section, the following expenses may be deducted from the value of the non-originating material:
(i) The costs of freight, insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in transporting the material within or between the territory of one or both of the Parties to the location of the producer;
(ii) Duties, taxes, and customs brokerage fees on the material paid in the territory of one or both of the Parties, other than duties and taxes that are waived, refunded, refundable or otherwise recoverable, including credit against duty or tax paid or payable;
(iii) The cost of waste and spoilage resulting from the use of the material in the production of the good, less the value of renewable scrap or by-products;
(iv) The cost of processing incurred in the territory of one or both of the Parties in the production of the non-originating material; and
(v) The cost of originating materials used in the production of the non-originating material in the territory of one or both of the Parties.
(d)
Accounting method.
Any cost or value referenced in General Note 28, HTSUS, and this subpart, must be recorded and maintained in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles applicable in the territory of the Party in which the good is produced.
§ 10.736
Accessories, spare parts, or tools.
(a)
General.
Accessories, spare parts, or tools that are delivered with a good and that form part of the good's standard accessories, spare parts, or tools will be treated as originating goods if the good is an originating good, and will be disregarded in determining whether all the non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo an applicable change in tariff classification specified in General Note 28(n), HTSUS, provided that:
(1) The accessories, spare parts, or tools are not invoiced separately from the good; and
(2) The quantities and value of the accessories, spare parts, or tools are customary for the good.
(b)
Regional value content.
If the good is subject to a regional value content requirement, the value of the accessories, spare parts, or tools is taken into account as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of the good under § 10.734 of this subpart.
§ 10.737
Fungible goods and materials.
(a)
General.
A person claiming that a fungible good or material is an originating good may base the claim either on the physical segregation of the fungible good or material or by using an inventory management method with respect to the fungible good or material. For purposes of this section, the term “inventory management method” means:
(1) Averaging;
(2) “Last-in, first-out;”
(3) “First-in, first-out;” or
(4) Any other method that is recognized in the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles of the Party in which the production is performed or otherwise accepted by that country.
(b)
Duration of use.
A person selecting an inventory management method under paragraph (a) of this section for a particular fungible good or material must continue to use that method for that fungible good or material throughout the fiscal year of that person.
§ 10.738
Retail packaging materials and containers.
(a)
Effect on tariff shift rule.
Packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale, if classified with the good for which preferential tariff treatment under the AFTA is claimed, will be disregarded in determining whether all non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo the applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 28(n), HTSUS.
(b)
Effect on regional value content calculation.
If the good is subject to a regional value content requirement, the value of such packaging materials and containers will be taken into account as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of the good.

# Example 1.
Australian Producer A of good C imports 100 non-originating blister packages to be used as retail packaging for good C. As provided in § 10.735(a)(1) of this subpart, the value of the blister packages is their adjusted value, which in this case is $10. Good C has a regional value content requirement. The United States importer of good C decides to use the build-down method, RVC = ((AV − VNM)/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.734(b) of this subpart), in determining whether good C satisfies the regional value content requirement. In applying this method, the non-originating blister packages are taken into account as non-originating. As such, their $10 adjusted value is included in the VNM, value of non-originating materials, of good C.

# Example 2.
Same facts as in Example 1, except that the blister packages are originating. In this case, the adjusted value of the originating blister packages would
not
be included as part of the VNM of good C under the build-down method. However, if the U.S. importer had used the build-up method, RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.734(c) of this subpart), the adjusted value of the blister packaging would be included as part of the VOM, value of originating materials.
§ 10.739
Packing materials and containers for shipment.
(a)
Effect on tariff shift rule.
Packing materials and containers for shipment, as defined in § 10.729 (n) of this subpart, are to be disregarded in determining whether the non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo an applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 28(n), HTSUS. Accordingly, such materials and containers are not required to undergo the applicable change in tariff classification even if they are non-originating.
(b)
Effect on regional value content calculation.
Packing materials and containers for shipment, as defined in § 10.729(n) of this subpart, are to be disregarded in determining the regional value content of a good imported into the United States. Accordingly, in applying the build-down, build-up, or net cost method for determining the regional value content of a good imported into the United States, the value of such packing materials and
containers for shipment (whether originating or non-originating) is disregarded and not included in AV, adjusted value, VNM, value of non-originating materials, VOM, value of originating materials, or NC, net cost of a good.

# Example.
Australian Producer A produces good C. Producer A ships good C to the U.S. in a shipping container which it purchased from Company B in Australia. The shipping container is originating. The value of the shipping container determined under section § 10.735(a)(2) of this subpart is $3. Good C is subject to a regional value content requirement. The transaction value of good C is $100, which includes the $3 shipping container. The United States importer decides to use the build-up method, RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.734(c) of this subpart), in determining whether good C satisfies the regional value content requirement. In determining the AV, adjusted value, of good C imported into the U.S., paragraph (b) of this section and the definition of AV require a $3 deduction for the value of the shipping container. Therefore, the AV is $97 ($100 − $3). In addition, the value of the shipping container is disregarded and not included in the VOM, value of originating materials.
§ 10.740
Indirect materials.
An indirect material, as defined in § 10.729(h) of this subpart, will be considered to be an originating material without regard to where it is produced, and its value will be the cost registered in the accounting records of the producer of the good.

# Example.
Australian Producer C produces good C using non-originating material A. Producer C imports non-originating rubber gloves for use by workers in the production of good C. Good C is subject to a tariff shift requirement. As provided in § 10.730(b)(1) of this subpart and General Note 28(n), each of the non-originating materials in good C must undergo the specified change in tariff classification in order for good C to be considered originating. Although non-originating material A must undergo the applicable tariff shift in order for good C to be considered originating, the rubber gloves do not because they are indirect materials and are considered originating without regard to where they are produced.
§ 10.741
Third country transportation.
(a)
General.
A good that has undergone production necessary to qualify as an originating good under § 10.730 of this subpart will not be considered an originating good if, subsequent to that production, the good undergoes further production or any other operation outside the territories of the Parties, other than unloading, reloading, or any other operation necessary to preserve the good in good condition or to transport the good to the territory of a Party.
(b)
Documentary evidence.
An importer making a claim that a good is originating may be required to demonstrate, to CBP's satisfaction, that no further production or subsequent operation, other than permitted under paragraph (a) of this section, occurred outside the territories of the Parties. An importer may demonstrate compliance with this section by submitting documentary evidence. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, bills of lading, airway bills, packing lists, commercial invoices, receiving and inventory records, and customs entry and exit documents.

# Origin Verifications and Determinations
§ 10.742
Verification and justification of claim for preferential treatment.
(a)
Verification.
A claim for preferential tariff treatment made under § 10.723(a) of this subpart, including any statements or other information submitted to CBP in support of the claim, will be subject to such verification as the port director deems necessary. In the event that the port director is provided with insufficient information to verify or substantiate the claim, the port director may deny the claim for preferential treatment. A verification of a claim for preferential treatment may be conducted by means of one or more of the following:
(1) Requests for information from the importer;
(2) Written requests for information to the exporter or producer;
(3) Requests for the importer to arrange for the exporter or producer to provide information directly to CBP;
(4) Visits to the premises of the exporter or producer in Australia, in accordance with procedures that the Parties adopt pertaining to the verification; and
(5) Such other procedures as the Parties may agree.
(b)
Applicable accounting principles.
When conducting a verification of origin to which Generally Accepted Accounting Principles may be relevant, CBP will apply and accept the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles applicable in the country of production.
§ 10.743
Special rule for verifications in Australia of U.S. imports of textile and apparel goods.
(a)
Procedures to determine whether a claim of origin is accurate.
For the purpose of determining that a claim of origin for a textile or apparel good is accurate, CBP may request that the government of Australia conduct a verification, regardless of whether a claim is made for preferential tariff treatment. While a verification under this paragraph is being conducted, CBP, if directed by the President, may take appropriate action which may include suspending the application of preferential tariff treatment to the textile or apparel good for which a claim of origin has been made. If an exporter, producer, or other person refuses to consent to a visit as provided for in this paragraph, or if CBP is unable to make the determination described in this paragraph within 12 months after a request for a verification, or CBP makes a negative determination, CBP, if directed by the President, may take appropriate action which may include denying the application of preferential tariff treatment to the textile or apparel good subject to the verification, and to similar goods exported or produced by the entity that exported or produced the good.
(b)
Procedures to determine compliance with applicable customs laws and regulations of the U.S.
For purposes of enabling CBP to determine that an exporter or producer is complying with applicable customs laws, regulations, and procedures in cases in which CBP has a reasonable suspicion that an Australian exporter or producer is engaging in unlawful activity relating to trade in textile and apparel goods, CBP may request that the government of Australia conduct a verification, regardless of whether a claim is made for preferential tariff treatment. A “reasonable suspicion” for the purpose of this paragraph will be based on relevant factual information, including information of the type set forth in Article 6.5 of the AFTA, which indicates circumvention of applicable laws, regulations or procedures regarding trade in textile and apparel goods. While a verification under this paragraph is being conducted, CBP, if directed by the President, may take appropriate action which may include suspending the application of preferential tariff treatment to the textile and apparel goods exported or produced by the Australian entity where the reasonable suspicion of unlawful activity relates to those goods. If an exporter, producer, or other person refuses to consent to a visit as provided for in this paragraph, or if CBP is unable to make the determination described in this paragraph within 12 months after a request for a verification, or makes a negative determination, CBP, if directed by the President, may take appropriate action which may include denying the application of preferential tariff treatment to any textile or apparel goods exported or produced by the entity subject to the verification.
(c)
Assistance by U.S. officials to Australian authorities.
U.S. officials may undertake or assist in a verification under this section by conducting visits in Australia, along with the competent authorities of Australia, to the premises of an exporter, producer or any other enterprise involved in the movement of textile or apparel goods from Australia to the United States.
(d)
Treatment of documents and information provided to CBP.
Any production, trade and transit documents and other information necessary to conduct a verification under this section, provided to CBP by the government of Australia consistent with the laws, regulations, and procedures of Australia, will be treated as confidential in accordance with Article 22.4 of the AFTA (Disclosure of Information).
(e)
Continuation of appropriate action.
CBP may continue to take appropriate action under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section until it receives information sufficient to enable it to make the
determination described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
§ 10.744
Issuance of negative origin determinations.
If, as a result of an origin verification initiated under this subpart, CBP determines that a claim for preferential tariff treatment made under § 10.723(a) of this subpart should be denied, it will issue a determination in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to the importer that sets forth the following:
(a) A description of the good that was the subject of the verification together with the identifying numbers and dates of the import documents pertaining to the good;
(b) A statement setting forth the findings of fact made in connection with the verification and upon which the determination is based; and
(c) With specific reference to the rules applicable to originating goods as set forth in General Note 28, HTSUS, and in §§ 10.729 through 10.741 of this subpart, the legal basis for the determination.

# Penalties
§ 10.745
General.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, all criminal, civil or administrative penalties which may be imposed on U.S. importers for violations of the customs and related laws and regulations will also apply to U.S. importers for violations of the laws and regulations relating to the AFTA.
§ 10.746
Corrected claim or supporting statement.
An importer who makes a corrected claim under § 10.723(b) of this subpart will not be subject to civil or administrative penalties under 19 U.S.C. 1592 for having made an incorrect claim or having submitted an incorrect supporting statement, provided that the corrected claim or supporting statement is promptly and voluntarily made pursuant to the terms set forth in § 10.747 of this subpart.
§ 10.747
Framework for correcting claims or supporting statements.
(a) “
Promptly and voluntarily” defined.
Except as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, for purposes of this subpart, the making of a corrected claim or supporting statement will be deemed to have been done promptly and voluntarily if:
(1)(i) Done within one year following the date on which the importer made the incorrect claim; or
(ii) Done later than one year following the date on which the importer made the incorrect claim, provided the corrected claim is made:
(A) Before the commencement of a formal investigation, within the meaning of § 162.74(g) of this chapter; or
(B) Before any of the events specified in § 162.74(i) of this chapter have occurred; or
(C) Within 30 days after the importer initially becomes aware that the incorrect claim is not valid; and
(2) Accompanied by a statement setting forth the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section; and
(3) Accompanied or followed by a tender of any actual loss of duties and merchandise processing fees, if applicable, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Exception in cases involving fraud or subsequent incorrect claims
—(1)
Fraud.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, an importer who acted fraudulently in making an incorrect claim may not make a voluntary correction of that claim. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “fraud” will have the meaning set forth in paragraph (C)(3) of Appendix B to Part 171 of this chapter.
(2)
Subsequent incorrect claims.
An importer who makes one or more incorrect claims after becoming aware that a claim involving the same merchandise and circumstances is invalid may not make a voluntary correction of the subsequent claims pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Statement.
For purposes of this subpart, each corrected claim must be accompanied by a statement, submitted in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system, which:
(1) Identifies the class or kind of good to which the incorrect claim relates;
(2) Identifies each affected import transaction, including each port of importation and the approximate date of each importation;
(3) Specifies the nature of the incorrect statements or omissions regarding the claim; and
(4) Sets forth, to the best of the person's knowledge, the true and accurate information or data which should have been covered by or provided in the claim, and states that the person will provide any additional information or data which is unknown at the time of making the corrected claim within 30 days or within any extension of that 30-day period as CBP may permit in order for the person to obtain the information or data.
(d)
Tender of actual loss of duties.
A U.S. importer who makes a corrected claim must tender any actual loss of duties at the time of making the corrected claim, or within one (1) year thereafter, or within any extension of that 1-year period as CBP may allow in order for the importer to obtain the information or data necessary to calculate the duties owed.

# Goods Returned After Repair or Alteration
§ 10.748
Goods re-entered after repair or alteration in Australia.
(a)
General.
This section sets forth the rules which apply for purposes of obtaining duty-free treatment on goods returned after repair or alteration in Australia as provided for in subheadings 9802.00.40 and 9802.00.50, HTSUS. Goods returned after having been repaired or altered in Australia, whether or not pursuant to a warranty, are eligible for duty-free treatment, provided that the requirements of this section are met. For purposes of this section, “repairs or alterations” means restoration, addition, renovation, re-dyeing, cleaning, re-sterilizing, or other treatment which does not destroy the essential characteristics of, or create a new or commercially different good from, the good exported from the United States. The term “repair or alternation” does not include an operation or process that transforms an unfinished good into a finished good.
(b)
Goods not eligible for duty-free treatment after repair or alteration.
The duty-free treatment referred to in paragraph (a) of this section will not apply to goods which, in their condition as exported from the United States to Australia, are incomplete for their intended use and for which the processing operation performed in Australia constitutes an operation that is performed as a matter of course in the preparation or manufacture of finished goods.
(c)
Documentation.
The provisions of § 10.8(a) through (c) of this part, relating to the documentary requirements for goods entered under subheading 9802.00.40 or 9802.00.50, HTSUS, will apply in connection with the entry of goods which are returned from Australia after having been exported for repairs or alterations and which are claimed to be duty free.

# Subpart M—United States-Morocco Free Trade Agreement

# Source:
CBP Dec. 07-51, 72 FR 35651, June 29, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 10.761
Scope.
This subpart implements the duty preference and related customs provisions applicable to imported goods under the United States-Morocco Free Trade Agreement (the MFTA) signed on June 15, 2004, and under the United States-Morocco Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (the Act; 118 Stat. 1103). Except as otherwise specified in this subpart, the procedures and other requirements set forth in this subpart are in addition to the customs procedures and requirements of general application contained elsewhere in this chapter. Additional provisions implementing certain aspects of the MFTA and the Act are contained in Parts 102, 162, and 163 of this chapter.
[CBP Dec. 07-51, 72 FR 35651, June 29, 2007, as amended at CBP Dec. 08-29, 73 FR 45354, Aug. 5, 2008]
§ 10.762
General definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following terms will have the meanings indicated unless either the context in which they are used requires a different meaning or a different definition is prescribed for a particular section of this subpart:
(a)
Claim of origin.
“Claim of origin” means a claim that a good is an originating good;
(b)
Claim for preferential tariff treatment.
“Claim for preferential tariff treatment” means a claim that a good is entitled to the duty rate applicable under the MFTA to an originating good;
(c)
Customs Valuation Agreement.
“Customs Valuation Agreement” means the
Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994
, which is part of the WTO Agreement;
(d)
Customs duty.
“Customs duty” includes any customs or import duty and a charge of any kind imposed in connection with the importation of a good, including any form of surtax or surcharge in connection with such importation, but does not include any:
(1) Charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently with Article III:2 of the GATT 1994 in respect of like, directly competitive, or substitutable goods of the Party or in respect of goods from which the imported good has been manufactured or produced in whole or in part;
(2) Antidumping or countervailing duty; and
(3) Fee or other charge in connection with importation commensurate with the cost of services rendered;
(e)
Days.
“Days” means calendar days.
(f)
Enterprise.
“Enterprise” means any entity constituted or organized under applicable law, whether or not for profit, and whether privately-owned or governmentally-owned, including any corporation, trust, partnership, sole proprietorship, joint venture, or other association;
(g)
Foreign material.
“Foreign material” means a material other than a material produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(h)
GATT 1994.
“GATT 1994” means the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994, which is part of the WTO Agreement;
(i)
Good.
“Good” means any merchandise, product, article, or material;
(j)
Harmonized System.
“Harmonized System (HS)” means the
Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System
, including its General Rules of Interpretation, Section Notes, and Chapter Notes, as adopted and implemented by the Parties in their respective tariff laws;
(k)
Heading.
“Heading” means the first four digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(l)
HTSUS.
“HTSUS” means the
Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States
as promulgated by the U.S. International Trade Commission;
(m)
Originating.
“Originating” means a good qualifying under the rules of origin set forth in General Note 27, HTSUS, and MFTA Chapter Four (Textiles and apparel) or Chapter Five (Rules of Origin);
(n)
Party.
“Party” means the United States or the Kingdom of Morocco;
(o)
Person.
“Person” means a natural person or an enterprise;
(p)
Preferential tariff treatment.
“Preferential tariff treatment” means the duty rate applicable under the MFTA to an originating good;
(q)
Subheading.
“Subheading” means the first six digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(r)
Textile or apparel good.
“Textile or apparel good” means a good listed in the Annex to the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing (commonly referred to as ATC), which is part of the WTO Agreement;
(s)
Territory.
“Territory” means:
(1) With respect to Morocco, the land, maritime and air space under its sovereignty, and the exclusive economic zone and the continental shelf within which it exercises sovereign rights and jurisdiction in accordance with international law and its domestic law; and
(2) With respect to the United States,
(i) The customs territory of the United States, which includes the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico,
(ii) The foreign trade zones located in the United States and Puerto Rico, and
(iii) Any areas beyond the territorial seas of the United States within which, in accordance with international law and its domestic law, the United States may exercise rights with respect to the seabed and subsoil and their natural resources;
(t)
WTO Agreement.
“WTO Agreement” means the
Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization
of April 15, 1994.

# Import Requirements
§ 10.763
Filing of claim for preferential tariff treatment upon importation.
An importer may make a claim for MFTA preferential tariff treatment for an originating good by including on the entry summary, or equivalent documentation, the symbol “MA” as a prefix to the subheading of the HTSUS under which each qualifying good is classified, or by the method specified for equivalent reporting via an authorized electronic data interchange system.
§ 10.764
Declaration.
(a)
Contents.
An importer who claims preferential tariff treatment for a good under the MFTA must submit to CBP, at the request of the Center director, a declaration setting forth all pertinent information concerning the growth, production, or manufacture of the good. A declaration submitted to CBP under this paragraph:
(1) Need not be in a prescribed format but must be in writing or must be transmitted electronically pursuant to any electronic means authorized by CBP for that purpose;
(2) Must include the following information:
(i) The legal name, address, telephone, and e-mail address (if any) of the importer of record of the good;
(ii) The legal name, address, telephone, and e-mail address (if any) of the responsible official or authorized agent of the importer signing the declaration (if different from the information required by paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section);
(iii) The legal name, address, telephone, and e-mail address (if any) of the exporter of the good (if different from the producer);
(iv) The legal name, address, telephone, and e-mail address (if any) of the producer of the good (if known);
(v) A description of the good, which must be sufficiently detailed to relate it to the invoice and HS nomenclature, including quantity, numbers, invoice numbers, and bills of lading;
(vi) A description of the operations performed in the growth, production, or manufacture of the good in the territory of one or both of the Parties and, where applicable, identification of the direct costs of processing operations;
(vii) A description of any materials used in the growth, production, or manufacture of the good that are wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of one or both of the Parties, and a statement as to the value of such materials;
(viii) A description of the operations performed on, and a statement as to the origin and value of, any materials used in the article that are claimed to have been sufficiently processed in the territory of one or both of the Parties so as to be materials produced in one or both of the Parties, or are claimed to have undergone an applicable change in tariff classification specified in General Note 27(h), HTSUS; and
(ix) A description of the origin and value of any foreign materials used in the good that have not been substantially transformed in the territory of one or both of the Parties, or have not undergone an applicable change in tariff classification specified in General Note 27(h), HTSUS;
(3) Must include a statement, in substantially the following form:
“I certify that:
The information on this document is true and accurate and I assume the responsibility for proving such representations. I understand that I am liable for any false statements or material omissions made on or in connection with this document;
I agree to maintain and present upon request, documentation necessary to support these representations;
The goods comply with all the requirements for preferential tariff treatment specified for those goods in the United States-Morocco Free Trade Agreement; and
This document consists of ____pages, including all attachments.”
(b)
Responsible official or agent.
The declaration must be signed and dated by a responsible official of the importer or by the importer's authorized agent having knowledge of the relevant facts.
(c)
Language.
The declaration must be completed in the English language.
(d)
Applicability of declaration.
The declaration may be applicable to:
(1) A single importation of a good into the United States, including a single shipment that results in the filing of one or more entries and a series of shipments that results in the filing of one entry; or
(2) Multiple importations of identical goods into the United States that occur within a specified blanket period, not exceeding 12 months, set out in the declaration. For purposes of this paragraph, “identical goods” means goods that are the same in all respects relevant to the production that qualifies the goods for preferential tariff treatment.
§ 10.765
Importer obligations.
(a)
General.
An importer who makes a claim for preferential tariff treatment under § 10.763 of this subpart:
(1) Will be deemed to have certified that the good is eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the MFTA;
(2) Is responsible for the truthfulness of the information and data contained in the declaration provided for in § 10.764 of this subpart; and
(3) Is responsible for submitting any supporting documents requested by CBP and for the truthfulness of the information contained in those documents. CBP will allow for the direct submission by the exporter or producer of business confidential or other sensitive information, including cost and sourcing information.
(b) I
nformation provided by exporter or producer.
The fact that the importer has made a claim for preferential tariff treatment or prepared a declaration based on information provided by an exporter or producer will not relieve the importer of the responsibility referred to in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 10.766
Declaration not required.
(a)
General.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an importer will not be required to submit a declaration under § 10.764 of this subpart for:
(1) A non-commercial importation of a good; or
(2) A commercial importation for which the value of the originating goods does not exceed U.S. $2,500.
(b)
Exception.
If the Center director determines that an importation described in paragraph (a) of this section may reasonably be considered to have been carried out or planned for the purpose of evading compliance with the rules and procedures governing claims for preference under the MFTA, the Center director will notify the importer that for that importation the importer must submit to CBP a declaration. The importer must submit such a declaration within 30 days from the date of the notice. Failure to timely submit the declaration will result in denial of the claim for preferential tariff treatment.
§ 10.767
Maintenance of records.
(a)
General.
An importer claiming preferential tariff treatment for a good under § 10.763 of this subpart must maintain, for five years after the date of the claim for preferential tariff treatment, all records and documents necessary for the preparation of the declaration.
(b)
Applicability of other recordkeeping requirements.
The records and documents referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are in addition to any other records required to be made, kept, and made available to CBP under part 163 of this chapter.
(c)
Method of maintenance.
The records and documents referred to in paragraph (a) of this section must be maintained by importers as provided in § 163.5 of this chapter.
§ 10.768
Effect of noncompliance; failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment.
(a)
General.
If the importer fails to comply with any requirement under this subpart, including submission of a complete declaration under § 10.764 of
this subpart, when requested, the Center director may deny preferential tariff treatment to the imported good.
(b)
Failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment.
Where the requirements for preferential tariff treatment set forth elsewhere in this subpart are met, the Center director nevertheless may deny preferential treatment to a good if the good is shipped through or transshipped in the territory of a country other than a Party, and the importer of the good does not provide, at the request of the Center director, evidence demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Center director that the good was imported directly from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party (
see
§ 10.777 of this subpart).

# Rules of Origin
§ 10.769
Definitions.
For purposes of §§ 10.769 through 10.777:
(a)
Exporter.
“Exporter” means a person who exports goods from the territory of a Party;
(b)
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
“Generally Accepted Accounting Principles” means the recognized consensus or substantial authoritative support in the territory of a Party, with respect to the recording of revenues, expenses, costs, assets, and liabilities, the disclosure of information, and the preparation of financial statements. These standards may encompass broad guidelines of general application as well as detailed standards, practices, and procedures;
(c)
Good.
“Good” means any merchandise, product, article, or material;
(d)
Goods wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of one or both of the Parties.
“Goods wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of one or both of the Parties” means:
(1) Mineral goods extracted in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(2) Vegetable goods, as such goods are defined in the HTSUS, harvested in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(3) Live animals born and raised in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(4) Goods obtained from live animals raised in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(5) Goods obtained from hunting, trapping, or fishing in the territory of one or both of the parties;
(6) Goods (fish, shellfish, and other marine life) taken from the sea by vessels registered or recorded with a Party and flying its flag;
(7) Goods produced from goods referred to in paragraph (d)(5) on board factory ships registered or recorded with that Party and flying its flag;
(8) Goods taken by a Party or a person of a Party from the seabed or beneath the seabed outside territorial waters, provided that a Party has rights to exploit such seabed;
(9) Goods taken from outer space, provided they are obtained by a Party or a person of a Party and not processed in the territory of a non-Party;
(10) Waste and scrap derived from:
(i) Production or manufacture in the territory of one or both of the Parties, or
(ii) Used goods collected in the territory of one or both of the Parties, provided such goods are fit only for the recovery of raw materials;
(11) Recovered goods derived in the territory of a Party from used goods, and utilized in the territory of that Party in the production of remanufactured goods; and
(12) Goods produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties exclusively from goods referred to in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(10) of this section, or from their derivatives, at any stage of production;
(e)
Importer.
Importer means a person who imports goods into the territory of a Party;
(f)
Indirect material.
“Indirect material” means a good used in the growth, production, manufacture, testing, or inspection of a good but not physically incorporated into the good, or a good used in the maintenance of buildings or the operation of equipment associated with the growth, production, or manufacture of a good, including:
(1) Fuel and energy;
(2) Tools, dies, and molds;
(3) Spare parts and materials used in the maintenance of equipment and buildings;
(4) Lubricants, greases, compounding materials, and other materials used in the growth, production, or manufacture of a good or used to operate equipment and buildings;
(5) Gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, safety equipment, and supplies;
(6) Equipment, devices, and supplies used for testing or inspecting the good;
(7) Catalysts and solvents; and
(8) Any other goods that are not incorporated into the good but the use of which in the growth, production, or manufacture of the good can reasonably be demonstrated to be a part of that growth, production, or manufacture;
(g)
Material.
“Material” means a good, including a part or ingredient, that is used in the growth, production, or manufacture of another good that is a new or different article of commerce that has been grown, produced, or manufactured in one or both of the Parties;
(h)
Material produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties.
“Material produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties” means a good that is either wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of one or both of the Parties, or a new or different article of commerce that has been grown, produced, or manufactured in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(i)
New or different article of commerce.
A “new or different article of commerce” exists when the country of origin of a good which is produced in a Party from foreign materials is determined to be that country under the provisions of §§ 102.1 through 102.21 of this chapter;
(j)
Non-originating material.
“Non-originating material” means a material that does not qualify as originating under this subpart or General Note 27, HTSUS;
(k)
Packing materials and containers for shipment.
“Packing materials and containers for shipment” means the goods used to protect a good during its transportation to the United States, and does not include the packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale;
(l)
Recovered goods.
“Recovered goods” means materials in the form of individual parts that result from:
(1) The complete disassembly of used goods into individual parts; and
(2) The cleaning, inspecting, testing, or other processing of those parts as necessary for improvement to sound working condition;
(m)
Remanufactured good.
“Remanufactured good” means an industrial good that is assembled in the territory of a Party and that:
(1) Is entirely or partially comprised of recovered goods;
(2) Has a similar life expectancy to, and meets the similar performance standards as, a like good that is new; and
(3) Enjoys the factory warranty similar to that of a like good that is new;
(n)
Simple combining or packaging operations.
“Simple combining or packaging operations” means operations such as adding batteries to electronic devices, fitting together a small number of components by bolting, gluing, or soldering, or packing or repacking components together;
[CBP Dec. 07-51, 72 FR 35651, June 29, 2007, as amended at CBP Dec. 08-29, 73 FR 45354, Aug. 5, 2008]
§ 10.770
Originating goods.
(a)
General.
A good will be considered an originating good under the MFTA when imported directly from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party only if:
(1) The good is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of one or both of the Parties;
(2) The good is a new or different article of commerce, as defined in § 10.769(i) of this subpart, that has been grown, produced, or manufactured in the territory of one or both of the Parties, is provided for in a heading or subheading of the HTSUS that is not covered by the product-specific rules set forth in General Note 27(h), HTSUS, and meets the value-content requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section; or
(3) The good is provided for in a heading or subheading of the HTSUS covered by the product-specific rules set forth in General Note 27(h), HTSUS, and:
(i)(A) Each of the non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergoes an applicable change in
tariff classification specified in General Note 27(h), HTSUS, as a result of production occurring entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties; or
(B) The good otherwise satisfies the requirements specified in General Note 27(h), HTSUS; and
(ii) The good meets any other requirements specified in General Note 27, HTSUS.
(b)
Value-content requirement.
A good described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section will be considered an originating good under the MFTA only if the sum of the value of materials produced in one or both of the Parties, plus the direct costs of processing operations (
see
§ 10.774 of this subpart) performed in one or both of the Parties, is not less than 35 percent of the appraised value of the good at the time the good is entered into the territory of the United States.
(c)
Combining, packaging, and diluting operations.
For purposes of this subpart, a good will not be considered a new or different article of commerce by virtue of having undergone simple combining or packaging operations, or mere dilution with water or another substance that does not materially alter the characteristics of the good. The principles and examples set forth in § 10.195(a)(2) of this part will apply equally for purposes of this paragraph.
[CBP Dec. 07-51, 72 FR 35651, June 29, 2007, as amended at CBP Dec. 08-29, 73 FR 45354, Aug. 5, 2008]
§ 10.771
Textile or apparel goods.
(a)
De minimis.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a textile or apparel good that is not an originating good under the MFTA because certain fibers or yarns used in the production of the component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good do not undergo an applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 27(h), HTSUS, will be considered to be an originating good if the total weight of all such fibers is not more than seven percent of the total weight of that component.
(1)
Exception.
A textile or apparel good containing elastomeric yarns in the component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good will be considered to be an originating good only if such yarns are wholly formed in the territory of a Party.
(2)
Yarn, fabric, or group of fibers.
For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, in the case of a textile or apparel good that is a yarn, fabric, or group of fibers, the term “component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good” means all of the fibers in the yarn, fabric, or group of fibers.
(b)
Textile or apparel goods put up in sets.
Notwithstanding the specific rules specified in General Note 27(h), HTSUS, textile or apparel goods classifiable as goods put up in sets for retail sale as provided for in General Rule of Interpretation 3, HTSUS, will not be considered to be originating goods under the MFTA unless each of the goods in the set is an originating good or the total value of the non-originating goods in the set does not exceed ten percent of the appraised value of the set.
§ 10.772
Accumulation.
(a) An originating good or material produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties that is incorporated into a good in the territory of the other Party will be considered to originate in the territory of the other Party.
(b) A good that is grown, produced, or manufactured in the territory of one or both of the Parties by one or more producers is an originating good if the good satisfies the requirements of § 10.770 of this subpart and all other applicable requirements of General Note 27, HTSUS.
§ 10.773
Value of materials.
(a)
General.
For purposes of § 10.770(b) of this subpart and, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the value of a material produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties includes the following:
(1) The price actually paid or payable for the material by the producer of the good;
(2) The freight, insurance, packing and all other costs incurred in transporting the material to the producer's plant, if such costs are not included in the price referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(3) The cost of waste or spoilage resulting from the use of the material in the growth, production, or manufacture of the good, less the value of recoverable scrap; and
(4) Taxes or customs duties imposed on the material by one or both of the Parties, if the taxes or customs duties are not remitted upon exportation from the territory of a Party.
(b)
Exception.
If the relationship between the producer of a good and the seller of a material influenced the price actually paid or payable for the material, or if there is no price actually paid or payable by the producer for the material, the value of the material produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties, includes the following:
(1) All expenses incurred in the growth, production, or manufacture of the material, including general expenses;
(2) A reasonable amount for profit; and
(3) The freight, insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in transporting the material to the producer's plant.
§ 10.774
Direct costs of processing operations.
(a)
Items included.
For purposes of § 10.770(b) of this subpart, the words “direct costs of processing operations”, with respect to a good, mean those costs either directly incurred in, or that can be reasonably allocated to, the growth, production, or manufacture of the good in the territory of one or both of the Parties. Such costs include, to the extent they are includable in the appraised value of the good when imported into a Party, the following:
(1) All actual labor costs involved in the growth, production, or manufacture of the specific good, including fringe benefits, on-the-job training, and the costs of engineering, supervisory, quality control, and similar personnel;
(2) Tools, dies, molds, and other indirect materials, and depreciation on machinery and equipment that are allocable to the specific good;
(3) Research, development, design, engineering, and blueprint costs, to the extent that they are allocable to the specific good;
(4) Costs of inspecting and testing the specific good; and
(5) Costs of packaging the specific good for export to the territory of the other Party.
(b)
Items not included.
For purposes of § 10.770(b) of this subpart, the words “direct costs of processing operations” do not include items that are not directly attributable to the good or are not costs of growth, production, or manufacture of the good. These include, but are not limited to:
(1) Profit; and
(2) General expenses of doing business that are either not allocable to the good or are not related to the growth, production, or manufacture of the good, such as administrative salaries, casualty and liability insurance, advertising, and salesmen's salaries, commissions, or expenses.
§ 10.775
Packaging and packing materials and containers for retail sale and for shipment.
Packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale and packing materials and containers for shipment are to be disregarded in determining whether a good qualifies as an originating good under § 10.770 of this subpart and General Note 27, HTSUS, except to the extent that the value of such packaging and packing materials and containers may be included in meeting the value-content requirement specified in § 10.770(b) of this subpart.
§ 10.776
Indirect materials.
Indirect materials are to be disregarded in determining whether a good qualifies as an originating good under § 10.770 of this subpart and General Note 27, HTSUS, except that the cost of such indirect materials may be included in meeting the value-content requirement specified in § 10.770(b) of this subpart.
§ 10.777
Imported directly.
(a)
General.
To qualify as an originating good under the MFTA, a good must be imported directly from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party. For purposes of this subpart, the words “imported directly” mean:
(1) Direct shipment from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party without passing through the territory of a non-Party; or
(2) If the shipment passed through the territory of a non-Party, the good, upon arrival in the territory of a Party, will be considered to be “imported directly” only if the good did not undergo production, manufacturing, or any other operation outside the territories of the Parties, other than unloading, reloading, or any other operation necessary to preserve the good in good condition or to transport the good to the territory of a Party. Operations that may be performed outside the territories of the Parties include inspection, removal of dust that accumulates during shipment, ventilation, spreading out or drying, chilling, replacing salt, sulfur dioxide, or aqueous solutions, replacing damaged packing materials and containers, and removal of units of the good that are spoiled or damaged and present a danger to the remaining units of the good, or to transport the good to the territory of a Party.
(b)
Documentary evidence.
An importer making a claim for preferential tariff treatment under the MFTA for an originating good may be required to demonstrate, to CBP's satisfaction, that the good was “imported directly” from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party, as that term is defined in paragraph (a) of this section. An importer may demonstrate compliance with this section by submitting documentary evidence. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, bills of lading, airway bills, packing lists, commercial invoices, receiving and inventory records, and customs entry and exit documents.

# Tariff Preference Level
§ 10.778
Filing of claim for tariff preference level.
A fabric or apparel good described in § 10.779 of this subpart that does not qualify as an originating good under § 10.770 of this subpart may nevertheless be entitled to preferential tariff treatment under the MFTA under an applicable tariff preference level (TPL). To make a TPL claim, the importer must include on the entry summary, or equivalent documentation, the applicable subheading in Chapter 99 of the HTSUS (9912.99.20) immediately above the applicable subheading in Chapters 51 through 62 of the HTSUS under which each non-originating fabric or apparel good is classified.
§ 10.779
Goods eligible for tariff preference claims.
The following goods are eligible for a TPL claim filed under § 10.778 of this subpart:
(a)
Fabric goods.
Fabric goods provided for in Chapters 51, 52, 54, 55, 58, and 60 of the HTSUS that are wholly formed in Morocco, regardless of the origin of the fiber or yarn used to produce the goods, provided that they meet the applicable conditions for preferential tariff treatment under the MFTA, other than the condition that they are originating; and
(b)
Apparel goods.
Apparel goods provided for in Chapters 61 and 62 of the HTSUS that are cut or knit to shape, or both, and sewn or otherwise assembled in Morocco, regardless of the origin of the fabric or yarn used to produce the goods, provided that they meet the applicable conditions for preferential tariff treatment under the MFTA, other than the condition that they are originating goods.
§ 10.780
Transshipment of non-originating fabric or apparel goods.
(a)
General.
To qualify for preferential tariff treatment under an applicable TPL, a good must be imported directly from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party. For purposes of this subpart, the words “imported directly” mean:
(1) Direct shipment from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party without passing through the territory of a non-Party; or
(2) If the shipment passed through the territory of a non-Party, the good, upon arrival in the territory of a Party, will be considered to be “imported directly” only if the good did not undergo production, manufacturing, or any other operation outside the territories of the Parties, other than unloading, reloading, or any other operation necessary to preserve it in
good condition or to transport the good to the territory of a Party. Operations that may be performed outside the territories of the Parties include inspection, removal of dust that accumulates during shipment, ventilation, spreading out or drying, chilling, replacing salt, sulfur dioxide, or other aqueous solutions, replacing damaged packing materials and containers, and removal of units of the good that are spoiled or damaged and present a danger to the remaining units of the good, or to transport the good to the territory of a Party.
(b)
Documentary evidence.
An importer making a claim for preferential tariff treatment under an applicable TPL may be required to demonstrate, to CBP's satisfaction, that the good was “imported directly” from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party, as that term is defined in paragraph (a) of this section. An importer may demonstrate compliance with this section by submitting documentary evidence. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, bills of lading, airway bills, packing lists, commercial invoices, receiving and inventory records, and customs entry and exit documents.
§ 10.781
Effect of noncompliance; failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment of non-originating fabric or apparel goods.
(a)
Effect of noncompliance.
If an importer of a good for which a TPL claim is made fails to comply with any applicable requirement under this subpart, the Center director may deny preferential tariff treatment to the imported good.
(b)
Failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment.
Where the requirements for preferential tariff treatment set forth elsewhere in this subpart are met, the Center director nevertheless may deny preferential tariff treatment to a good for which a TPL claim is made if the good is shipped through or transshipped in a country other than a Party, and the importer of the good does not provide, at the request of the Center director, evidence demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Center director that the requirements set forth in § 10.780 of this subpart were met.

# Origin Verifications and Determinations
§ 10.784
Verification and justification of claim for preferential treatment.
(a)
Verification.
A claim for preferential treatment made under § 10.763 of this subpart, including any declaration or other information submitted to CBP in support of the claim, will be subject to such verification as the Center director deems necessary. In the event that the Center director is provided with insufficient information to verify or substantiate the claim, the Center director may deny the claim for preferential treatment.
(b)
Applicable accounting principles.
When conducting a verification of origin to which Generally Accepted Accounting Principles may be relevant, CBP will apply and accept the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles applicable in the country of production.
§ 10.785
Issuance of negative origin determinations.
If, as a result of an origin verification initiated under this subpart, CBP determines that a claim for preferential tariff treatment made under § 10.763 of this subpart should be denied, it will issue a determination in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to the importer that sets forth the following:
(a) A description of the good that was the subject of the verification together with the identifying numbers and dates of the export and import documents pertaining to the good;
(b) A statement setting forth the findings of fact made in connection with the verification and upon which the determination is based; and
(c) With specific reference to the rules applicable to originating goods as set forth in General Note 27, HTSUS, and in §§ 10.769 through 10.777 of this subpart, the legal basis for the determination.
[CBP Dec. 07-51, 72 FR 35651, June 29, 2007. Redesignated at CBP Dec. 08-29, 73 FR 45354, Aug. 5, 2008]

# Penalties
§ 10.786
Violations relating to the MFTA.
All criminal, civil, or administrative penalties which may be imposed on U.S. importers for violations of the customs and related laws and regulations will also apply to U.S. importers for violations of the laws and regulations relating to the MFTA.
[CBP Dec. 07-51, 72 FR 35651, June 29, 2007. Redesignated at CBP Dec. 08-29, 73 FR 45354, Aug. 5, 2008]

# Goods Returned After Repair or Alteration
§ 10.787
Goods re-entered after repair or alteration in Morocco.
(a)
General.
This section sets forth the rules that apply for purposes of obtaining duty-free treatment on goods returned after repair or alteration in Morocco as provided for in subheadings 9802.00.40 and 9802.00.50, HTSUS. Goods returned after having been repaired or altered in Morocco, whether or not pursuant to a warranty, are eligible for duty-free treatment, provided that the requirements of this section are met. For purposes of this section, “repairs or alterations” means restoration, addition, renovation, re-dyeing, cleaning, re-sterilizing, or other treatment which does not destroy the essential characteristics of, or create a new or commercially different good from, the good exported from the United States.
(b)
Goods not eligible for treatment.
The duty-free treatment referred to in paragraph (a) of this section will not apply to goods which, in their condition as exported from the United States to Morocco, are incomplete for their intended use and for which the processing operation performed in Morocco constitutes an operation that is performed as a matter of course in the preparation or manufacture of finished goods.
(c)
Documentation.
The provisions of § 10.8(a), (b), and (c) of this part, relating to the documentary requirements for goods entered under subheading 9802.00.40 or 9802.00.50, HTSUS, will apply in connection with the entry of goods which are returned from Morocco after having been exported for repairs or alterations and which are claimed to be duty free.
[CBP Dec. 07-51, 72 FR 35651, June 29, 2007. Redesignated at CBP Dec. 08-29, 73 FR 45354, Aug. 5, 2008]

# Subpart N—United States-Bahrain Free Trade Agreement

# Source:
CBP Dec. 07-81, 72 FR 58515, Oct. 16, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 10.801
Scope.
This subpart implements the duty preference and related customs provisions applicable to imported goods under the United States-Bahrain Free Trade Agreement (the BFTA) signed on September 14, 2004, and under the United States-Bahrain Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (the Act; 119 Stat. 3581). Except as otherwise specified in this subpart, the procedures and other requirements set forth in this subpart are in addition to the customs procedures and requirements of general application contained elsewhere in this chapter. Additional provisions implementing certain aspects of the BFTA and the Act are contained in parts 24, 102, 162, and 163 of this chapter.
§ 10.802
General definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following terms will have the meanings indicated unless either the context in which they are used requires a different meaning or a different definition is prescribed for a particular section of this subpart:
(a)
Claim of origin.
“Claim of origin” means a claim that a good is an originating good or a good of a Party;
(b)
Claim for preferential tariff treatment.
“Claim for preferential tariff treatment” means a claim that a good is entitled to the duty rate applicable under the BFTA to an originating good or other good specified in the BFTA, and to an exemption from the merchandise processing fee;
(c)
Customs Valuation Agreement.
“Customs Valuation Agreement” means the
Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994
, which is part of the WTO Agreement;
(d)
Customs duty.
“Customs duty” includes any customs or import duty and a charge of any kind imposed in connection with the importation of a good, including any form of surtax or surcharge in connection with such importation, but does not include any:
(1) Charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently with Article III:2 of the GATT 1994; in respect of like, directly competitive, or substitutable goods of the Party, or in respect of goods from which the imported good has been manufactured or produced in whole or in part;
(2) Antidumping or countervailing duty; and
(3) Fee or other charge in connection with importation commensurate with the cost of services rendered;
(e)
Days.
“Days” means calendar days;
(f)
Enterprise.
“Enterprise” means any entity constituted or organized under applicable law, whether or not for profit, and whether privately-owned or governmentally-owned, including any corporation, trust, partnership, sole proprietorship, joint venture, or other association;
(g)
Foreign material.
“Foreign material” means a material other than a material produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(h)
GATT 1994.
“GATT 1994” means the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994
, which is part of the WTO Agreement;
(i)
Good.
“Good” means any merchandise, product, article, or material;
(j)
Harmonized System.
“Harmonized System (HS)” means the
Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System
, including its General Rules of Interpretation, Section Notes, and Chapter Notes, as adopted and implemented by the Parties in their respective tariff laws;
(k)
Heading.
“Heading” means the first four digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(l)
HTSUS.
“HTSUS” means the
Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States
as promulgated by the U.S. International Trade Commission;
(m)
Originating.
“Originating” means a good qualifying under the rules of origin set forth in General Note 30, HTSUS, and BFTA Chapter Three (Textiles and apparel) or Chapter Four (Rules of Origin);
(n)
Party.
“Party” means the United States or the Kingdom of Bahrain;
(o)
Person.
“Person” means a natural person or an enterprise;
(p)
Preferential tariff treatment.
“Preferential tariff treatment” means the duty rate applicable under the BFTA to an originating good and an exemption from the merchandise processing fee;
(q)
Subheading.
“Subheading” means the first six digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(r)
Textile or apparel good.
“Textile or apparel good” means a good listed in the Annex to the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing (commonly referred to as “the ATC”), which is part of the WTO Agreement;
(s)
Territory.
“Territory” means:
(1) With respect to Bahrain, the territory of Bahrain as well as the maritime areas, seabed, and subsoil over which Bahrain exercises, in accordance with international law, sovereignty, sovereign rights, and jurisdiction; and
(2) With respect to the United States,
(i) The customs territory of the United States, which includes the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico,
(ii) The foreign trade zones located in the United States and Puerto Rico, and
(iii) Any areas beyond the territorial seas of the United States within which, in accordance with international law and its domestic law, the United States may exercise rights with respect to the seabed and subsoil and their natural resources; and
(t)
WTO Agreement.
“WTO Agreement” means the
Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization
of April 15, 1994.

# Import Requirements
§ 10.803
Filing of claim for preferential tariff treatment upon importation.
An importer may make a claim for BFTA preferential tariff treatment for an originating good by including on the entry summary, or equivalent documentation, the symbol “BH” as a prefix to the subheading of the HTSUS under which each qualifying good is
classified, or by the method specified for equivalent reporting via an authorized electronic data interchange system.
§ 10.804
Declaration.
(a)
Contents.
An importer who claims preferential tariff treatment for a good under the BFTA must submit, at the request of the Center director, a declaration setting forth all pertinent information concerning the growth, production, or manufacture of the good. A declaration submitted under this paragraph:
(1) Need not be in a prescribed format but must be in writing or must be transmitted electronically pursuant to any electronic means authorized by CBP for that purpose;
(2) Must include the following information:
(i) The legal name, address, telephone, and e-mail address (if any) of the importer of record of the good;
(ii) The legal name, address, telephone, and e-mail address (if any) of the responsible official or authorized agent of the importer signing the declaration (if different from the information required by paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section);
(iii) The legal name, address, telephone and e-mail address (if any) of the exporter of the good (if different from the producer);
(iv) The legal name, address, telephone and e-mail address (if any) of the producer of the good (if known);
(v) A description of the good, which must be sufficiently detailed to relate it to the invoice and HS nomenclature, including quantity, numbers, invoice numbers, and bills of lading;
(vi) A description of the operations performed in the growth, production, or manufacture of the good in the territory of one or both of the Parties and, where applicable, identification of the direct costs of processing operations;
(vii) A description of any materials used in the growth, production, or manufacture of the good that are wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of one or both of the Parties, and a statement as to the value of such materials;
(viii) A description of the operations performed on, and a statement as to the origin and value of, any materials used in the article that are claimed to have been sufficiently processed in the territory of one or both of the Parties so as to be materials produced in one or both of the Parties, or are claimed to have undergone an applicable change in tariff classification specified in General Note 30(h), HTSUS; and
(ix) A description of the origin and value of any foreign materials used in the good that have not been substantially transformed in the territory of one or both of the Parties, or have not undergone an applicable change in tariff classification specified in General Note 30(h), HTSUS;
(3) Must include a statement, in substantially the following form:
“I certify that:
The information on this document is true and accurate and I assume the responsibility for proving such representations. I understand that I am liable for any false statements or material omissions made on or in connection with this document;
I agree to maintain and present upon request, documentation necessary to support these representations;
The goods comply with all the requirements for preferential tariff treatment specified for those goods in the United States-Bahrain Free Trade Agreement; and
This document consists of ______ pages, including all attachments.”
(b)
Responsible official or agent.
The declaration must be signed and dated by a responsible official of the importer or by the importer's authorized agent having knowledge of the relevant facts.
(c)
Language.
The declaration must be completed in the English language.
(d)
Applicability of declaration.
The declaration may be applicable to:
(1) A single importation of a good into the United States, including a single shipment that results in the filing of one or more entries and a series of shipments that results in the filing of one entry; or
(2) Multiple importations of identical goods into the United States that occur within a specified blanket period, not exceeding 12 months, set out in the declaration. For purposes of this paragraph, “identical goods” means goods
that are the same in all respects relevant to the production that qualifies the goods for preferential tariff treatment.
[CBP Dec. 07-81, 72 FR 58515, Oct. 16, 2007, as amended by CBP 08-28, 73 FR 42681, July 23, 2008; CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93014, Dec. 20, 2016]
§ 10.805
Importer obligations.
(a)
General.
An importer who makes a claim for preferential tariff treatment under § 10.803 of this subpart:
(1) Will be deemed to have certified that the good is eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the BFTA:
(2) Is responsible for the truthfulness of the information and data contained in the declaration provided for in § 10.804 of this subpart; and
(3) Is responsible for submitting any supporting documents requested by CBP and for the truthfulness of the information contained in those documents. CBP will allow for the direct submission by the exporter or producer of business confidential or other sensitive information, including cost and sourcing information.
(b)
Information provided by exporter or producer.
The fact that the importer has made a claim for preferential tariff treatment or prepared a declaration based on information provided by an exporter or producer will not relieve the importer of the responsibility referred to in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 10.806
Declaration not required.
(a)
General.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an importer will not be required to submit a declaration under § 10.804 of this subpart for:
(1) A non-commercial importation of a good; or
(2) A commercial importation for which the value of the originating goods does not exceed U.S. $2,500.
(b)
Exception.
If the Center director determines that an importation described in paragraph (a) of this section may reasonably be considered to have been carried out or planned for the purpose of evading compliance with the rules and procedures governing claims for preference under the BFTA, the Center director will notify the importer that for that importation the importer must submit to CBP a declaration. The importer must submit such a declaration within 30 days from the date of the notice. Failure to timely submit the declaration will result in denial of the claim for preferential tariff treatment.
§ 10.807
Maintenance of records.
(a)
General.
An importer claiming preferential tariff treatment for a good under § 10.803 of this subpart must maintain, for five years after the date of the claim for preferential tariff treatment, all records and documents necessary for the preparation of the declaration.
(b)
Applicability of other recordkeeping requirements.
The records and documents referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are in addition to any other records required to be made, kept, and made available to CBP under part 163 of this chapter.
(c)
Method of maintenance.
The records and documents referred to in paragraph (a) of this section must be maintained by importers as provided in § 163.5 of this chapter.
§ 10.808
Effect of noncompliance; failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment.
(a)
General.
If the importer fails to comply with any requirement under this subpart, including submission of a complete declaration under § 10.804 of this subpart, when requested, the Center director may deny preferential tariff treatment to the imported good.
(b)
Failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment.
Where the requirements for preferential tariff treatment set forth elsewhere in this subpart are met, the Center director nevertheless may deny preferential treatment to a good if the good is shipped through or transshipped in the territory of a country other than a Party, and the importer of the good does not provide, at the request of the Center director, evidence demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Center director that the good was imported directly from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party (
see
§ 10.817 of this subpart).

# Rules of Origin
§ 10.809
Definitions.
For purposes of §§ 10.809 through 10.817:
(a)
Exporter.
“Exporter” means a person who exports goods from the territory of a Party;
(b)
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
“Generally Accepted Accounting Principles” means the recognized consensus or substantial authoritative support in the territory of a Party, with respect to the recording of revenues, expenses, costs, assets, and liabilities, the disclosure of information, and the preparation of financial statements. These standards may encompass broad guidelines of general application as well as detailed standards, practices, and procedures;
(c)
Good.
“Good” means any merchandise, product, article, or material;
(d)
Goods wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of one or both of the Parties.
“Goods wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of one or both of the Parties” means:
(1) Mineral goods extracted in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(2) Vegetable goods, as such goods are defined in the HTSUS, harvested in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(3) Live animals born and raised in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(4) Goods obtained from live animals raised in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(5) Goods obtained from hunting, trapping, or fishing in the territory of one or both of the parties;
(6) Goods (fish, shellfish, and other marine life) taken from the sea by vessels registered or recorded with a party and flying its flag;
(7) Goods produced from goods referred to in paragraph (d)(6) of this section on board factory ships registered or recorded with that Party and flying its flag;
(8) Goods taken by a Party or a person of a Party from the seabed or beneath the seabed outside territorial waters, provided that a Party has rights to exploit such seabed;
(9) Goods taken from outer space, provided they are obtained by a Party or a person of a Party and not processed in the territory of a non-Party;
(10) Waste and scrap derived from:
(i) Production or manufacture in the territory of one or both of the Parties, or
(ii) Used goods collected in the territory of one or both of the Parties, provided such goods are fit only for the recovery of raw materials;
(11) Recovered goods derived in the territory of a Party from used goods, and utilized in the territory of that Party in the production of remanufactured goods; and
(12) Goods produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties exclusively from goods referred to in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(10) of this section, or from their derivatives, at any stage of production;
(e)
Importer.
Importer means a person who imports goods into the territory of a Party;
(f)
Indirect material.
“Indirect material” means a good used in the growth, production, manufacture, testing, or inspection of a good but not physically incorporated into the good, or a good used in the maintenance of buildings or the operation of equipment associated with the growth, production, or manufacture of a good, including:
(1) Fuel and energy;
(2) Tools, dies, and molds;
(3) Spare parts and materials used in the maintenance of equipment and buildings;
(4) Lubricants, greases, compounding materials, and other materials used in the growth, production, or manufacture of a good or used to operate equipment and buildings;
(5) Gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, safety equipment, and supplies;
(6) Equipment, devices, and supplies used for testing or inspecting the good;
(7) Catalysts and solvents; and
(8) Any other goods that are not incorporated into the good but the use of which in the growth, production, or manufacture of the good can reasonably be demonstrated to be a part of that growth, production, or manufacture;
(g)
Material.
“Material” means a good, including a part or ingredient, that is used in the growth, production, or manufacture of another good that is
a new or different article of commerce that has been grown, produced, or manufactured in one or both of the Parties;
(h)
Material produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties.
“Material produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties” means a good that is either wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of one or both of the Parties, or a new or different article of commerce that has been grown, produced, or manufactured in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(i)
New or different article of commerce.
A “new or different article of commerce” exists when the country of origin of a good which is produced in a Party from foreign materials is determined to be that country under the provisions of §§ 102.1 through 102.21 of this chapter;
(j)
Non-originating material.
“Non-originating material” means a material that does not qualify as originating under this subpart or General Note 30, HTSUS;
(k)
Packing materials and containers for shipment.
“Packing materials and containers for shipment” means the goods used to protect a good during its transportation to the United States, and does not include the packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale;
(l)
Recovered goods.
“Recovered goods” means materials in the form of individual parts that result from:
(1) The complete disassembly of used goods into individual parts; and
(2) The cleaning, inspecting, testing, or other processing of those parts as necessary for improvement to sound working condition;
(m)
Remanufactured good.
“Remanufactured good” means an industrial good that is assembled in the territory of a Party and that:
(1) Is entirely or partially comprised of recovered goods;
(2) Has a similar life expectancy to, and meets the same performance standards as, a like good that is new; and
(3) Enjoys the factory warranty similar to that of a like good that is new;
(n)
Simple combining or packaging operations.
“Simple combining or packaging operations” means operations such as adding batteries to electronic devices, fitting together a small number of components by bolting, gluing, or soldering, and repacking and packaging components together.
[CBP Dec. 07-81, 72 FR 58515, Oct. 16, 2007, as amended at CBP Dec. 10-29, 75 FR 52450, Aug. 26, 2010]
§ 10.810
Originating goods.
(a)
General.
A good will be considered an originating good under the BFTA when imported directly from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party only if:
(1) The good is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of one or both of the Parties;
(2) The good is a new or different article of commerce, as defined in § 10.809(i) of this subpart, that has been grown, produced, or manufactured in the territory of one or both of the Parties, is provided for in a heading or subheading of the HTSUS that is not covered by the product-specific rules set forth in General Note 30(h), HTSUS, and meets the value-content requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section; or
(3) The good is provided for in a heading or subheading of the HTSUS covered by the product-specific rules set forth in General Note 30(h), HTSUS, and:
(i)(A) Each of the non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergoes an applicable change in tariff classification specified in General Note 30(h), HTSUS, as a result of production occurring entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties; or
(B) The good otherwise satisfies the requirements specified in General Note 30(h), HTSUS; and
(ii) The good meets any other requirements specified in General Note 30, HTSUS.
(b)
Value-content requirement.
A good described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section will be considered an originating good under the BFTA only if the sum of the value of materials produced in one or both of the Parties, plus the direct costs of processing operations performed in one or both of the Parties, is not less than 35 percent of the appraised value of the good at the time the good is entered into the territory of the United States.
(c)
Combining, packaging, and diluting operations.
For purposes of this subpart, a good will not be considered a new or different article of commerce by virtue of having undergone simple combining or packaging operations, or mere dilution with water or another substance that does not materially alter the characteristics of the good. The principles and examples set forth in § 10.195(a)(2) of this part will apply equally for purposes of this paragraph.
§ 10.811
Textile or apparel goods.
(a)
De minimis
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a textile or apparel good that is not an originating good under the BFTA because certain fibers or yarns used in the production of the component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good do not undergo an applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 30(h), HTSUS, will be considered to be an originating good if the total weight of all such fibers or yarns is not more than seven percent of the total weight of that component.
(2)
Exception.
A textile or apparel good containing elastomeric yarns in the component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good will be considered to be an originating good only if such yarns are wholly formed in the territory of a Party.
(b)
Textile or apparel goods put up in sets.
Notwithstanding the specific rules specified in General Note 30(h), HTSUS, textile or apparel goods classifiable as goods put up in sets for retail sale as provided for in General Rule of Interpretation 3, HTSUS, will not be considered to be originating goods under the BFTA unless each of the goods in the set is an originating good or the total value of the non-originating goods in the set does not exceed ten percent of the appraised value of the set.
[CBP Dec. 07-81, 72 FR 58515, Oct. 16, 2007, as amended at CBP Dec. 10-29, 75 FR 52450, Aug. 26, 2010]
§ 10.812
Accumulation.
(a) An originating good or material produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties that is incorporated into a good in the territory of the other Party will be considered to originate in the territory of the other Party.
(b) A good that is grown, produced, or manufactured in the territory of one or both of the Parties by one or more producers is an originating good if the good satisfies the requirements of § 10.810 of this subpart and all other applicable requirements of General Note 30, HTSUS.
§ 10.813
Value of materials.
(a)
General.
For purposes of § 10.810(b) of this subpart and, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the value of a material produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties includes the following:
(1) The price actually paid or payable for the material by the producer of the good;
(2) The freight, insurance, packing and all other costs incurred in transporting the material to the producer's plant, if such costs are not included in the price referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(3) The cost of waste or spoilage resulting from the use of the material in the growth, production, or manufacture of the good, less the value of recoverable scrap; and
(4) Taxes or customs duties imposed on the material by one or both of the Parties, if the taxes or customs duties are not remitted upon exportation from the territory of a Party.
(b)
Exception.
If the relationship between the producer of a good and the seller of a material influenced the price actually paid or payable for the material, or if there is no price actually paid or payable by the producer for the material, the value of the material produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties includes the following:
(1) All expenses incurred in the growth, production, or manufacture of the material, including general expenses;
(2) A reasonable amount for profit; and
(3) The freight, insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in transporting the material to the producer's plant.
§ 10.814
Direct costs of processing operations.
(a)
Items included.
For purposes of § 10.810(b) of this subpart, the words “direct costs of processing operations”, with respect to a good, mean those costs either directly incurred in, or that can be reasonably allocated to, the growth, production, or manufacture of the good in the territory of one or both of the Parties. Such costs include, to the extent they are includable in the appraised value of the good when imported into a Party, the following:
(1) All actual labor costs involved in the growth, production, or manufacture of the specific good, including fringe benefits, on-the-job training, and the costs of engineering, supervisory, quality control, and similar personnel;
(2) Tools, dies, molds, and other indirect materials, and depreciation on machinery and equipment that are allocable to the specific good;
(3) Research, development, design, engineering, and blueprint costs, to the extent that they are allocable to the specific good;
(4) Costs of inspecting and testing the specific good; and
(5) Costs of packaging the specific good for export to the territory of the other Party.
(b)
Items not included.
For purposes of § 10.810(b) of this subpart, the words “direct costs of processing operations” do not include items that are not directly attributable to the good or are not costs of growth, production, or manufacture of the good. These include, but are not limited to:
(1) Profit; and
(2) General expenses of doing business that are either not allocable to the good or are not related to the growth, production, or manufacture of the good, such as administrative salaries, casualty and liability insurance, advertising, and salesmen's salaries, commissions, or expenses.
§ 10.815
Packaging and packing materials and containers for retail sale and for shipment.
Packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale and packing materials and containers for shipment are to be disregarded in determining whether a good qualifies as an originating good under § 10.810 of this subpart and General Note 30, HTSUS, except to the extent that the value of such packaging and packing materials and containers may be included in meeting the value-content requirement specified in § 10.810(b) of this subpart.
§ 10.816
Indirect materials.
Indirect materials are to be disregarded in determining whether a good qualifies as an originating good under § 10.810 of this subpart and General Note 30, HTSUS, except that the cost of such indirect materials may be included in meeting the value-content requirement specified in § 10.810(b) of this subpart.
§ 10.817
Imported directly.
(a)
General.
To qualify as an originating good under the BFTA, a good must be imported directly from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party. For purposes of this subpart, the words “imported directly” mean:
(1) Direct shipment from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party without passing through the territory of a non-Party; or
(2) If the shipment passed through the territory of a non-Party, the good, upon arrival in the territory of a Party, will be considered to be “imported directly” only if the good did not undergo production, manufacturing, or any other operation outside the territories of the Parties, other than unloading, reloading, or any other operation necessary to preserve the good in good condition or to transport the good to the territory of a Party. Operations that may be performed outside the territories of the Parties include inspection, removal of dust that accumulates during shipment, ventilation, spreading out or drying, chilling, replacing salt, sulfur dioxide, or aqueous solutions, replacing damaged packing materials and containers, and removal of units of the good that are spoiled or damaged and present a danger to the remaining units of the good, or to transport the good to the territory of a Party.
(b)
Documentary evidence.
An importer making a claim for preferential
tariff treatment under the BFTA for an originating good may be required to demonstrate, to CBP's satisfaction, that the good was “imported directly” from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party, as that term is defined in paragraph (a) of this section. An importer may demonstrate compliance with this section by submitting documentary evidence. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, bills of lading, airway bills, packing lists, commercial invoices, receiving and inventory records, and customs entry and exit documents.
[CBP Dec. 07-81, 72 FR 58515, Oct. 16, 2007, as amended by CBP Dec. 09-17, 74 FR 23951, May 22, 2009]

# Tariff Preference Level
§ 10.818
Filing of claim for tariff preference level.
A fabric, apparel, or made-up good described in § 10.819 of this subpart that does not qualify as an originating good under § 10.810 of this subpart may nevertheless be entitled to preferential tariff treatment under the BFTA under an applicable tariff preference level (TPL). To make a TPL claim, the importer must include on the entry summary, or equivalent documentation, the applicable subheading in Chapter 99 of the HTSUS (9914.99.20) immediately above the applicable subheading in Chapter 52 through Chapter 63 of the HTSUS under which each non-originating fabric or apparel good is classified.
§ 10.819
Goods eligible for tariff preference claims.
The following goods are eligible for a TPL claim filed under § 10.818 of this subpart (subject to the quantitative limitations set forth in U.S. Note 13, Subchapter XIV, Chapter 99, HTSUS):
(a) Cotton or man-made fiber fabric goods provided for in Chapters 52, 54, 55, 58, and 60 of the HTSUS that are wholly formed in the territory of Bahrain from yarn produced or obtained outside the territory of Bahrain or the United States;
(b) Cotton or man-made fiber fabric goods provided for in subheadings 5801.21, 5801.22, 5801.23, 5801.24, 5801.25, 5801.26, 5801.31, 5801.32, 5801.33, 5801.34, 5801.35, 5801.36, 5802.11, 5802.19, 5802.20, 5802.30, 5803.10, 5803.90.30, 5804.10.10, 5804.21, 5804.29.10, 5804.30, 5805.00.30, 5805.00.40, 5806.10.10, 5806.10.24, 5806.10.28, 5806.20, 5806.31, 5806.32, 5807.10.05, 5807.10.20, 5807.90.05, 5807.90.20, 5808.10.40, 5808.10.70, 5808.90, 5809.00, 5810.10, 5810.91, 5810.92, 5811.00.20, 5811.00.30, 6001.10, 6001.21, 6001.22, 6001.91, 6001.92, 6002.40, 6002.90, 6003.20, 6003.30, 6003.40, 6004.10, 6004.90, 6005.21, 6005.22, 6005.23, 6005.24, 6005.31, 6005.32, 6005.33, 6005.34, 6005.41, 6005.42, 6005.43, 6005.44, 6006.21, 6006.22, 6006.23, 6006.24, 6006.31, 6006.32, 6006.33, 6006.34, 6006.41, 6006.42, 6006.43, and 6006.44 of the HTSUS that are wholly formed in the territory of Bahrain from yarn spun in the territory of Bahrain or the United States from fiber produced or obtained outside the territory of Bahrain or the United States;
(c) Cotton or man-made fiber apparel goods provided for in Chapters 61 or 62 of the HTSUS that are cut or knit to shape, or both, and sewn or otherwise assembled in the territory of Bahrain from fabric or yarn produced or obtained outside the territory of Bahrain or the United States; and
(d) Cotton or man-made fiber made-up goods provided for in Chapter 63 of the HTSUS that are cut or knit to shape, or both, and sewn or otherwise assembled in the territory of Bahrain from fabric wholly formed in Bahrain or the United States from yarn produced or obtained outside the territory of Bahrain or the United States.
§ 10.820
Certificate of eligibility.
Upon request, an importer claiming preferential tariff treatment on a non-originating cotton or man-made fiber good specified in § 10.819 of this subpart must submit to CBP a certificate of eligibility. The certificate of eligibility must be completed and signed by an authorized official of the Government of Bahrain and must be in the possession of the importer at the time the preferential tariff treatment is claimed.
§ 10.821
Declaration.
(a)
General.
An importer who claims preferential tariff treatment on a non-originating cotton or man-made fiber good specified in § 10.819 of this subpart
must submit, at the request of the Center director, a declaration supporting such a claim for preferential tariff treatment that sets forth all pertinent information concerning the production of the good, including:
(1) A description of the good, quantity, invoice numbers, and bills of lading;
(2) A description of the operations performed in the production of the good in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(3) A reference to the specific provision in § 10.819 of this subpart that forms the basis for the claim for preferential tariff treatment; and
(4) A statement as to any fiber, yarn, or fabric of a non-Party and the origin of such materials used in the production of the good.
(b)
Retention of records.
An importer must retain all documents relied upon to prepare the declaration for a period of five years.
§ 10.822
Transshipment of non-originating fabric or apparel goods.
(a)
General.
To qualify for preferential tariff treatment under an applicable TPL, a good must be imported directly from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party. For purposes of this subpart, the words “imported directly” mean:
(1) Direct shipment from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party without passing through the territory of a non-Party; or
(2) If the shipment passed through the territory of a non-Party, the good, upon arrival in the territory of a Party, will be considered to be “imported directly” only if the good did not undergo production, manufacturing, or any other operation outside the territories of the Parties, other than unloading, reloading, or any other operation necessary to preserve the good in good condition or to transport the good to the territory of a Party. Operations that may be performed outside the territories of the Parties include inspection, removal of dust that accumulates during shipment, ventilation, spreading out or drying, chilling, replacing salt, sulfur dioxide, or aqueous solutions, replacing damaged packing materials and containers, and removal of units of the good that are spoiled or damaged and present a danger to the remaining units of the good, or to transport the good to the territory of a Party.
(b)
Documentary evidence.
An importer making a claim for preferential tariff treatment under an applicable TPL may be required to demonstrate, to CBP's satisfaction, that the good was “imported directly” from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party, as that term is defined in paragraph (a) of this section. An importer may demonstrate compliance with this section by submitting documentary evidence. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, bills of lading, airway bills, packing lists, commercial invoices, receiving and inventory records, and customs entry and exit documents.
[CBP Dec. 07-81, 72 FR 58515, Oct. 16, 2007, as amended by CBP 08-28, 73 FR 42681, July 23, 2008; CBP Dec. 09-17, 74 FR 23951, May 22, 2009]
§ 10.823
Effect of non-compliance; failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment of non-originating fabric or apparel goods.
(a)
General.
If an importer of a good for which a TPL claim is made fails to comply with any applicable requirement under this subpart, the Center director may deny preferential tariff treatment to the imported good.
(b)
Failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment.
Where the requirements for preferential tariff treatment set forth elsewhere in this subpart are met, the Center director nevertheless may deny preferential tariff treatment to a good for which a TPL claim is made if the good is shipped through or transshipped in a country other than a Party, and the importer of the good does not provide, at the request of the Center director, evidence demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Center director that the requirements set forth in § 10.822 of this subpart were met.

# Origin Verifications and Determinations
§ 10.824
Verification and justification of claim for preferential treatment.
(a)
Verification.
A claim for preferential treatment made under § 10.803 of this subpart, including any declaration or other information submitted to CBP in support of the claim, will be subject to such verification as the Center director deems necessary. In the event that the Center director is provided with insufficient information to verify or substantiate the claim, the Center director may deny the claim for preferential treatment.
(b)
Applicable accounting principles.
When conducting a verification of origin to which Generally Accepted Accounting Principles may be relevant, CBP will apply and accept the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles applicable in the country of production.
§ 10.825
Issuance of negative origin determinations.
If, as a result of an origin verification initiated under this subpart, CBP determines that a claim for preferential tariff treatment made under § 10.803 of this subpart should be denied, it will issue a determination in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to the importer that sets forth the following:
(a) A description of the good that was the subject of the verification together with the identifying numbers and dates of the export and import documents pertaining to the good;
(b) A statement setting forth the findings of fact made in connection with the verification and upon which the determination is based; and
(c) With specific reference to the rules applicable to originating goods as set forth in General Note 30, HTSUS, and in §§ 10.809 through 10.817 of this subpart, the legal basis for the determination.

# Penalties
§ 10.826
Violations relating to the BFTA.
All criminal, civil, or administrative penalties which may be imposed on U.S. importers for violations of the customs and related laws and regulations will also apply to U.S. importers for violations of the laws and regulations relating to the BFTA.

# Goods Returned After Repair or Alteration
§ 10.827
Goods re-entered after repair or alteration in Bahrain.
(a)
General.
This section sets forth the rules that apply for purposes of obtaining duty-free treatment on goods returned after repair or alteration in Bahrain as provided for in subheadings 9802.00.40 and 9802.00.50, HTSUS. Goods returned after having been repaired or altered in Bahrain, whether or not pursuant to a warranty, are eligible for duty-free treatment, provided that the requirements of this section are met. For purposes of this section, “repairs or alterations” means restoration, addition, renovation, re-dyeing, cleaning, re-sterilizing, or other treatment which does not destroy the essential characteristics of, or create a new or commercially different good from, the good exported from the United States.
(b)
Goods not eligible for treatment.
The duty-free treatment referred to in paragraph (a) of this section will not apply to goods which, in their condition as exported from the United States to Bahrain, are incomplete for their intended use and for which the processing operation performed in Bahrain constitutes an operation that is performed as a matter of course in the preparation or manufacture of finished goods.
(c)
Documentation.
The provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of § 10.8 of this part, relating to the documentary requirements for goods entered under subheading 9802.00.40 or 9802.00.50, HTSUS, will apply in connection with the entry of goods which are returned from Bahrain after having been exported for repairs or alterations and which are claimed to be duty free.

# Subpart O—Haitian Hemispheric Opportunity through Partnership Encouragement Act of 2006

# Source:
CBP Dec. 07-43, 72 FR 34369, June 22, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 10.841
Applicability.
Title V of Public Law 109-432, entitled the Haitian Hemispheric Opportunity through Partnership Encouragement Act of 2006 (HOPE I Act), amended the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act (the CBERA, 19 U.S.C. 2701-2707) by adding a new section 213A (19 U.S.C. 2703A) to authorize the President to extend additional trade benefits to Haiti. part I, Subtitle D, Title XV of Public Law 110-234, entitled the Haitian Hemispheric Opportunity through Partnership Encouragement Act of 2008 (HOPE II Act) amended certain provisions within section 213A. Section 213A of the CBERA provides for the duty-free treatment of certain apparel articles and certain wiring sets from Haiti. The provisions of this subpart set forth the legal requirements and procedures that apply for purposes of obtaining duty-free treatment pursuant to CBERA section 213A.
[CBP Dec. 08-24, 73 FR 56725, Sept. 30, 2008]
§ 10.842
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following terms have the meanings indicated unless either the context in which they are used requires a different meaning or a different definition is prescribed for a particular section of this subpart:
(a)
Apparel articles.
“Apparel articles” means goods classifiable in Chapters 61 and 62 and headings 6501, 6502, 6503, and 6504 and subheadings 6406.99.15 and 6505.90 of the HTSUS;
(b)
Applicable one-year period.
“Applicable one-year period” means each of the following one-year periods:
(1)
Initial applicable one-year period.
“Initial applicable one-year period” means the period beginning on December 20, 2006, and ending on December 19, 2007;
(2)
Second applicable one-year period.
“Second applicable one-year period” means the period beginning on December 20, 2007, and ending on December 19, 2008;
(3)
Third applicable one-year period.
“Third applicable one-year period” means the period beginning on December 20, 2008, and ending on December 19, 2009;
(4)
Fourth applicable one-year period.
“Fourth applicable one-year period” means the period beginning on December 20, 2009, and ending on December 19, 2010; and
(5)
Fifth applicable one-year period.
“Fifth applicable one-year period” means the period beginning on December 20, 2010, and ending on December 19, 2011;
(c)
Customs territory of the United States.
“Customs territory of the United States” means the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico;
(d)
Declared customs value.
“Declared customs value” means the appraised value of an imported article determined in accordance with section 402 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1401a);
(e)
Enter; entry.
“Enter” and “entry” refer to the entry, or withdrawal from warehouse for consumption, in the customs territory of the United States;
(f)
Entity controlling production.
“Entity controlling production” means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, or other entity or group that is not a producer and that controls the production process in Haiti through a contractual relationship or other indirect means;
(g)
Fabric component.
“Fabric component” means a component cut from fabric to the shape or form of the component as it is used in the apparel article;
(h)
Foreign material.
“Foreign material” means a material not produced in Haiti or any eligible country described in § 10.844(c);
(i)
HTSUS.
“HTSUS” means the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States;
(j)
Knit-to-shape articles.
“Knit-to-shape,” when used with reference to apparel articles, means any apparel article of which 50 percent or more of the exterior surface area is formed by major parts that have been knitted or crocheted directly to the shape used in
the apparel article, with no consideration being given to patch pockets, appliques, or the like. Minor cutting, trimming, or sewing of those major parts will not affect the determination of whether an apparel article is “knit-to-shape”;
(k)
Knit-to-shape components.
“Knit-to-shape,” when used with reference to textile components, means components that are knitted or crocheted from a yarn directly to a specific shape, that is, the shape or form of the component as it is used in the apparel article, containing at least one self-start edge. Minor cutting or trimming will not affect the determination of whether a component is “knit-to-shape”;
(l)
Major parts.
“Major parts” means integral components of an apparel article but does not include collars, cuffs, waistbands, plackets, pockets, linings, paddings, trim, accessories, or similar parts or components;
(m)
Producer.
“Producer” means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, or other entity or group that exercises direct, daily operational control over the production process in Haiti;
(n)
Self-start edge.
“Self-start edge,” when used with reference to knit-to-shape components, means a finished edge which is finished as the component comes off the knitting machine. Several components with finished edges may be linked by yarn or thread as they are produced from the knitting machine;
(o)
Subheading.
“Subheading” means the first six digits in the tariff classification number under the HTSUS;
(p)
Wholly assembled in Haiti.
“Wholly assembled in Haiti” means that all components, of which there must be at least two, pre-existed in essentially the same condition as found in the finished good and were combined to form the finished good in Haiti. Minor attachments and minor embellishments (for example, appliqués, beads, spangles, embroidery, and buttons) not appreciably affecting the identity of the good, and minor subassemblies (for example, collars, cuffs, plackets, and pockets), will not affect the determination of whether a good is “wholly assembled in Haiti”.
(q)
Wholly the growth, product, or manufacture.
“Wholly the growth, product, or manufacture,” when used with reference to Haiti or one or more eligible countries described in § 10.844(c) of this subpart, refers both to any article which has been entirely grown, produced, or manufactured in Haiti or one or more eligible countries described in § 10.844(c) of this subpart and to all materials incorporated in an article which have been entirely grown, produced, or manufactured in Haiti or one or more eligible countries described in § 10.844(c) of this subpart.
[CBP Dec. 07-43, 72 FR 34369, June 22, 2007, as amended by CBP Dec. 08-24, 73 FR 56725, Sept. 30, 2008]
§ 10.843
Articles eligible for duty-free treatment.
The duty-free treatment referred to in § 10.841 of this subpart applies to the articles described in paragraphs (a) through (j) of this section that are imported directly from Haiti or the Dominican Republic into the customs territory of the United States and to the articles described in paragraph (k) of this section that are imported directly from Haiti into the customs territory of the United States.
(a)
Certain apparel articles.
Apparel articles of a producer or entity controlling production that are wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti from any combination of fabrics, fabric components, components knit-to-shape, and yarns, subject to the applicable quantitative limits set forth in U.S. Note 6(g), Subchapter XX, Chapter 98, HTSUS, and provided that the applicable value-content requirement set forth in § 10.844(a) of this subpart is met through the use of:
(1) The individual entry method (
see
§ 10.844(a)(1) of this subpart); or
(2) The annual aggregation method (
see
§ 10.844(a)(2) of this subpart).
(b)
Certain woven apparel articles.
Apparel articles classifiable in Chapter 62 of the HTSUS that are wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti from any combination of fabrics, fabric components, components knit-to-shape, and yarns, without regard to the source of the fabric, fabric components, components knit-to-shape, or yarns from which the article is made, subject to
the applicable quantitative limits set forth in U.S. Note 6(h), Subchapter XX, Chapter 98, HTSUS.
(c)
Brassieres.
Apparel articles classifiable in subheading 6212.10 of the HTSUS that are wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti from any combination of fabrics, fabric components, components knit-to-shape, or yarns, without regard to the source of the fabric, fabric components, components knit-to-shape, or yarns from which the article is made.
(d)
Certain knit apparel articles
—(1)
General.
Apparel articles classifiable in Chapter 61 of the HTSUS (other than those described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section) that are wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti from any combination of fabrics, fabric components, components, components knit-to-shape, or yarns, without regard to the source of the fabric, fabric components, components knit-to-shape, or yarns from which the article is made, subject to the applicable quantitative limits set forth in U.S. Note 6(j), Subchapter XX, Chapter 98, HTSUS.
(2)
Exclusions.
Duty-free treatment for the articles described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section will not apply to the following:
(i) The following apparel articles of cotton, for men or boys, that are classifiable in subheading 6109.10.00 of the HTSUS:
(A) All white T-shirts, with short hemmed sleeves and hemmed bottom, with crew or round neckline or with V-neck and with a mitered seam at the center of the V, and without pockets, trim, or embroidery;
(B) All white singlets, without pockets, trim, or embroidery; and
(C) Other T-shirts, but not including thermal undershirts;
(ii) T-shirts for men or boys that are classifiable in subheading 6109.90.10 of the HTSUS;
(iii) The following apparel articles of cotton, for men or boys, that are classifiable in subheading 6110.20.20 of the HTSUS:
(A) Sweatshirts; and
(B) Pullovers, other than sweaters, vests, or garments imported as part of playsuits; or
(iv) Sweatshirts for men or boys, of man-made fibers and containing less than 65 percent by weight of man-made fibers, that are classifiable in subheading 6110.30.30 of the HTSUS.
(e)
Other apparel articles.
Any of the following apparel articles that is wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti from any combination of fabrics, fabric components, components knit-to-shape, or yarns, without regard to the source of the fabric, fabric components, components knit-to-shape, or yarns from which the article is made:
(1) Any apparel article that is of a type listed in chapter rule 3, 4, or 5 for chapter 61 of the HTSUS (as such chapter rules are contained in section A of the Annex to Presidential Proclamation 8213 of December 20, 2007) as being excluded from the scope of such chapter rule, when such chapter rule is applied to determine whether an apparel article is an originating good for purposes of General Note 29(n), HTSUS, except that, for purposes of this provision, reference in such chapter rules to subheading 6104.12.00 of the HTSUS is deemed to refer to subheading 6104.19.60 of the HTSUS; or
(2) Any apparel article (other than articles to which paragraph (c) of this section applies (brassieres)) that is of a type listed in chapter rule 3(a), 4(a), or 5(a) for chapter 62 of the HTSUS, as such chapter rules are contained in paragraph 9 of section A of the Annex to Presidential Proclamation 8213 of December 20, 2007.
(f)
Luggage and similar items.
Articles classifiable in subheading 4202.12, 4202.22, 4202.32, or 4202.92 of the HTSUS that are wholly assembled in Haiti, without regard to the source of the fabric, components, or materials from which the article is made.
(g)
Headgear.
Articles classifiable in heading 6501, 6502, or 6504, or subheading 6505.90 of the HTSUS that are wholly assembled, knit-to-shape, or formed in Haiti from any combination of fabrics, fabric components, components knit-to-shape, or yarns, without regard to the source of the fabric, fabric components, components knit-to-shape, or yarns from which the article is made.
(h)
Certain sleepwear.
Any of the following apparel articles that is wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti from any combination of fabrics, fabric
components, components knit-to-shape, or yarns, without regard to the source of the fabric, fabric components, components knit-to-shape, or yarns from which the article is made:
(1) Pajama bottoms and other sleepwear for women and girls, of cotton, that are classifiable in subheading 6208.91.30, HTSUS, or of man-made fibers, that are classifiable in subheading 6208.92.00, HTSUS; or
(2) Pajama bottoms and other sleepwear for girls, of other textile materials, that are classifiable in subheading 6208.99.20, HTSUS.
(i)
Earned import allowance rule.
Apparel articles wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti from any combination of fabrics, fabric components, components knit-to-shape, or yarns, without regard to the source of the fabric, fabric components, components knit-to-shape, or yarns from which the articles are made, if such apparel articles are accompanied by an earned import allowance certificate issued by the Department of Commerce that reflects the amount of credits equal to the total square meter equivalents of such apparel articles, in accordance with the earned import allowance program established by the Secretary of Commerce pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 2703A(b)(4)(B).
(j)
Apparel articles of short supply materials.
Apparel articles that are wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti from any combination of fabrics, fabric components, components knit-to-shape, or yarns, without regard to the source of the fabrics, fabric components, components knit-to-shape, or yarns from which the article is made, if the fabrics, fabric components, components knit-to-shape, or yarns comprising the component that determines the tariff classification of the article are of any of the following:
(1) Fabrics or yarns, to the extent that apparel articles of such fabrics or yarns would be eligible for preferential treatment, without regard to the source of the fabrics or yarns, under Annex 401 of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA); or
(2) Fabrics or yarns, to the extent that such fabrics or yarns are designated as not being available in commercial quantities for purposes of:
(i) Section 213(b)(2)(A)(v) of the CBERA (19 U.S.C. 2703(b)(2)(A)(v));
(ii) Section 112(b)(5) of the African Growth and Opportunity Act (19 U.S.C. 3721(b)(5));
(iii) Section 204(b)(3)(B)(i)(III) or 204(b)(3)(B)(ii) of the Andean Trade Preference Act (19 U.S.C. 3203(b)(3)(B)(i)(II) or 3203(b)(3)(B)(ii)); or
(iv) Any other provision, relating to determining whether a textile or apparel article is an originating good eligible for preferential treatment, of a law that implements a free trade agreement entered into by the United States that is in effect at the time the claim for preferential tariff treatment is made under § 10.847 of this subpart.
(k)
Wiring sets.
Any article classifiable in subheading 8544.30.00 of the HTSUS, as in effect on December 20, 2006, that is the product or manufacture of Haiti, provided the article satisfies the value-content requirement set forth in § 10.844(b) of this subpart. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “product or manufacture of Haiti” refers to an article that is either:
(1) Wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of Haiti; or
(2) A new or different article of commerce that has been grown, produced, or manufactured in Haiti.
[CBP Dec. 07-43, 72 FR 34369, June 22, 2007, as amended by CBP Dec. 08-24, 73 FR 56725, Sept. 30, 2008]
§ 10.844
Value-content requirement.
(a)
Certain apparel articles
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, apparel articles described in § 10.843(a) of this subpart will be eligible for duty-free treatment only if, for each entry of such articles in the applicable one-year period for which a duty-free claim is made for such articles under § 10.847(a) of this subpart, the sum of the cost or value of the materials produced in Haiti or one or more eligible countries described in paragraph (c) of this section, or any combination thereof, plus the direct costs of processing operations performed in Haiti or one or more eligible countries described in paragraph (c) of this section, or any combination thereof, is not less than (as applicable):
(i) 50 percent or more of the declared customs value of the articles entered
during the initial applicable one-year period, the second applicable one-year period, and the third applicable one-year period;
(ii) 55 percent or more of the declared customs value of the articles entered during the fourth applicable one-year period; and
(iii) 60 percent or more of the declared customs value of the articles entered during the fifth applicable one-year period.
(2)
Annual aggregation
—(i)
Initial applicable one-year period.
In the initial applicable one-year period, the applicable value-content requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may also be met for apparel articles of a producer or an entity controlling production that are entered during the initial applicable one-year period and for which duty-free treatment is claimed under § 10.847(a) of this subpart by aggregating the cost or value of materials and the direct costs of processing operations, as those terms are used in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, with respect to all apparel articles of that producer or entity controlling production that are wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti and are entered during the initial applicable one-year period (except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section).
(ii)
Other applicable one-year periods.
In each of the second, third, fourth, and fifth applicable one-year periods, the applicable value-content requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may also be met for apparel articles of a producer or an entity controlling production that are entered during the applicable one-year period and for which duty-free treatment is claimed under § 10.847(a) of this subpart by aggregating the cost or value of materials and the direct costs of processing, as those terms are used in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, with respect to all apparel articles of that producer or entity controlling production that are wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti and are entered during the preceding applicable one-year period (except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section).
(iii)
Exclusions from annual aggregation calculation.
The entry of an apparel article that is wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti and is receiving preferential tariff treatment under any provision of law other than section 213A(b)(1) of the CBERA (19 U.S.C. 2703A(b)(1)) or is subject to the “General” subcolumn of column 1 of the HTSUS will only be included in an annual aggregation under paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (a)(2)(ii) of this section if the producer or entity controlling production elects, at the time the annual aggregation calculation is made, to include such entry in the aggregation.

# Example.
A Haitian producer elects to use the annual aggregation method in the initial applicable one-year period, and also elects to include in the aggregation calculation an entry of apparel articles receiving preferential tariff treatment under another preference program. The producer ships to the United States four shipments during the initial applicable one-year period and all are entered during that period. The first shipment of apparel (qualifying for and receiving preference under the Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act (CBTPA)) has an appraised value of $100,000 and meets a value-content percentage (under § 10.844(a) of this section) of 80%. The second shipment of apparel is wholly assembled in Haiti, has an appraised value of $100,000, and meets a value-content percentage of 40%. The third shipment is wholly assembled in Haiti, has an appraised value of $50,000, and meets a value-content percentage of 0%. The last shipment is wholly assembled in Haiti, has an appraised value of $20,000, and meets a value-content requirement of 80%. Taken together, the four shipments have an appraised value of $270,000 and meet a value-content percentage of 50.4%. The apparel articles shipped to the United States in the last three shipments would qualify for duty-free treatment under section 213A(b)(1) of the CBERA and § 10.843(a) of this subpart as the applicable value-content requirement for the initial applicable one-year period (50 %) is satisfied. This conclusion assumes that: The CBTPA-eligible apparel articles in the first shipment (that were included in the annual aggregation calculation at the election of the producer) were wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti, as required in § 10.844(a)(2)(iii) of this section; and the articles in the last three shipments that were wholly assembled in Haiti satisfy all other applicable requirements set forth in this subpart.
(3)
Election to use the annual aggregation method for an applicable one-year period.
A producer or entity controlling production may elect to use the individual entry or annual aggregation
method in any applicable one-year period and then elect to use the other method during the subsequent applicable one-year period, provided that all applicable requirements are met during the applicable one-year period preceding the period in which the switch is made. If a producer or entity controlling production using the individual entry method in an applicable one-year period elects to use the annual aggregation method during the subsequent applicable one-year period, the declaration of compliance described in § 10.848 of this subpart must be submitted to CBP within 30 days following the end of the applicable one-year period in which the individual entry method was used.
(4)
Failure to meet applicable requirements
—(i)
Initial applicable one-year period.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section, if CBP determines that apparel articles of a producer or entity controlling production that are entered as articles described in § 10.843(a) of this subpart during the initial applicable one-year period have not met the requirements of § 10.843(a) of this subpart or the applicable value-content requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, then:
(A) All apparel articles of the producer or entity controlling production for which duty-free treatment is claimed under § 10.847(a) of this subpart that are entered under the annual aggregation method during that initial applicable one-year period will be denied duty-free treatment;
(B) Those apparel articles of the producer or entity controlling production for which duty-free treatment is claimed under § 10.847(a) of this subpart that are entered on an individual entry basis and that fail to meet the requirements of § 10.843(a)(1) of this subpart or the applicable value-content requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section during that initial applicable one-year period will be denied duty-free treatment. However, apparel articles of the producer or entity controlling production for which duty-free treatment is claimed under § 10.847(a) of this subpart that are entered on an individual entry basis prior to an election being made by the producer or entity controlling production to use the annual aggregation method will be considered to have met the applicable value-content requirement if that requirement is met through application of the individual entry method; and
(C) All apparel articles of the producer or entity controlling production for which duty-free treatment is claimed under § 10.847(a) of this subpart, whether entered on an individual entry or annual aggregation basis, will be not be eligible for duty-free treatment during the succeeding applicable one-year periods until the increased percentage in the value-content requirement specified in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section has been met by all the apparel articles of that producer or entity controlling production that are wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti and are entered during the immediately preceding applicable one-year period, unless the articles qualify for tariff benefits pursuant to the provisions of § 10.845 of this subpart.
(ii)
Other applicable one-year periods.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section, if CBP determines that apparel articles of a producer or entity controlling production that are entered as articles described in § 10.843(a) of this subpart during any applicable one-year period following the initial applicable one-year period have not met the requirements of § 10.843(a) or the applicable value-content requirement set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, then:
(A) Those apparel articles of the producer or entity controlling production for which duty-free treatment is claimed under § 10.847(a) of this subpart that are entered on an individual entry basis and that fail to meet the requirements of § 10.843(a)(1) or the applicable value-content requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this subpart during that applicable one-year period will be denied duty-free treatment; and
(B) All apparel articles of the producer or entity controlling production for which duty-free treatment is claimed under § 10.847(a) of this subpart, whether entered on an individual entry or annual aggregation basis, will not be eligible for duty-free treatment during the succeeding applicable one-
year periods until the increased percentage in the value-content requirement specified in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section has been met by all the apparel articles of that producer or entity controlling production that are wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti and are entered during the immediately preceding applicable one-year period, unless the articles qualify for tariff benefits pursuant to the provisions of § 10.845 of this subpart.
(iii)
Entity controlling production of apparel articles of a producer also producing for its own account.
Where an entity controlling production controls the production of apparel articles, as described in § 10.843(a) of this subpart, of a producer that also produces for its own account, the failure of apparel articles of that producer to meet the requirements of § 10.843(a) of this subpart or the applicable value-content requirement set forth in paragraph (a) of this section in an applicable one-year period, either under the annual aggregation method or the individual entry method, will not affect the eligibility for duty-free treatment under § 10.843(a) of this subpart of those apparel articles of that producer which are part of a claim for such treatment made on behalf of the entity controlling production.

# Example.
Importer D, an entity controlling production, purchases apparel articles that meet the description in § 10.843(a) of this subpart from Haitian Producers A, B, and C and enters those articles during the initial applicable one-year period. Importer D elects to use the annual aggregation method during that period. The three producers also produce apparel for other U.S. importers and each producer elects to use the annual aggregation method. The apparel articles purchased by Importer D from the three producers and entered during the initial applicable one-year period meet a value-content percentage of 51.7%. However, the value-content percentage met by all the apparel that is wholly assembled in Haiti by Producer C and entered (including the apparel imported by Importer D) during the initial applicable one-year period is 49%. As all of the articles, in the aggregate, purchased by Importer D from the three producers and entered during the initial applicable one-year period satisfy the applicable value-content requirement (50%), all of these articles are entitled to duty-free treatment under section 213A(b)(1) of the CBERA and § 10.843(a) of this subpart, assuming all other applicable requirements are met. The failure of Producer C to meet the 50% value-content requirement with respect to all of the articles that it wholly assembled in Haiti and entered during the initial applicable one-year period will not prevent duty-free status being claimed for the articles purchased by Importer D from Producer C. Therefore, the consequences of Producer C's failure to meet the 50% value-content requirement include the denial of preferential tariff treatment for all articles that are wholly assembled in Haiti by Producer C and entered during the initial applicable one-year period,
except for
those articles sold by Producer C to Importer D. An additional consequence of Producer C's failure to meet the value-content requirement in the initial applicable one-year period is that articles wholly assembled in Haiti by Producer C and entered during succeeding applicable one-year periods will be ineligible for duty-free treatment until the appropriate increased value-content requirement has been met (
see
§ 10.844(a)(4)(i)(C) of this subpart), except to the extent the articles qualify for preference under § 10.845 of this subpart.
(iv)
Increased percentage.
For apparel articles of a producer or entity controlling production to meet the increased percentage referred to in paragraphs (a)(4)(i)(C) and (a)(4)(ii)(B) of this section, the sum of the cost or value of the materials produced in Haiti or one or more eligible countries described in paragraph (c) of this section, or any combination thereof, plus the direct costs of processing operations performed in Haiti or one or more eligible countries described in paragraph (c) of this section, or any combination thereof, must not be less than the applicable percentage under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, plus 10 percent, of the aggregate declared customs value of all apparel articles of that producer or entity controlling production that are wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti and are entered during the immediately preceding applicable one-year period. Once the increased value-content percentage has been met for the articles of a producer or entity controlling production that are entered during an applicable one-year period, the articles of that producer or entity controlling production that are entered during the next succeeding applicable one-year period will be subject to the applicable value-content percentage specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(v)
Articles of a new producer or entity controlling production.
Apparel articles
of a new producer or entity controlling production electing to use the annual aggregation method for purposes of meeting the applicable value-content requirement must first meet the increased value-content percentage specified in paragraph (a)(4)(iv) of this section as a prerequisite to receiving duty-free treatment during a succeeding applicable one-year period. Apparel articles of a new producer or entity controlling production electing to use the individual entry method are not subject to the requirement of first meeting the increased value-content percentage as a prerequisite to receiving duty-free treatment during the first year of participation or in any succeeding applicable one-year period. For purposes of this paragraph, a “new producer or entity controlling production” is a producer or entity controlling production that did not produce or control production of articles that were entered as articles pursuant to § 10.843(a) of this subpart during the immediately preceding applicable one-year period.

# Example 1.
A Haitian producer begins production of apparel articles that meet the description in § 10.843(a) of this subpart during the second applicable one-year period and elects to use the annual aggregation method for each applicable one-year period. The producer's articles entered during the second applicable one-year period meet a value-content percentage of 55%; articles entered during the third applicable one-year period meet a value-content percentage of 65%; and articles entered during the fourth applicable one-year period meet a value-content percentage of 55%. The producer's articles may not receive duty-free treatment during the second applicable one-year period because there was no production (and thus no entered articles) during the immediately preceding period (the initial applicable one-year period) on which to assess compliance with the applicable value-content requirement. The producer's articles also may not receive duty-free treatment during the third applicable one-year period because the increased value-content percentage requirement (50% plus 10% = 60%) was not met in the immediately preceding period (the second applicable one-year period). However, the producer's articles are eligible for duty-free treatment during the fourth applicable one-year period based on compliance with the 60% value-content percentage requirement in the immediately preceding period (the third applicable one-year period). The producer's articles also are eligible for duty-free treatment during the fifth applicable one-year period based on compliance with the 55% value-content percentage requirement in the immediately preceding period (the fourth applicable one-year period).

# Example 2.
Same facts as in example 1, except that the producer elects to use the individual entry method for purposes of meeting the applicable value-content requirement for each applicable one-year period. The producer's articles entered during the second applicable one-year period are eligible for duty-free treatment because these articles meet the requisite 50% value-content requirement. The producer's articles also may receive duty-free treatment during the third, fourth, and fifth applicable one-year periods based on compliance with the applicable value-content requirements for each of those periods set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(vi)
Notification of compliance with the increased percentage
—(A)
General.
If apparel articles of a producer or entity controlling production are required to meet the increased value-content percentage described in paragraph (a)(4)(iv) of this section, either because of failure to meet the requirements of § 10.843(a) or the applicable value-content requirement set forth in paragraph (a) of this section in an applicable one-year period, or because the producer or entity controlling production is a new producer or entity controlling production, as defined in paragraph (a)(4)(v) of this section, that elects to use the annual aggregation method, the importer of such articles must notify CBP that the increased percentage has been met in an applicable one-year period by submitting to CBP the declaration of compliance described in § 10.848 of this subpart within 30 days following the end of the applicable one-year period. An importer that is required to submit a declaration of compliance under this paragraph must submit such a declaration for each importer of record identification number used by that importer. A declaration of compliance required under this paragraph must be sent to the address set forth in § 10.848(a) of this subpart.
(B)
Contents.
A declaration of compliance required under paragraph (a)(4)(v)(A) of this section must include, in addition to the information specified in § 10.848(c) of this subpart, a statement as to whether the increased value-content percentage was required
because the apparel articles failed to meet the production standards or the applicable value-content requirement or because the producer or entity controlling production was a new producer or entity controlling production that elected to use the annual aggregation method.
(C)
Effect of noncompliance.
If an importer fails to submit to CBP the declaration of compliance required under paragraph (a)(4)(v)(A) of this section within 30 days following the end of the applicable one-year period during which the increased value-content percentage was met for apparel articles of a producer or entity controlling production, CBP may deny duty-free treatment to all apparel articles, as described in § 10.843(a) of this subpart, of that producer or entity controlling production that are entered by that importer during the next succeeding applicable one-year period. Additionally, the timely submission of a declaration of compliance is a prerequisite for a producer or entity controlling production to request retroactive application of duty-free treatment under § 10.845 of this subpart for apparel articles that meet the increased value-content percentage during an applicable one-year period. However, the submission of a declaration of compliance is not a substitute for filing a request for liquidation or reliquidation of an entry for which retroactive duty-free treatment is sought under § 10.845 of this subpart.
(5)
Inclusion of the cost of fabrics or yarns not available in commercial quantities in value-content requirement.
For purposes of meeting the applicable value-content requirement set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, either in regard to individual entries or entries entered in the aggregate, the following costs may be included:
(i) The cost of fabrics or yarns to the extent that apparel articles of such fabrics or yarns would be eligible for preferential treatment, without regard to the source of the fabrics or yarns, under Annex 401 of the NAFTA; and
(ii) The cost of fabrics or yarns (without regard to their source) that are designated as not being available in commercial quantities for purposes of:
(A) Section 213(b)(2)(A)(v) of the CBERA (19 U.S.C. 2703(b)(2)(A)(v));
(B) Section 112(b)(5) of the African Growth and Opportunity Act (19 U.S.C. 3721(b)(5));
(C) Section 204(b)(3)(B)(i)(III) or 204(b)(3)(B)(ii) of the Andean Trade Preference Act (19 U.S.C. 3203(b)(3)(B)(i)(III) or 3203(b)(3)(B)(ii)); or
(D) Any other provision, relating to determining whether a textile or apparel article is an originating good eligible for preferential treatment, of a law that implements a free trade agreement that enters into force with respect to the United States.
(b)
Wiring sets.
An article described in § 10.843(d) of this subpart will be eligible for duty-free treatment during the five-year period ending on December 19, 2011, only if the sum of the cost or value of the materials produced in Haiti or one or more eligible countries described in paragraph (c) of this section, or any combination thereof, plus the direct costs of processing operations performed in Haiti or the United States, or both, is not less than 50 percent of the declared customs value of the article.
(c)
Eligible countries described.
As used in this section, the term “eligible countries” includes:
(1) The United States;
(2) Israel, Canada, Mexico, Jordan, Singapore, Chile, Australia, Morocco, Bahrain, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Guatemala, Dominican Republic, and any other country that is a party to a free trade agreement with the United States that is in effect on December 20, 2006, or that enters into force thereafter; and
(3) The designated beneficiary countries listed in General Notes 11 (Andean Trade Preference Act), 16 (African Growth and Opportunity Act), and 17 (Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act) of the HTSUS.
(d)
Cost or value of materials
—(1)
Materials produced in Haiti or one or more eligible countries described in paragraph (c) of this section defined
—(i)
Certain apparel articles.
As used in paragraph (a) of this section, the words “materials produced in Haiti or one or more eligible countries described in paragraph (c)
of this section” refer to those materials incorporated into an article that are either:
(A) Wholly obtained or produced, within the meaning of § 102.1(g) of this chapter, in Haiti or one or more eligible countries described in paragraph (c) of this section; or
(B) Determined to originate in Haiti or one or more eligible countries described in paragraph (c) of this section by application of the provisions of § 102.21 of this chapter.
(ii)
Wiring sets.
As used in paragraph (b) of this section, the words “materials produced in Haiti or one or more eligible countries described in paragraph (c) of this section” refer to those materials incorporated into an article that are either:
(A) Wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of Haiti or one or more eligible countries described in paragraph (c) of this section; or
(B) Substantially transformed in Haiti or one or more eligible countries described in paragraph (c) of this section into a new or different article of commerce which is then used in Haiti in the production of a new or different article of commerce that is imported into the United States.
(2)
Determination of cost or value of materials
—(i)
Costs included.
(A) For purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, and subject to paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(B) and (d)(2)(ii) of this section, the cost or value of materials produced in Haiti or one or more eligible countries described in paragraph (c) of this section includes:
(
1
) The manufacturer's actual cost for the materials;
(
2
) When not included in the manufacturer's actual cost for the materials, the freight, insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in transporting the materials to the manufacturer's plant;
(
3
) The actual cost of waste or spoilage, less the value of recoverable scrap; and
(
4
) Taxes and/or duties imposed on the materials by Haiti or one or more eligible countries described in paragraph (c) of this section, provided they are not remitted upon exportation.
(B) Where a material is provided to the manufacturer without charge, or at less than fair market value, its cost or value will be determined by computing the sum of:
(
1
) All expenses incurred in the growth, production, or manufacture of the material, including general expenses;
(
2
) An amount for profit; and
(
3
) Freight, insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in transporting the material to the manufacturer's plant.
(ii)
Costs deducted in regard to certain apparel articles.
For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, in calculating the cost or value of materials produced in Haiti or one or more eligible countries described in paragraph (c) of this section, either in regard to individual entries or entries entered in the aggregate, deductions are to be made for the cost or value of:
(A) Any foreign materials used in the production of the apparel articles in Haiti; and
(B) Any foreign materials used in the production of the materials produced in Haiti or one or more eligible countries described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(e)
Direct costs of processing operations
—(1)
Items included.
As used in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the words “direct costs of processing operations” mean those costs either directly incurred in, or which can be reasonably allocated to, the growth, production, manufacture, or assembly of the specific articles under consideration. Such costs include, but are not limited to the following, to the extent that they are includable in the appraised value of the imported articles:
(i) All actual labor costs involved in the growth, production, manufacture, or assembly of the specific articles, including fringe benefits, on-the-job training, and the cost of engineering, supervisory, quality control, and similar personnel;
(ii) Dies, molds, tooling, and depreciation on machinery and equipment which are allocable to the specific articles;
(iii) Research, development, design, engineering, and blueprint costs insofar as they are allocable to the specific articles; and
(iv) Costs of inspecting and testing the specific articles.
(2)
Items not included.
The words “direct costs of processing operations” do not include items that are not directly attributable to the articles under consideration or are not costs of manufacturing the product. These include, but are not limited to:
(i) Profit; and
(ii) General expenses of doing business that either are not allocable to the specific articles or are not related to the growth, production, manufacture, or assembly of the articles, such as administrative salaries, casualty and liability insurance, advertising, and salesmen's salaries, commissions, or expenses.
[CBP Dec. 07-43, 72 FR 34369, June 22, 2007, as amended by CBP Dec. 08-24, 73 FR 56728, Sept. 30, 2008]
§ 10.845
Retroactive application of duty-free treatment for certain apparel articles.
(a)
General.
Notwithstanding 19 U.S.C. 1514 or any other provision of law, if apparel articles, as described in § 10.843(a) of this subpart, of a producer or entity controlling production are ineligible for duty-free treatment in an applicable one-year period because the apparel articles of the producer or entity controlling production did not meet the requirements of § 10.843(a) of this subpart or the applicable value-content requirement set forth in § 10.844(a) of this subpart, and the apparel articles of the producer or entity controlling production satisfy the increased value-content percentage set forth in § 10.844(a)(4)(iii) of this subpart in that same applicable one-year period, the entry of any such articles made during that applicable one-year period will be liquidated or reliquidated free of duty, and CBP will refund any customs duties paid with respect to such entry, with interest accrued from the date of entry, provided that the conditions and requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section are met.
(b)
Conditions and requirements.
The conditions and requirements referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are as follows:
(1) The articles in such entry would have received duty-free treatment if they had satisfied the requirements of § 10.843(a) and the applicable value-content requirement set forth in § 10.844(a) of this subpart;
(2) A declaration of compliance with the increased value-content percentage is submitted to CBP within 30 days following the end of the applicable one-year period during which the increased percentage is met (
see
§ 10.844(a)(4)(v) of this subpart); and
(3) A request for liquidation or reliquidation with respect to such entry is filed with CBP before the 90th day after CBP determines and notifies the importer that the apparel articles of the producer or entity controlling production satisfy the increased value-content percentage set forth in § 10.844(a)(4)(iii) of this subpart during that applicable one-year period.

# Example.
A Haitian producer of articles that meet the description in § 10.843(a) of this subpart begins exporting those articles to the United States during the initial applicable one-year period and elects to use the annual aggregation method for purposes of meeting the applicable value-content requirement. The articles entered during that initial period meet a value-content percentage of 48%, while articles entered during the second applicable one-year period meet a value-content percentage of 62%. The producer's articles may not receive duty-free treatment during the initial applicable one-year period because the requisite 50% value-content requirement was not met. The producer's articles also are ineligible for duty-free treatment during the second applicable one-year period because the 50% value-content requirement was not met in the immediately preceding period (the initial applicable one-year period). However, because the producer's articles entered during the second applicable one-year period satisfy the increased value-content percentage requirement (60%), the importer(s) of these articles may file a request for and receive a refund of the duties paid with respect to the articles entered during that period, assuming compliance with the conditions and requirements set forth in § 10.847 of this subpart. In addition, the producer's articles entered during the third applicable one-year period are eligible for duty-free treatment based on compliance with the increased value-content percentage in the second applicable one-year period.
§ 10.846
Imported directly.
(a)
Textile and apparel articles.
To be eligible for duty-free treatment under
this subpart, textile and apparel articles described in paragraphs (a) through (j) of § 10.843 of this subpart must be imported directly from Haiti or the Dominican Republic into the customs territory of the United States. For purposes of this requirement, the words “imported directly from Haiti or the Dominican Republic” mean:
(1) Direct shipment from Haiti or the Dominican Republic to the United States without passing through the territory of any intermediate country;
(2) If shipment is from Haiti or the Dominican Republic to the United States through the territory of an intermediate country, the articles in the shipment do not enter into the commerce of the intermediate country and the invoices, bills of lading, and other shipping documents show the United States as the final destination; or
(3) If shipment is through an intermediate country and the invoices and other documents do not show the United States as the final destination, the articles in the shipment are imported directly only if they:
(i) Remained under the control of the customs authority in the intermediate country;
(ii) Did not enter into the commerce of the intermediate country except for the purpose of a sale other than at retail; and
(iii) Have not been subjected to operations other than loading and unloading, and other activities necessary to preserve the articles in good condition.
(b)
Wiring sets.
To be eligible for duty-free treatment under this subpart, articles described in paragraph (k) of § 10.843 of this subpart must be imported directly from Haiti into the customs territory of the United States. For purposes of this requirement, the words “imported directly from Haiti” mean:
(1) Direct shipment from Haiti to the United States without passing through the territory of any intermediate country;
(2) If shipment is from Haiti to the United States through the territory of an intermediate country, the articles in the shipment do not enter into the commerce of the intermediate country and the invoices, bills of lading, and other shipping documents show the United States as the final destination; or
(3) If shipment is through an intermediate country and the invoices and other documents do not show the United States as the final destination, the articles in the shipment are imported directly only if they:
(i) Remained under the control of the customs authority in the intermediate country;
(ii) Did not enter into the commerce of the intermediate country except for the purpose of a sale other than at retail; and
(iii) Have not been subjected to operations other than loading and unloading, and other activities necessary to preserve the articles in good condition.
(c)
Documentary evidence.
An importer making a claim for duty-free treatment under § 10.847 of this subpart may be required to demonstrate, to CBP's satisfaction, that the articles were “imported directly” as that term is defined in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. An importer may demonstrate compliance with this section by submitting documentary evidence. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, bills of lading, airway bills, packing lists, commercial invoices, receiving and inventory records, and customs entry and exit documents.
[CBP Dec. 08-24, 73 FR 56728, Sept. 30, 2008]
§ 10.847
Filing of claim for duty-free treatment.
(a)
General.
An importer may make a claim for duty-free treatment for an article described in § 10.843 of this subpart by including on the entry summary, or equivalent documentation, the applicable subheading within Subchapter XX of Chapter 98 of the HTSUS under which the article is classified, or by the method specified for equivalent reporting via an authorized electronic data interchange system. The applicable subheadings within Subchapter XX, Chapter 98, HTSUS, are as follows:
(1) Subheading 9820.61.25 for apparel articles described in § 10.843(a) of this subpart for which the individual entry method is used for purposes of meeting the applicable value-content requirement set forth in § 10.844(a) of this subpart;
(2) Subheading 9820.61.30 for apparel articles described in § 10.843(a) of this subpart for which the annual aggregation method is used for purposes of meeting the applicable value-content requirement set forth in § 10.844(a) of this subpart;
(3) Subheading 9820.62.05 for apparel articles described in § 10.843(b) of this subpart;
(4) Subheading 9820.62.12 for brassieres described in § 10.843(c) of this subpart;
(5) Subheading 9820.61.35 for apparel articles described in § 10.843(d) of this subpart;
(6) Subheading 9820.61.40 for apparel articles described in § 10.843(e) of this subpart;
(7) Subheading 9820.42.05 for articles described in § 10.843(f) of this subpart;
(8) Subheading 9820.65.05 for articles described in § 10.843(g) of this subpart;
(9) Subheading 9820.62.20 for articles described in § 10.843(h) of this subpart;
(10) Subheading 9820.62.25 for articles described in § 10.843(i) of this subpart;
(11) Subheading 9820.62.30 for articles described in § 10.843(j) of this subpart; and
(12) Subheading 9820.85.44 for wiring sets described in § 10.843(k) of this subpart.
(b)
Restriction on claims submitted under subheading 9820.61.30, HTSUS.
An importer may make a claim for duty-free treatment under subheading 9820.61.30, HTSUS, for apparel articles described in § 10.843(a) of this subpart for which the annual aggregation method is used, only if the importer has a copy of a certification by the producer or entity controlling production setting forth its election to use the annual aggregation method for its articles (
see
§ 10.848(c)(3) of this subpart). In the absence of receipt of such certification from the producer or entity controlling production, an importer of articles described in § 10.843(a) of this subpart for which duty-free treatment is sought under this subpart must enter the articles under subheading 9820.61.25, HTSUS.
(c)
Corrected claim.
If, after making a claim for duty-free treatment under paragraph (a) of this section, the importer has reason to believe that the claim is incorrect, the importer must promptly make a corrected claim and pay any duties that may be due. A corrected claim will be effected by submission of a letter or other written statement to CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically.
[CBP Dec. 07-43, 72 FR 34369, June 22, 2007, as amended by CBP Dec. 08-24, 73 FR 56728, Sept. 30, 2008]
§ 10.848
Declaration of compliance.
(a)
General.
Each importer claiming duty-free treatment for apparel articles, as described in § 10.843(a) of this subpart, of a producer or entity controlling production that uses the annual aggregation method to satisfy the applicable value-content requirement set forth in § 10.844(a) of this subpart with respect to the entries filed by the importer during an applicable one-year period must prepare and submit to CBP a declaration of compliance with the applicable value-content requirement within 30 days following the end of the applicable one-year period. An importer that is required to submit a declaration of compliance under this paragraph must submit such a declaration for each importer of record identification number used by that importer. The declaration of compliance must be sent to: Office of International Trade, 1300 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20229.
(b)
Effect of noncompliance
—(1)
Initial applicable one-year period.
If an importer fails to submit to CBP the declaration of compliance required under paragraph (a) of this section within 30 days following the end of the initial applicable one-year period, CBP may deny duty-free treatment to all entries of apparel articles, as described in § 10.843(a), of that producer or entity controlling production that were filed by that importer during the initial applicable one-year period and that are entered by that importer during the next succeeding applicable one-year period.
(2)
Other applicable one-year periods.
If an importer fails to submit to CBP the declaration of compliance required by paragraph (a) of this section within 30 days following the end of any applicable one-year period (other than the initial applicable one-year period), CBP may deny duty-free treatment to all
entries of apparel articles, as described in § 10.843(a) of this subpart, of that producer or entity controlling production that are entered by that importer during the next succeeding applicable one-year period.
(c)
Contents.
A declaration of compliance submitted to CBP under paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Need not be in a prescribed format but must be in writing or must be transmitted electronically pursuant to any electronic means authorized by CBP for that purpose;
(2) Must include the following information:
(i) The applicable one-year period during which the aggregation method was used (year beginning December 20, 20__, year ending December 19, 20__);
(ii) The legal name, address, telephone, fax number, e-mail address (if any), and identification number of the importer of record, and the legal name, telephone, and e-mail address (if any) of the point of contact;
(iii) With respect to each entry for which duty-free treatment is claimed for apparel articles described in § 10.843(a) of this subpart and for which the aggregation method is used, the entry number, line number(s), port of entry, and line value;
(iv) If the producer or entity controlling production elects to include in the aggregation calculation entries of brassieres receiving duty-free treatment under § 10.843(c) of this subpart and entries of apparel articles that are wholly assembled or knit-to-shape in Haiti and that are receiving preferential tariff treatment under any provision of law other than section 213A of the CBERA or are subject to the rate of duty in the “General” subcolumn of column 1 of the HTSUS (
see
§ 10.844(a)(2)(iii)(B) and (C) of this subpart), the entry number, line number(s), port of entry, line value, name and address of the producer(s), and, if applicable, name and address of the entity controlling production;
(v) The value-content percentage that was met during the applicable one-year period with respect to each producer or entity controlling production;
(vi) The name and title of the person who prepared the declaration of compliance. The declaration must be prepared and signed by a responsible official of the importer or by the importer's authorized agent having knowledge of the relevant facts;
(vii) Signature of the person who prepared the declaration of compliance; and
(viii) Date the declaration of compliance was prepared and signed; and
(3) Must include as an attachment to the declaration a copy of a certification from each producer or entity controlling production setting forth its election to use the annual aggregation method, a description of the classes or kinds of apparel articles involved, and the name and address of each producer or entity controlling production.
§ 10.849
Importer obligations.
(a)
General.
An importer who makes a claim for duty-free treatment under § 10.847 of this subpart for an article described in § 10.843 of this subpart:
(1) Will be deemed to have certified that the article is eligible for duty-free treatment under this subpart;
(2) Is responsible for the truthfulness of the statements and information contained in the declaration of compliance, if that document is required to be submitted to CBP pursuant to §§ 10.844(a)(4)(v) or 10.848(a) of this subpart; and
(3) Is responsible for submitting any supporting documents requested by CBP and for the truthfulness of the information contained in those documents. When requested, CBP may arrange for the direct submission by the exporter, producer, or entity controlling production of business confidential or other sensitive information, including cost and sourcing information.
(b)
Information provided by exporter, producer, or entity controlling production.
The fact that the importer has made a claim for duty-free treatment or prepared a declaration of compliance based on information provided by an exporter, producer, or entity controlling production will not relieve the importer of the responsibility referred to in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 10.850
Verification of claim for duty-free treatment.
(a)
General.
A claim for duty-free treatment made under § 10.847 of this subpart, including any declaration of compliance or other information submitted to CBP in support of the claim, will be subject to whatever verification CBP deems necessary. In the event that CBP is provided with insufficient information to verify or substantiate the claim, including the statements and information contained in a declaration of compliance (if required under § 10.844(a)(4)(v) or § 10.848(a) of this subpart), CBP may deny the claim for duty-free treatment.
(b)
Documentation and information subject to verification.
A verification of a claim for duty-free treatment under § 10.847 of this subpart may involve, but need not be limited to, a review of:
(1) All records required to be made, kept, and made available to CBP by the importer, the producer, the entity controlling production, or any other person under part 163 of this chapter; and
(2) The documentation and information set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(v) of this section, when requested by CBP. This documentation and information may be made available to CBP by the importer or the importer may arrange to have the documentation and information made available to CBP directly by the exporter, producer, or entity controlling production:
(i) Documentation and other information regarding all apparel articles that meet the requirements specified in § 10.843(a) of this subpart that were exported to the United States and that were entered during the applicable one-year period, whether or not a claim for duty-free treatment was made under § 10.847 of this subpart. Those records and other information include, but are not limited to, work orders and other production records, purchase orders, invoices, bills of lading and other shipping documents;
(ii) Records to document the cost of all yarn, fabric, fabric components, and knit-to-shape components that were used in the production of the articles in question, such as purchase orders, invoices, bills of lading and other shipping documents, and customs import and clearance documents, work orders and other production records, and inventory control records;
(iii) Records to document the direct costs of processing operations performed in Haiti or one or more eligible countries described in § 10.844(c) of this subpart, such as direct labor and fringe expenses, machinery and tooling costs, factory expenses, and testing and inspection expenses that were incurred in production;
(iv) Affidavits or statements of origin that certify who manufactured the yarn, fabric, fabric components and knit-to-shape components. The affidavit or statement of origin should include a product description, name and address of the producer, and the date the articles were produced. An affidavit for fabric components should state whether or not subassembly operations occurred; and
(v) Summary accounting and financial records which relate to the source records provided for in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(iii) of this section.

# Subpart P—United States-Oman Free Trade Agreement

# Source:
CBP Dec. 11-01, 76 FR 701, Jan. 6, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 10.861
Scope.
This subpart implements the duty preference and related customs provisions applicable to imported goods under the United States-Oman Free Trade Agreement (the OFTA) signed on January 19, 2006, and under the United States-Oman Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (the Act; 120 Stat. 1191). Except as otherwise specified in this subpart, the procedures and other requirements set forth in this subpart are in addition to the customs procedures and requirements of general application contained elsewhere in this chapter. Additional provisions implementing certain aspects of the OFTA and the Act are contained in Parts 24, 162, and 163 of this chapter.
§ 10.862
General definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following terms will have the meanings indicated unless either the context in which they are used requires a different meaning or a different definition is prescribed for a particular section of this subpart:
(a)
Claim for preferential tariff treatment.
“Claim for preferential tariff treatment” means a claim that a good is entitled to the duty rate applicable under the OFTA to an originating good or other good specified in the OFTA, and to an exemption from the merchandise processing fee;
(b)
Customs duty.
“Customs duty” includes any customs or import duty and a charge of any kind imposed in connection with the importation of a good, including any form of surtax or surcharge in connection with such importation, but does not include any:
(1) Charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently with Article III:2 of the GATT 1994, in respect of like, directly competitive, or substitutable goods of the Party, or in respect of goods from which the imported good has been manufactured or produced in whole or in part;
(2) Antidumping or countervailing duty; and
(3) Fee or other charge in connection with importation;
(c)
Days.
“Days” means calendar days;
(d)
Enterprise.
“Enterprise” means any entity constituted or organized under applicable law, whether or not for profit, and whether privately-owned or governmentally-owned or controlled, including any corporation, trust, partnership, sole proprietorship, joint venture, association, or similar organization;
(e)
Foreign material.
“Foreign material” means a material other than a material produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(f)
GATT 1994.
“GATT 1994” means the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994,
which is part of the WTO Agreement;
(g)
Good.
“Good” means any merchandise, product, article, or material;
(h)
Harmonized System.
“Harmonized System (HS)” means the
Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System,
including its General Rules of Interpretation, Section Notes, and Chapter Notes, as adopted and implemented by the Parties in their respective tariff laws;
(i)
Heading.
“Heading” means the first four digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(j)
HTSUS.
“HTSUS” means the
Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States
as promulgated by the U.S. International Trade Commission;
(k)
Originating.
“Originating” means a good qualifying under the rules of origin set forth in General Note 31, HTSUS, and OFTA Chapter Three (Textiles and apparel) or Chapter Four (Rules of Origin);
(l)
Party.
“Party” means the United States or the Sultanate of Oman;
(m)
Person.
“Person” means a natural person or an enterprise;
(n)
Preferential tariff treatment.
“Preferential tariff treatment” means the duty rate applicable under the OFTA to an originating good and an exemption from the merchandise processing fee;
(o)
Subheading.
“Subheading” means the first six digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(p)
Textile or apparel good.
“Textile or apparel good” means a good listed in the Annex to the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing (commonly referred to as “the ATC”), which is part of the WTO Agreement;
(q)
Territory.
“Territory” means:
(1) With respect to Oman, all the lands of Oman within its geographical boundaries, the internal waters, maritime areas including the territorial sea, and airspace under its sovereignty, and the exclusive economic zone and continental shelf where Oman exercises sovereign rights and jurisdiction in accordance with its domestic law and international law, including the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea; and
(2) With respect to the United States,
(i) The customs territory of the United States, which includes the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico,
(ii) The foreign trade zones located in the United States and Puerto Rico, and
(iii) Any areas beyond the territorial seas of the United States within which, in accordance with international law and its domestic law, the United States may exercise rights with respect to the seabed and subsoil and their natural resources; and
(r)
WTO Agreement.
“WTO Agreement” means the
Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization
of April 15, 1994.

# Import Requirements
§ 10.863
Filing of claim for preferential tariff treatment upon importation.
An importer may make a claim for OFTA preferential tariff treatment for an originating good by including on the entry summary, or equivalent documentation, the symbol “OM” as a prefix to the subheading of the HTSUS under which each qualifying good is classified, or by the method specified for equivalent reporting via an authorized electronic data interchange system.
§ 10.864
Declaration.
(a)
Contents.
An importer who claims preferential tariff treatment for a good under the OFTA must submit, at the request of the Center director, a declaration setting forth all pertinent information concerning the growth, production, or manufacture of the good. A declaration submitted under this paragraph:
(1) Need not be in a prescribed format but must be in writing or must be transmitted electronically pursuant to any electronic means authorized by CBP for that purpose;
(2) Must include the following information:
(i) The legal name, address, telephone, and e-mail address (if any) of the importer of record of the good;
(ii) The legal name, address, telephone, and e-mail address (if any) of the responsible official or authorized agent of the importer signing the declaration (if different from the information required by paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section);
(iii) The legal name, address, telephone and e-mail address (if any) of the exporter of the good (if different from the producer);
(iv) The legal name, address, telephone and e-mail address (if any) of the producer of the good (if known);
(v) A description of the good, which must be sufficiently detailed to relate it to the invoice and HS nomenclature, including quantity, numbers, invoice numbers, and bills of lading;
(vi) A description of the operations performed in the growth, production, or manufacture of the good in territory of one or both of the Parties and, where applicable, identification of the direct costs of processing operations;
(vii) A description of any materials used in the growth, production, or manufacture of the good that are wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of one or both of the Parties, and a statement as to the value of such materials;
(viii) A description of the operations performed on, and a statement as to the origin and value of, any materials used in the article that are claimed to have been sufficiently processed in the territory of one or both of the Parties so as to be materials produced in one or both of the Parties, or are claimed to have undergone an applicable change in tariff classification specified in General Note 31(h), HTSUS; and
(ix) A description of the origin and value of any foreign materials used in the good that have not been substantially transformed in the territory of one or both of the Parties, or have not undergone an applicable change in tariff classification specified in General Note 31(h), HTSUS;
(3) Must include a statement, in substantially the following form: “I certify that:
The information on this document is true and accurate and I assume the responsibility for proving such representations. I understand that I am liable for any false statements or material omissions made on or in connection with this document;
I agree to maintain and present upon request, documentation necessary to support these representations;
The goods comply with all the requirements for preferential tariff treatment specified for those goods in the United States-Oman Free Trade Agreement; and
This document consists of ______ pages, including all attachments.”
(b)
Responsible official or agent.
The declaration must be signed and dated
by a responsible official of the importer or by the importer's authorized agent having knowledge of the relevant facts.
(c)
Language.
The declaration must be completed in the English language.
(d)
Applicability of declaration.
The declaration may be applicable to:
(1) A single importation of a good into the United States, including a single shipment that results in the filing of one or more entries and a series of shipments that results in the filing of one entry; or
(2) Multiple importations of identical goods into the United States that occur within a specified blanket period, not exceeding 12 months, set out in the declaration. For purposes of this paragraph, “identical goods” means goods that are the same in all respects relevant to the production that qualifies the goods for preferential tariff treatment.
[CBP Dec. 11-01, 76 FR 701, Jan. 6, 2011, as amended by CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93014, Dec. 20, 2016]
§ 10.865
Importer obligations.
(a)
General.
An importer who makes a claim for preferential tariff treatment under § 10.863 of this subpart:
(1) Will be deemed to have certified that the good is eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the OFTA;
(2) Is responsible for the truthfulness of the information and data contained in the declaration provided for in § 10.864 of this subpart; and
(3) Is responsible for submitting any supporting documents requested by CBP and for the truthfulness of the information contained in those documents. CBP will allow for the direct submission by the exporter or producer of business confidential or other sensitive information, including cost and sourcing information.
(b)
Information provided by exporter or producer.
The fact that the importer has made a claim for preferential tariff treatment or prepared a declaration based on information provided by an exporter or producer will not relieve the importer of the responsibility referred to in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 10.866
Declaration not required.
(a)
General.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an importer will not be required to submit a declaration under § 10.864 of this subpart for:
(1) A non-commercial importation of a good; or
(2) A commercial importation for which the value of the originating goods does not exceed U.S. $2,500.
(b)
Exception.
If the Center director determines that an importation described in paragraph (a) of this section may reasonably be considered to have been carried out or planned for the purpose of evading compliance with the rules and procedures governing claims for preference under the OFTA, the Center director will notify the importer that for that importation the importer must submit a declaration. The importer must submit such a declaration within 30 days from the date of the notice. Failure to timely submit the declaration will result in denial of the claim for preferential tariff treatment.
[CBP Dec. 11-01, 76 FR 701, Jan. 6, 2011, as amended by CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93014, Dec. 20, 2016]
§ 10.867
Maintenance of records.
(a)
General.
An importer claiming preferential tariff treatment for a good under § 10.863 of this subpart must maintain, for five years after the date of the claim for preferential tariff treatment, all records and documents necessary for the preparation of the declaration.
(b)
Applicability of other recordkeeping requirements.
The records and documents referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are in addition to any other records required to be made, kept, and made available to CBP under Part 163 of this chapter.
(c)
Method of maintenance.
The records and documents referred to in paragraph (a) of this section must be maintained by importers as provided in § 163.5 of this chapter.
§ 10.868
Effect of noncompliance; failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment.
(a)
General.
If the importer fails to comply with any requirement under
this subpart, including submission of a complete declaration under § 10.864 of this subpart, when requested, the Center director may deny preferential tariff treatment to the imported good.
(b)
Failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment.
Where the requirements for preferential tariff treatment set forth elsewhere in this subpart are met, the Center director nevertheless may deny preferential treatment to a good if the good is shipped through or transshipped in the territory of a country other than a Party, and the importer of the good does not provide, at the request of the Center director, evidence demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Center director that the good was imported directly from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party (
see
§ 10.880 of this subpart).

# Post-Importation Duty Refund Claims
§ 10.869
Right to make post-importation claim and refund duties.
Notwithstanding any other available remedy, where a good would have qualified as an originating good when it was imported into the United States but no claim for preferential treatment was made, the importer of that good may file a claim for a refund of any excess duties at any time within one year after the date of importation of the good in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 10.870 of this subpart. Subject to the provisions of § 10.868 of this subpart, CBP may refund any excess duties by liquidation or reliquidation of the entry covering the good in accordance with § 10.871(c) of this part.
§ 10.870
Filing procedures.
(a)
Place of filing.
A post-importation claim for a refund under § 10.869 of this subpart must be filed with CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically.
(b)
Contents of claim.
A post-importation claim for a refund must be filed by presentation of the following:
(1) A written declaration stating that the good qualified as an originating good at the time of importation and setting forth the number and date of the entry or entries covering the good;
(2) A written statement indicating whether or not the importer of the good provided a copy of the entry summary or equivalent documentation to any other person. If such documentation was provided, the statement must identify each recipient by name, CBP identification number and address and must specify the date on which the documentation was provided; and
(3) A written statement indicating whether or not any person has filed a protest relating to the good under any provision of law; and if any such protest has been filed, the statement must identify the protest by number and date.
§ 10.871
CBP processing procedures.
(a)
Status determination.
After receipt of a post-importation claim under § 10.870 of this subpart, the Center director will determine whether the entry covering the good has been liquidated and, if liquidation has taken place, whether the liquidation has become final.
(b)
Pending protest or judicial review.
If the Center director determines that any protest relating to the good has not been finally decided, the Center director will suspend action on the claim for refund filed under this subpart until the decision on the protest becomes final. If a summons involving the tariff classification or dutiability of the good is filed in the Court of International Trade, the Center director will suspend action on the claim for refund filed under this subpart until judicial review has been completed.
(c)
Allowance of claim
—(1)
Unliquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under this subpart should be allowed and the entry covering the good has not been liquidated, the Center director will take into account the claim for a refund under this subpart in connection with the liquidation of the entry.
(2)
Liquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under this subpart should be allowed and the entry covering the good has been liquidated, whether or not the liquidation has become final, the entry must be reliquidated in order to effect a refund of duties pursuant to this subpart. If the entry is otherwise
to be reliquidated based on administrative review of a protest or as a result of judicial review, the Center director will reliquidate the entry taking into account the claim for refund under this subpart.
(d)
Denial of claim
—(1)
General.
The Center director may deny a claim for a refund filed under § 10.870 of this subpart if the claim was not filed timely, if the importer has not complied with the requirements of §§ 10.868 and 10.870 of this subpart, or if, following an origin verification under § 10.887 of this subpart, the Center director determines either that the imported good did not qualify as an originating good at the time of importation or that a basis exists upon which preferential tariff treatment may be denied under § 10.887 of this subpart.
(2)
Unliquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under this subpart should be denied and the entry covering the good has not been liquidated, the Center director will deny the claim in connection with the liquidation of the entry, and notice of the denial and the reason for the denial will be provided to the importer in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system.
(3)
Liquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under this subpart should be denied and the entry covering the good has been liquidated, whether or not the liquidation has become final, the claim may be denied without reliquidation of the entry. If the entry is otherwise to be reliquidated based on administrative review of a protest or as a result of judicial review, such reliquidation may include denial of the claim filed under this subpart. In either case, the Center director will give the importer notice of the denial and the reason for the denial in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system.

# Rules of Origin
§ 10.872
Definitions.
For purposes of §§ 10.872 through 10.880:
(a)
Exporter.
“Exporter” means a person who exports goods from the territory of a Party;
(b)
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
“Generally Accepted Accounting Principles” means the recognized consensus or substantial authoritative support in the territory of a Party, with respect to the recording of revenues, expenses, costs, assets, and liabilities, the disclosure of information, and the preparation of financial statements. These standards may encompass broad guidelines of general application as well as detailed standards, practices, and procedures;
(c)
Good.
“Good” means any merchandise, product, article, or material;
(d)
Goods wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of one or both of the Parties.
“Goods wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of one or both of the Parties” means:
(1) Mineral goods extracted in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(2) Vegetable goods, as such goods are defined in the HTSUS, harvested in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(3) Live animals born and raised in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(4) Goods obtained from live animals raised in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(5) Goods obtained from hunting, trapping, or fishing in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(6) Goods (fish, shellfish, and other marine life) taken from the sea by vessels registered or recorded with a Party and flying its flag;
(7) Goods produced from goods referred to in paragraph (d)(6) of this section on board factory ships registered or recorded with that Party and flying its flag;
(8) Goods taken by a Party or a person of a Party from the seabed or beneath the seabed outside territorial waters, provided that a Party has rights to exploit such seabed;
(9) Goods taken from outer space, provided they are obtained by a Party or a person of a Party and not processed in the territory of a non-Party;
(10) Waste and scrap derived from:
(i) Production or manufacture in the territory of one or both of the Parties, or
(ii) Used goods collected in the territory of one or both of the Parties, provided such goods are fit only for the recovery of raw materials;
(11) Recovered goods derived in the territory of a Party from used goods, and utilized in the territory of that Party in the production of remanufactured goods; and
(12) Goods produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties exclusively from goods referred to in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(10) of this section, or from their derivatives, at any stage of production;
(e)
Importer.
“Importer” means a person who imports goods into the territory of a Party;
(f)
Indirect material.
“Indirect material” means a good used in the growth, production, manufacture, testing, or inspection of a good but not physically incorporated into the good, or a good used in the maintenance of buildings or the operation of equipment associated with the growth, production, or manufacture of a good, including:
(1) Fuel and energy;
(2) Tools, dies, and molds;
(3) Spare parts and materials used in the maintenance of equipment and buildings;
(4) Lubricants, greases, compounding materials, and other materials used in the growth, production, or manufacture of a good or used to operate equipment and buildings;
(5) Gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, safety equipment, and supplies;
(6) Equipment, devices, and supplies used for testing or inspecting the good;
(7) Catalysts and solvents; and
(8) Any other goods that are not incorporated into the good but the use of which in the growth, production, or manufacture of the good can reasonably be demonstrated to be a part of that growth, production, or manufacture;
(g)
Material.
“Material” means a good, including a part or ingredient, that is used in the growth, production, or manufacture of another good that is a new or different article of commerce that has been grown, produced, or manufactured in one or both of the Parties;
(h)
Material produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties.
“Material produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties” means a good that is either wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of one or both of the Parties, or a new or different article of commerce that has been grown, produced, or manufactured in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(i)
New or different article of commerce.
“New or different article of commerce” means, except as provided in § 10.873(c) of this subpart, a good that:
(1) Has been substantially transformed from a good or material that is not wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of one of both of the Parties; and
(2) Has a new name, character, or use distinct from the good or material from which it was transformed;
(j)
Non-originating material.
“Non-originating material” means a material that does not qualify as originating under this subpart or General Note 31, HTSUS;
(k)
Packing materials and containers for shipment.
“Packing materials and containers for shipment” means the goods used to protect a good during its transportation to the United States, and does not include the packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale;
(l)
Recovered goods.
“Recovered goods” means materials in the form of individual parts that result from:
(1) The disassembly of used goods into individual parts; and
(2) The cleaning, inspecting, testing, or other processing of those parts as necessary for improvement to sound working condition;
(m)
Remanufactured good.
“Remanufactured good” means an industrial good that is assembled in the territory of a Party and that:
(1) Is entirely or partially comprised of recovered goods;
(2) Has a similar life expectancy to a like good that is new; and
(3) Enjoys the factory warranty similar to that of a like good that is new;
(n)
Simple combining or packaging operations.
“Simple combining or packaging operations” means operations such as adding batteries to electronic devices, fitting together a small number of components by bolting, gluing, or soldering, and repacking or packaging components together; and
(o)
Substantially transformed.
“Substantially transformed” means, with respect to a good or material, changed as the result of a manufacturing or processing operation so that the good loses its separate identity in the manufacturing or processing operation and:
(1) The good or material is converted from a good that has multiple uses into a good or material that has limited uses;
(2) The physical properties of the good or material are changed to a significant extent; or
(3) The operation undergone by the good or material is complex by reason of the number of different processes and materials involved and the time and level of skill required to perform those processes.
§ 10.873
Originating goods.
(a)
General.
A good will be considered an originating good under the OFTA when imported directly from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party only if:
(1) The good is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of one or both of the Parties;
(2) The good is a new or different article of commerce, as defined in § 10.872(i) of this subpart, that has been grown, produced, or manufactured in the territory of one or both of the Parties, is provided for in a heading or subheading of the HTSUS that is not covered by the product-specific rules set forth in General Note 31(h), HTSUS, and meets the value-content requirement specified in paragraph (b) of this section; or
(3) The good is provided for in a heading or subheading of the HTSUS covered by the product-specific rules set forth in General Note 31(h), HTSUS, and:
(i)(A) Each of the non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergoes an applicable change in tariff classification specified in General Note 31(h), HTSUS, as a result of production occurring entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties; or
(B) The good otherwise satisfies the requirements specified in General Note 31(h), HTSUS; and
(ii) The good meets any other requirements specified in General Note 31, HTSUS.
(b)
Value-content requirement.
A good described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section will be considered an originating good under the OFTA only if the sum of the value of materials produced in one or both of the Parties, plus the direct costs of processing operations performed in one or both of the Parties, is not less than 35 percent of the appraised value of the good at the time the good is entered into the territory of the United States.
(c)
Combining, packaging, and diluting operations.
For purposes of this subpart, a good will not be considered a new or different article of commerce by virtue of having undergone simple combining or packaging operations, or mere dilution with water or another substance that does not materially alter the characteristics of the good. The principles and examples set forth in § 10.195(a)(2) of this part will apply equally for purposes of this paragraph.
§ 10.874
Textile or apparel goods.
(a)
De minimis
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a textile or apparel good that is not an originating good under the OFTA because certain fibers or yarns used in the production of the component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good do not undergo an applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 31(h), HTSUS, will be considered to be an originating good if the total weight of all such fibers or yarns is not more than seven percent of the total weight of that component.
(2)
Exception.
A textile or apparel good containing elastomeric yarns in the component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good will be considered to be an originating good only if such yarns are wholly formed in the territory of a Party.
(b)
Textile or apparel goods put up in sets.
Notwithstanding the specific rules specified in General Note 31(h), HTSUS, textile or apparel goods classifiable as goods put up in sets for retail sale as
provided for in General Rule of Interpretation 3, HTSUS, will not be considered to be originating goods under the OFTA unless each of the goods in the set is an originating good or the total value of the non-originating goods in the set does not exceed ten percent of the appraised value of the set.
§ 10.875
Accumulation.
(a) An originating good or material produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties that is incorporated into a good in the territory of the other Party will be considered to originate in the territory of the other Party.
(b) A good that is grown, produced, or manufactured in the territory of one or both of the Parties by one or more producers is an originating good if the good satisfies the requirements of § 10.873 of this subpart and all other applicable requirements of General Note 31, HTSUS.
§ 10.876
Value of materials.
(a)
General.
For purposes of § 10.873(b) of this subpart and, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the value of a material produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties includes the following:
(1) The price actually paid or payable for the material by the producer of the good;
(2) The freight, insurance, packing and all other costs incurred in transporting the material to the producer's plant, if such costs are not included in the price referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(3) The cost of waste or spoilage resulting from the use of the material in the growth, production, or manufacture of the good, less the value of recoverable scrap; and
(4) Taxes or customs duties imposed on the material by one or both of the Parties, if the taxes or customs duties are not remitted upon exportation from the territory of a Party.
(b)
Exception.
If the relationship between the producer of a good and the seller of a material influenced the price actually paid or payable for the material, or if there is no price actually paid or payable by the producer for the material, the value of the material produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties includes the following:
(1) All expenses incurred in the growth, production, or manufacture of the material, including general expenses;
(2) A reasonable amount for profit; and
(3) The freight, insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in transporting the material to the producer's plant.
§ 10.877
Direct costs of processing operations.
(a)
Items included.
For purposes of § 10.873(b) of this subpart, the words “direct costs of processing operations”, with respect to a good, mean those costs either directly incurred in, or that can be reasonably allocated to, the growth, production, or manufacture of the good in the territory of one or both of the Parties. Such costs include, to the extent they are includable in the appraised value of the good when imported into a Party, the following:
(1) All actual labor costs involved in the growth, production, or manufacture of the specific good, including fringe benefits, on-the-job training, and the costs of engineering, supervisory, quality control, and similar personnel;
(2) Tools, dies, molds, and other indirect materials, and depreciation on machinery and equipment that are allocable to the specific good;
(3) Research, development, design, engineering, and blueprint costs, to the extent that they are allocable to the specific good;
(4) Costs of inspecting and testing the specific good; and
(5) Costs of packaging the specific good for export to the territory of the other Party.
(b)
Items not included.
For purposes of § 10.873(b) of this subpart, the words “direct costs of processing operations” do not include items that are not directly attributable to the good or are not costs of growth, production, or manufacture of the good. These include, but are not limited to:
(1) Profit; and
(2) General expenses of doing business that are either not allocable to the good or are not related to the growth, production, or manufacture of the
good, such as administrative salaries, casualty and liability insurance, advertising, and salesmen's salaries, commissions, or expenses.
§ 10.878
Packaging and packing materials and containers for retail sale and for shipment.
Packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale and packing materials and containers for shipment are to be disregarded in determining whether a good qualifies as an originating good under § 10.873 of this subpart and General Note 31, HTSUS, except that the value of such packaging and packing materials and containers may be included in meeting the value-content requirement specified in § 10.873(b) of this subpart.
§ 10.879
Indirect materials.
Indirect materials are to be disregarded in determining whether a good qualifies as an originating good under § 10.873 of this subpart and General Note 31, HTSUS, except that the cost of such indirect materials may be included in meeting the value-content requirement specified in § 10.873(b) of this subpart.
§ 10.880
Imported directly.
(a)
General.
To qualify as an originating good under the OFTA, a good must be imported directly from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party. For purposes of this subpart, the words “imported directly” mean:
(1) Direct shipment from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party without passing through the territory of a non-Party; or
(2) If the shipment passed through the territory of a non-Party, the good, upon arrival in the territory of a Party, will be considered to be “imported directly” only if the good did not undergo production, manufacturing, or any other operation outside the territories of the Parties, other than unloading, reloading, or any other operation necessary to preserve the good in good condition or to transport the good to the territory of a Party. Operations that may be performed outside the territories of the Parties include inspection, removal of dust that accumulates during shipment, ventilation, spreading out or drying, chilling, replacing salt, sulfur dioxide, or aqueous solutions, replacing damaged packing materials and containers, and removal of units of the good that are spoiled or damaged and present a danger to the remaining units of the good, or to transport the good to the territory of a Party.
(b)
Documentary evidence.
An importer making a claim for preferential tariff treatment under the OFTA for an originating good may be required to demonstrate, to CBP's satisfaction, that the good was “imported directly” from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party, as that term is defined in paragraph (a) of this section. An importer may demonstrate compliance with this section by submitting documentary evidence. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, bills of lading, airway bills, packing lists, commercial invoices, receiving and inventory records, and customs entry and exit documents.

# Tariff Preference Level
§ 10.881
Filing of claim for tariff preference level.
A cotton or man-made fiber apparel good described in § 10.882 of this subpart that does not qualify as an originating good under § 10.873 of this subpart may nevertheless be entitled to preferential tariff treatment under the OFTA under an applicable tariff preference level (TPL). To make a TPL claim, the importer must include on the entry summary, or equivalent documentation, the applicable subheading in Chapter 99 of the HTSUS (9916.99.20) immediately above the applicable subheading in Chapter 61 or Chapter 62 of the HTSUS under which each non-originating cotton or man-made fiber apparel good is classified.
§ 10.882
Goods eligible for tariff preference claims.
Cotton or man-made fiber apparel goods provided for in Chapters 61 or 62 of the HTSUS that are cut or knit to shape, or both, and sewn or otherwise assembled in the territory of Oman
from fabric or yarn produced or obtained outside the territory of Oman or the United States are eligible for a TPL claim filed under § 10.881 of this subpart (subject to the quantitative limitations set forth in U.S. Note 13, Subchapter XVI, Chapter 99, HTSUS).
§ 10.883
[Reserved]
§ 10.884
Declaration.
(a)
General.
An importer who claims preferential tariff treatment on a non-originating cotton or man-made fiber good specified in § 10.882 of this subpart must submit, at the request of the Center director, a declaration supporting such a claim for preferential tariff treatment that sets forth all pertinent information concerning the production of the good, including:
(1) A description of the good, quantity, invoice numbers, and bills of lading;
(2) A description of the operations performed in the production of the good in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(3) A statement as to any yarn or fabric of a non-Party and the origin of such materials used in the production of the good.
(b)
Retention of records.
An importer must retain all documents relied upon to prepare the declaration for a period of five years.
§ 10.885
Transshipment of non-originating apparel goods.
(a)
General.
To qualify for preferential tariff treatment under an applicable TPL, a good must be imported directly from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party. For purposes of this subpart, the words “imported directly” mean:
(1) Direct shipment from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party without passing through the territory of a non-Party; or
(2) If the shipment passed through the territory of a non-Party, the good, upon arrival in the territory of a Party, will be considered to be “imported directly” only if the good did not undergo production, manufacturing, or any other operation outside the territories of the Parties, other than unloading, reloading, or any other operation necessary to preserve the good in good condition or to transport the good to the territory of a Party. Operations that may be performed outside the territories of the Parties include inspection, removal of dust that accumulates during shipment, ventilation, spreading out or drying, chilling, replacing salt, sulfur dioxide, or aqueous solutions, replacing damaged packing materials and containers, and removal of units of the good that are spoiled or damaged and present a danger to the remaining units of the good, or to transport the good to the territory of a Party.
(b)
Documentary evidence.
An importer making a claim for preferential tariff treatment under an applicable TPL may be required to demonstrate, to CBP's satisfaction, that the good was “imported directly” from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party, as that term is defined in paragraph (a) of this section. An importer may demonstrate compliance with this section by submitting documentary evidence. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, bills of lading, airway bills, packing lists, commercial invoices, receiving and inventory records, and customs entry and exit documents.
§ 10.886
Effect of non-compliance; failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment of non-originating apparel goods.
(a)
General.
If an importer of a good for which a TPL claim is made fails to comply with any applicable requirement under this subpart, the Center director may deny preferential tariff treatment to the imported good.
(b)
Failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment.
Where the requirements for preferential tariff treatment set forth elsewhere in this subpart are met, the Center director nevertheless may deny preferential tariff treatment to a good for which a TPL claim is made if the good is shipped through or transshipped in a country other than a Party, and the importer of the good does not provide, at the request of the Center director, evidence demonstrating to the satisfaction of
the Center director that the requirements set forth in § 10.885 of this subpart were met.

# Origin Verifications and Determinations
§ 10.887
Verification and justification of claim for preferential treatment.
(a)
Verification.
A claim for preferential treatment made under § 10.863 or § 10.870 of this subpart, including any declaration or other information submitted to CBP in support of the claim, will be subject to such verification as the Center director deems necessary. In the event that the Center director is provided with insufficient information to verify or substantiate the claim, the Center director may deny the claim for preferential treatment.
(b)
Applicable accounting principles.
When conducting a verification of origin to which Generally Accepted Accounting Principles may be relevant, CBP will apply and accept the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles applicable in the country of production.
§ 10.888
Issuance of negative origin determinations.
If, as a result of an origin verification initiated under this subpart, CBP determines that a claim for preferential tariff treatment made under § 10.863 of this subpart should be denied, it will issue a determination in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to the importer that sets forth the following:
(a) A description of the good that was the subject of the verification together with the identifying numbers and dates of the export and import documents pertaining to the good;
(b) A statement setting forth the findings of fact made in connection with the verification and upon which the determination is based; and
(c) With specific reference to the rules applicable to originating goods as set forth in General Note 31, HTSUS, and in §§ 10.863 through 10.886 of this subpart, the legal basis for the determination.

# Penalties
§ 10.889
Violations relating to the OFTA.
All criminal, civil, or administrative penalties which may be imposed upon importers or other parties for violations of the U.S. customs or related laws or regulations will also apply to importations subject to the OFTA.

# Goods Returned After Repair or Alteration
§ 10.890
Goods re-entered after repair or alteration in Oman.
(a)
General.
This section sets forth the rules that apply for purposes of obtaining duty-free treatment on goods returned after repair or alteration in Oman as provided for in subheadings 9802.00.40 and 9802.00.50, HTSUS. Goods returned after having been repaired or altered in Oman, whether or not pursuant to a warranty, are eligible for duty-free treatment, provided that the requirements of this section are met. For purposes of this section, “repairs or alterations” means restoration, renovation, cleaning, re-sterilizing, or other treatment which does not destroy the essential characteristics of, or create a new or commercially different good from, the good exported from the United States.
(b)
Goods not eligible for treatment.
The duty-free treatment referred to in paragraph (a) of this section will not apply to goods which, in their condition as exported from the United States to Oman, are incomplete for their intended use and for which the processing operation performed in Oman constitutes an operation that is performed as a matter of course in the preparation or manufacture of finished goods.
(c)
Documentation.
The provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of § 10.8 of this part, relating to the documentary requirements for goods entered under subheading 9802.00.40 or 9802.00.50, HTSUS, will apply in connection with the entry of goods which are returned from Oman after having been exported for repairs or alterations and which are claimed to be duty free.

# Subpart Q—United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement

# Source:
76 FR 68072, Nov. 3, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 10.901
Scope.
This subpart implements the duty preference and related customs provisions applicable to imported and exported goods under the United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement (the PTPA) signed on April 12, 2006, and under the United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act (the Act; Pub. L. 110-138, 121 Stat. 1455 (19 U.S.C. 3805 note). Except as otherwise specified in this subpart, the procedures and other requirements set forth in this subpart are in addition to the customs procedures and requirements of general application contained elsewhere in this chapter. Additional provisions implementing certain aspects of the PTPA and the Act are contained in Parts 24, 162, and 163 of this chapter.
§ 10.902
General definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following terms will have the meanings indicated unless either the context in which they are used requires a different meaning or a different definition is prescribed for a particular section of this subpart:
(a)
Claim for preferential tariff treatment.
“Claim for preferential tariff treatment” means a claim that a good is entitled to the duty rate applicable under the PTPA to an originating good and to an exemption from the merchandise processing fee;
(b)
Claim of origin.
“Claim of origin” means a claim that a textile or apparel good is an originating good or satisfies the non-preferential rules of origin of a Party;
(c)
Customs authority.
“Customs authority” means the competent authority that is responsible under the law of a Party for the administration of customs laws and regulations;
(d)
Customs duty.
“Customs duty” includes any customs or import duty and a charge of any kind imposed in connection with the importation of a good, including any form of surtax or surcharge in connection with such importation, but, for purposes of implementing the PTPA, does not include any:
(1) Charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently with Article III:2 of GATT 1994 in respect of like, directly competitive, or substitutable goods of the Party, or in respect of goods from which the imported good has been manufactured or produced in whole or in part;
(2) Antidumping or countervailing duty that is applied pursuant to a Party's domestic law; or
(3) Fee or other charge in connection with importation;
(e)
Customs Valuation Agreement.
“Customs Valuation Agreement” means the
Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994,
which is part of the WTO Agreement;
(f)
Days.
“Days” means calendar days;
(g)
Enterprise.
“Enterprise” means any entity constituted or organized under applicable law, whether or not for profit, and whether privately-owned or governmentally-owned, including any corporation, trust, partnership, sole proprietorship, joint venture, or other association;
(h)
GATT 1994.
“GATT 1994” means the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994,
which is part of the
WTO Agreement;
(i)
Harmonized System.
“Harmonized System” means the
Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System,
including its General Rules of Interpretation, Section Notes, and Chapter Notes, as adopted and implemented by the Parties in their respective tariff laws;
(j)
Heading.
“Heading” means the first four digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(k)
HTSUS.
“HTSUS” means the
Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States
as promulgated by the U.S. International Trade Commission;
(l)
Identical goods.
“Identical goods” means goods that are the same in all respects relevant to the rule of origin that qualifies the goods as originating goods;
(m)
Indirect material.
“Indirect material” means a good used in the production, testing, or inspection of another good in the territory of one or both of the Parties but not physically incorporated into that other good, or a good used in the maintenance of buildings or the operation of equipment associated with the production of another good in the territory of one or both of the Parties, including:
(1) Fuel and energy;
(2) Tools, dies, and molds;
(3) Spare parts and materials used in the maintenance of equipment or buildings;
(4) Lubricants, greases, compounding materials, and other materials used in production or used to operate equipment or buildings;
(5) Gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, safety equipment, and supplies;
(6) Equipment, devices, and supplies used for testing or inspecting the good; (7) Catalysts and solvents; and
(8) Any other goods that are not incorporated into the other good but the use of which in the production of the other good can reasonably be demonstrated to be a part of that production;
(n)
Originating.
“Originating” means qualifying for preferential tariff treatment under the rules of origin set out in Chapter Four and Article 3.3 of the PTPA, and General Note 32, HTSUS;
(o)
Party.
“Party” means the United States or Peru;
(p)
Person.
“Person” means a natural person or an enterprise;
(q)
Preferential tariff treatment.
“Preferential tariff treatment” means the duty rate applicable under the PTPA to an originating good, and an exemption from the merchandise processing fee;
(r)
Subheading.
“Subheading” means the first six digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(s)
Textile or apparel good.
“Textile or apparel good” means a good listed in the Annex to the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing (commonly referred to as “the ATC”), which is part of the WTO Agreement, except for those goods listed in Annex 3-C of the PTPA;
(t)
Territory.
“Territory” means:
(1) With respect to Peru, the continental territory, the islands, the maritime areas and the air space above them, in which Peru exercises sovereignty and jurisdiction or sovereign rights in accordance with its domestic law and international law;
(2) With respect to the United States:
(i) The customs territory of the United States, which includes the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico;
(ii) The foreign trade zones located in the United States and Puerto Rico; and
(iii) Any areas beyond the territorial seas of the United States within which, in accordance with international law and its domestic law, the United States may exercise rights with respect to the seabed and subsoil and their natural resources;
(u)
WTO.
“WTO” means the World Trade Organization; and
(v)
WTO Agreement.
“WTO Agreement” means the
Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization
of April 15, 1994.

# Import Requirements
§ 10.903
Filing of claim for preferential tariff treatment upon importation.
(a)
Basis of claim.
An importer may make a claim for PTPA preferential tariff treatment, including an exemption from the merchandise processing fee, based on:
(1) A certification, as specified in § 10.904 of this subpart, that is prepared by the importer, exporter, or producer of the good; or
(2) The importer's knowledge that the good is an originating good, including reasonable reliance on information in the importer's possession that the good is an originating good.
(b)
Making a claim.
The claim is made by including on the entry summary, or equivalent documentation, the letters “PE” as a prefix to the subheading of the HTSUS under which each qualifying good is classified, or by the method specified for equivalent reporting via an authorized electronic data interchange system.
(c)
Corrected claim.
If, after making the claim specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the importer has reason to
believe that the claim is based on inaccurate information or is otherwise invalid, the importer must, within 30 calendar days after the date of discovery of the error, correct the claim and pay any duties that may be due. The importer must submit a statement either in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to the CBP office where the original claim was filed specifying the correction (
see
§§ 10.931 and 10.933 of this subpart).
§ 10.904
Certification.
(a)
General.
An importer who makes a claim under § 10.903(b) of this subpart based on a certification by the importer, exporter, or producer that the good is originating must submit, at the request of the Center director, a copy of the certification. The certification:
(1) Need not be in a prescribed format but must be in writing or must be transmitted electronically pursuant to any electronic means authorized by CBP for that purpose;
(2) Must be in the possession of the importer at the time the claim for preferential tariff treatment is made if the certification forms the basis for the claim;
(3) Must include the following information:
(i) The legal name, address, telephone, and email address (if any) of the importer of record of the good, the exporter of the good (if different from the producer), and the producer of the good;
(ii) The legal name, address, telephone, and email address (if any) of the responsible official or authorized agent of the importer, exporter, or producer signing the certification (if different from the information required by paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section);
(iii) A description of the good for which preferential tariff treatment is claimed, which must be sufficiently detailed to relate it to the invoice and the HS nomenclature;
(iv) The HTSUS tariff classification, to six or more digits, as necessary for the specific change in tariff classification rule for the good set forth in General Note 32(n), HTSUS; and
(v) The applicable rule of origin set forth in General Note 32, HTSUS, under which the good qualifies as an originating good; and
(4) Must include a statement, in substantially the following form:
I certify that:
The information on this document is true and accurate and I assume the responsibility for proving such representations. I understand that I am liable for any false statements or material omissions made on or in connection with this document;
I agree to maintain and present upon request, documentation necessary to support these representations;
The goods comply with all requirements for preferential tariff treatment specified for those goods in the United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement; and
This document consists of ________ pages, including all attachments.
(b)
Responsible official or agent.
The certification provided for in paragraph (a) of this section must be signed and dated by a responsible official of the importer, exporter, or producer, or by the importer's, exporter's, or producer's authorized agent having knowledge of the relevant facts.
(c)
Language.
The certification provided for in paragraph (a) of this section must be completed in either the English or Spanish language. In the latter case, the Center director may require the importer to submit an English translation of the certification.
(d)
Certification by the exporter or producer.
A certification may be prepared by the exporter or producer of the good on the basis of:
(1) The exporter's or producer's knowledge that the good is originating; or
(2) In the case of an exporter, reasonable reliance on the producer's certification that the good is originating.
(e)
Applicability of certification.
The certification provided for in paragraph (a) of this section may be applicable to:
(1) A single shipment of a good into the United States; or
(2) Multiple shipments of identical goods into the United States that occur within a specified blanket period, not exceeding 12 months, set out in the certification.
(f)
Validity of certification.
A certification that is properly completed, signed, and dated in accordance with the requirements of this section will be
accepted as valid for four years following the date on which it was signed.
§ 10.905
Importer obligations.
(a)
General.
An importer who makes a claim for preferential tariff treatment under § 10.903(b) of this subpart:
(1) Will be deemed to have certified that the good is eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the PTPA;
(2) Is responsible for the truthfulness of the claim and of all the information and data contained in the certification provided for in § 10.904 of this subpart;
(3) Is responsible for submitting any supporting documents requested by CBP, and for the truthfulness of the information contained in those documents. When a certification prepared by an exporter or producer forms the basis of a claim for preferential tariff treatment, and CBP requests the submission of supporting documents, the importer will provide to CBP, or arrange for the direct submission by the exporter or producer of, all information relied on by the exporter or producer in preparing the certification.
(b)
Information provided by exporter or producer.
The fact that the importer has made a claim or submitted a certification based on information provided by an exporter or producer will not relieve the importer of the responsibility referred to in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Exemption from penalties.
An importer will not be subject to civil or administrative penalties under 19 U.S.C. 1592 for making an incorrect claim for preferential tariff treatment or submitting an incorrect certification, provided that the importer promptly and voluntarily corrects the claim or certification and pays any duty owing (
see
§§ 10.931 and 10.933 of this subpart).
§ 10.906
Certification not required.
(a)
General.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an importer will not be required to submit a copy of a certification under § 10.904 of this subpart for:
(1) A non-commercial importation of a good; or
(2) A commercial importation for which the value of the originating goods does not exceed U.S. $2,500.
(b)
Exception.
If the Center director determines that an importation described in paragraph (a) of this section is part of a series of importations carried out or planned for the purpose of evading compliance with the certification requirements of § 10.904 of this subpart, the Center director will notify the importer that for that importation the importer must submit a copy of the certification. The importer must submit such a copy within 30 days from the date of the notice. Failure to timely submit a copy of the certification will result in denial of the claim for preferential tariff treatment.
[76 FR 68072, Nov. 3, 2011, as amended by CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93014, Dec. 20, 2016]
§ 10.907
Maintenance of records.
(a)
General.
An importer claiming preferential tariff treatment for a good imported into the United States under § 10.903(b) of this subpart must maintain, for a minimum of five years after the date of importation of the good, all records and documents that the importer has demonstrating that the good qualifies for preferential tariff treatment under the PTPA. These records are in addition to any other records that the importer is required to prepare, maintain, or make available to CBP under Part 163 of this chapter.
(b)
Method of maintenance.
The records and documents referred to in paragraph (a) of this section must be maintained by importers as provided in § 163.5 of this chapter.
§ 10.908
Effect of noncompliance; failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment.
(a)
General.
If the importer fails to comply with any requirement under this subpart, including submission of a complete certification prepared in accordance with § 10.904 of this subpart, when requested, the Center director may deny preferential tariff treatment to the imported good.
(b)
Failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment.
Where the requirements for preferential tariff treatment set forth elsewhere in this subpart are met, the Center director nevertheless may deny preferential tariff treatment to an originating good if the
good is shipped through or transshipped in a country other than a Party to the PTPA, and the importer of the good does not provide, at the request of the Center director, evidence demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Center director that the conditions set forth in § 10.925(a) of this subpart were met.

# Export Requirements
§ 10.909
Certification for goods exported to Peru.
(a)
Submission of certification to CBP.
Any person who completes and issues a certification for a good exported from the United States to Peru must provide a copy of the certification (or such other medium or format approved by the Peru customs authority for that purpose) to CBP upon request.
(b)
Notification of errors in certification.
Any person who completes and issues a certification for a good exported from the United States to Peru and who has reason to believe that the certification contains or is based on incorrect information must promptly notify every person to whom the certification was provided of any change that could affect the accuracy or validity of the certification. Notification of an incorrect certification must also be given either in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to CBP specifying the correction (
see
§§ 10.932 and 10.933 of this subpart).
(c)
Maintenance of records
—(1)
General.
Any person who completes and issues a certification for a good exported from the United States to Peru must maintain, for a period of at least five years after the date the certification was signed, all records and supporting documents relating to the origin of a good for which the certification was issued, including the certification or copies thereof and records and documents associated with:
(i) The purchase, cost, and value of, and payment for, the good;
(ii) The purchase, cost, and value of, and payment for, all materials, including indirect materials, used in the production of the good; and
(iii) The production of the good in the form in which the good was exported.
(2)
Method of maintenance.
The records referred to in paragraph (c) of this section must be maintained as provided in § 163.5 of this chapter.
(3)
Availability of records.
For purposes of determining compliance with the provisions of this part, the records required to be maintained under this section must be stored and made available for examination and inspection by the Center director or other appropriate CBP officer in the same manner as provided in part 163 of this chapter.

# Post-Importation Duty Refund Claims
§ 10.910
Right to make post-importation claim and refund duties.
Notwithstanding any other available remedy, where a good would have qualified as an originating good when it was imported into the United States but no claim for preferential tariff treatment was made, the importer of that good may file a claim for a refund of any excess duties at any time within one year after the date of importation of the good in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 10.911 of this subpart. Subject to the provisions of § 10.908 of this subpart, CBP may refund any excess duties by liquidation or reliquidation of the entry covering the good in accordance with § 10.912(c) of this subpart.
§ 10.911
Filing procedures.
(a)
Place of filing.
A post-importation claim for a refund must be filed with CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically.
(b)
Contents of claim.
A post-importation claim for a refund must be filed by presentation of the following:
(1) A written declaration stating that the good was an originating good at the time of importation and setting forth the number and date of the entry or entries covering the good;
(2) A copy of a certification prepared in accordance with § 10.904 of this subpart if a certification forms the basis for the claim, or other information demonstrating that the good qualifies for preferential tariff treatment;
(3) A written statement indicating whether the importer of the good provided a copy of the entry summary or
equivalent documentation to any other person. If such documentation was so provided, the statement must identify each recipient by name, CBP identification number, and address and must specify the date on which the documentation was provided; and
(4) A written statement indicating whether or not any person has filed a protest relating to the good under any provision of law; and if any such protest has been filed, the statement must identify the protest by number and date.
§ 10.912
CBP processing procedures.
(a)
Status determination.
After receipt of a post-importation claim under § 10.911 of this subpart, the Center director will determine whether the entry covering the good has been liquidated and, if liquidation has taken place, whether the liquidation has become final.
(b)
Pending protest or judicial review.
If the Center director determines that any protest relating to the good has not been finally decided, the Center director will suspend action on the claim filed under § 10.911 of this subpart until the decision on the protest becomes final. If a summons involving the tariff classification or dutiability of the good is filed in the Court of International Trade, the Center director will suspend action on the claim filed under § 10.911 of this subpart until judicial review has been completed.
(c)
Allowance of claim
—(1)
Unliquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under § 10.911 of this subpart should be allowed and the entry covering the good has not been liquidated, the Center director will take into account the claim for refund in connection with the liquidation of the entry.
(2)
Liquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under § 10.911 of this subpart should be allowed and the entry covering the good has been liquidated, whether or not the liquidation has become final, the entry must be reliquidated in order to effect a refund of duties under this section. If the entry is otherwise to be reliquidated based on administrative review of a protest or as a result of judicial review, the Center director will reliquidate the entry taking into account the claim for refund under § 10.911 of this subpart.
(d)
Denial of claim
—(1)
General.
The Center director may deny a claim for a refund filed under § 10.911 of this subpart if the claim was not filed timely, if the importer has not complied with the requirements of §§ 10.908 and 10.911 of this subpart, or if, following an origin verification under § 10.926 of this subpart, the Center director determines either that the imported good was not an originating good at the time of importation or that a basis exists upon which preferential tariff treatment may be denied under § 10.926 of this subpart.
(2)
Unliquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under this subpart should be denied and the entry covering the good has not been liquidated, the Center director will deny the claim in connection with the liquidation of the entry, and notice of the denial and the reason for the denial will be provided to the importer in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system.
(3)
Liquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under this subpart should be denied and the entry covering the good has been liquidated, whether or not the liquidation has become final, the claim may be denied without reliquidation of the entry. If the entry is otherwise to be reliquidated based on administrative review of a protest or as a result of judicial review, such reliquidation may include denial of the claim filed under this subpart. In either case, the Center director will provide notice of the denial and the reason for the denial to the importer in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system.

# Rules of Origin
§ 10.913
Definitions.
For purposes of §§ 10.913 through 10.925:
(a)
Adjusted value.
“Adjusted value” means the value determined in accordance with Articles 1 through 8, Article 15, and the corresponding interpretative notes of the Customs Valuation
Agreement, adjusted, if necessary, to exclude:
(1) Any costs, charges, or expenses incurred for transportation, insurance and related services incident to the international shipment of the good from the country of exportation to the place of importation; and
(2) The value of packing materials and containers for shipment as defined in paragraph (m) of this section;
(b)
Class of motor vehicles.
“Class of motor vehicles” means any one of the following categories of motor vehicles:
(1) Motor vehicles provided for in subheading 8701.20, 8704.10, 8704.22, 8704.23, 8704.32, or 8704.90, or heading 8705 or 8706, HTSUS, or motor vehicles for the transport of 16 or more persons provided for in subheading 8702.10 or 8702.90, HTSUS;
(2) Motor vehicles provided for in subheading 8701.10 or any of subheadings 8701.30 through 8701.90, HTSUS;
(3) Motor vehicles for the transport of 15 or fewer persons provided for in subheading 8702.10 or 8702.90, HTSUS, or motor vehicles provided for in subheading 8704.21 or 8704.31, HTSUS; or
(4) Motor vehicles provided for in subheadings 8703.21 through 8703.90, HTSUS;
(c)
Exporter.
“Exporter” means a person who exports goods from the territory of a Party;
(d)
Fungible good or material.
“Fungible good or material” means a good or material, as the case may be, that is interchangeable with another good or material for commercial purposes and the properties of which are essentially identical to such other good or material;
(e)
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
“Generally Accepted Accounting Principles” means the recognized consensus or substantial authoritative support in the territory of a Party, with respect to the recording of revenues, expenses, costs, assets, and liabilities, the disclosure of information, and the preparation of financial statements. These principles may encompass broad guidelines of general application as well as detailed standards, practices, and procedures;
(f)
Good.
“Good” means any merchandise, product, article, or material;
(g)
Goods wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or more of the Parties.
“Goods wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties” means:
(1) Plants and plant products harvested or gathered in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(2) Live animals born and raised in the territory of one or more of the Parties;
(3) Goods obtained in the territory of one or both of the Parties from live animals;
(4) Goods obtained from hunting, trapping, fishing, or aquaculture conducted in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(5) Minerals and other natural resources not included in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(4) of this section that are extracted or taken in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(6) Fish, shellfish, and other marine life taken from the sea, seabed, or subsoil outside the territory of the Parties by:
(i) Vessels registered or recorded with Peru and flying its flag; or
(ii) Vessels documented under the laws of the United States;
(7) Goods produced on board factory ships from the goods referred to in aragraph (g)(6) of this section, if such factory ships are:
(i) Registered or recorded with Peru and fly its flag; or
(i) Documented under the laws of the United States;
(8) Goods taken by a Party or a person of a Party from the seabed or subsoil outside territorial waters, if a Party has rights to exploit such seabed or subsoil;
(9) Goods taken from outer space, provided they are obtained by a Party or a person of a Party and not processed in the territory of a non-Party;
(10) Waste and scrap derived from:
(i) Manufacturing or processing operations in the territory of one or both of the Parties; or
(ii) Used goods collected in the territory of one or both of the Parties, if such goods are fit only for the recovery of raw materials;
(11) Recovered goods derived in the territory of one or both of the Parties
from used goods, and used in the territory of one or both of the Parties in the production of remanufactured goods; and
(12) Goods produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties exclusively from goods referred to in any of paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(10) of this section, or from the derivatives of such goods, at any stage of production;
(h)
Material.
“Material” means a good that is used in the production of another good, including a part or an ingredient;
(i)
Model line.
“Model line” means a group of motor vehicles having the same platform or model name;
(j)
Net cost.
“Net cost” means total cost minus sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, and non-allowable interest costs that are included in the total cost;
(k)
Non-allowable interest costs.
“Non-allowable interest costs” means interest costs incurred by a producer that exceed 700 basis points above the applicable official interest rate for comparable maturities of the Party in which the producer is located;
(l)
Non-originating good or non-originating material.
“Non-originating good” or “non-originating material” means a good or material, as the case may be, that does not qualify as originating under General Note 32, HTSUS, or this subpart;
(m)
Packing materials and containers for shipment.
“Packing materials and containers for shipment” means the goods used to protect a good during its transportation to the United States, and does not include the packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale;
(n)
Producer.
“Producer” means a person who engages in the production of a good in the territory of a Party;
(o)
Production.
“Production” means growing, mining, harvesting, fishing, raising, trapping, hunting, manufacturing, processing, assembling, or disassembling a good;
(p)
Reasonably allocate.
“Reasonably allocate” means to apportion in a manner that would be appropriate under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles;
(q)
Recovered goods.
“Recovered goods” means materials in the form of individual parts that are the result of:
(1) The disassembly of used goods into individual parts; and
(2) The cleaning, inspecting, testing, or other processing that is necessary to improve such individual parts to sound working condition;
(r)
Remanufactured good.
“Remanufactured good” means an industrial good assembled in the territory of one or both of the Parties that is classified in Chapter 84, 85, 87, or 90 or heading 9402, HTSUS, other than a good classified in heading 8418 or 8516, HTSUS, and that:
(1) Is entirely or partially comprised of recovered goods; and
(2) Has a similar life expectancy and enjoys a factory warranty similar to a new good that is classified in one of the enumerated HTSUS chapters or headings;
(s)
Royalties.
“Royalties” means payments of any kind, including payments under technical assistance agreements or similar agreements, made as consideration for the use of, or right to use, any copyright, literary, artistic, or scientific work, patent, trademark, design, model, plan, secret formula or process, excluding those payments under technical assistance agreements or similar agreements that can be related to specific services such as:
(1) Personnel training, without regard to where performed; and
(2) If performed in the territory of one or both of the Parties, engineering, tooling, die-setting, software design and similar computer services;
(t)
Sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs.
“Sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs” means the following costs related to sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service:
(1) Sales and marketing promotion; media advertising; advertising and market research; promotional and demonstration materials; exhibits; sales conferences, trade shows and conventions; banners; marketing displays; free samples; sales, marketing, and after-sales service literature (product brochures, catalogs, technical literature, price lists, service manuals, sales aid information); establishment
and protection of logos and trademarks; sponsorships; wholesale and retail restocking charges; entertainment;
(2) Sales and marketing incentives; consumer, retailer or wholesaler rebates; merchandise incentives;
(3) Salaries and wages, sales commissions, bonuses, benefits (for example, medical, insurance, pension), traveling and living expenses, membership and professional fees, for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service personnel;
(4) Recruiting and training of sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service personnel, and after-sales training of customers' employees, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer;
(5) Product liability insurance;
(6) Office supplies for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service of goods, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer;
(7) Telephone, mail and other communications, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer;
(8) Rent and depreciation of sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service offices and distribution centers;
(9) Property insurance premiums, taxes, cost of utilities, and repair and maintenance of sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service offices and distribution centers, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer; and
(10) Payments by the producer to other persons for warranty repairs;
(u)
Self-produced material.
“Self-produced material” means an originating material that is produced by a producer of a good and used in the production of that good;
(v)
Shipping and packing costs.
“Shipping and packing costs” means the costs incurred in packing a good for shipment and shipping the good from the point of direct shipment to the buyer, excluding the costs of preparing and packaging the good for retail sale;
(w)
Total cost.
“Total cost” means all product costs, period costs, and other costs for a good incurred in the territory of one or both of the Parties. Product costs are costs that are associated with the production of a good and include the value of materials, direct labor costs, and direct overhead. Period costs are costs, other than product costs, that are expensed in the period in which they are incurred, such as selling expenses and general and administrative expenses. Other costs are all costs recorded on the books of the producer that are not product costs or period costs, such as interest. Total cost does not include profits that are earned by the producer, regardless of whether they are retained by the producer or paid out to other persons as dividends, or taxes paid on those profits, including capital gains taxes;
(x)
Used.
“Used” means utilized or consumed in the production of goods; and
(y)
Value.
“Value” means the value of a good or material for purposes of calculating customs duties or for purposes of applying this subpart.
§ 10.914
Originating goods.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart and General Note 32(m), HTSUS, a good imported into the customs territory of the United States will be considered an originating good under the PTPA only if:
(a) The good is wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(b) The good is produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties and:
(1) Each non-originating material used in the production of the good undergoes an applicable change in tariff classification specified in General Note 32(n), HTSUS, and the good satisfies all other applicable requirements of General Note 32, HTSUS; or
(2) The good otherwise satisfies any applicable regional value content or other requirements specified in General Note 32(n), HTSUS, and satisfies
all other applicable requirements of General Note 32, HTSUS; or
(c) The good is produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties exclusively from originating materials.
§ 10.915
Regional value content.
(a)
General.
Except for goods to which paragraph (d) of this section applies, where General Note 32(n), HTSUS, sets forth a rule that specifies a regional value content test for a good, the regional value content of such good must be calculated by the importer, exporter, or producer of the good on the basis of the build-down method described in paragraph (b) of this section or the build-up method described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Build-down method.
Under the build-down method, the regional value content must be calculated on the basis of the formula RVC = ((AV−VNM)/AV) × 100, where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; AV is the adjusted value of the good; and VNM is the value of non-originating materials that are acquired and used by the producer in the production of the good, but does not include the value of a material that is self-produced.
(c)
Build-up method.
Under the build-up method, the regional value content must be calculated on the basis of the formula RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100, where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; AV is the adjusted value of the good; and VOM is the value of originating materials that are acquired or self-produced and used by the producer in the production of the good.
(d)
Special rule for certain automotive goods
—(1)
General.
Where General Note 32(n), HTSUS, sets forth a rule that specifies a regional value content test for an automotive good provided for in any of subheadings 8407.31 through 8407.34, subheading 8408.20, heading 8409, or any of headings 8701 through 8708, HTSUS, the regional value content of such good must be calculated by the importer, exporter, or producer of the good on the basis of the net cost method described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2)
Net cost method.
Under the net cost method, the regional value content is calculated on the basis of the formula RVC = ((NC−VNM)/NC) × 100, where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; NC is the net cost of the good; and VNM is the value of non-originating materials that are acquired and used by the producer in the production of the good, but does not include the value of a material that is self-produced. Consistent with the provisions regarding allocation of costs set out in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, the net cost of the good must be determined by:
(i) Calculating the total cost incurred with respect to all goods produced by the producer of the automotive good, subtracting any sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, and non-allowable interest costs that are included in the total cost of all such goods, and then reasonably allocating the resulting net cost of those goods to the automotive good;
(ii) Calculating the total cost incurred with respect to all goods produced by the producer of the automotive good, reasonably allocating the total cost to the automotive good, and then subtracting any sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, and non-allowable interest costs that are included in the portion of the total cost allocated to the automotive good; or
(iii) Reasonably allocating each cost that forms part of the total costs incurred with respect to the automotive good so that the aggregate of these costs does not include any sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, or non-allowable interest costs.
(3)
Motor vehicles
—(i)
General.
For purposes of calculating the regional value content under the net cost method for an automotive good that is a motor vehicle provided for in any of headings 8701 through 8705, an importer, exporter, or producer may average the amounts calculated under the formula set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section over the producer's fiscal year using any one of the categories
described in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section either on the basis of all motor vehicles in the category or those motor vehicles in the category that are exported to the territory of one or both Parties.
(ii)
Categories.
The categories referred to in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section are as follows:
(A) The same model line of motor vehicles, in the same class of vehicles, produced in the same plant in the territory of a Party, as the motor vehicle for which the regional value content is being calculated;
(B) The same class of motor vehicles, and produced in the same plant in the territory of a Party, as the motor vehicle for which the regional value content is being calculated; and
(C) The same model line of motor vehicles produced in the territory of a Party as the motor vehicle for which the regional value content is being calculated.
(4)
Other automotive goods
—(i)
General.
For purposes of calculating the regional value content under the net cost method for automotive goods provided for in any of subheadings 8407.31 through 8407.34, subheading 8408.20, heading 8409, 8706, 8707, or 8708, HTSUS, that are produced in the same plant, an importer, exporter, or producer may:
(A) Average the amounts calculated under the formula set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section over any of the following: The fiscal year, or any quarter or month, of the motor vehicle producer to whom the automotive good is sold, or the fiscal year, or any quarter or month, of the producer of the automotive good, provided the goods were produced during the fiscal year, quarter, or month that is the basis for the calculation;
(B) Determine the average referred to in paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) of this section separately for such goods sold to one or more motor vehicle producers; or
(C) Make a separate determination under paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) or (d)(4)(i)(B) of this section for automotive goods that are exported to the territory of Peru or the United States.
(ii)
Duration of use.
A person selecting an averaging period of one month or quarter under paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) of this section must continue to use that method for that category of automotive goods throughout the fiscal year.
§ 10.916
Value of materials.
(a)
Calculating the value of materials.
Except as provided in § 10.924, for purposes of calculating the regional value content of a good under General Note 32(n), HTSUS, and for purposes of applying the
de minimis
(
see
§ 10.918 of this subpart) provisions of General Note 32(n), HTSUS, the value of a material is:
(1) In the case of a material imported by the producer of the good, the adjusted value of the material;
(2) In the case of a material acquired by the producer in the territory where the good is produced, the value, determined in accordance with Articles 1 through 8, Article 15, and the corresponding interpretative notes of the Customs Valuation Agreement, of the material with reasonable modifications to the provisions of the Customs Valuation Agreement as may be required due to the absence of an importation by the producer (including, but not limited to, treating a domestic purchase by the producer as if it were a sale for export to the country of importation); or
(3) In the case of a self-produced material, the sum of:
(i) All expenses incurred in the production of the material, including general expenses; and
(ii) An amount for profit equivalent to the profit added in the normal course of trade.
(b)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate application of the principles set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section:

# Example 1.
A producer in Peru purchases material x from an unrelated seller in Peru for $100. Under the provisions of Article 1 of the Customs Valuation Agreement, transaction value is the price actually paid or payable for the goods when sold for export to the country of importation adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8. In order to apply Article 1 to this domestic purchase by the producer, such purchase is treated as if it were a sale for export to the country of importation. Therefore, for purposes of determining the adjusted value of material x, Article 1 transaction value is the price actually paid or payable for the goods
when sold to the producer in Peru ($100), adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8. In this example, it is irrelevant whether material x was initially imported into Peru by the seller (or by anyone else). So long as the producer acquired material x in Peru, it is intended that the value of material x will be determined on the basis of the price actually paid or payable by the producer adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8.

# Example 2.
Same facts as in Example 1, except that the sale between the seller and the producer is subject to certain restrictions that preclude the application of Article 1. Under Article 2 of the Customs Valuation Agreement, the value is the transaction value of identical goods sold for export to the same country of importation and exported at or about the same time as the goods being valued. In order to permit the application of Article 2 to the domestic acquisition by the producer, it should be modified so that the value is the transaction value of identical goods sold within Peru at or about the same time the goods were sold to the producer in Peru. Thus, if the seller of material x also sold an identical material to another buyer in Peru without restrictions, that other sale would be used to determine the adjusted value of material x.
(c)
Permissible additions to, and deductions from, the value of materials
—(1)
Additions to originating materials.
For originating materials, the following expenses, if not included under paragraph (a) of this section, may be added to the value of the originating material:
(i) The costs of freight, insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in transporting the material within or between the territory of one or both of the Parties to the location of the producer;
(ii) Duties, taxes, and customs brokerage fees on the material paid in the territory of one or both of the Parties, other than duties and taxes that are waived, refunded, refundable, or otherwise recoverable, including credit against duty or tax paid or payable; and
(iii) The cost of waste and spoilage resulting from the use of the material in the production of the good, less the value of renewable scrap or byproducts.
(2)
Deductions from non-originating materials.
For non-originating materials, if included under paragraph (a) of this section, the following expenses may be deducted from the value of the non-originating material:
(i) The costs of freight, insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in transporting the material within or between the territory of one or both of the Parties to the location of the producer;
(ii) Duties, taxes, and customs brokerage fees on the material paid in the territory of one or both of the Parties, other than duties and taxes that are waived, refunded, refundable, or otherwise recoverable, including credit against duty or tax paid or payable;
(iii) The cost of waste and spoilage resulting from the use of the material in the production of the good, less the value of renewable scrap or by-products; and
(iv) The cost of originating materials used in the production of the non-originating material in the territory of one or both of the Parties.
(d)
Accounting method.
Any cost or value referenced in General Note 32, HTSUS, and this subpart, must be recorded and maintained in accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles applicable in the territory of the Party in which the good is produced.
§ 10.917
Accumulation.
(a) Originating materials from the territory of a Party that are used in the production of a good in the territory of another Party will be considered to originate in the territory of that other Party.
(b) A good that is produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties by one or more producers is an originating good if the good satisfies the requirements of § 10.914 of this subpart and all other applicable requirements of General Note 32, HTSUS.
§ 10.918
De minimis.
(a)
General.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a good that does not undergo a change in tariff classification pursuant to General Note 32(n), HTSUS, is an originating good if:
(1) The value of all non-originating materials used in the production of the good that do not undergo the applicable change in tariff classification does not exceed 10 percent of the adjusted value of the good;
(2) The value of the non-originating materials described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is included in the value of non-originating materials for any applicable regional value content requirement for the good under General Note 32(n), HTSUS; and
(3) The good meets all other applicable requirements of General Note 32, HTSUS.
(b)
Exceptions.
Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to:
(1) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 4, HTSUS, or a non-originating dairy preparation containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 1901.90 or 2106.90, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in Chapter 4, HTSUS;
(2) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 4, HTSUS, or a non-originating dairy preparation containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 1901.90, HTSUS, that is used in the production of the following goods:
(i) Infant preparations containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 1901.10, HTSUS;
(ii) Mixes and doughs, containing over 25 percent by weight of butterfat, not put up for retail sale, provided for in subheading 1901.20, HTSUS;
(iii) Dairy preparations containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 1901.90 or 2106.90, HTSUS;
(iv) Goods provided for in heading 2105, HTSUS;
(v) Beverages containing milk provided for in subheading 2202.90, HTSUS; and
(vi) Animal feeds containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 2309.90, HTSUS; and
(3) A non-originating material provided for in heading 0805, HTSUS, or any of subheadings 2009.11 through 2009.39, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in any of subheadings 2009.11 through 2009.39, HTSUS, or in fruit or vegetable juice of any single fruit or vegetable, fortified with minerals or vitamins, concentrated or unconcentrated, provided for in subheading 2106.90 or 2202.90, HTSUS;
(4) A non-originating material provided for in heading 0901 or 2101, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in heading 0901 or 2101, HTSUS;
(5) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 15, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in Chapter 15, HTSUS;
(6) A non-originating material provided for in heading 1701, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in any of headings 1701 through 1703, HTSUS;
(7) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 17, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in subheading 1806.10, HTSUS; and
(8) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(7) of this section and General Note 32(n), HTSUS, a non-originating material used in the production of a good provided for in any of Chapters 1 through 24, HTSUS, unless the non-originating material is provided for in a different subheading than the good for which origin is being determined under this subpart.
(c)
Textile and apparel goods
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a textile or apparel good that is not an originating good because certain fibers or yarns used in the production of the component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good do not undergo an applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 32(n), HTSUS, will nevertheless be considered to be an originating good if:
(i) The total weight of all such fibers or yarns in that component is not more than 10 percent of the total weight of that component; or
(ii) The yarns are nylon filament yarns (other than elastomeric yarns) that are provided for in subheading 5402.11.30, 5402.11.60, 5402.19.30, 5402.19.60, 5402.31.30, 5402.31.60, 5402.32.30, 5402.32.60, 5402.45.10, 5402.45.90, 5402.51.00, or 5402.61.00, HTSUS, and that are products of Canada, Mexico, or Israel.
(2)
Exception for goods containing elastomeric yarns.
A textile or apparel good containing elastomeric yarns (excluding latex) in the component of the good
that determines the tariff classification of the good will be considered an originating good only if such yarns are wholly formed in the territory of one or both of the Parties. For purposes of this paragraph, “wholly formed” means that all the production processes and finishing operations, starting with the extrusion of filaments, strips, film, or sheet, and including slitting a film or sheet into strip, or the spinning of all fibers into yarn, or both, and ending with a finished yarn or plied yarn, took place in the territory of one or both of the Parties.
(3)
Yarn, fabric, or fiber.
For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, in the case of a textile or apparel good that is a yarn, fabric, or fiber, the term “component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good” means all of the fibers in the good.
[76 FR 68072, Nov. 3, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 64032, Oct. 18, 2012]
§ 10.919
Fungible goods and materials.
(a)
General.
A person claiming that a fungible good or material is an originating good may base the claim either on the physical segregation of the fungible good or material or by using an inventory management method with respect to the fungible good or material. For purposes of this section, the term “inventory management method” means:
(1) Averaging;
(2) “Last-in, first-out;”
(3) “First-in, first-out;” or
(4) Any other method that is recognized in the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles of the Party in which the production is performed or otherwise accepted by that country.
(b)
Duration of use.
A person selecting an inventory management method under paragraph (a) of this section for a particular fungible good or material must continue to use that method for that fungible good or material throughout the fiscal year of that person.
§ 10.920
Accessories, spare parts, or tools.
(a)
General.
Accessories, spare parts, or tools that are delivered with a good and that form part of the good's standard accessories, spare parts, or tools will be treated as originating goods if the good is an originating good, and will be disregarded in determining whether all the non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo an applicable change in tariff classification specified in General Note 32(n), HTSUS, provided that:
(1) The accessories, spare parts, or tools are classified with, and not invoiced separately from, the good, regardless of whether they are specified or separately identified in the invoice for the good; and
(2) The quantities and value of the accessories, spare parts, or tools are customary for the good.
(b)
Regional value content.
If the good is subject to a regional value content requirement, the value of the accessories, spare parts, or tools is taken into account as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of the good under § 10.915 of this subpart.
§ 10.921
Goods classifiable as goods put up in sets.
Notwithstanding the specific rules set forth in General Note 32(n), HTSUS, goods classifiable as goods put up in sets for retail sale as provided for in General Rule of Interpretation 3, HTSUS, will not be considered to be originating goods unless:
(a) Each of the goods in the set is an originating good; or
(b) The total value of the non-originating goods in the set does not exceed;
(1) In the case of textile or apparel goods, 10 percent of the adjusted value of the set; or
(2) In the case of a good other than a textile or apparel good, 15 percent of the adjusted value of the set.
§ 10.922
Retail packaging materials and containers.
(a)
Effect on tariff shift rule.
Packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale, if classified with the good for which preferential tariff treatment under the PTPA is claimed, will be disregarded in determining whether all non-originating materials used in the
production of the good undergo the applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 32(n), HTSUS.
(b)
Effect on regional value content calculation.
If the good is subject to a regional value content requirement, the value of such packaging materials and containers will be taken into account as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of the good.

# Example 1.
Peruvian Producer A of good C imports 100 non-originating blister packages to be used as retail packaging for good C. As provided in § 10.916(a)(1) of this subpart, the value of the blister packages is their adjusted value, which in this case is $10. Good C has a regional value content requirement. The United States importer of good C decides to use the build-down method, RVC = ((AV − VNM)/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.915(b) of this subpart), in determining whether good C satisfies the regional value content requirement. In applying this method, the non-originating blister packages are taken into account as non-originating. As such, their $10 adjusted value is included in the VNM, value of non-originating materials, of good C.

# Example 2.
Same facts as in Example 1, except that the blister packages are originating. In this case, the adjusted value of the originating blister packages would
not
be included as part of the VNM of good C under the build-down method. However, if the U.S. importer had used the build-up method, RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.915(c) of this subpart), the adjusted value of the blister packaging would be included as part of the VOM, value of originating materials.
§ 10.923
Packing materials and containers for shipment.
(a)
Effect on tariff shift rule.
Packing materials and containers for shipment, as defined in § 10.913(m) of this subpart, are to be disregarded in determining whether the non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo an applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 32(n), HTSUS. Accordingly, such materials and containers are not required to undergo the applicable change in tariff classification even if they are non-originating.
(b)
Effect on regional value content calculation.
Packing materials and containers for shipment, as defined in § 10.913(m) of this subpart, are to be disregarded in determining the regional value content of a good imported into the United States. Accordingly, in applying the build-down, build-up, or net cost method for determining the regional value content of a good imported into the United States, the value of such packing materials and containers for shipment (whether originating or non-originating) is disregarded and not included in AV, adjusted value, VNM, value of non-originating materials, VOM, value of originating materials, or NC, net cost of a good.

# Example.
Peruvian producer A produces good C. Producer A ships good C to the United States in a shipping container that it purchased from Company B in Peru. The shipping container is originating. The value of the shipping container determined under section § 10.916(a)(2) of this subpart is $3. Good C is subject to a regional value content requirement. The transaction value of good C is $100, which includes the $3 shipping container. The U.S. importer decides to use the build-up method, RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.915(c) of this subpart), in determining whether good C satisfies the regional value content requirement. In determining the AV, adjusted value, of good C imported into the U.S., paragraph (b) of this section and the definition of AV require a $3 deduction for the value of the shipping container. Therefore, the AV is $97 ($100 − $3). In addition, the value of the shipping container is disregarded and not included in the VOM, value of originating materials.
§ 10.924
Indirect materials.
An indirect material, as defined in § 10.902(m) of this subpart, will be considered to be an originating material without regard to where it is produced.

# Example.
Peruvian Producer A produces good C using non-originating material B. Producer A imports non-originating rubber gloves for use by workers in the production of good C. Good C is subject to a tariff shift requirement. As provided in § 10.914(b)(1) of this subpart and General Note 32(n), each of the non-originating materials in good C must undergo the specified change in tariff classification in order for good C to be considered originating. Although non-originating material B must undergo the applicable tariff shift in order for good C to be considered originating, the rubber gloves do not because they are indirect materials and are considered originating without regard to where they are produced.
§ 10.925
Transit and transshipment.
(a)
General.
A good that has undergone production necessary to qualify as
an originating good under § 10.914 of this subpart will not be considered an originating good if, subsequent to that production, the good:
(1) Undergoes further production or any other operation outside the territories of the Parties, other than unloading, reloading, or any other operation necessary to preserve the good in good condition or to transport the good to the territory of a Party; or
(2) Does not remain under the control of customs authorities in the territory of a non-Party.
(b)
Documentary evidence.
An importer making a claim that a good is originating may be required to demonstrate, to CBP's satisfaction, that the conditions and requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section were met. An importer may demonstrate compliance with this section by submitting documentary evidence. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, bills of lading, airway bills, packing lists, commercial invoices, receiving and inventory records, and customs entry and exit documents.

# Origin Verifications and Determinations
§ 10.926
Verification and justification of claim for preferential tariff treatment.
(a)
Verification.
A claim for preferential tariff treatment made under § 10.903(b) or § 10.911 of this subpart, including any statements or other information submitted to CBP in support of the claim, will be subject to such verification as the Center director deems necessary. In the event that the Center director is provided with insufficient information to verify or substantiate the claim, or the exporter or producer fails to consent to a verification visit, the Center director may deny the claim for preferential treatment. A verification of a claim for preferential tariff treatment under PTPA for goods imported into the United States may be conducted by means of one or more of the following:
(1) Written requests for information from the importer, exporter, or producer;
(2) Written questionnaires to the importer, exporter, or producer;
(3) Visits to the premises of the exporter or producer in the territory of Peru, to review the records of the type referred to in § 10.909(c)(1) of this subpart or to observe the facilities used in the production of the good, in accordance with the framework that the Parties develop for conducting verifications; and
(4) Such other procedures to which the Parties may agree.
(b)
Applicable accounting principles.
When conducting a verification of origin to which Generally Accepted Accounting Principles may be relevant, CBP will apply and accept the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles applicable in the country of production.
§ 10.927
Special rule for verifications in Peru of U.S. imports of textile and apparel goods.
(a)
Procedures to determine whether a claim of origin is accurate
—(1)
General.
For the purpose of determining that a claim of origin for a textile or apparel good is accurate, CBP may request that the Government of Peru conduct a verification, regardless of whether a claim is made for preferential tariff treatment.
(2)
Actions during a verification.
While a verification under this paragraph is being conducted, CBP may take appropriate action, which may include:
(i) Suspending the application of preferential tariff treatment to the textile or apparel good for which a claim for preferential tariff treatment has been made, if CBP determines there is insufficient information to support the claim;
(ii) Denying the application of preferential tariff treatment to the textile or apparel good for which a claim for preferential tariff treatment has been made that is the subject of a verification if CBP determines that an enterprise has provided incorrect information to support the claim;
(iii) Detention of any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information to determine the country of origin of any such good; and
(iv) Denying entry to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by
the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines that the enterprise has provided incorrect information as to the country of origin of any such good.
(3)
Actions following a verification.
On completion of a verification under this paragraph, CBP may take appropriate action, which may include:
(i) Denying the application of preferential tariff treatment to the textile or apparel good for which a claim for preferential tariff treatment has been made that is the subject of a verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information, or that the enterprise has provided incorrect information, to support the claim; and
(ii) Denying entry to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information to determine, or that the enterprise has provided incorrect information as to, the country of origin of any such good.
(b)
Procedures to determine compliance with applicable customs laws and regulations of the United States
—(1)
General.
For purposes of enabling CBP to determine that an exporter or producer is complying with applicable customs laws, regulations, and procedures regarding trade in textile and apparel goods, CBP may request that the government of Peru conduct a verification.
(2)
Actions during a verification.
While a verification under this paragraph is being conducted, CBP may take appropriate action, which may include:
(i) Suspending the application of preferential tariff treatment to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information to support a claim for preferential tariff treatment with respect to any such good;
(ii) Denying the application of preferential tariff treatment to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines that the enterprise has provided incorrect information to support a claim for preferential tariff treatment with respect to any such good;
(iii) Detention of any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information to determine the country of origin of any such good; and
(iv) Denying entry to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines that the enterprise has provided incorrect information as to the country of origin of any such good.
(3)
Actions following a verification.
On completion of a verification under this paragraph, CBP may take appropriate action, which may include:
(i) Denying the application of preferential tariff treatment to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information, or that the enterprise has provided incorrect information, to support a claim for preferential tariff treatment with respect to any such good; and
(ii) Denying entry to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information to determine, or that the enterprise has provided incorrect information as to, the country of origin of any such good.
(c)
Denial of permission to conduct a verification.
If an enterprise does not consent to a verification under this section, CBP may deny preferential tariff treatment to the type of goods of the enterprise that would have been the subject of the verification.
(d)
Assistance by U.S. officials in conducting a verification abroad.
U.S. officials may undertake or assist in a verification under this section by conducting visits in the territory of Peru, along with the competent authorities of Peru, to the premises of an exporter, producer, or any other enterprise involved in the movement of textile or apparel goods from Peru to the United States.
(e)
Continuation of appropriate action.
CBP may continue to take appropriate action under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section until it receives information sufficient to enable it to make the determination described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
§ 10.928
Issuance of negative origin determinations.
If, as a result of an origin verification initiated under this subpart, CBP determines that a claim for preferential tariff treatment under this subpart should be denied, it will issue a determination in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to the importer that sets forth the following:
(a) A description of the good that was the subject of the verification together with the identifying numbers and dates of the import documents pertaining to the good;
(b) A statement setting forth the findings of fact made in connection with the verification and upon which the determination is based; and
(c) With specific reference to the rules applicable to originating goods as set forth in General Note 32, HTSUS, and in §§ 10.913 through 10.925 of this subpart, the legal basis for the determination.
§ 10.929
Repeated false or unsupported preference claims.
Where verification or other information reveals a pattern of conduct by an importer, exporter, or producer of false or unsupported representations that goods qualify under the PTPA rules of origin set forth in General Note 32, HTSUS, CBP may suspend preferential tariff treatment under the PTPA to entries of identical goods covered by subsequent representations by that importer, exporter, or producer until CBP determines that representations of that person are in conformity with General Note 32, HTSUS.

# Penalties
§ 10.930
General.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, all criminal, civil, or administrative penalties which may be imposed on U.S. importers, exporters, and producers for violations of the customs and related laws and regulations will also apply to U.S. importers, exporters, and producers for violations of the laws and regulations relating to the PTPA.
§ 10.931
Corrected claim or certification by importers.
An importer who makes a corrected claim under § 10.903(c) of this subpart will not be subject to civil or administrative penalties under 19 U.S.C. 1592 for having made an incorrect claim or having submitted an incorrect certification, provided that the corrected claim is promptly and voluntarily made.
§ 10.932
Corrected certification by U.S. exporters or producers.
Civil or administrative penalties provided for under 19 U.S.C. 1592 will not be imposed on an exporter or producer in the United States who promptly and voluntarily provides written notification pursuant to § 10.909(b) with respect to the making of an incorrect certification.
§ 10.933
Framework for correcting claims or certifications.
(a) “
Promptly and voluntarily” defined.
Except as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, for purposes of this subpart, the making of a corrected claim or certification by an importer or the providing of written notification of an incorrect certification by an exporter or producer in the United States will be deemed to have been done promptly and voluntarily if:
(1)(i) Done before the commencement of a formal investigation, within the meaning of § 162.74(g) of this chapter; or
(ii) Done before any of the events specified in § 162.74(i) of this chapter have occurred; or
(iii) Done within 30 days after the importer, exporter, or producer initially becomes aware that the claim or certification is incorrect; and
(2) Accompanied by a statement setting forth the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section; and
(3) In the case of a corrected claim or certification by an importer, accompanied or followed by a tender of any actual loss of duties and merchandise processing fees, if applicable, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Exception in cases involving fraud or subsequent incorrect claims
—(1)
Fraud.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a person who acted fraudulently in making an incorrect claim or
certification may not make a voluntary correction of that claim or certification. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “fraud” will have the meaning set forth in paragraph (C)(3) of appendix B to part 171 of this chapter.
(2)
Subsequent incorrect claims.
An importer who makes one or more incorrect claims after becoming aware that a claim involving the same merchandise and circumstances is invalid may not make a voluntary correction of the subsequent claims pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Statement.
For purposes of this subpart, each corrected claim or certification must be accompanied by a statement, submitted in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system, which:
(1) Identifies the class or kind of good to which the incorrect claim or certification relates;
(2) In the case of a corrected claim or certification by an importer, identifies each affected import transaction, including each port of importation and the approximate date of each importation;
(3) Specifies the nature of the incorrect statements or omissions regarding the claim or certification; and
(4) Sets forth, to the best of the person's knowledge, the true and accurate information or data which should have been covered by or provided in the claim or certification, and states that the person will provide any additional information or data which is unknown at the time of making the corrected claim or certification within 30 days or within any extension of that 30-day period as CBP may permit in order for the person to obtain the information or data.
(d)
Tender of actual loss of duties.
A U.S. importer who makes a corrected claim must tender any actual loss of duties at the time of making the corrected claim, or within 30 days thereafter, or within any extension of that 30-day period as CBP may allow in order for the importer to obtain the information or data necessary to calculate the duties owed.

# Goods Returned After Repair or Alteration
§ 10.934
Goods re-entered after repair or alteration in Peru.
(a)
General.
This section sets forth the rules which apply for purposes of obtaining duty-free treatment on goods returned after repair or alteration in Peru as provided for in subheadings 9802.00.40 and 9802.00.50, HTSUS. Goods returned after having been repaired or altered in Peru, whether or not pursuant to a warranty, are eligible for duty-free treatment, provided that the requirements of this section are met. For purposes of this section, “repairs or alterations” means restoration, addition, renovation, re-dyeing, cleaning, re-sterilizing, or other treatment that does not destroy the essential characteristics of, or create a new or commercially different good from, the good exported from the United States.
(b)
Goods not eligible for duty-free treatment after repair or alteration.
The duty-free treatment referred to in paragraph (a) of this section will not apply to goods which, in their condition as exported from the United States to Peru, are incomplete for their intended use and for which the processing operation performed in Peru constitutes an operation that is performed as a matter of course in the preparation or manufacture of finished goods.
(c)
Documentation.
The provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of § 10.8 of this part, relating to the documentary requirements for goods entered under subheading 9802.00.40 or 9802.00.50, HTSUS, will apply in connection with the entry of goods which are returned from Peru after having been exported for repairs or alterations and which are claimed to be duty free.

# Subpart R—United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement

# Source:
77 FR 15948, Mar. 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 10.1001
Scope.
This subpart implements the duty preference and related customs provisions applicable to imported and exported goods under the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement (the UKFTA) signed on June 30, 2007, and under the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (the Act; Pub. L. 112-41, 125 Stat. 428 (19 U.S.C. 3805 note)). Except as otherwise specified in this subpart, the procedures and other requirements set forth in this subpart are in addition to the customs procedures and requirements of general application contained elsewhere in this chapter. Additional provisions implementing certain aspects of the UKFTA and the Act are contained in parts 24, 162, and 163 of this chapter.
§ 10.1002
General definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following terms will have the meanings indicated unless either the context in which they are used requires a different meaning or a different definition is prescribed for a particular section of this subpart:
(a)
Claim for preferential tariff treatment.
“
Claim for preferential tariff treatment
” means a claim that a good is entitled to the duty rate applicable under the UKFTA to an originating good and to an exemption from the merchandise processing fee;
(b)
Claim of origin.
“
Claim of origin
” means a claim that a textile or apparel good is an originating good or satisfies the non-preferential rules of origin of a Party;
(c)
Customs duty.
“
Customs duty
” includes any customs or import duty and a charge of any kind imposed in connection with the importation of a good, including any form of surtax or surcharge in connection with such importation, such as an adjustment tariff imposed pursuant to Article 69 of Korea's
Customs Act,
but does not include any:
(1) Charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently with Article III:2 of GATT 1994, in respect of like, directly competitive, or substitutable goods of the Party, or in respect of goods from which the imported good has been manufactured or produced in whole or in part;
(2) Antidumping or countervailing duty that is applied pursuant to a Party's law; or
(3) Fee or other charge in connection with importation commensurate with the cost of services rendered.
(d)
Customs Valuation Agreement.
“
Customs Valuation Agreement
” means the
Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994,
contained in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement;
(e)
Days.
“
Days
” means calendar days;
(f)
Enterprise.
“
Enterprise
” means any entity constituted or organized under applicable law, whether or not for profit, and whether privately or governmentally-owned or controlled, including any corporation, trust, partnership, sole proprietorship, joint venture, association, or similar organization;
(g)
Enterprise of a Party.
“
Enterprise of a Party
” means an enterprise constituted or organized under a Party's law;
(h)
GATT 1994.
“
GATT 1994
” means the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994,
contained in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement;
(i)
Goods of a Party.
“
Goods of a Party
” means domestic products as these are understood in GATT 1994 or such goods as the Parties may agree, and includes originating goods of that Party;
(j)
Harmonized System.
“
Harmonized System
” means the
Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System,
including its General Rules of Interpretation, Section Notes, and Chapter Notes, as adopted and implemented by the Parties in their respective tariff laws;
(k)
Heading.
“
Heading
” means the first four digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(l)
HTSUS.
“
HTSUS
” means the
Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United
States
as promulgated by the U.S. International Trade Commission;
(m)
Identical goods.
“
Identical goods
” means goods that are the same in all respects relevant to the rule of origin that qualifies the goods as originating;
(n)
Indirect material.
“
Indirect material
” means a good used in the production, testing, or inspection of a good but not physically incorporated into the good, or a good used in the maintenance of buildings or the operation of equipment associated with the production of a good, including:
(1) Fuel and energy;
(2) Tools, dies, and molds;
(3) Spare parts and materials used in the maintenance of equipment or buildings;
(4) Lubricants, greases, compounding materials, and other materials used in production or used to operate equipment or buildings;
(5) Gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, safety equipment, and supplies;
(6) Equipment, devices, and supplies used for testing or inspecting the good;
(7) Catalysts and solvents; and
(8) Any other goods that are not incorporated into the other good but the use of which in the production of the other good can reasonably be demonstrated to be a part of that production;
(o)
Korea.
“
Korea
” means the Republic of Korea.
(p)
Originating.
“
Originating
” means qualifying for preferential tariff treatment under the rules of origin set out in Chapter Four (Textiles and Apparel) or Chapter Six (Rules of Origin and Origin Procedures) of the UKFTA and General Note 33, HTSUS;
(q)
Party.
“
Party
” means the United States or the Republic of Korea;
(r)
Person.
“
Person
” means a natural person or an enterprise;
(s)
Person of a Party.
“
Person of a Party
” means a national or an enterprise of a Party;
(t)
Preferential tariff treatment.
“
Preferential tariff treatment
” means the duty rate applicable under the UKFTA to an originating good, and an exemption from the merchandise processing fee;
(u)
Subheading.
“
Subheading
” means the first six digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(v)
Textile or apparel good.
“
Textile or apparel good
” means a good listed in the Annex to the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing (commonly referred to as “the ATC”);
(w)
Territory.
“
Territory
” means:
(1) With respect to Korea, the land, maritime, and air space over which Korea exercises sovereignty, and those maritime areas, including the seabed and subsoil adjacent to and beyond the outer limit of the territorial seas over which it may exercise sovereign rights or jurisdiction in accordance with international law and its domestic law; and
(2) With respect to the United States,
(i) The customs territory of the United States, which includes the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico;
(ii) The foreign trade zones located in the United States and Puerto Rico; and
(iii) Any areas beyond the territorial seas of the United States within which, in accordance with international law and its domestic law, the United States may exercise sovereign rights with respect to the seabed and subsoil and their natural resources;
(x)
WTO.
“
WTO
” means the World Trade Organization; and
(y)
WTO Agreement.
“
WTO Agreement
” means the
Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization
of April 15, 1994.

# Import Requirements
§ 10.1003
Filing of claim for preferential tariff treatment upon importation.
(a)
Basis of claim.
An importer may make a claim for UKFTA preferential tariff treatment, including an exemption from the merchandise processing fee, based on either:
(1) A written or electronic certification, as specified in § 10.1004 of this subpart, that is prepared by the importer, exporter, or producer of the good; or
(2) The importer's knowledge that the good is an originating good, including reasonable reliance on information in the importer's possession that the good is an originating good.
(b)
Making a claim.
The claim is made by including on the entry summary, or equivalent documentation, the letters “KR” as a prefix to the subheading of the HTSUS under which each qualifying good is classified, or by the method specified for equivalent reporting
via an authorized electronic data interchange system.
(c)
Corrected claim.
If, after making the claim specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the importer has reason to believe that the claim is based on inaccurate information or is otherwise invalid, the importer must, within 30 calendar days after the date of discovery of the error, correct the claim and pay any duties that may be due. The importer must submit a statement either in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to the CBP office where the original claim was filed specifying the correction (
see
§§ 10.1031 and 10.1033 of this subpart).
§ 10.1004
Certification.
(a)
General.
An importer who makes a claim pursuant to § 10.1003(b) of this subpart based on a certification by the importer, exporter, or producer that the good is originating must submit, at the request of the Center director, a copy of the certification. The certification:
(1) Need not be in a prescribed format but must be in writing or must be transmitted electronically pursuant to any electronic means authorized by CBP for that purpose;
(2) Must be in the possession of the importer at the time the claim for preferential tariff treatment is made if the certification forms the basis for the claim;
(3) Must include the following information:
(i) The legal name, address, telephone, and email address (if any) of the importer of record of the good (if known), the exporter of the good (if different from the producer), and the producer of the good (if known);
(ii) The legal name, address, telephone, and email address (if any) of the responsible official or authorized agent of the importer, exporter, or producer signing the certification (if different from the information required by paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section);
(iii) A description of the good for which preferential tariff treatment is claimed, which must be sufficiently detailed to relate it to the invoice and the HS nomenclature;
(iv) The HTSUS tariff classification, to six or more digits, as necessary for the specific change in tariff classification rule for the good set forth in General Note 33(o), HTSUS; and
(v) The applicable rule of origin set forth in General Note 33, HTSUS, under which the good qualifies as an originating good;
(vi) Date of certification;
(vii) In case of a blanket certification issued with respect to the multiple shipments of identical goods within any period specified in the written or electronic certification, not exceeding 12 months from the date of certification, the period that the certification covers; and
(4) Must include a statement, in substantially the following form:
“I certify that:
The information on this document is true and accurate and I assume the responsibility for proving such representations. I understand that I am liable for any false statements or material omissions made on or in connection with this document;
I agree to maintain and present upon request, documentation necessary to support these representations;
The goods comply with all requirements for preferential tariff treatment specified for those goods in the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement; and
This document consists of ____ pages, including all attachments.”
(b)
Responsible official or agent.
The certification provided for in paragraph (a) of this section must be signed and dated by a responsible official of the importer, exporter, or producer, or by the importer's, exporter's, or producer's authorized agent having knowledge of the relevant facts.
(c)
Language.
The certification provided for in paragraph (a) of this section must be completed in either the English or Korean language. In the latter case, the Center director may require the importer to submit an English translation of the certification.
(d)
Certification by the exporter or producer.
(1) A certification may be prepared by the exporter or producer of the good on the basis of:
(i) The exporter's or producer's knowledge that the good is originating; or
(ii) In the case of an exporter, reasonable reliance on the producer's written
or electronic certification that the good is originating.
(2) The Center director may not require an exporter or producer to provide a written or electronic certification to another person.
(e)
Applicability of certification.
The certification provided for in paragraph (a) of this section may be applicable to:
(1) A single shipment of a good into the United States; or
(2) Multiple shipments of identical goods into the United States that occur within a specified blanket period, not exceeding 12 months, set out in the certification.
(f)
Validity of certification.
A certification that is properly completed, signed, and dated in accordance with the requirements of this section will be accepted as valid for four years following the date on which it was issued.
§ 10.1005
Importer obligations.
(a)
General.
An importer who makes a claim for preferential tariff treatment under § 10.1003(b) of this subpart:
(1) Will be deemed to have certified that the good is eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the UKFTA;
(2) Is responsible for the truthfulness of the claim and of all the information and data contained in the certification provided for in § 10.1004 of this subpart; and
(3) Is responsible for submitting any supporting documents requested by CBP, and for the truthfulness of the information contained in those documents. When a certification prepared by an exporter or producer forms the basis of a claim for preferential tariff treatment, and CBP requests the submission of supporting documents, the importer will provide to CBP, or arrange for the direct submission by the exporter or producer of, all information relied on by the exporter or producer in preparing the certification.
(b)
Information provided by exporter or producer.
The fact that the importer has made a claim or submitted a certification based on information provided by an exporter or producer will not relieve the importer of the responsibility referred to in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Exemption from penalties.
An importer will not be subject to civil or administrative penalties under 19 U.S.C. 1592 for making an incorrect claim for preferential tariff treatment or submitting an incorrect certification, provided that the importer promptly and voluntarily corrects the claim or certification and pays any duty owing (
see
§§ 10.1031 and 10.1033 of this subpart).
§ 10.1006
Certification not required.
(a)
General.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an importer will not be required to submit a copy of a certification under § 10.1004 of this subpart for:
(1) A non-commercial importation of a good; or
(2) A commercial importation for which the value of the originating goods does not exceed U.S. $2,500.
(b)
Exception.
If the Center director determines that an importation described in paragraph (a) of this section is part of a series of importations carried out or planned for the purpose of evading compliance with the certification requirements of § 10.1004 of this subpart, the Center director will notify the importer that for that importation the importer must submit a copy of the certification. The importer must submit such a copy within 30 days from the date of the notice. Failure to timely submit a copy of the certification will result in denial of the claim for preferential tariff treatment.
[77 FR 15948, Mar. 19, 2012, as amended by CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93014, Dec. 20, 2016]
§ 10.1007
Maintenance of records.
(a)
General.
An importer claiming preferential tariff treatment for a good (based on either the importer's certification or its knowledge, or on the certification issued by the exporter or producer) imported into the United States under § 10.1003(b) of this subpart must maintain for a minimum of five years from the date of importation of the good, all records and documents that the importer has demonstrating that the good qualifies for preferential tariff treatment under the UKFTA. These records are in addition to any other records that the importer is required to prepare, maintain, or make available to CBP under part 163 of this chapter.
(b)
Method of maintenance.
The records and documents referred to in paragraph (a) of this section must be maintained by importers as provided in § 163.5 of this chapter.
§ 10.1008
Effect of noncompliance; failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment.
(a)
General.
If the importer fails to comply with any requirement under this subpart, including submission of a complete certification prepared in accordance with § 10.1004 of this subpart, when requested, the Center director may deny preferential tariff treatment to the imported good.
(b)
Failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment.
Where the requirements for preferential tariff treatment set forth elsewhere in this subpart are met, the Center director nevertheless may deny preferential tariff treatment to an originating good if the good is shipped through or transshipped in a country other than a Party to the UKFTA, and the importer of the good does not provide, at the request of the Center director, evidence demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Center director that the conditions set forth in § 10.1025(a) of this subpart were met.

# Export Requirements
§ 10.1009
Certification for goods exported to Korea.
(a)
Submission of certification to CBP.
Any person who completes and issues a certification for a good exported from the United States to Korea must provide a copy of the certification (written or electronic) to CBP upon request.
(b)
Notification of errors in certification.
Any person who completes and issues a certification for a good exported from the United States to Korea and who has reason to believe that the certification contains or is based on incorrect information must promptly notify every person to whom the certification was provided of any change that could affect the accuracy or validity of the certification. Notification of an incorrect certification must also be given either in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to CBP specifying the correction (
see
§§ 10.1032 and 10.1033 of this subpart).
(c)
Maintenance of records
—(1)
General.
Any person who completes and issues a certification for a good exported from the United States to Korea must maintain, for a period of at least five years after the date the certification was issued, all records and supporting documents relating to the origin of a good for which the certification was issued, including the certification or copies thereof and records and documents associated with:
(i) The purchase, cost, and value of, and payment for, the good;
(ii) The purchase, cost, and value of, and payment for, all materials, including indirect materials, used in the production of the good; and
(iii) The production of the good in the form in which the good was exported.
(2)
Method of maintenance.
The records referred to in paragraph (c)(1) of this section must be maintained as provided in § 163.5 of this chapter.
(3)
Availability of records.
For purposes of determining compliance with the provisions of this part, the records required to be maintained under this section must be stored and made available for examination and inspection by the Center director or other appropriate CBP officer in the same manner as provided in part 163 of this chapter.
[77 FR 15948, Mar. 19, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 32358, May 30, 2013]

# Post-Importation Duty Refund Claims
§ 10.1010
Right to make post-importation claim and refund duties.
Notwithstanding any other available remedy, where a good would have qualified as an originating good when it was imported into the United States but no claim for preferential tariff treatment was made, the importer of that good may file a claim for a refund of any excess duties at any time within one year after the date of importation of the good in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 10.1011 of this subpart. Subject to the provisions of § 10.1008 of this subpart, CBP may refund any excess duties by liquidation or reliquidation of the entry covering the good in accordance with § 10.1012(c) of this subpart.
§ 10.1011
Filing procedures.
(a)
Place of filing.
A post-importation claim for a refund must be filed with CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically.
(b)
Contents of claim.
A post-importation claim for a refund must be filed by presentation of the following:
(1) A written or electronic declaration or statement stating that the good was an originating good at the time of importation and setting forth the number and date of the entry or entries covering the good;
(2) A copy of a written or electronic certification prepared in accordance with § 10.1004 of this subpart if a certification forms the basis for the claim, or other information demonstrating that the good qualifies for preferential tariff treatment;
(3) A written statement indicating whether the importer of the good provided a copy of the entry summary or equivalent documentation to any other person. If such documentation was so provided, the statement must identify each recipient by name, CBP identification number, and address and must specify the date on which the documentation was provided; and
(4) A written statement indicating whether or not any person has filed a protest relating to the good under any provision of law; and if any such protest has been filed, the statement must identify the protest by number and date.
§ 10.1012
CBP processing procedures.
(a)
Status determination.
After receipt of a post-importation claim made pursuant to § 10.1011 of this subpart, the Center director will determine whether the entry covering the good has been liquidated and, if liquidation has taken place, whether the liquidation has become final.
(b)
Pending protest or judicial review.
If the Center director determines that any protest relating to the good has not been finally decided, the Center director will suspend action on the claim filed under § 10.1011 of this subpart until the decision on the protest becomes final. If a summons involving the tariff classification or dutiability of the good is filed in the Court of International Trade, the Center director will suspend action on the claim filed under § 10.1011 of this subpart until judicial review has been completed.
(c)
Allowance of claim
—(1)
Unliquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under § 10.1011 of this subpart should be allowed and the entry covering the good has not been liquidated, the Center director will take into account the claim for refund in connection with the liquidation of the entry.
(2)
Liquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under § 10.1011 of this subpart should be allowed and the entry covering the good has been liquidated, whether or not the liquidation has become final, the entry must be reliquidated in order to effect a refund of duties under this section. If the entry is otherwise to be reliquidated based on administrative review of a protest or as a result of judicial review, the Center director will reliquidate the entry taking into account the claim for refund under § 10.1011 of this subpart.
(d)
Denial of claim
—(1)
General.
The Center director may deny a claim for a refund filed under § 10.1011 of this subpart if the claim was not filed timely, if the importer has not complied with the requirements of §§ 10.1008 and 10.1011 of this subpart, or if, following an origin verification under § 10.1026 of this subpart, the Center director determines either that the imported good was not an originating good at the time of importation or that a basis exists upon which preferential tariff treatment may be denied under § 10.1026 of this subpart.
(2)
Unliquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under this subpart should be denied and the entry covering the good has not been liquidated, the Center director will deny the claim in connection with the liquidation of the entry, and notice of the denial and the reason for the denial will be provided to the importer in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system.
(3)
Liquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under this subpart should be denied and the entry covering the good
has been liquidated, whether or not the liquidation has become final, the claim may be denied without reliquidation of the entry. If the entry is otherwise to be reliquidated based on administrative review of a protest or as a result of judicial review, such reliquidation may include denial of the claim filed under this subpart. In either case, the Center director will provide notice of the denial and the reason for the denial to the importer in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system.

# Rules of Origin
§ 10.1013
Definitions.
For purposes of §§ 10.1013 through 10.1025:
(a)
Adjusted value.
“
Adjusted value
” means the value determined in accordance with Articles 1 through 8, Article 15, and the corresponding interpretative notes of the Customs Valuation Agreement, adjusted, if necessary, to exclude:
(1) Any costs, charges, or expenses incurred for transportation, insurance and related services incident to the international shipment of the good from the country of exportation to the place of importation; and
(2) The value of packing materials and containers for shipment as defined in paragraph (m) of this section;
(b)
Class of motor vehicles.
“
Class of motor vehicles
” means any one of the following categories of motor vehicles:
(1) Motor vehicles classified under subheading 8701.20, HTSUS, motor vehicles for the transport of 16 or more persons classified under subheading 8702.10 or 8702.90, HTSUS, and motor vehicles classified under subheading 8704.10, 8704.22, 8704.23, 8704.32, or 8704.90, or heading 87.05 or 87.06, HTSUS;
(2) Motor vehicles classified under subheading 8701.10 or subheading 8701.30 through 8701.90, HTSUS;
(3) Motor vehicles for the transport of 15 or fewer persons classified under subheading 8702.10 or 8702.90, HTSUS and motor vehicles classified under subheading 8704.21 or 8704.31, HTSUS; or
(4) Motor vehicles classified under subheading 8703.21 through 8703.90, HTSUS;
(c)
Exporter.
“
Exporter
” means a person who exports goods from the territory of a Party;
(d)
Fungible goods or materials.
“
Fungible goods or materials
” means goods or materials that are interchangeable with another good or material for commercial purposes and the properties of which are essentially identical to such other good or material;
(e)
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
“
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
” means the recognized consensus or substantial authoritative support in the territory of a Party, with respect to the recording of revenues, expenses, costs, assets, and liabilities, the disclosure of information, and the preparation of financial statements. These principles may encompass broad guidelines of general application as well as detailed standards, practices, and procedures;
(f)
Good.
“
Good
” means any merchandise, product, article, or material;
(g)
Goods wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or more of the Parties.
“
Goods wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties
” means:
(1) Plants and plant products grown, and harvested or gathered, in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(2) Live animals born and raised in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(3) Goods obtained in the territory of one or both of the Parties from live animals;
(4) Goods obtained from hunting, trapping, fishing, or aquaculture conducted in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(5) Minerals and other natural resources not included in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(4) extracted or taken from the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(6) Fish, shellfish, and other marine life taken from the sea, seabed, or subsoil outside the territory of the Parties by:
(i) A vessel that is registered or recorded with Korea and flying the flag of Korea; or
(ii) A vessel that is documented under the laws of the United States;
(7) Goods produced on board factory ships from the goods referred to in paragraph (g)(6), if such factory ship:
(i) Is registered or recorded with Korea and flies the flag of Korea; or
(ii) Is a vessel that is documented under the laws of the United States;
(8) Goods taken by a Party or a person of a Party from the seabed or subsoil outside the territory of one or both of the Parties, provided that Party has rights to exploit such seabed or subsoil;
(9) Goods taken from outer space, provided they are obtained by a Party or a person of a Party and not processed in the territory of a non-Party;
(10) Waste and scrap derived from:
(i) Manufacturing or processing operations in the territory of one or both of the Parties; or
(ii) Used goods collected in the territory of one or both of the Parties, provided such goods are fit only for the recovery of raw materials;
(11) Recovered goods derived in the territory of one or both of the Parties from used goods, and used in the territory of one or both of the Parties in the production of remanufactured goods; and
(12) Goods produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties exclusively from goods referred to in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(10) of this section, or from their derivatives, at any stage of production;
(h)
Material.
“
Material
” means a good that is used in the production of another good, including a part or an ingredient;
(i)
Model line.
“
Model line
” means a group of motor vehicles having the same platform or model name;
(j)
Net cost.
“
Net cost
” means total cost minus sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, and non-allowable interest costs that are included in the total cost;
(k)
Non-allowable interest costs.
“
Non-allowable interest costs
” means interest costs incurred by a producer that exceed 700 basis points above the applicable official interest rate on debt obligations of comparable maturities issued by the central level of government of the Party in which the producer is located;
(l)
Non-originating good or non-originating material.
“
Non-originating good
” or “
non-originating material
” means a good or material, as the case may be, that does not qualify as originating under General Note 33, HTSUS, or this subpart;
(m)
Packing materials and containers for shipment.
“
Packing materials and containers for shipment
” means the goods used to protect a good during its transportation to the United States and does not include the packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale;
(n)
Producer.
“
Producer
” means a person who engages in the production of a good in the territory of a Party;
(o)
Production.
“
Production
” means growing, mining, harvesting, fishing, breeding, raising, trapping, hunting, manufacturing, processing, assembling, or disassembling a good;
(p)
Reasonably allocate.
“
Reasonably allocate
” means to apportion in a manner that would be appropriate under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles;
(q)
Reasonable suspicion of unlawful activity.
“
Reasonable suspicion of unlawful activity
” means a suspicion based on relevant factual information obtained from public or private sources comprising one or more of the following:
(1) Historical evidence of non-compliance with laws or regulations governing importations by an importer or exporter;
(2) Historical evidence of non-compliance with laws or regulations governing importations by a manufacturer, producer, or other person involved in the movement of goods from the territory of one Party to the territory of the other Party;
(3) Historical evidence that some or all of the persons involved in the movement from the territory of one Party to the territory of the other Party of goods within a specific product sector have not complied with a Party's laws and regulations governing importations; or
(4) Other information that the requesting Party and the Party from whom the information is requested
agree is sufficient in the context of a particular request;
(r)
Recovered goods.
“
Recovered goods
” means materials in the form of individual parts that are the result of:
(1) The disassembly of used goods into individual parts; and
(2) The cleaning, inspecting, testing, or other processing that is necessary to improve such individual parts to sound working condition;
(s)
Remanufactured goods.
“
Remanufactured goods
” means goods classified in Chapter 84, 85, 87, or 90, or under heading 9402, HTSUS, that:
(1) Are entirely or partially comprised of recovered goods as defined in § 10.1013(r) and,
(2) Have a similar life expectancy and enjoy a factory warranty similar to such new goods;
(t)
Royalties.
“
Royalties
” means payments of any kind, including payments under technical assistance agreements or similar agreements, made as consideration for the use of, or right to use, any copyright, literary, artistic, or scientific work, patent, trademark, design, model, plan, secret formula or process, excluding those payments under technical assistance agreements or similar agreements that can be related to specific services such as:
(1) Personnel training, without regard to where performed; and
(2) If performed in the territory of one or both of the Parties, engineering, tooling, die-setting, software design and similar computer services;
(u)
Sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs.
“
Sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs
” means the following costs related to sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service:
(1) Sales and marketing promotion; media advertising; advertising and market research; promotional and demonstration materials; exhibits; sales conferences, trade shows and conventions; banners; marketing displays; free samples; sales, marketing, and after-sales service literature (product brochures, catalogs, technical literature, price lists, service manuals, sales aid information); establishment and protection of logos and trademarks; sponsorships; wholesale and retail restocking charges; entertainment;
(2) Sales and marketing incentives; consumer, retailer or wholesaler rebates; merchandise incentives;
(3) Salaries and wages, sales commissions, bonuses, benefits (for example, medical, insurance, pension), traveling and living expenses, membership and professional fees, for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service personnel;
(4) Recruiting and training of sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service personnel, and after-sales training of customers' employees, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer;
(5) Product liability insurance;
(6) Office supplies for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service of goods, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer;
(7) Telephone, mail and other communications, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer;
(8) Rent and depreciation of sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service offices and distribution centers;
(9) Property insurance premiums, taxes, cost of utilities, and repair and maintenance of sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service offices and distribution centers, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer; and
(10) Payments by the producer to other persons for warranty repairs;
(v)
Self-produced material.
“
Self-produced material
” means an originating material that is produced by a producer of a good and used in the production of that good;
(w)
Shipping and packing costs.
“
Shipping and packing costs
” means the costs incurred in packing a good for shipment and shipping the good from the point of direct shipment to the
buyer, excluding the costs of preparing and packaging the good for retail sale;
(x)
Total cost.
“
Total cost
” means all product costs, period costs, and other costs for a good incurred in the territory of one or both of the Parties. Product costs are costs that are associated with the production of a good and include the value of materials, direct labor costs, and direct overhead. Period costs are costs, other than product costs, that are expensed in the period in which they are incurred, such as selling expenses and general and administrative expenses. Other costs are all costs recorded on the books of the producer that are not product costs or period costs, such as interest. Total cost does not include profits that are earned by the producer, regardless of whether they are retained by the producer or paid out to other persons as dividends, or taxes paid on those profits, including capital gains taxes;
(y)
Used.
“
Used
” means utilized or consumed in the production of goods; and
(z)
Value.
“
Value
” means the value of a good or material for purposes of calculating customs duties or for purposes of applying this subpart.
§ 10.1014
Originating goods.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart and General Note 33(n), HTSUS, a good imported into the customs territory of the United States will be considered an originating good under the UKFTA only if:
(a) The good is wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(b) The good is produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties and:
(1) Each non-originating material used in the production of the good undergoes an applicable change in tariff classification specified in General Note 33(o), HTSUS, and the good satisfies all other applicable requirements of General Note 33, HTSUS; or
(2) The good otherwise satisfies any applicable regional value content or other requirements specified in General Note 33(o), HTSUS, and satisfies all other applicable requirements of General Note 33, HTSUS; or
(c) The good is produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties exclusively from originating materials.
§ 10.1015
Regional value content.
(a)
General.
Except for goods to which paragraph (d) of this section applies, where General Note 33, HTSUS, sets forth a rule that specifies a regional value content test for a good, the regional value content of such good must be calculated by the importer, exporter, or producer of the good on the basis of the build-down method described in paragraph (b) of this section or the build-up method described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Build-down method.
Under the build-down method, the regional value content must be calculated on the basis of the formula RVC = ((AV − VNM)/AV) × 100, where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; AV is the adjusted value of the good; and VNM is the value of non-originating materials, other than indirect materials, that are acquired and used by the producer in the production of the good, but does not include the value of a material that is self-produced.
(c)
Build-up method.
Under the build-up method, the regional value content must be calculated on the basis of the formula RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100, where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; AV is the adjusted value of the good; and VOM is the value of originating materials, other than indirect materials, that are acquired or self-produced and used by the producer in the production of the good.
(d)
Special rule for certain automotive goods
—(1)
General.
Where General Note 33, HTSUS, sets forth a rule that specifies a regional value content test for an automotive good provided for in any of subheadings 8407.31 through 8407.34 (engines), subheading 8408.20 (diesel engine for vehicles), heading 8409 (parts of engines), headings 8701 through 8705 (motor vehicles), and headings 8706 (chassis), 8707 (bodies), and 8708 (motor vehicle parts), HTSUS, the regional value content of such good may be calculated by the importer, exporter, or producer of the good on the basis of the
net cost method described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2)
Net cost method.
Under the net cost method, the regional value content is calculated on the basis of the formula RVC = ((NC − VNM)/NC) × 100, where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; NC is the net cost of the good; and VNM is the value of non-originating materials, other than indirect materials, that are acquired and used by the producer in the production of the good, but does not include the value of a material that is self-produced. Consistent with the provisions set out in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, applicable in the territory of the Party where the good is produced, the net cost of the good must be determined by:
(i) Calculating the total cost incurred with respect to all goods produced by the producer of the automotive good, subtracting any sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, and non-allowable interest costs that are included in the total cost of all such goods, and then reasonably allocating the resulting net cost of those goods to the automotive good;
(ii) Calculating the total cost incurred with respect to all goods produced by the producer of the automotive good, reasonably allocating the total cost to the automotive good, and then subtracting any sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, and non-allowable interest costs that are included in the portion of the total cost allocated to the automotive good; or
(iii) Reasonably allocating each cost that forms part of the total costs incurred with respect to the automotive good so that the aggregate of these costs does not include any sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, or non-allowable interest costs.
(3)
Motor vehicles
—(i)
General.
For purposes of calculating the regional value content under the net cost method for an automotive good that is a motor vehicle provided for in any of headings 8701 through 8705, an importer, exporter, or producer may average the amounts calculated under the formula set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section over the producer's fiscal year using any one of the categories described in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section either on the basis of all motor vehicles in the category or those motor vehicles in the category that are exported to the territory of one or both Parties.
(ii)
Categories.
The categories referred to in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section are as follows:
(A) The same model line of motor vehicles, in the same class of vehicles, produced in the same plant in the territory of a Party, as the motor vehicle for which the regional value content is being calculated;
(B) The same class of motor vehicles, and produced in the same plant in the territory of a Party, as the motor vehicle for which the regional value content is being calculated; and
(C) The same model line of motor vehicles produced in the territory of a Party as the motor vehicle for which the regional value content is being calculated.
(4)
Other automotive goods
—(i)
General.
For purposes of calculating the regional value content under the net cost method for automotive goods provided for in any of subheadings 8407.31 through 8407.34, subheading 8408.20, heading 8409, 8706, 8707, or 8708, HTSUS, that are produced in the same plant, an importer, exporter, or producer may:
(A) Average the amounts calculated under the formula set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section over any of the following: the fiscal year, or any quarter or month, of the motor vehicle producer to whom the automotive good is sold, or the fiscal year, or any quarter or month, of the producer of the automotive good, provided the goods were produced during the fiscal year, quarter, or month that is the basis for the calculation;
(B) Determine the average referred to in paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) of this section separately for such goods sold to one or more motor vehicle producers; or
(C) Make a separate determination under paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) or (B) of this section for automotive goods that are exported to the territory of Korea or the United States.
(ii)
Duration of use.
A person selecting an averaging period of one month or quarter under paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) of this section must continue to use that method for that category of automotive goods throughout the fiscal year.
§ 10.1016
Value of materials.
(a)
Calculating the value of materials.
Except as provided in § 10.1024 of this subpart, for purposes of calculating the regional value content of a good under General Note 33 HTSUS, and for purposes of applying the
de minimis
(
see
§ 10.1018 of this subpart) provisions of General Note 33, HTSUS, the value of a material is:
(1) In the case of a material imported by the producer of the good, the adjusted value of the material;
(2) In the case of a material acquired by the producer in the territory where the good is produced, the value, determined in accordance with Articles 1 through 8, Article 15, and the corresponding interpretative notes of the Customs Valuation Agreement, of the material, i.e., in the same manner as for imported goods, with reasonable modifications to the provisions of the Customs Valuation Agreement as may be required due to the absence of an importation by the producer (including, but not limited to, treating a domestic purchase by the producer as if it were a sale for export to the country of importation); or
(3) In the case of a self-produced material, the sum of:
(i) All the costs incurred in the production of the material, including general expenses; and
(ii) An amount for profit equivalent to the profit added in the normal course of trade.
(b)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate application of the principles set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section:

# Example 1.
A producer in Korea purchases material x from an unrelated seller in Korea for $100. Under the provisions of Article 1 of the Customs Valuation Agreement, transaction value is the price actually paid or payable for the goods when sold for export to the country of importation adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8. In order to apply Article 1 to this domestic purchase by the producer, such purchase is treated as if it were a sale for export to the country of importation. Therefore, for purposes of determining the adjusted value of material x, Article 1 transaction value is the price actually paid or payable for the goods when sold to the producer in Korea ($100), adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8. In this example, it is irrelevant whether material x was initially imported into Korea by the seller (or by anyone else). So long as the producer acquired material x in Korea, it is intended that the value of material x will be determined on the basis of the price actually paid or payable by the producer adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8.

# Example 2.
Same facts as in Example 1, except that the sale between the seller and the producer is subject to certain restrictions that preclude the application of Article 1. Under Article 2 of the Customs Valuation Agreement, the value is the transaction value of identical goods sold for export to the same country of importation and exported at or about the same time as the goods being valued. In order to permit the application of Article 2 to the domestic acquisition by the producer, it should be modified so that the value is the transaction value of identical goods sold within Korea at or about the same time the goods were sold to the producer in Korea. Thus, if the seller of material x also sold an identical material to another buyer in Korea without restrictions, that other sale would be used to determine the adjusted value of material x.
(c)
Permissible additions to, and deductions from, the value of materials
—(1)
Additions to originating materials.
For originating materials, the following expenses, if not included under paragraph (a) of this section, may be added to the value of the originating material:
(i) The costs of freight (“cost of freight” includes the costs of all types of freight, including in-land freight incurred within a Party's territory, regardless of the mode of transportation), insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in transporting the material within a Party's territory or between the Parties to the location of the producer;
(ii) Duties, taxes, and customs brokerage fees on the material paid in the territory of one or both of the Parties, other than duties and taxes that are waived, refunded, refundable, or otherwise recoverable, including credit against duty or tax paid or payable; and
(iii) The cost of waste and spoilage resulting from the use of the material
in the production of the good, less the value of renewable scrap or byproducts.
(2)
Deductions from non-originating materials.
For non-originating materials, if included under paragraph (a) of this section, the following expenses may be deducted from the value of the non-originating material:
(i) The costs of freight (“cost of freight” includes the costs of all types of freight, including in-land freight incurred within a Party's territory, regardless of the mode of transportation), insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in transporting the material within a Party's territory or between the territories of the Parties to the location of the producer;
(ii) Duties, taxes, and customs brokerage fees on the material paid in the territory of one or both of the Parties, other than duties and taxes that are waived, refunded, refundable, or otherwise recoverable, including credit against duty or tax paid or payable;
(iii) The cost of waste and spoilage resulting from the use of the material in the production of the good, less the value of renewable scrap or by-products; and
(iv) The cost of originating materials used in the production of the non-originating material in the territory of a Party.
(d)
Accounting method.
Any cost or value referenced in General Note 33, HTSUS, and this subpart, must be recorded and maintained in accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles applicable in the territory of the Party in which the good is produced.
§ 10.1017
Accumulation.
(a) Originating goods or materials from the territory of one Party, incorporated into a good in the territory of the other Party will be considered to originate in the territory of that other Party.
(b) A good that is produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties by one or more producers is an originating good if the good satisfies the requirements of § 10.1014 of this subpart and all other applicable requirements of General Note 33, HTSUS.
§ 10.1018
De minimis.
(a)
General.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a good that does not undergo a change in tariff classification pursuant to General Note 33, HTSUS, is an originating good if:
(1) The value of all non-originating materials used in the production of the good that do not undergo the applicable change in tariff classification does not exceed 10 percent of the adjusted value of the good;
(2) The value of the non-originating materials described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is included in the value of non-originating materials for any applicable regional value content requirement for the good under General Note 33, HTSUS; and
(3) The good meets all other applicable requirements of General Note 33, HTSUS.
(b)
Exceptions.
Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to:
(1) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 3, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good classified in that Chapter;
(2) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 4, HTSUS, or a non-originating dairy preparation containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids classified under subheadings 1901.90 or 2106.90, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in Chapter 4, HTSUS;
(3) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 4, HTSUS, or a non-originating dairy preparation containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 1901.90, HTSUS, which is used in the production of the following goods:
(i) Infant preparations containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 1901.10, HTSUS;
(ii) Mixes and doughs, containing over 25 percent by weight of butterfat, not put up for retail sale, provided for in subheading 1901.20, HTSUS;
(iii) Dairy preparations containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 1901.90 or 2106.90, HTSUS;
(iv) Goods provided for in heading 2105, HTSUS;
(v) Beverages containing milk provided for in subheading 2202.90, HTSUS; or
(vi) Animal feeds containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 2309.90, HTSUS;
(4) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 7, HTSUS that is used in the production of a good classified under the following subheadings: 0703.10, 0703.20, 0709.59, 0709.60, 0710.21 through 0710.80, 0711.90, 0712.20, 0712.39 through 0713.10 or 0714.20, HTSUS;
(5) A non-originating material provided for in heading 1006, HTSUS, or a non-originating rice product classified in Chapter 11, HTSUS that is used in the production of a good provided for under the headings 1006, 1102, 1103, 1104, HTSUS, or subheadings 1901.20 or 1901.90, HTSUS;
(6) A non-originating material provided for in heading 0805, HTSUS or subheadings 2009.11 through 2009.39, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for under subheadings 2009.11 through 2009.39, HTSUS, or in fruit or vegetable juice of any single fruit or vegetable, fortified with minerals or vitamins, concentrated or unconcentrated, provided for under subheadings 2106.90 or 2202.90, HTSUS;
(7) Non-originating peaches, pears, or apricots provided for in Chapters 8 or 20, HTSUS, that are used in the production of a good classified under heading 2008, HTSUS;
(8) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 15, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good classified under headings 1501 through 1508, 1512, 1514, or 1515, HTSUS;
(9) A non-originating material provided for in heading 1701, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in any of headings 1701 through 1703, HTSUS;
(10) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 17, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in subheading 1806.10, HTSUS; or
(11) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) through (10) of this section and General Note 33, HTSUS, a non-originating material used in the production of a good provided for in any of Chapters 1 through 24, HTSUS, unless the non-originating material is provided for in a different subheading than the good for which origin is being determined under this subpart.
(c)
Textile and apparel goods
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a textile or apparel good that is not an originating good because certain fibers or yarns used in the production of the component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good do not undergo an applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 33, HTSUS, will nevertheless be considered to be an originating good if the total weight of all such fibers or yarns in that component is not more than 7 percent of the total weight of that component.
(2)
Exception for goods containing elastomeric yarns.
A textile or apparel good containing elastomeric yarns in the component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good will be considered an originating good only if such yarns are wholly formed and finished in the territory of a Party.
(3) For purposes of this section, “
wholly formed or finished
” means when used in reference to fabrics, all production processes and finishing operations necessary to produce a finished fabric ready for use without further processing. These processes and operations include formation processes, such as weaving, knitting, needling, tufting, felting, entangling, or other such processes, and finishing operations, including bleaching, dyeing, and printing. When used in reference to yarns, “
wholly formed or finished
” means all production processes and finishing operations, beginning with the extrusion of filaments, strips, film, or sheet, and including drawing to fully orient a filament or slitting a film or sheer into strip, or the spinning of all fibers into yarn, or both, and ending with a finished yarn or plied yarn.
§ 10.1019
Fungible goods and materials.
(a)
General.
A person claiming that a fungible good or material is an originating good may base the claim either on the physical segregation of each fungible good or material or by using an inventory management method with
respect to the fungible good or material. For purposes of this section, the term “
inventory management method
” means:
(1) Averaging;
(2) “Last-in, first-out;”
(3) “First-in, first-out;” or
(4) Any other method that is recognized in the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles of the Party in which the production is performed or otherwise accepted by that country.
(b)
Duration of use.
A person selecting an inventory management method under paragraph (a) of this section for a particular fungible good or material must continue to use that method for that fungible good or material throughout the fiscal year of that person.
§ 10.1020
Accessories, spare parts, or tools.
(a)
General.
Accessories, spare parts, or tools that are delivered with a good and that form part of the good's standard accessories, spare parts, or tools will be treated as originating goods if the good is an originating good, and will be disregarded in determining whether all the non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo an applicable change in tariff classification specified in General Note 33, HTSUS, provided that:
(1) The accessories, spare parts, or tools are classified with, and not invoiced separately from, the good; and
(2) The quantities and value of the accessories, spare parts, or tools are customary for the good.
(b)
Regional value content.
If the good is subject to a regional value content requirement, the value of the accessories, spare parts, or tools is taken into account as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of the good under § 10.1015 of this subpart.
§ 10.1021
Goods classifiable as goods put up in sets.
Notwithstanding the specific rules set forth in General Note 33, HTSUS, goods classifiable as goods put up in sets for retail sale as provided for in General Rule of Interpretation 3, HTSUS, will not be considered to be originating goods unless:
(a) Each of the goods in the set is an originating good; or
(b) The total value of the non-originating goods in the set does not exceed:
(1) In the case of textile or apparel goods, 10 percent of the adjusted value of the set; or
(2) In the case of a good other than a textile or apparel good, 15 percent of the adjusted value of the set.
§ 10.1022
Retail packaging materials and containers.
(a)
Effect on tariff shift rule.
Packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale, if classified with the good for which preferential tariff treatment under the UKFTA is claimed, will be disregarded in determining whether all non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo the applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 33, HTSUS.
(b)
Effect on regional value content calculation.
If the good is subject to a regional value content requirement, the value of such packaging materials and containers will be taken into account as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of the good.

# Example 1.
Korean Producer A of good C imports 100 non-originating blister packages to be used as retail packaging for good C. As provided in § 10.1016(a)(1) of this subpart, the value of the blister packages is their adjusted value, which in this case is $10. Good C has a regional value content requirement. The United States importer of good C decides to use the build-down method, RVC = ((AV − VNM)/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.1015(b) of this subpart), in determining whether good C satisfies the regional value content requirement. In applying this method, the non-originating blister packages are taken into account as non-originating. As such, their $10 adjusted value is included in the VNM, value of non-originating materials, of good C.

# Example 2.
Same facts as in Example 1, except that the blister packages are originating. In this case, the adjusted value of the originating blister packages would
not
be included as part of the VNM of good C under the build-down method. However, if the U.S. importer had used the build-up method, RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.1015(c) of this subpart), the adjusted value of the blister packaging would be included as part of the VOM, value of originating materials.
§ 10.1023
Packing materials and containers for shipment.
(a)
Effect on tariff shift rule.
Packing materials and containers for shipment, as defined in § 10.1013(m) of this subpart, are to be disregarded in determining whether the non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo an applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 33, HTSUS. Accordingly, such materials and containers are not required to undergo the applicable change in tariff classification even if they are non-originating.
(b)
Effect on regional value content calculation.
Packing materials and containers for shipment, as defined in § 10.1013(m) of this subpart, are to be disregarded in determining the regional value content of a good imported into the United States. Accordingly, in applying the build-down, build-up, or net cost method for determining the regional value content of a good imported into the United States, the value of such packing materials and containers for shipment (whether originating or non-originating) is disregarded and not included in AV, adjusted value, VNM, value of non-originating materials, VOM, value of originating materials, or NC, net cost of a good.

# Example.
Korean producer A produces good C. Producer A ships good C to the United States in a shipping container that it purchased from Company B in Korea. The shipping container is originating. The value of the shipping container determined under § 10.1016(a)(2) of this subpart is $3. Good C is subject to a regional value content requirement. The transaction value of good C is $100, which includes the $3 shipping container. The U.S. importer decides to use the build-up method, RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.1015(c) of this subpart), in determining whether good C satisfies the regional value content requirement. In determining the AV, adjusted value, of good C imported into the U.S., paragraph (b) of this section and the definition of AV require a $3 deduction for the value of the shipping container. Therefore, the AV is $97 ($100−$3). In addition, the value of the shipping container is disregarded and not included in the VOM, value of originating materials.
§ 10.1024
Indirect materials.
An indirect material, as defined in § 10.1002(n) of this subpart, will be disregarded for the purpose of determining whether a good is originating.

# Example.
Korean Producer A produces good C using non-originating material B. Producer A imports non-originating rubber gloves for use by workers in the production of good C. Good C is subject to a tariff shift requirement. As provided in § 10.1014(b)(1) of this subpart and General Note 33, each of the non-originating materials in good C must undergo the specified change in tariff classification in order for good C to be considered originating. Although non-originating material B must undergo the applicable tariff shift in order for good C to be considered originating, the rubber gloves do not because they are indirect materials and are disregarded for purposes of determining whether the good is originating.
§ 10.1025
Transit and transshipment.
(a)
General.
A good that has undergone production necessary to qualify as an originating good under § 10.1014 of this subpart will not be considered an originating good if, subsequent to that production, the good:
(1) Undergoes further production or any other operation outside the territories of the Parties, other than unloading, reloading, or any other operation necessary to preserve the good in good condition or to transport the good to the territory of a Party; or
(2) Does not remain under the control of customs authorities in the territory of a non-Party.
(b)
Documentary evidence.
An importer making a claim that a good is originating may be required to demonstrate, to CBP's satisfaction, that the conditions and requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section were met. An importer may demonstrate compliance with this section by submitting documentary evidence. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, bills of lading, airway bills, packing lists, commercial invoices, receiving and inventory records, and customs entry and exit documents.

# Origin Verifications and Determinations
§ 10.1026
Verification and justification of claim for preferential tariff treatment.
(a)
Verification.
A claim for preferential tariff treatment made under § 10.1003(b) or § 10.1011 of this subpart,
including any statements or other information submitted to CBP in support of the claim, will be subject to such verification as the Center director deems necessary. In the event that the Center director is provided with insufficient information to verify or substantiate the claim, the Center director finds a pattern of conduct, indicating that an importer, exporter, or producer has provided false or unsupported declarations or certifications, or the exporter or producer fails to consent to a verification visit, the Center director may deny the claim for preferential treatment. A verification of a claim for preferential tariff treatment under UKFTA for goods imported into the United States may be conducted by means of one or more of the following:
(1) Written requests for information from the importer, exporter, or producer;
(2) Written questionnaires to the importer, exporter, or producer;
(3) Visits to the premises of the exporter or producer in the territory of Korea, to review the records of the type referred to in § 10.1009(c)(1) of this subpart or to observe the facilities used in the production of the good, in accordance with the framework that the Parties develop for conducting verifications; and
(4) Such other procedures to which the Parties may agree.
(b)
Applicable accounting principles.
When conducting a verification of origin to which Generally Accepted Accounting Principles may be relevant, CBP will apply and accept the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles applicable in the country of production.
§ 10.1027
Special rule for verifications in Korea of U.S. imports of textile and apparel goods.
(a)
Procedures to determine whether a claim of origin is accurate
—(1)
General.
For the purpose of determining that a claim of origin for a textile or apparel good is accurate, CBP may request that the government of the Republic of Korea conduct a verification, regardless of whether a claim is made for preferential tariff treatment.
(2)
Actions during a verification.
While a verification under this paragraph is being conducted, CBP, if directed by the President, may take appropriate action, which may include suspending the liquidation of the entry of the textile or apparel good for which a claim for preferential tariff treatment or a claim of origin has been made.
(3)
Actions following a verification.
If on completion of a verification under this paragraph, CBP makes a negative determination, or if CBP is unable to determine that a claim of origin for a textile or apparel good is accurate within 12 months after its request for a verification, CBP, if directed by the President, may take appropriate action, which may include:
(i) Denying the application of preferential tariff treatment to the textile or apparel good for which a claim for preferential tariff treatment has been made that is the subject of a verification if CBP determines that the enterprise has provided insufficient or incorrect information to support the claim; and
(ii) Denying entry to the textile or apparel good for which a claim for preferential tariff treatment or a claim of origin has been made that is the subject of a verification, if CBP determines that the enterprise has provided insufficient or incorrect information to support the claim.
(b)
Procedures to determine compliance with applicable customs laws and regulations of the United States
—(1)
General.
For purposes of enabling CBP to determine that an exporter or producer is complying with applicable customs laws, regulations, and procedures regarding trade in textile and apparel goods, CBP may request that the government of the Republic of Korea conduct a verification, if CBP has a reasonable suspicion of unlawful activity relating to trade in textile or apparel goods by a person of Korea.
(2)
Actions during a verification.
While a verification under this paragraph is being conducted, CBP, if directed by the President, may take appropriate action, which may include suspending the liquidation of the entry of any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification.
(3)
Actions following a verification.
If on completion of a verification under this paragraph, CBP makes a negative determination, or if CBP is unable to determine that the person is complying with applicable customs measures affecting trade in textile or apparel goods within 12 months after its request for a verification, CBP, if directed by the President, may take appropriate action, which may include:
(i) Denying the application of preferential tariff treatment to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines that the enterprise has provided insufficient or incorrect information with respect to its obligations under the applicable customs laws, regulations, and procedures regarding trade in textile and apparel goods; and
(ii) Denying entry to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification, if CBP determines that the enterprise has provided insufficient or incorrect information with respect to its obligations under the applicable customs laws, regulations, and procedures regarding trade in textile and apparel goods.
(c)
Action by U.S. officials in conducting a verification abroad.
U.S. officials may undertake or assist in a verification under this section by conducting visits in the territory of Korea, along with the competent authorities of Korea, to the premises of an exporter, producer, or any other enterprise involved in the movement of textile or apparel goods from Korea to the United States.
(d)
Denial of permission to conduct a verification.
If an enterprise does not consent to a verification under this section, CBP may deny preferential tariff treatment or deny entry to similar goods exported or produced by the enterprise that would have been the subject of the verification.
(e)
Continuation of appropriate action.
Before taking any action under paragraph (a) or (b), CBP will notify the government of the Republic of Korea. CBP may continue to take appropriate action under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section until it receives information sufficient to enable it to make the determination described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. CBP may make public the identity of a person that CBP has determined to be engaged in circumvention as provided under this section or that has failed to demonstrate that it produces, or is capable of producing, textile or apparel goods.
[77 FR 15948, Mar. 19, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 32358, May 30, 2013]
§ 10.1028
Issuance of negative origin determinations.
If, as a result of an origin verification initiated under this subpart, CBP determines that a claim for preferential tariff treatment under this subpart should be denied, it will issue a determination in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to the importer that sets forth the following:
(a) A description of the good that was the subject of the verification together with the identifying numbers and dates of the import documents pertaining to the good;
(b) A statement setting forth the findings of fact made in connection with the verification and upon which the determination is based; and
(c) With specific reference to the rules applicable to originating goods as set forth in General Note 33, HTSUS, and in §§ 10.1013 through 10.1025 of this subpart, the legal basis for the determination.
§ 10.1029
Repeated false or unsupported preference claims.
Where verification or other information reveals a pattern of conduct by an importer, exporter, or producer of false or unsupported representations that goods qualify under the UKFTA rules of origin set forth in General Note 33, HTSUS, CBP may suspend preferential tariff treatment under the UKFTA to entries of identical goods covered by subsequent statements, declarations, or certifications by that importer, exporter, or producer until CBP determines that representations of that person are in conformity with General Note 33, HTSUS.

# Penalties
§ 10.1030
General.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, all criminal, civil, or administrative penalties which may be imposed on U.S. importers, exporters, and producers for violations of the customs and related U.S. laws and regulations will also apply to U.S. importers, exporters, and producers for violations of the U.S. laws and regulations relating to the UKFTA.
§ 10.1031
Corrected claim or certification by importers.
An importer who makes a corrected claim under § 10.1003(c) of this subpart will not be subject to civil or administrative penalties under 19 U.S.C. 1592 for having made an incorrect claim or having submitted an incorrect certification, provided that the corrected claim is promptly and voluntarily made.
§ 10.1032
Corrected certification by U.S. exporters or producers.
Civil or administrative penalties provided for under 19 U.S.C. 1592 will not be imposed on an exporter or producer in the United States who promptly and voluntarily provides written notification pursuant to § 10.1009(b) with respect to the making of an incorrect certification.
§ 10.1033
Framework for correcting claims or certifications.
(a) “
Promptly and voluntarily” defined.
Except as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, for purposes of this subpart, the making of a corrected claim or certification by an importer or the providing of written notification of an incorrect certification by an exporter or producer in the United States will be deemed to have been done promptly and voluntarily if:
(1)(i) Done before the commencement of a formal investigation, within the meaning of § 162.74(g) of this chapter; or
(ii) Done before any of the events specified in § 162.74(i) of this chapter have occurred; or
(iii) Done within 30 days after the importer, exporter, or producer initially becomes aware that the claim or certification is incorrect; and
(2) Accompanied by a statement setting forth the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section; and
(3) In the case of a corrected claim or certification by an importer, accompanied or followed by a tender of any actual loss of duties and merchandise processing fees, if applicable, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Exception in cases involving fraud or subsequent incorrect claims
—(1)
Fraud.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a person who acted fraudulently in making an incorrect claim or certification may not make a voluntary correction of that claim or certification. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “fraud” will have the meaning set forth in paragraph (C)(3) of appendix B to part 171 of this chapter.
(2)
Subsequent incorrect claims.
An importer who makes one or more incorrect claims after becoming aware that a claim involving the same merchandise and circumstances is invalid may not make a voluntary correction of the subsequent claims pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Statement.
For purposes of this subpart, each corrected claim or certification must be accompanied by a statement, submitted in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system, which:
(1) Identifies the class or kind of good to which the incorrect claim or certification relates;
(2) In the case of a corrected claim or certification by an importer, identifies each affected import transaction, including each port of importation and the approximate date of each importation;
(3) Specifies the nature of the incorrect statements or omissions regarding the claim or certification; and
(4) Sets forth, to the best of the person's knowledge, the true and accurate information or data which should have been covered by or provided in the claim or certification, and states that the person will provide any additional information or data which is unknown at the time of making the corrected claim or certification within 30 days or within any extension of that 30-day period as CBP may permit in order for the person to obtain the information or data.
(d)
Tender of actual loss of duties.
A U.S. importer who makes a corrected claim must tender any actual loss of duties at the time of making the corrected claim, or within 30 days thereafter, or within any extension of that 30-day period as CBP may allow in order for the importer to obtain the information or data necessary to calculate the duties owed.

# Goods Returned After Repair or Alteration
§ 10.1034
Goods re-entered after repair or alteration in Korea.
(a)
General.
This section sets forth the rules which apply for purposes of obtaining duty-free treatment on goods returned after repair or alteration in Korea as provided for in subheadings 9802.00.40 and 9802.00.50, HTSUS. Goods returned after having been repaired or altered in Korea, regardless of whether the repair or alteration could be performed in the United States or has increased the value of the good and regardless of their origin, are eligible for duty-free treatment, provided that the requirements of this section are met. For purposes of this section, “repairs or alterations” means restoration, addition, renovation, re-dyeing, cleaning, re-sterilizing, or other treatment that does not destroy the essential characteristics of, or create a new or commercially different good from, the good exported from the United States.
(b)
Goods not eligible for duty-free treatment after repair or alteration.
The duty-free treatment referred to in paragraph (a) of this section will not apply to goods which, in their condition as exported from the United States to Korea, are incomplete for their intended use and for which the processing operation performed in Korea constitutes an operation that is performed as a matter of course in the preparation or manufacture of finished goods.
(c)
Documentation.
The provisions of § 10.8(a), (b), and (c) of this part, relating to the documentary requirements for goods entered under subheading 9802.00.40 or 9802.00.50, HTSUS, will apply in connection with the entry of goods which are returned from Korea after having been exported for repairs or alterations and which are claimed to be duty free.

# Subpart S—United States-Panama Trade Promotion Agreement

# Source:
78 FR 63056, Oct. 23, 2013, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 10.2001
Scope.
This subpart implements the duty preference and related customs provisions applicable to imported and exported goods under the United States-Panama Trade Promotion Agreement (the PANTPA) signed on June 28, 2007, and under the United States-Panama Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act (“the Act”), Public Law 112-43, 125 Stat. 497 (19 U.S.C. 3805 note). Except as otherwise specified in this subpart, the procedures and other requirements set forth in this subpart are in addition to the customs procedures and requirements of general application contained elsewhere in this chapter. Additional provisions implementing certain aspects of the PANTPA and the Act are contained in parts 24, 162, and 163 of this chapter.
§ 10.2002
General definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following terms will have the meanings indicated unless either the context in which they are used requires a different meaning or a different definition is prescribed for a particular section of this subpart:
(a)
Claim for preferential tariff treatment.
“Claim for preferential tariff treatment” means a claim that a good is entitled to the duty rate applicable under the PANTPA to an originating good and to an exemption from the merchandise processing fee;
(b)
Claim of origin.
“Claim of origin” means a claim that a textile or apparel good is an originating good or satisfies the non-preferential rules of origin of a Party;
(c)
Customs authority.
“Customs authority” means the competent authority that is responsible under the law of a Party for the administration of customs laws and regulations;
(d)
Customs duty.
“Customs duty” includes any customs or import duty and
a charge of any kind imposed in connection with the importation of a good, including any form of surtax or surcharge in connection with such importation, but does not include any:
(1) Charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently with Article III:2 of the GATT 1994 in respect of like, directly competitive, or substitutable goods of the Party, or in respect of goods from which the imported good has been manufactured or produced in whole or in part;
(2) Antidumping or countervailing duty that is applied pursuant to a Party's domestic law; or
(3) Fee or other charge in connection with importation commensurate with the cost of services rendered;
(e)
Customs Valuation Agreement.
“Customs Valuation Agreement” means the
Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994,
contained in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement;
(f)
Days.
“Days” means calendar days;
(g)
Enterprise.
“Enterprise” means any entity constituted or organized under applicable law, whether or not for profit, and whether privately-owned or governmentally-owned, including any corporation, trust, partnership, sole proprietorship, joint venture, or other association;
(h)
Enterprise of a Party.
“Enterprise of a Party” means an enterprise constituted or organized under a Party's law;
(i)
Goods of a Party.
“Goods of a Party” means domestic products as these are understood in the GATT 1994 or such goods as the Parties may agree, and includes originating goods of that Party;
(j)
GATT 1994.
“GATT 1994” means the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994,
which is part of the
WTO Agreement;
(k)
Harmonized System.
“Harmonized System” means the
Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System,
including its General Rules of Interpretation, Section Notes, and Chapter Notes, as adopted and implemented by the Parties in their respective tariff laws;
(l)
Heading.
“Heading” means the first four digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(m)
HTSUS.
“HTSUS” means the
Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States
as promulgated by the U.S. International Trade Commission;
(n)
Identical goods.
“Identical goods” means goods that are the same in all respects relevant to the rule of origin that qualifies the goods as originating goods;
(o)
Originating.
“Originating” means qualifying for preferential tariff treatment under the rules of origin set out in Article 3.25 (Rules of Origin and Related Matters) or Chapter Four (Rules of Origin and Origin Procedures) of the PANTPA, and General Note 35, HTSUS;
(p)
Party.
“Party” means the United States or Panama;
(q)
Person.
“Person” means a natural person or an enterprise;
(r)
Preferential tariff treatment.
“Preferential tariff treatment” means the duty rate applicable under the PANTPA to an originating good, and an exemption from the merchandise processing fee;
(s)
Subheading.
“Subheading” means the first six digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(t)
Textile or apparel good.
“Textile or apparel good” means a good listed in the Annex to the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing (commonly referred to as “the ATC”), which is part of the WTO Agreement, except for those goods listed in Annex 3.30 of the PANTPA;
(u)
Territory.
“Territory” means:
(1) With respect to Panama, the land, maritime, and the air space under Panama's sovereignty and the exclusive economic zone and the continental shelf within which it exercises sovereign rights and jurisdiction in accordance with international law and its domestic law;
(2) With respect to the United States:
(i) The customs territory of the United States, which includes the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico;
(ii) The foreign trade zones located in the United States and Puerto Rico; and
(iii) Any areas beyond the territorial seas of the United States within which, in accordance with international law
and its domestic law, the United States may exercise rights with respect to the seabed and subsoil and their natural resources;
(v)
WTO.
“WTO” means the World Trade Organization; and
(w)
WTO Agreement.
“WTO Agreement” means the
Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization
of April 15, 1994.

# Import Requirements
§ 10.2003
Filing of claim for preferential tariff treatment upon importation.
(a)
Basis of claim.
An importer may make a claim for PANTPA preferential tariff treatment, including an exemption from the merchandise processing fee, based on either:
(1) A written or electronic certification, as specified in § 10.2004, that is prepared by the importer, exporter, or producer of the good; or
(2) The importer's knowledge that the good is an originating good, including reasonable reliance on information in the importer's possession that the good is an originating good.
(b)
Making a claim.
The claim is made by including on the entry summary, or equivalent documentation, the letters “PA” as a prefix to the subheading of the HTSUS under which each qualifying good is classified, or by the method specified for equivalent reporting via an authorized electronic data interchange system.
(c)
Corrected claim.
If, after making the claim specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the importer has reason to believe that the claim is based on inaccurate information or is otherwise invalid, the importer must, within 30 calendar days after the date of discovery of the error, correct the claim and pay any duties that may be due. The importer must submit a statement either in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to the CBP office where the original claim was filed specifying the correction (
see
§§ 10.2031 and 10.2033).
§ 10.2004
Certification.
(a)
General.
An importer who makes a claim pursuant to § 10.2003(b) based on a certification by the importer, exporter, or producer that the good is originating must submit, at the request of the Center director, a copy of the certification. The certification:
(1) Need not be in a prescribed format but must be in writing or must be transmitted electronically pursuant to any electronic means authorized by CBP for that purpose;
(2) Must be in the possession of the importer at the time the claim for preferential tariff treatment is made if the certification forms the basis for the claim;
(3) Must include the following information:
(i) The legal name, address, telephone number, and email address of the certifying person;
(ii) If not the certifying person, the legal name, address, telephone number, and email address of the importer of record, the exporter, and the producer of the good, if known;
(iii) The legal name, address, telephone number, and email address of the responsible official or authorized agent of the importer, exporter, or producer signing the certification (if different from the information required by paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section);
(iv) A description of the good for which preferential tariff treatment is claimed, which must be sufficiently detailed to relate it to the invoice and the HS nomenclature;
(v) The HTSUS tariff classification, to six or more digits, as necessary for the specific change in tariff classification rule for the good set forth in General Note 35, HTSUS;
(vi) The applicable rule of origin set forth in General Note 35, HTSUS, under which the good qualifies as an originating good;
(vii) Date of certification; and
(viii) In case of a blanket certification issued with respect to multiple shipments of identical goods within any period specified in the written or electronic certification, not exceeding 12 months from the date of certification, the period that the certification covers; and
(4) Must include a statement, in substantially the following form:
“I certify that:
The information on this document is true and accurate and I assume the responsibility
for proving such representations. I understand that I am liable for any false statements or material omissions made on or in connection with this document;
I agree to maintain and present upon request, documentation necessary to support these representations;
The goods comply with all requirements for preferential tariff treatment specified for those goods in the United States-Panama Trade Promotion Agreement; and
This document consists of ____ pages, including all attachments.”
(b)
Responsible official or agent.
The certification provided for in paragraph (a) of this section must be signed and dated by a responsible official of the importer, exporter, or producer, or by the importer's, exporter's, or producer's authorized agent having knowledge of the relevant facts.
(c)
Language.
The certification provided for in paragraph (a) of this section must be completed in either the English or Spanish language. In the latter case, the Center director may require the importer to submit an English translation of the certification.
(d)
Certification by the exporter or producer.
(1) A certification may be prepared by the exporter or producer of the good on the basis of:
(i) The exporter's or producer's knowledge that the good is originating; or
(ii) In the case of an exporter, reasonable reliance on the producer's certification that the good is originating.
(2) The Center director may not require an exporter or producer to provide a written or electronic certification to another person.
(e)
Applicability of certification.
The certification provided for in paragraph (a) of this section may be applicable to:
(1) A single shipment of a good into the United States; or
(2) Multiple shipments of identical goods into the United States that occur within a specified blanket period, not exceeding 12 months, set out in the certification.
(f)
Validity of certification.
A certification that is properly completed, signed, and dated in accordance with the requirements of this section will be accepted as valid for four years following the date on which it was issued.
§ 10.2005
Importer obligations.
(a)
General.
An importer who makes a claim for preferential tariff treatment under § 10.2003(b):
(1) Will be deemed to have certified that the good is eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the PANTPA;
(2) Is responsible for the truthfulness of the claim and of all the information and data contained in the certification provided for in § 10.2004; and
(3) Is responsible for submitting any supporting documents requested by CBP, and for the truthfulness of the information contained in those documents. When a certification prepared by an exporter or producer forms the basis of a claim for preferential tariff treatment, and CBP requests the submission of supporting documents, the importer will provide to CBP, or arrange for the direct submission by the exporter or producer of, all information relied on by the exporter or producer in preparing the certification.
(b)
Information provided by exporter or producer.
The fact that the importer has made a claim or submitted a certification based on information provided by an exporter or producer will not relieve the importer of the responsibility referred to in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Exemption from penalties.
An importer will not be subject to civil or administrative penalties under 19 U.S.C. 1592 for making an incorrect claim for preferential tariff treatment or submitting an incorrect certification, provided that the importer promptly and voluntarily corrects the claim or certification and pays any duty owing (
see
§ 10.2031 through 10.2033).
§ 10.2006
Certification not required.
(a)
General.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an importer will not be required to submit a copy of a certification under § 10.2004 for:
(1) A non-commercial importation of a good; or
(2) A commercial importation for which the value of the originating goods does not exceed U.S. $2,500.
(b)
Exception.
If the Center director determines that an importation described in paragraph (a) of this section
is part of a series of importations carried out or planned for the purpose of evading compliance with the certification requirements of § 10.2004, the Center director will notify the importer that for that importation the importer must submit to CBP a copy of the certification. The importer must submit such a copy within 30 days from the date of the notice. Failure to timely submit a copy of the certification will result in denial of the claim for preferential tariff treatment.
§ 10.2007
Maintenance of records.
(a)
General.
An importer claiming preferential tariff treatment for a good imported into the United States under § 10.2003(b) based on either the importer's certification or its knowledge must maintain, for a minimum of five years after the date of importation of the good, all records and documents necessary to demonstrate that the good qualifies for preferential tariff treatment under the PANTPA. An importer claiming preferential tariff treatment for a good imported into the United States under § 10.2003(b) based on the certification issued by the exporter or producer must maintain, for a minimum of five years after the date of importation of the good, the certification issued by the exporter or producer. These records are in addition to any other records that the importer is required to prepare, maintain, or make available to CBP under Part 163 of this chapter.
(b)
Method of maintenance.
The records and documents referred to in paragraph (a) of this section must be maintained by importers as provided in § 163.5 of this chapter.
§ 10.2008
Effect of noncompliance; failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment.
(a)
General.
If the importer fails to comply with any requirement under this subpart, including submission of a complete certification prepared in accordance with § 10.2004 of this subpart, when requested, the Center director may deny preferential tariff treatment to the imported good.
(b)
Failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment.
Where the requirements for preferential tariff treatment set forth elsewhere in this subpart are met, the Center director nevertheless may deny preferential tariff treatment to an originating good if the good is shipped through or transshipped in a country other than a Party to the PANTPA, and the importer of the good does not provide, at the request of the Center director, evidence demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Center director that the conditions set forth in § 10.2025(a) were met.

# Export Requirements
§ 10.2009
Certification for goods exported to Panama.
(a)
Submission of certification to CBP.
Any person who completes and issues a certification for a good exported from the United States to Panama must provide a copy of the certification (written or electronic) to CBP upon request.
(b)
Notification of errors in certification.
Any person who completes and issues a certification for a good exported from the United States to Panama and who has reason to believe that the certification contains or is based on incorrect information must promptly notify every person to whom the certification was provided of any change that could affect the accuracy or validity of the certification. Notification of an incorrect certification must also be given either in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to CBP specifying the correction (
see
§§ 10.2032 and 10.2033).
(c)
Maintenance of records
—(1)
General.
Any person who completes and issues a certification for a good exported from the United States to Panama must maintain, for a period of at least five years after the date the certification was issued, all records and supporting documents relating to the origin of a good for which the certification was issued, including the certification or copies thereof and records and documents associated with:
(i) The purchase, cost, and value of, and payment for, the good;
(ii) The purchase, cost, and value of, and payment for, all materials, including indirect materials, used in the production of the good; and
(iii) The production of the good in the form in which the good was exported.
(2)
Method of maintenance.
The records referred to in paragraph (c)(1) of this section must be maintained as provided in § 163.5 of this chapter.
(3)
Availability of records.
For purposes of determining compliance with the provisions of this part, the records required to be maintained under this section must be stored and made available for examination and inspection by the Center director or other appropriate CBP officer in the same manner as provided in part 163 of this chapter.

# Post-Importation Duty Refund Claims
§ 10.2010
Right to make post-importation claim and refund duties.
Notwithstanding any other available remedy, where a good would have qualified as an originating good when it was imported into the United States but no claim for preferential tariff treatment was made, the importer of that good may file a claim for a refund of any excess duties at any time within one year after the date of importation of the good in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 10.2011. Subject to the provisions of § 10.2008, CBP may refund any excess duties by liquidation or reliquidation of the entry covering the good in accordance with § 10.2012(c).
§ 10.2011
Filing procedures.
(a)
Place of filing.
A post-importation claim for a refund must be filed with CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically. The post-importation claim may be filed by paper or by the method specified for equivalent reporting via an authorized electronic data interchange system.
(b)
Contents of claim.
A post-importation claim for a refund must be filed by presentation of the following:
(1) A written or electronic declaration or statement stating that the good was an originating good at the time of importation and setting forth the number and date of the entry or entries covering the good;
(2) A copy of a written or electronic certification prepared in accordance with § 10.2004 if a certification forms the basis for the claim, or other information demonstrating that the good qualifies for preferential tariff treatment;
(3) A written statement indicating whether the importer of the good provided a copy of the entry summary or equivalent documentation to any other person. If such documentation was so provided, the statement must identify each recipient by name, CBP identification number, and address and must specify the date on which the documentation was provided; and
(4) A written statement indicating whether any person has filed a protest relating to the good under any provision of law; and if any such protest has been filed, the statement must identify the protest by number and date.
§ 10.2012
CBP processing procedures.
(a)
Status determination.
After receipt of a post-importation claim pursuant to § 10.2011, the Center director will determine whether the entry covering the good has been liquidated and, if liquidation has taken place, whether the liquidation has become final.
(b)
Pending protest or judicial review.
If the Center director determines that any protest relating to the good has not been finally decided, the Center director will suspend action on the claim filed pursuant to § 10.2011 until the decision on the protest becomes final. If a summons involving the tariff classification or dutiability of the good is filed in the Court of International Trade, the Center director will suspend action on the claim filed pursuant to § 10.2011 until judicial review has been completed.
(c)
Allowance of claim
—(1)
Unliquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed pursuant to § 10.2011 should be allowed and the entry covering the good has not been liquidated, the Center director will take into account the claim for refund in connection with the liquidation of the entry.
(2)
Liquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed pursuant to § 10.2011 should be allowed and the entry covering the good has been liquidated, whether or not the liquidation has become final, the entry must be reliquidated in order
to effect a refund of duties under this section. If the entry is otherwise to be reliquidated based on administrative review of a protest or as a result of judicial review, the Center director will reliquidate the entry taking into account the claim for refund pursuant to § 10.2011.
(d)
Denial of claim
—(1)
General.
The Center director may deny a claim for a refund filed under § 10.2011 if the claim was not filed timely, if the importer has not complied with the requirements of §§ 10.2008 and 10.2011, or if, following an origin verification under § 10.2026, the Center director determines either that the imported good was not an originating good at the time of importation or that a basis exists upon which preferential tariff treatment may be denied under § 10.2026.
(2)
Unliquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under this subpart should be denied and the entry covering the good has not been liquidated, the Center director will deny the claim in connection with the liquidation of the entry, and notice of the denial and the reason for the denial will be provided to the importer in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system.
(3)
Liquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under this subpart should be denied and the entry covering the good has been liquidated, whether or not the liquidation has become final, the claim may be denied without reliquidation of the entry. If the entry is otherwise to be reliquidated based on administrative review of a protest or as a result of judicial review, such reliquidation may include denial of the claim filed under this subpart. In either case, the Center director will provide notice of the denial and the reason for the denial to the importer in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system.

# Rules of Origin
§ 10.2013
Definitions.
For purposes of §§ 10.2013 through 10.2025:
(a)
Adjusted value.
“Adjusted value” means the value determined in accordance with Articles 1 through 8, Article 15, and the corresponding interpretative notes of the Customs Valuation Agreement, adjusted, if necessary, to exclude:
(1) Any costs, charges, or expenses incurred for transportation, insurance and related services incident to the international shipment of the good from the country of exportation to the place of importation; and
(2) The value of packing materials and containers for shipment as defined in paragraph (o) of this section;
(b)
Class of motor vehicles.
“Class of motor vehicles” means any one of the following categories of motor vehicles:
(1) Motor vehicles classified under subheading 8701.20, motor vehicles for the transport of 16 or more persons classified under subheading 8702.10 or 8702.90, and motor vehicles classified under subheading 8704.10, 8704.22, 8704.23, 8704.32, or 8704.90, or heading 8705 or 8706, HTSUS;
(2) Motor vehicles classified under subheading 8701.10 or any of subheadings 8701.30 through 8701.90, HTSUS;
(3) Motor vehicles for the transport of 15 or fewer persons classified under subheading 8702.10 or 8702.90, HTSUS, or motor vehicles classified under subheading 8704.21 or 8704.31, HTSUS; or
(4) Motor vehicles classified under subheadings 8703.21 through 8703.90, HTSUS;
(c)
Enterprise.
“Enterprise” means an enterprise as defined in § 10.2002(g), and includes an enterprise involved in:
(1) Production, processing, or manipulation of textile or apparel goods in the territory of Panama, including in any free trade zone, foreign trade zone, or export processing zone;
(2) Importation of textile or apparel goods into the territory of Panama, including into any free trade zone, foreign trade zone, or export processing zone; or
(3) Exportation of textile or apparel goods from the territory of Panama, including from any free trade zone, foreign trade zone, or export processing zone;
(d)
Exporter.
“Exporter” means a person who exports goods from the territory of a Party;
(e)
Fungible good or material.
“Fungible good or material” means a good or material, as the case may be, that is interchangeable with another good or material for commercial purposes and the properties of which are essentially identical to such other good or material;
(f)
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
“Generally Accepted Accounting Principles” means the recognized consensus or substantial authoritative support in the territory of a Party, with respect to the recording of revenues, expenses, costs, assets, and liabilities, the disclosure of information, and the preparation of financial statements. These principles may encompass broad guidelines of general application, as well as detailed standards, practices, and procedures;
(g)
Good.
“Good” means any merchandise, product, article, or material;
(h)
Goods wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties.
“Goods wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties” means:
(1) Plants and plant products harvested or gathered in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(2) Live animals born and raised in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(3) Goods obtained in the territory of one or both of the Parties from live animals;
(4) Goods obtained from hunting, trapping, fishing, or aquaculture conducted in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(5) Minerals and other natural resources not included in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(4) of this section that are extracted or taken in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(6) Fish, shellfish, and other marine life taken from the sea, seabed, or subsoil outside the territory of the Parties by:
(i) Vessels registered or recorded with Panama and flying its flag; or
(ii) Vessels documented under the laws of the United States;
(7) Goods produced on board factory ships from the goods referred to in paragraph (h)(6) of this section, if such factory ships are:
(i) Registered or recorded with Panama and flying its flag; or
(ii) Documented under the laws of the United States;
(8) Goods taken by a Party or a person of a Party from the seabed or subsoil outside territorial waters, if a Party has rights to exploit such seabed or subsoil;
(9) Goods taken from outer space, provided they are obtained by a Party or a person of a Party and not processed in the territory of a non-Party;
(10) Waste and scrap derived from:
(i) Manufacturing or processing operations in the territory of one or both of the Parties; or
(ii) Used goods collected in the territory of one or both of the Parties, if such goods are fit only for the recovery of raw materials;
(11) Recovered goods derived in the territory of one or both of the Parties from used goods, and used in the territory of one or both of the Parties in the production of remanufactured goods; and
(12) Goods produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties exclusively from goods referred to in any of paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(10) of this section, or from the derivatives of such goods, at any stage of production;
(i)
Indirect material.
“Indirect material” means a good used in the production, testing, or inspection of another good in the territory of one or both of the Parties but not physically incorporated into that other good, or a good used in the maintenance of buildings or the operation of equipment associated with the production of another good, including:
(1) Fuel and energy;
(2) Tools, dies, and molds;
(3) Spare parts and materials used in the maintenance of equipment or buildings;
(4) Lubricants, greases, compounding materials, and other materials used in production or used to operate equipment or buildings;
(5) Gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, safety equipment, and supplies;
(6) Equipment, devices, and supplies used for testing or inspecting the good;
(7) Catalysts and solvents; and
(8) Any other good that is not incorporated into the other good but the use
of which in the production of the other good can reasonably be demonstrated to be a part of that production;
(j)
Material.
“Material” means a good that is used in the production of another good, including a part or an ingredient;
(k)
Model line.
“Model line” means a group of motor vehicles having the same platform or model name;
(l)
Net cost.
“Net cost” means total cost minus sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, and non-allowable interest costs that are included in the total cost;
(m)
Non-allowable interest costs.
“Non-allowable interest costs” means interest costs incurred by a producer that exceed 700 basis points above the applicable official interest rate for comparable maturities of the Party in which the producer is located;
(n)
Non-originating good or non-originating material.
“Non-originating good” or “non-originating material” means a good or material, as the case may be, that does not qualify as originating under General Note 35, HTSUS, or this subpart;
(o)
Packing materials and containers for shipment.
“Packing materials and containers for shipment” means the goods used to protect a good during its transportation to the United States, and does not include the packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale;
(p)
Producer.
“Producer” means a person who engages in the production of a good in the territory of a Party;
(q)
Production.
“Production” means growing, mining, harvesting, fishing, raising, trapping, hunting, manufacturing, processing, assembling, or disassembling a good;
(r)
Reasonably allocate.
“Reasonably allocate” means to apportion in a manner that would be appropriate under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles;
(s)
Recovered goods.
“Recovered goods” means materials in the form of individual parts that are the result of:
(1) The disassembly of used goods into individual parts; and
(2) The cleaning, inspecting, testing, or other processing that is necessary to improve such individual parts to sound working condition;
(t)
Remanufactured good.
“Remanufactured good” means a good classified in Chapter 84, 85, 87, or 90 or heading 9402, HTSUS, other than a good classified in heading 8418 or 8516, HTSUS, and that:
(1) Is entirely or partially comprised of recovered goods as defined in paragraph (s) of this section; and
(2) Has a similar life expectancy and enjoys a factory warranty similar to such a good that is new;
(u)
Royalties.
“Royalties” means payments of any kind, including payments under technical assistance agreements or similar agreements, made as consideration for the use of, or right to use, any copyright, literary, artistic, or scientific work, patent, trademark, design, model, plan, secret formula or process, excluding those payments under technical assistance agreements or similar agreements that can be related to specific services such as:
(1) Personnel training, without regard to where performed; and
(2) If performed in the territory of one or both of the Parties, engineering, tooling, die-setting, software design and similar computer services;
(v)
Sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs.
“Sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs” means the following costs related to sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service:
(1) Sales and marketing promotion; media advertising; advertising and market research; promotional and demonstration materials; exhibits; sales conferences, trade shows and conventions; banners; marketing displays; free samples; sales, marketing, and after-sales service literature (product brochures, catalogs, technical literature, price lists, service manuals, sales aid information); establishment and protection of logos and trademarks; sponsorships; wholesale and retail restocking charges; entertainment;
(2) Sales and marketing incentives; consumer, retailer or wholesaler rebates; merchandise incentives;
(3) Salaries and wages, sales commissions, bonuses, benefits (for example, medical, insurance, pension), traveling and living expenses, membership and
professional fees, for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service personnel;
(4) Recruiting and training of sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service personnel, and after-sales training of customers' employees, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer;
(5) Product liability insurance;
(6) Office supplies for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service of goods, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer;
(7) Telephone, mail and other communications, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer;
(8) Rent and depreciation of sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service offices and distribution centers;
(9) Property insurance premiums, taxes, cost of utilities, and repair and maintenance of sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service offices and distribution centers, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer; and
(10) Payments by the producer to other persons for warranty repairs;
(w)
Self-produced material.
“Self-produced material” means an originating material that is produced by a producer of a good and used in the production of that good;
(x)
Shipping and packing costs.
“Shipping and packing costs” means the costs incurred in packing a good for shipment and shipping the good from the point of direct shipment to the buyer, excluding the costs of preparing and packaging the good for retail sale;
(y)
Total cost.
“Total cost” means all product costs, period costs, and other costs for a good incurred in the territory of one or both of the Parties. Product costs are costs that are associated with the production of a good and include the value of materials, direct labor costs, and direct overhead. Period costs are costs, other than product costs, that are expensed in the period in which they are incurred, such as selling expenses and general and administrative expenses. Other costs are all costs recorded on the books of the producer that are not product costs or period costs, such as interest. Total cost does not include profits that are earned by the producer, regardless of whether they are retained by the producer or paid out to other persons as dividends, or taxes paid on those profits, including capital gains taxes;
(z)
Used.
“Used” means utilized or consumed in the production of goods; and
(aa)
Value.
“Value” means the value of a good or material for purposes of calculating customs duties or for purposes of applying this subpart.
§ 10.2014
Originating goods.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart and General Note 35, HTSUS, a good imported into the customs territory of the United States will be considered an originating good under the PANTPA only if:
(a) The good is wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(b) The good is produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties and:
(1) Each non-originating material used in the production of the good undergoes an applicable change in tariff classification specified in General Note 35, HTSUS, and the good satisfies all other applicable requirements of General Note 35, HTSUS; or
(2) The good otherwise satisfies any applicable regional value content or other requirements specified in General Note 35, HTSUS, and satisfies all other applicable requirements of General Note 35, HTSUS; or
(c) The good is produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties exclusively from originating materials.
§ 10.2015
Regional value content.
(a)
General.
Except for goods to which paragraph (d) of this section applies, where General Note 35, HTSUS, sets
forth a rule that specifies a regional value content test for a good, the regional value content of such good must be calculated by the importer, exporter, or producer of the good on the basis of the build-down method described in paragraph (b) of this section or the build-up method described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Build-down method.
Under the build-down method, the regional value content must be calculated on the basis of the formula RVC = ((AV − VNM)/AV) × 100, where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; AV is the adjusted value of the good; and VNM is the value of non-originating materials that are acquired and used by the producer in the production of the good, but does not include the value of a material that is self-produced.
(c)
Build-up method.
Under the build-up method, the regional value content must be calculated on the basis of the formula RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100, where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; AV is the adjusted value of the good; and VOM is the value of originating materials that are acquired or self-produced and used by the producer in the production of the good.
(d)
Special rule for certain automotive goods
—(1)
General.
Where General Note 35, HTSUS, sets forth a rule that specifies a regional value content test for an automotive good provided for in any of subheadings 8407.31 through 8407.34 (engines), subheading 8408.20 (diesel engine for vehicles), heading 8409 (parts of engines), or any of headings 8701 through 8705 (motor vehicles), and headings 8706 (chassis), 8707 (bodies), and 8708 (motor vehicle parts), HTSUS, the regional value content of such good may be calculated by the importer, exporter, or producer of the good on the basis of the net cost method described in paragraphs (d)(2) through (d)(4) of this section.
(2)
Net cost method.
Under the net cost method, the regional value content is calculated on the basis of the formula RVC = ((NC − VNM)/NC) × 100, where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; NC is the net cost of the good; and VNM is the value of non-originating materials that are acquired and used by the producer in the production of the good, but does not include the value of a material that is self-produced. Consistent with the provisions regarding allocation of costs set out in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, the net cost of the good must be determined by:
(i) Calculating the total cost incurred with respect to all goods produced by the producer of the automotive good, subtracting any sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, and non-allowable interest costs that are included in the total cost of all such goods, and then reasonably allocating the resulting net cost of those goods to the automotive good;
(ii) Calculating the total cost incurred with respect to all goods produced by the producer of the automotive good, reasonably allocating the total cost to the automotive good, and then subtracting any sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, and non-allowable interest costs that are included in the portion of the total cost allocated to the automotive good; or
(iii) Reasonably allocating each cost that forms part of the total costs incurred with respect to the automotive good so that the aggregate of these costs does not include any sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, or non-allowable interest costs.
(3)
Motor vehicles
—(i)
General.
For purposes of calculating the regional value content under the net cost method for an automotive good that is a motor vehicle provided for in any of headings 8701 through 8705, an importer, exporter, or producer may average the amounts calculated under the formula set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section over the producer's fiscal year using any one of the categories described in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section either on the basis of all motor vehicles in the category or those motor vehicles in the category that are exported to the territory of one or both Parties.
(ii)
Categories.
The categories referred to in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section are as follows:
(A) The same model line of motor vehicles, in the same class of vehicles, produced in the same plant in the territory of a Party, as the motor vehicle for which the regional value content is being calculated;
(B) The same class of motor vehicles, and produced in the same plant in the territory of a Party, as the motor vehicle for which the regional value content is being calculated; and
(C) The same model line of motor vehicles produced in the territory of a Party as the motor vehicle for which the regional value content is being calculated.
(4)
Other automotive goods
—(i)
General.
For purposes of calculating the regional value content under the net cost method for automotive goods provided for in any of subheadings 8407.31 through 8407.34, subheading 8408.20, heading 8409, 8706, 8707, or 8708, HTSUS, that are produced in the same plant, an importer, exporter, or producer may:
(A) Average the amounts calculated under the formula set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section over any of the following: the fiscal year, or any quarter or month, of the motor vehicle producer to whom the automotive good is sold, or the fiscal year, or any quarter or month, of the producer of the automotive good, provided the goods were produced during the fiscal year, quarter, or month that is the basis for the calculation;
(B) Determine the average referred to in paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) of this section separately for such goods sold to one or more motor vehicle producers; or
(C) Make a separate determination under paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) or (d)(4)(i)(B) of this section for automotive goods that are exported to the territory of Panama or the United States.
(ii)
Duration of use.
A person selecting an averaging period of one month or quarter under paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) of this section must continue to use that method for that category of automotive goods throughout the fiscal year.
§ 10.2016
Value of materials.
(a)
Calculating the value of materials.
For purposes of calculating the regional value content of a good under General Note 35, HTSUS, and for purposes of applying the
de minimis
(
see
§ 10.2018) provisions of General Note 35, HTSUS, the value of a material is:
(1) In the case of a material imported by the producer of the good, the adjusted value of the material;
(2) In the case of a material acquired by the producer in the territory where the good is produced, the value, determined in accordance with Articles 1 through 8, Article 15, and the corresponding interpretative notes of the Customs Valuation Agreement, i.e., in the same manner as for imported goods, with reasonable modifications to the provisions of the Customs Valuation Agreement as may be required due to the absence of an importation by the producer (including, but not limited to, treating a domestic purchase by the producer as if it were a sale for export to the country of importation); or
(3) In the case of a self-produced material, the sum of:
(i) All expenses incurred in the production of the material, including general expenses; and
(ii) An amount for profit equivalent to the profit added in the normal course of trade.
(b)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate application of the principles set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section:

# Example 1.
A producer in Panama purchases material x from an unrelated seller in Panama for $100. Under the provisions of Article 1 of the Customs Valuation Agreement, transaction value is the price actually paid or payable for the goods when sold for export to the country of importation adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8. In order to apply Article 1 to this domestic purchase by the producer, such purchase is treated as if it were a sale for export to the country of importation. Therefore, for purposes of determining the adjusted value of material x, Article 1 transaction value is the price actually paid or payable for the goods when sold to the producer in Panama ($100), adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8. In this example, it is irrelevant whether material x was initially imported into Panama by the seller (or by anyone
else). So long as the producer acquired material x in Panama, it is intended that the value of material x will be determined on the basis of the price actually paid or payable by the producer adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8.

# Example 2.
Same facts as in Example 1, except that the sale between the seller and the producer is subject to certain restrictions that preclude the application of Article 1. Under Article 2 of the Customs Valuation Agreement, the value is the transaction value of identical goods sold for export to the same country of importation and exported at or about the same time as the goods being valued. In order to permit the application of Article 2 to the domestic acquisition by the producer, it should be modified so that the value is the transaction value of identical goods sold within Panama at or about the same time the goods were sold to the producer in Panama. Thus, if the seller of material x also sold an identical material to another buyer in Panama without restrictions, that other sale would be used to determine the adjusted value of material x.
(c)
Permissible additions to, and deductions from, the value of materials
—(1)
Additions to originating materials.
For originating materials, the following expenses, if not included under paragraph (a) of this section, may be added to the value of the originating material:
(i) The costs of freight, insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in transporting the material within or between the territory of one or both of the Parties to the location of the producer;
(ii) Duties, taxes, and customs brokerage fees on the material paid in the territory of one or both of the Parties, other than duties and taxes that are waived, refunded, refundable, or otherwise recoverable, including credit against duty or tax paid or payable; and
(iii) The cost of waste and spoilage resulting from the use of the material in the production of the good, less the value of renewable scrap or byproducts.
(2)
Deductions from non-originating materials.
For non-originating materials, if included under paragraph (a) of this section, the following expenses may be deducted from the value of the non-originating material:
(i) The costs of freight, insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in transporting the material within or between the territory of one or both of the Parties to the location of the producer;
(ii) Duties, taxes, and customs brokerage fees on the material paid in the territory of one or both of the Parties, other than duties and taxes that are waived, refunded, refundable, or otherwise recoverable, including credit against duty or tax paid or payable;
(iii) The cost of waste and spoilage resulting from the use of the material in the production of the good, less the value of renewable scrap or by-products; and
(iv) The cost of originating materials used in the production of the non-originating material in the territory of one or both of the Parties.
(d)
Accounting method.
Any cost or value referenced in General Note 35, HTSUS, and this subpart, must be recorded and maintained in accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles applicable in the territory of the Party in which the good is produced.
§ 10.2017
Accumulation.
(a) Originating materials from the territory of a Party that are used in the production of a good in the territory of another Party will be considered to originate in the territory of that other Party.
(b) A good that is produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties by one or more producers is an originating good if the good satisfies the requirements of § 10.2014 and all other applicable requirements of General Note 35, HTSUS.
§ 10.2018
De minimis.
(a)
General.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a good that does not undergo a change in tariff classification pursuant to General Note 35, HTSUS, is an originating good if:
(1) The value of all non-originating materials used in the production of the good that do not undergo the applicable change in tariff classification does not exceed 10 percent of the adjusted value of the good;
(2) The value of the non-originating materials described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is included in the value of non-originating materials for any
applicable regional value content requirement for the good under General Note 35, HTSUS; and
(3) The good meets all other applicable requirements of General Note 35, HTSUS.
(b)
Exceptions.
Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to:
(1) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 4, HTSUS, or a non-originating dairy preparation containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 1901.90 or 2106.90, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in Chapter 4, HTSUS;
(2) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 4, HTSUS, or a non-originating dairy preparation containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 1901.90, HTSUS, which is used in the production of the following goods:
(i) Infant preparations containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 1901.10, HTSUS;
(ii) Mixes and doughs, containing over 25 percent by weight of butterfat, not put up for retail sale, provided for in subheading 1901.20, HTSUS;
(iii) Dairy preparations containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 1901.90 or 2106.90, HTSUS;
(iv) Goods provided for in heading 2105, HTSUS;
(v) Beverages containing milk provided for in subheading 2202.90, HTSUS; or
(vi) Animal feeds containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 2309.90, HTSUS;
(3) A non-originating material provided for in heading 0805, HTSUS, or any of subheadings 2009.11 through 2009.39, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in any of subheadings 2009.11 through 2009.39, HTSUS, or in fruit or vegetable juice of any single fruit or vegetable, fortified with minerals or vitamins, concentrated or unconcentrated, provided for in subheading 2106.90 or 2202.90, HTSUS;
(4) A non-originating material provided for in heading 0901 or 2101, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in heading 0901 or 2101, HTSUS;
(5) A non-originating material provided for in heading 1006, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in heading 1102 or 1103 or subheading 1904.90, HTSUS;
(6) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 15, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in Chapter 15, HTSUS;
(7) A non-originating material provided for in heading 1701, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in any of headings 1701 through 1703, HTSUS;
(8) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 17, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in subheading 1806.10, HTSUS; or
(9) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(8) of this section and General Note 35, HTSUS, a non-originating material used in the production of a good provided for in any of Chapters 1 through 24, HTSUS, unless the non-originating material is provided for in a different subheading than the good for which origin is being determined under this subpart.
(c)
Textile and apparel goods
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a textile or apparel good that is not an originating good because certain fibers or yarns used in the production of the component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good do not undergo an applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 35, HTSUS, will nevertheless be considered to be an originating good if:
(i) The total weight of all such fibers or yarns in that component is not more than 10 percent of the total weight of that component; or
(ii) The yarns are nylon filament yarns (other than elastomeric yarns) that are provided for in subheading 5402.11.30, 5402.11.60, 5402.19.30, 5402.19.60, 5402.31.30, 5402.31.60, 5402.32.30, 5402.32.60, 5402.45.10, 5402.45.90, 5402.51.00 or 5402.61.00, HTSUS, and that are products of Canada, Mexico, or Israel.
(2)
Exception for goods containing elastomeric yarns.
A textile or apparel good containing elastomeric yarns (excluding latex) in the component of the good
that determines the tariff classification of the good will be considered an originating good only if such yarns are wholly formed and finished in the territory of a Party. For purposes of this paragraph, “wholly formed and finished” means that all the production processes and finishing operations, starting with the extrusion of filaments, strips, film, or sheet, and including drawing to fully orient a filament or slitting a film or sheet into strip, or the spinning of all fibers into yarn, or both, and ending with a finished yarn or plied yarn.
(3)
Yarn, fabric, or fiber.
For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, in the case of a textile or apparel good that is a yarn, fabric, or fiber, the term “component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good” means all of the fibers in the good.
§ 10.2019
Fungible goods and materials.
(a)
General.
A person claiming that a fungible good or material is an originating good may base the claim either on the physical segregation of the fungible good or material or by using an inventory management method with respect to the fungible good or material. For purposes of this section, the term “inventory management method” means:
(1) Averaging;
(2) “Last-in, first-out;”
(3) “First-in, first-out;” or
(4) Any other method that is recognized in the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles of the Party in which the production is performed or otherwise accepted by that country.
(b)
Duration of use.
A person selecting an inventory management method under paragraph (a) of this section for a particular fungible good or material must continue to use that method for that fungible good or material throughout the fiscal year of that person.
§ 10.2020
Accessories, spare parts, or tools.
(a)
General.
Accessories, spare parts, or tools that are delivered with a good and that form part of the good's standard accessories, spare parts, or tools will be treated as originating goods if the good is an originating good, and will be disregarded in determining whether all the non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo an applicable change in tariff classification specified in General Note 35, HTSUS, provided that:
(1) The accessories, spare parts, or tools are classified with, and not invoiced separately from, the good, regardless of whether they are specified or separately identified in the invoice for the good; and
(2) The quantities and value of the accessories, spare parts, or tools are customary for the good.
(b)
Regional value content.
If the good is subject to a regional value content requirement, the value of the accessories, spare parts, or tools is taken into account as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of the good under § 10.2015.
§ 10.2021
Goods classifiable as goods put up in sets.
Notwithstanding the specific rules set forth in General Note 35, HTSUS, goods classifiable as goods put up in sets for retail sale as provided for in General Rule of Interpretation 3, HTSUS, will not be considered to be originating goods unless:
(a) Each of the goods in the set is an originating good; or
(b) The total value of the non-originating goods in the set does not exceed;
(1) In the case of textile or apparel goods, 10 percent of the adjusted value of the set; or
(2) In the case of a good other than a textile or apparel good, 15 percent of the adjusted value of the set.
§ 10.2022
Retail packaging materials and containers.
(a)
Effect on tariff shift rule.
Packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale, if classified with the good for which preferential tariff treatment under the PANTPA is claimed, will be disregarded in determining whether all non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo the applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 35, HTSUS.
(b)
Effect on regional value content calculation.
If the good is subject to a regional value content requirement, the value of such packaging materials and containers will be taken into account as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of the good.

# Example 1.
Panamanian Producer A of good C imports 100 non-originating blister packages to be used as retail packaging for good C. As provided in § 10.2016(a)(1), the value of the blister packages is their adjusted value, which in this case is $10. Good C has a regional value content requirement. The United States importer of good C decides to use the build-down method, RVC = ((AV − VNM)/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.2015(b)), in determining whether good C satisfies the regional value content requirement. In applying this method, the non-originating blister packages are taken into account as non-originating. As such, their $10 adjusted value is included in the VNM, value of non-originating materials, of good C.

# Example 2.
Same facts as in Example 1, except that the blister packages are originating. In this case, the adjusted value of the originating blister packages would
not
be included as part of the VNM of good C under the build-down method. However, if the U.S. importer had used the build-up method, RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.2015(c)), the adjusted value of the blister packaging would be included as part of the VOM, value of originating materials.
§ 10.2023
Packing materials and containers for shipment.
(a)
Effect on tariff shift rule.
Packing materials and containers for shipment, as defined in § 10.2013(o), are to be disregarded in determining whether the non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo an applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 35, HTSUS. Accordingly, such materials and containers are not required to undergo the applicable change in tariff classification even if they are non-originating.
(b)
Effect on regional value content calculation.
Packing materials and containers for shipment, as defined in § 10.2013(o), are to be disregarded in determining the regional value content of a good imported into the United States. Accordingly, in applying the build-down, build-up, or net cost method for determining the regional value content of a good imported into the United States, the value of such packing materials and containers for shipment (whether originating or non-originating) is disregarded and not included in AV, adjusted value, VNM, value of non-originating materials, VOM, value of originating materials, or NC, net cost of a good.
Example.
Panamanian producer A produces good C. Producer A ships good C to the United States in a shipping container that it purchased from Company B in Panama. The shipping container is originating. The value of the shipping container determined under § 10.2016(a)(2) is $3. Good C is subject to a regional value content requirement. The transaction value of good C is $100, which includes the $3 shipping container. The U.S. importer decides to use the build-up method, RVC= (VOM/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.2015(c))), in determining whether good C satisfies the regional value content requirement. In determining the AV, adjusted value, of good C imported into the U.S., paragraph (b) of this section and the definition of AV require a $3 deduction for the value of the shipping container. Therefore, the AV is $97 ($100−$3). In addition, the value of the shipping container is disregarded and not included in the VOM, value of originating materials.
§ 10.2024
Indirect materials.
An indirect material, as defined in § 10.2013(i), will be considered to be an originating material without regard to where it is produced.
Example.
Panamanian Producer A produces good C using non-originating material B. Producer A imports non-originating rubber gloves for use by workers in the production of good C. Good C is subject to a tariff shift requirement. As provided in § 10.2014(b)(1) and General Note 35, each of the non-originating materials in good C must undergo the specified change in tariff classification in order for good C to be considered originating. Although non-originating material B must undergo the applicable tariff shift in order for good C to be considered originating, the rubber gloves do not because they are indirect materials and are considered originating without regard to where they are produced.
§ 10.2025
Transit and transshipment.
(a)
General.
A good that has undergone production necessary to qualify as an originating good under § 10.2014 will not be considered an originating good if, subsequent to that production, the good:
(1) Undergoes further production or any other operation outside the territories of the Parties, other than unloading, reloading, or any other operation necessary to preserve the good in good condition or to transport the good to the territory of a Party; or
(2) Does not remain under the control of customs authorities in the territory of a non-Party.
(b)
Documentary evidence.
An importer making a claim that a good is originating may be required to demonstrate, to CBP's satisfaction, that the conditions and requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section were met. An importer may demonstrate compliance with this section by submitting documentary evidence. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, bills of lading, airway bills, packing lists, commercial invoices, receiving and inventory records, and customs entry and exit documents.

# Origin Verifications and Determinations
§ 10.2026
Verification and justification of claim for preferential tariff treatment.
(a)
Verification.
A claim for preferential tariff treatment made under § 10.2003(b) or § 10.2011, including any statements or other information submitted to CBP in support of the claim, will be subject to such verification as the Center director deems necessary. In the event that the Center director is provided with insufficient information to verify or substantiate the claim, or the Center director finds a pattern of conduct, indicating that an importer, exporter, or producer has provided false or unsupported declarations or certifications, or the exporter or producer fails to consent to a verification visit, the Center director may deny the claim for preferential treatment. A verification of a claim for preferential tariff treatment under PANTPA for goods imported into the United States may be conducted by means of one or more of the following:
(1) Written requests for information from the importer, exporter, or producer;
(2) Written questionnaires to the importer, exporter, or producer;
(3) Visits to the premises of the exporter or producer in the territory of Panama, to review the records of the type referred to in § 10.2009(c)(1) or to observe the facilities used in the production of the good, in accordance with the framework that the Parties develop for conducting verifications; and
(4) Such other procedures to which the Parties may agree.
(b)
Applicable accounting principles.
When conducting a verification of origin to which Generally Accepted Accounting Principles may be relevant, CBP will apply and accept the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles applicable in the country of production.
§ 10.2027
Special rule for verifications in Panama of U.S. imports of textile and apparel goods.
(a)
Procedures to determine whether a claim of origin is accurate
—(1)
General.
For the purpose of determining that a claim of origin for a textile or apparel good is accurate, CBP may request that the Government of Panama conduct a verification, regardless of whether a claim is made for preferential tariff treatment.
(2)
Actions during a verification.
While a verification under this paragraph is being conducted, CBP, if directed by the President, may take appropriate action, which may include:
(i) Suspending the application of preferential tariff treatment to the textile or apparel good for which a claim for preferential tariff treatment has been made, if CBP determines there is insufficient information to support the claim;
(ii) Denying the application of preferential tariff treatment to the textile or apparel good for which a claim for preferential tariff treatment has been made that is the subject of a verification if CBP determines that an enterprise has provided incorrect information to support the claim;
(iii) Detention of any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information to determine the country of origin of any such good; and
(iv) Denying entry to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines that the enterprise has provided incorrect information as to the country of origin of any such good.
(3)
Actions following a verification.
On completion of a verification under this paragraph, CBP, if directed by the President, may take appropriate action, which may include:
(i) Denying the application of preferential tariff treatment to the textile or apparel good for which a claim for preferential tariff treatment has been made that is the subject of a verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information, or that the enterprise has provided incorrect information, to support the claim; and
(ii) Denying entry to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information to determine, or that the enterprise has provided incorrect information as to, the country of origin of any such good.
(b)
Procedures to determine compliance with applicable customs laws and regulations of the United States
—(1)
General.
For purposes of enabling CBP to determine that an exporter or producer is complying with applicable customs laws, regulations, and procedures regarding trade in textile and apparel goods, CBP may request that the government of Panama conduct a verification.
(2)
Actions during a verification.
While a verification under this paragraph is being conducted, CBP, if directed by the President, may take appropriate action, which may include:
(i) Suspending the application of preferential tariff treatment to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information to support a claim for preferential tariff treatment with respect to any such good;
(ii) Denying the application of preferential tariff treatment to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines that the enterprise has provided incorrect information to support a claim for preferential tariff treatment with respect to any such good;
(iii) Detention of any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information to determine the country of origin of any such good; and
(iv) Denying entry to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines that the enterprise has provided incorrect information as to the country of origin of any such good.
(3)
Actions following a verification.
On completion of a verification under this paragraph, CBP, if directed by the President, may take appropriate action, which may include:
(i) Denying the application of preferential tariff treatment to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient or incorrect information, or that the enterprise has provided incorrect information, to support a claim for preferential tariff treatment with respect to any such good; and
(ii) Denying entry to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the enterprise subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information to determine, or that the enterprise has provided incorrect information as to, the country of origin of any such good.
(c)
Action by U.S. officials in conducting a verification abroad.
U.S. officials may undertake or assist in a verification under this section by conducting visits in the territory of Panama, along with the competent authorities of Panama, to the premises of an exporter, producer, or any other enterprise involved in the movement of textile or apparel goods from Panama to the United States.
(d)
Denial of permission to conduct a verification.
If an enterprise does not consent to a verification under this
section, CBP may deny entry of textile or apparel goods produced or exported by the enterprise.
(e)
Continuation of appropriate action.
CBP may continue to take appropriate action under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section until it receives information sufficient to enable it to make the determination described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
§ 10.2028
Issuance of negative origin determinations.
If, as a result of an origin verification initiated under this subpart, CBP determines that a claim for preferential tariff treatment under this subpart should be denied, it will issue a determination in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to the importer that sets forth the following:
(a) A description of the good that was the subject of the verification together with the identifying numbers and dates of the import documents pertaining to the good;
(b) A statement setting forth the findings of fact made in connection with the verification and upon which the determination is based; and
(c) With specific reference to the rules applicable to originating goods as set forth in General Note 35, HTSUS, and in §§ 10.2013 through 10.2025, the legal basis for the determination.
§ 10.2029
Repeated false or unsupported preference claims.
Where verification or other information reveals a pattern of conduct by an importer, exporter, or producer of false or unsupported representations that goods qualify under the PANTPA rules of origin set forth in General Note 35, HTSUS, CBP may suspend preferential tariff treatment under the PANTPA to entries of identical goods covered by subsequent representations by that importer, exporter, or producer until CBP determines that representations of that person are in conformity with General Note 35, HTSUS.

# Penalties
§ 10.2030
General.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, all criminal, civil, or administrative penalties which may be imposed on U.S. importers, exporters, and producers for violations of the customs and related laws and regulations will also apply to U.S. importers, exporters, and producers for violations of the laws and regulations relating to the PANTPA.
§ 10.2031
Corrected claim or certification by importers.
An importer who makes a corrected claim under § 10.2003(c) will not be subject to civil or administrative penalties under 19 U.S.C. 1592 for having made an incorrect claim or having submitted an incorrect certification, provided that the corrected claim is promptly and voluntarily made.
§ 10.2032
Corrected certification by U.S. exporters or producers.
Civil or administrative penalties provided for under 19 U.S.C. 1592 will not be imposed on an exporter or producer in the United States who promptly and voluntarily provides written notification pursuant to § 10.2009(b) with respect to the making of an incorrect certification.
§ 10.2033
Framework for correcting claims or certifications.
(a) “
Promptly and voluntarily” defined.
Except as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, for purposes of this subpart, the making of a corrected claim or certification by an importer or the providing of written notification of an incorrect certification by an exporter or producer in the United States will be deemed to have been done promptly and voluntarily if:
(1)(i) Done before the commencement of a formal investigation, within the meaning of § 162.74(g) of this chapter; or
(ii) Done before any of the events specified in § 162.74(i) of this chapter have occurred; or
(iii) Done within 30 days after the importer, exporter, or producer initially becomes aware that the claim or certification is incorrect; and
(2) Accompanied by a statement setting forth the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section; and
(3) In the case of a corrected claim or certification by an importer, accompanied or followed by a tender of any
actual loss of duties and merchandise processing fees, if applicable, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Exception in cases involving fraud or subsequent incorrect claims
—(1)
Fraud.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a person who acted fraudulently in making an incorrect claim or certification may not make a voluntary correction of that claim or certification. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “fraud” will have the meaning set forth in paragraph (C)(3) of appendix B to part 171 of this chapter.
(2)
Subsequent incorrect claims.
An importer who makes one or more incorrect claims after becoming aware that a claim involving the same merchandise and circumstances is invalid may not make a voluntary correction of the subsequent claims pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Statement.
For purposes of this subpart, each corrected claim or certification must be accompanied by a statement, submitted in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system, which:
(1) Identifies the class or kind of good to which the incorrect claim or certification relates;
(2) In the case of a corrected claim or certification by an importer, identifies each affected import transaction, including each port of importation and the approximate date of each importation;
(3) Specifies the nature of the incorrect statements or omissions regarding the claim or certification; and
(4) Sets forth, to the best of the person's knowledge, the true and accurate information or data which should have been covered by or provided in the claim or certification, and states that the person will provide any additional information or data which is unknown at the time of making the corrected claim or certification within 30 days or within any extension of that 30-day period as CBP may permit in order for the person to obtain the information or data.
(d)
Tender of actual loss of duties.
A U.S. importer who makes a corrected claim must tender any actual loss of duties at the time of making the corrected claim, or within 30 days thereafter, or within any extension of that 30-day period as CBP may allow in order for the importer to obtain the information or data necessary to calculate the duties owed.

# Goods Returned After Repair or Alteration
§ 10.2034
Goods re-entered after repair or alteration in Panama.
(a)
General.
This section sets forth the rules which apply for purposes of obtaining duty-free treatment on goods returned after repair or alteration in Panama as provided for in subheadings 9802.00.40 and 9802.00.50, HTSUS. Goods returned after having been repaired or altered in Panama, regardless of whether such repair or alteration could be performed in the territory of the Party from which the good was exported for repair or alteration, are eligible for duty-free treatment, provided that the requirements of this section are met. For purposes of this section, “repair or alteration” means restoration, addition, renovation, re-dyeing, cleaning, re-sterilizing, or other treatment that does not destroy the essential characteristics of, or create a new or commercially different good from, the good exported from the United States. The term “repair or alteration” does not include an operation or process that transforms an unfinished good into a finished good.
(b)
Goods not eligible for duty-free treatment after repair or alteration.
The duty-free treatment referred to in paragraph (a) of this section will not apply to goods which, in their condition as exported from the United States to Panama, are incomplete for their intended use and for which the processing operation performed in Panama constitutes an operation that is performed as a matter of course in the preparation or manufacture of finished goods.
(c)
Documentation.
The provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of § 10.8, relating to the documentary requirements for goods entered under subheading 9802.00.40 or 9802.00.50, HTSUS, will apply in connection with the entry of goods which are returned from Panama after having been exported for repairs or alterations and which are claimed to be duty free.

# Subpart T—United States-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement

# Source:
77 FR 59069, Sept. 26, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 10.3001
Scope.
This subpart implements the duty preference and related customs provisions applicable to imported and exported goods under the United States-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement (the CTPA) signed on November 22, 2006, and under the United States-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act (the “Act”), Public Law 112-42, 125 Stat. 462 (19 U.S.C. 3805 note). Except as otherwise specified in this subpart, the procedures and other requirements set forth in this subpart are in addition to the customs procedures and requirements of general application contained elsewhere in this chapter. Additional provisions implementing certain aspects of the CTPA and the Act are contained in Parts 24, 162, and 163 of this chapter.
§ 10.3002
General definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following terms will have the meanings indicated unless either the context in which they are used requires a different meaning or a different definition is prescribed for a particular section of this subpart:
(a)
Claim for preferential tariff treatment.
“Claim for preferential tariff treatment” means a claim that a good is entitled to the duty rate applicable under the CTPA to an originating good and to an exemption from the merchandise processing fee;
(b)
Claim of origin.
“Claim of origin” means a claim that a textile or apparel good is an originating good or satisfies the non-preferential rules of origin of a Party;
(c)
Customs authority.
“Customs authority” means the competent authority that is responsible under the law of a Party for the administration of customs laws and regulations;
(d)
Customs duty.
“Customs duty” includes any customs or import duty and a charge of any kind imposed in connection with the importation of a good, including any form of surtax or surcharge in connection with such importation, but does not include any:
(1) Charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently with Article III:2 of GATT 1994 in respect of like, directly competitive, or substitutable goods of the Party, or in respect of goods from which the imported good has been manufactured or produced in whole or in part;
(2) Antidumping or countervailing duty that is applied pursuant to a Party's domestic law; or
(3) Fee or other charge in connection with importation commensurate with the cost of services rendered;
(e)
Customs Valuation Agreement.
“Customs Valuation Agreement” means the
Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994,
contained in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement;
(f)
Days.
“Days” means calendar days;
(g)
Enterprise.
“Enterprise” means any entity constituted or organized under applicable law, whether or not for profit, and whether privately-owned or governmentally-owned, including any corporation, trust, partnership, sole proprietorship, joint venture, or other association;
(h)
Enterprise of a Party.
“Enterprise of a Party” means an enterprise constituted or organized under a Party's law;
(i)
Goods of a Party.
“Goods of a Party” means domestic products as these are understood in the GATT 1994 or such goods as the Parties may agree, and includes originating goods of that Party.
(j)
GATT 1994.
“GATT 1994” means the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994,
which is part of the
WTO Agreement;
(k)
Harmonized System.
“Harmonized System” means the
Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System,
including its General Rules of Interpretation, Section Notes, and Chapter Notes, as adopted and implemented by the Parties in their respective tariff laws;
(l)
Heading.
“Heading” means the first four digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(m)
HTSUS.
“HTSUS” means the
Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States
as promulgated by the U.S. International Trade Commission;
(n)
Identical goods.
“Identical goods” means goods that are the same in all respects relevant to the rule of origin that qualifies the goods as originating goods;
(o)
Originating.
“Originating” means qualifying for preferential tariff treatment under the rules of origin set out in Article 3.3 (Textiles and Apparel) or Chapter Four (Rules of Origin and Origin Procedures) of the CTPA, and General Note 34, HTSUS;
(p)
Party.
“Party” means the United States or Colombia;
(q)
Person.
“Person” means a natural person or an enterprise;
(r)
Preferential tariff treatment.
“Preferential tariff treatment” means the duty rate applicable under the CTPA to an originating good, and an exemption from the merchandise processing fee;
(s)
Subheading.
“Subheading” means the first six digits in the tariff classification number under the Harmonized System;
(t)
Textile or apparel good.
“Textile or apparel good” means a good listed in the Annex to the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing (commonly referred to as “the ATC”), which is part of the WTO Agreement, except for those goods listed in Annex 3-C of the CTPA;
(u)
Territory.
“Territory” means:
(1) With respect to Colombia, in addition to its continental territory, the archipelago of San Andrés, Providencia and Santa Catalina, the islands of Malpelo, and all the other islands, islets, keys, headlands and shoals that belong to it, as well as air space and the maritime areas over which Colombia has sovereignty or sovereign rights or jurisdiction in accordance with its domestic law and international law, including applicable international treaties; and
(2) With respect to the United States:
(i) The customs territory of the United States, which includes the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico;
(ii) The foreign trade zones located in the United States and Puerto Rico; and
(iii) Any areas beyond the territorial seas of the United States within which, in accordance with international law and its domestic law, the United States may exercise rights with respect to the seabed and subsoil and their natural resources;
(v)
WTO.
“WTO” means the World Trade Organization; and
(w)
WTO Agreement.
“WTO Agreement” means the
Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization
of April 15, 1994.

# Import Requirements
§ 10.3003
Filing of claim for preferential tariff treatment upon importation.
(a)
Basis of claim.
An importer may make a claim for CTPA preferential tariff treatment, including an exemption from the merchandise processing fee, based on either:
(1) A written or electronic certification, as specified in § 10.3004, that is prepared by the importer, exporter, or producer of the good; or
(2) The importer's knowledge that the good is an originating good, including reasonable reliance on information in the importer's possession that the good is an originating good.
(b)
Making a claim.
The claim is made by including on the entry summary, or equivalent documentation, the letters “CO” as a prefix to the subheading of the HTSUS under which each qualifying good is classified, or by the method specified for equivalent reporting via an authorized electronic data interchange system.
(c)
Corrected claim.
If, after making the claim specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the importer has reason to believe that the claim is based on inaccurate information or is otherwise invalid, the importer must, within 30 calendar days after the date of discovery of the error, correct the claim and pay any duties that may be due. The importer must submit a statement either in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to the CBP office where the original claim was filed specifying the correction (
see
§§ 10.3031 and 10.3033).
§ 10.3004
Certification.
(a)
General.
An importer who makes a claim pursuant to § 10.3003(b) based on a
certification by the importer, exporter, or producer that the good is originating must submit, at the request of the Center director, a copy of the certification. The certification:
(1) Need not be in a prescribed format but must be in writing or must be transmitted electronically pursuant to any electronic means authorized by CBP for that purpose;
(2) Must be in the possession of the importer at the time the claim for preferential tariff treatment is made if the certification forms the basis for the claim;
(3) Must include the following information:
(i) The legal name, address, telephone number, and email address of the certifying person;
(ii) If not the certifying person, the legal name, address, telephone number, and email address of the importer of record, the exporter, and the producer of the good, if known;
(iii) The legal name, address, telephone number, and email address of the responsible official or authorized agent of the importer, exporter, or producer signing the certification (if different from the information required by paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section);
(iv) A description of the good for which preferential tariff treatment is claimed, which must be sufficiently detailed to relate it to the invoice and the HS nomenclature;
(v) The HTSUS tariff classification, to six or more digits, as necessary for the specific change in tariff classification rule for the good set forth in General Note 34, HTSUS; and
(vi) The applicable rule of origin set forth in General Note 34, HTSUS, under which the good qualifies as an originating good;
(vii) Date of certification;
(viii) In case of a blanket certification issued with respect to multiple shipments of identical goods within any period specified in the written or electronic certification, not exceeding 12 months from the date of certification, the period that the certification covers; and
(4) Must include a statement, in substantially the following form:
“I certify that:
The information on this document is true and accurate and I assume the responsibility for proving such representations. I understand that I am liable for any false statements or material omissions made on or in connection with this document;
I agree to maintain and present upon request, documentation necessary to support these representations;
The goods comply with all requirements for preferential tariff treatment specified for those goods in the United States-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement; and
This document consists of ______ pages, including all attachments.”
(b)
Responsible official or agent.
The certification provided for in paragraph (a) of this section must be signed and dated by a responsible official of the importer, exporter, or producer, or by the importer's, exporter's, or producer's authorized agent having knowledge of the relevant facts.
(c)
Language.
The certification provided for in paragraph (a) of this section must be completed in either the English or Spanish language. In the latter case, the Center director may require the importer to submit an English translation of the certification.
(d)
Certification by the exporter or producer.
(1) A certification may be prepared by the exporter or producer of the good on the basis of:
(i) The exporter's or producer's knowledge that the good is originating; or
(ii) In the case of an exporter, reasonable reliance on the producer's certification that the good is originating.
(2) The Center director may not require an exporter or producer to provide a written or electronic certification to another person.
(e)
Applicability of certification.
The certification provided for in paragraph (a) of this section may be applicable to:
(1) A single shipment of a good into the United States; or
(2) Multiple shipments of identical goods into the United States that occur within a specified blanket period, not exceeding 12 months, set out in the certification.
(f)
Validity of certification.
A certification that is properly completed, signed, and dated in accordance with the requirements of this section will be accepted as valid for four years following the date on which it was issued
§ 10.3005
Importer obligations.
(a)
General.
An importer who makes a claim for preferential tariff treatment under § 10.3003(b):
(1) Will be deemed to have certified that the good is eligible for preferential tariff treatment under the CTPA;
(2) Is responsible for the truthfulness of the claim and of all the information and data contained in the certification provided for in § 10.3004; and
(3) Is responsible for submitting any supporting documents requested by CBP, and for the truthfulness of the information contained in those documents. When a certification prepared by an exporter or producer forms the basis of a claim for preferential tariff treatment, and CBP requests the submission of supporting documents, the importer will provide to CBP, or arrange for the direct submission by the exporter or producer of, all information relied on by the exporter or producer in preparing the certification.
(b)
Information provided by exporter or producer.
The fact that the importer has made a claim or submitted a certification based on information provided by an exporter or producer will not relieve the importer of the responsibility referred to in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Exemption from penalties.
An importer will not be subject to civil or administrative penalties under 19 U.S.C. 1592 for making an incorrect claim for preferential tariff treatment or submitting an incorrect certification, provided that the importer promptly and voluntarily corrects the claim or certification and pays any duty owing (
see
§§ 10.3031 through 10.3033).
§ 10.3006
Certification not required.
(a)
General.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an importer will not be required to submit a copy of a certification under § 10.3004 for:
(1) A non-commercial importation of a good; or
(2) A commercial importation for which the value of the originating goods does not exceed U.S. $2,500.
(b)
Exception.
If the Center director determines that an importation described in paragraph (a) of this section is part of a series of importations carried out or planned for the purpose of evading compliance with the certification requirements of § 10.3004, the Center director will notify the importer that for that importation the importer must submit a copy of the certification. The importer must submit such a copy within 30 days from the date of the notice. Failure to timely submit a copy of the certification will result in denial of the claim for preferential tariff treatment.
[77 FR 59069, Sept. 26, 2012, as amended by CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93014, Dec. 20, 2016]
§ 10.3007
Maintenance of records.
(a)
General.
An importer claiming preferential tariff treatment for a good imported into the United States under § 10.3003(b) based on either the importer's certification or its knowledge must maintain, for a minimum of five years after the date of importation of the good, all records and documents necessary to demonstrate that the good qualifies for preferential tariff treatment under the CTPA. An importer claiming preferential tariff treatment for a good imported into the United States under § 10.3003(b) based on the certification issued by the exporter or producer must maintain, for a minimum of five years after the date of importation of the good, the certification issued by the exporter or producer. These records are in addition to any other records that the importer is required to prepare, maintain, or make available to CBP under part 163 of this chapter.
(b)
Method of maintenance.
The records and documents referred to in paragraph (a) of this section must be maintained by importers as provided in § 163.5 of this chapter.
[77 FR 59069, Sept. 26, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 60193, Oct. 1, 2013]
§ 10.3008
Effect of noncompliance; failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment.
(a)
General.
If the importer fails to comply with any requirement under this subpart, including submission of a complete certification prepared in accordance with § 10.3004 of this subpart, when requested, the Center director
may deny preferential tariff treatment to the imported good.
(b)
Failure to provide documentation regarding transshipment.
Where the requirements for preferential tariff treatment set forth elsewhere in this subpart are met, the Center director nevertheless may deny preferential tariff treatment to an originating good if the good is shipped through or transshipped in a country other than a Party to the CTPA, and the importer of the good does not provide, at the request of the Center director, evidence demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Center director that the conditions set forth in § 10.3025(a) were met.

# Export Requirements
§ 10.3009
Certification for goods exported to Colombia.
(a)
Submission of certification to CBP.
Any person who completes and issues a certification for a good exported from the United States to Colombia must provide a copy of the certification (written or electronic) to CBP upon request.
(b)
Notification of errors in certification.
Any person who completes and issues a certification for a good exported from the United States to Colombia and who has reason to believe that the certification contains or is based on incorrect information must promptly notify every person to whom the certification was provided of any change that could affect the accuracy or validity of the certification. Notification of an incorrect certification must also be given either in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to CBP specifying the correction (
see
§§ 10.3032 and 10.3033).
(c)
Maintenance of records
—(1)
General.
Any person who completes and issues a certification for a good exported from the United States to Colombia must maintain, for a period of at least five years after the date the certification was issued, all records and supporting documents relating to the origin of a good for which the certification was issued, including the certification or copies thereof and records and documents associated with:
(i) The purchase, cost, and value of, and payment for, the good;
(ii) The purchase, cost, and value of, and payment for, all materials, including indirect materials, used in the production of the good; and
(iii) The production of the good in the form in which the good was exported.
(2)
Method of maintenance.
The records referred to in paragraph (c) of this section must be maintained as provided in § 163.5 of this chapter.
(3)
Availability of records.
For purposes of determining compliance with the provisions of this part, the records required to be maintained under this section must be stored and made available for examination and inspection by the Center director or other appropriate CBP officer in the same manner as provided in part 163 of this chapter.

# Post-Importation Duty Refund Claims
§ 10.3010
Right to make post-importation claim and refund duties.
Notwithstanding any other available remedy, where a good would have qualified as an originating good when it was imported into the United States but no claim for preferential tariff treatment was made, the importer of that good may file a claim for a refund of any excess duties at any time within one year after the date of importation of the good in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 10.3011. Subject to the provisions of § 10.3008, CBP may refund any excess duties by liquidation or reliquidation of the entry covering the good in accordance with § 10.3012(c).
§ 10.3011
Filing procedures.
(a)
Place of filing.
A post-importation claim for a refund must be filed with CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically. The post-importation claim may be filed by paper or by the method specified for equivalent reporting via an authorized electronic data interchange system.
(b)
Contents of claim.
A post-importation claim for a refund must be filed by presentation of the following:
(1) A written or electronic declaration or statement stating that the good was an originating good at the time of
importation and setting forth the number and date of the entry or entries covering the good;
(2) A copy of a written or electronic certification prepared in accordance with § 10.3004 if a certification forms the basis for the claim, or other information demonstrating that the good qualifies for preferential tariff treatment;
(3) A written statement indicating whether the importer of the good provided a copy of the entry summary or equivalent documentation to any other person. If such documentation was so provided, the statement must identify each recipient by name, CBP identification number, and address and must specify the date on which the documentation was provided; and
(4) A written statement indicating whether any person has filed a protest relating to the good under any provision of law; and if any such protest has been filed, the statement must identify the protest by number and date.
[77 FR 59069, Sept. 26, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 60193, Oct. 1, 2013]
§ 10.3012
CBP processing procedures.
(a)
Status determination.
After receipt of a post-importation claim made pursuant to § 10.3011, the Center director will determine whether the entry covering the good has been liquidated and, if liquidation has taken place, whether the liquidation has become final.
(b)
Pending protest or judicial review.
If the Center director determines that any protest relating to the good has not been finally decided, the Center director will suspend action on the claim filed under § 10.3011 until the decision on the protest becomes final. If a summons involving the tariff classification or dutiability of the good is filed in the Court of International Trade, the Center director will suspend action on the claim filed under § 10.3011 until judicial review has been completed.
(c)
Allowance of claim
—(1)
Unliquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under § 10.3011 should be allowed and the entry covering the good has not been liquidated, the Center director will take into account the claim for refund in connection with the liquidation of the entry.
(2)
Liquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under § 10.3011 should be allowed and the entry covering the good has been liquidated, whether or not the liquidation has become final, the entry must be reliquidated in order to effect a refund of duties under this section. If the entry is otherwise to be reliquidated based on administrative review of a protest or as a result of judicial review, the Center director will reliquidate the entry taking into account the claim for refund under § 10.3011.
(d)
Denial of claim
—(1)
General.
The Center director may deny a claim for a refund filed under § 10.3011 if the claim was not filed timely, if the importer has not complied with the requirements of §§ 10.3008 and 10.3011, or if, following an origin verification under § 10.3026, the Center director determines either that the imported good was not an originating good at the time of importation or that a basis exists upon which preferential tariff treatment may be denied under § 10.3026.
(2)
Unliquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under this subpart should be denied and the entry covering the good has not been liquidated, the Center director will deny the claim in connection with the liquidation of the entry, and notice of the denial and the reason for the denial will be provided to the importer in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system.
(3)
Liquidated entry.
If the Center director determines that a claim for a refund filed under this subpart should be denied and the entry covering the good has been liquidated, whether or not the liquidation has become final, the claim may be denied without reliquidation of the entry. If the entry is otherwise to be reliquidated based on administrative review of a protest or as a result of judicial review, such reliquidation may include denial of the claim filed under this subpart. In either case, the Center director will provide notice of the denial and the reason for the denial to the importer in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system.

# Rules of Origin
§ 10.3013
Definitions.
For purposes of §§ 10.3013 through 10.3025:
(a)
Adjusted value.
“Adjusted value” means the value determined in accordance with Articles 1 through 8, Article 15, and the corresponding interpretative notes of the Customs Valuation Agreement, adjusted, if necessary, to exclude:
(1) Any costs, charges, or expenses incurred for transportation, insurance and related services incident to the international shipment of the good from the country of exportation to the place of importation; and
(2) The value of packing materials and containers for shipment as defined in paragraph (n) of this section;
(b)
Class of motor vehicles.
“Class of motor vehicles” means any one of the following categories of motor vehicles:
(1) Motor vehicles classified under subheading 8701.20, motor vehicles for the transport of 16 or more persons classified under 8702.10 or 8702.90, HTSUS, and motor vehicles classified under subheading under 8702.10, 8704.22, 8704.23, 8704.32, or 8704.90, or heading 8705 or 8706;
(2) Motor vehicles classified under subheading 8701.10 or subheadings 8701.30 through 8701.90, HTSUS;
(3) Motor vehicles for the transport of 15 or fewer persons classified under subheading 8702.10 or 8702.90, HTSUS, and motor vehicles of subheading 8704.21 or 8704.31, HTSUS; or
(4) Motor vehicles classified under subheadings 8703.21 through 8703.90, HTSUS;
(c)
Exporter.
“Exporter” means a person who exports goods from the territory of a Party;
(d)
Fungible good or material.
“Fungible good or material” means a good or material, as the case may be, that is interchangeable with another good or material for commercial purposes and the properties of which are essentially identical to such other good or material;
(e)
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
“Generally Accepted Accounting Principles” means the recognized consensus or substantial authoritative support in the territory of a Party, with respect to the recording of revenues, expenses, costs, assets, and liabilities, the disclosure of information, and the preparation of financial statements. These principles may encompass broad guidelines of general application as well as detailed standards, practices, and procedures;
(f)
Good.
“Good” means any merchandise, product, article, or material;
(g)
Goods wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties.
“Goods wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties” means:
(1) Plants and plant products harvested or gathered in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(2) Live animals born and raised in the territory of one or both of the
Parties;
(3) Goods obtained in the territory of one or both of the Parties from live animals;
(4) Goods obtained from hunting, trapping, fishing, or aquaculture conducted in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(5) Minerals and other natural resources not included in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(4) of this section that are extracted or taken in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(6) Fish, shellfish, and other marine life taken from the sea, seabed, or subsoil outside the territory of the Parties by:
(i) Vessels registered or recorded with Colombia and flying its flag; or
(ii) Vessels documented under the laws of the United States;
(7) Goods produced on board factory ships from the goods referred to in paragraph (g)(6) of this section, if such factory ships are:
(i) Registered or recorded with Colombia and fly its flag; or
(ii) Documented under the laws of the United States;
(8) Goods taken by a Party or a person of a Party from the seabed or subsoil outside territorial waters, if a Party has rights to exploit such seabed or subsoil;
(9) Goods taken from outer space, provided they are obtained by a Party or a person of a Party and not processed in the territory of a non-Party;
(10) Waste and scrap derived from:
(i) Manufacturing or processing operations in the territory of one or both of the Parties; or
(ii) Used goods collected in the territory of one or both of the Parties, if such goods are fit only for the recovery of raw materials;
(11) Recovered goods derived in the territory of one or both of the Parties from used goods, and used in the territory of one or both of the Parties in the production of remanufactured goods; and
(12) Goods produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties exclusively from goods referred to in any of paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(10) of this section, or from the derivatives of such goods, at any stage of production;
(h)
Indirect Material.
“Indirect material” means a good used in the production, testing, or inspection of another good in the territory of one or both of the Parties but not physically incorporated into that other good, or a good used in the maintenance of buildings or the operation of equipment associated with the production of another good, including:
(1) Fuel and energy;
(2) Tools, dies, and molds;
(3) Spare parts and materials used in the maintenance of equipment or buildings;
(4) Lubricants, greases, compounding materials, and other materials used in production or used to operate equipment or buildings;
(5) Gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, safety equipment, and supplies;
(6) Equipment, devices, and supplies used for testing or inspecting the good;
(7) Catalysts and solvents; and
(8) Any other good that is not incorporated into the other good but the use of which in the production of the other good can reasonably be demonstrated to be a part of that production.
(i)
Material.
“Material” means a good that is used in the production of another good, including a part or an ingredient;
(j)
Model line.
“Model line” means a group of motor vehicles having the same platform or model name;
(k)
Net cost.
“Net cost” means total cost minus sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, and non-allowable interest costs that are included in the total cost;
(l)
Non-allowable interest costs.
“Non-allowable interest costs” means interest costs incurred by a producer that exceed 700 basis points above the applicable official interest rate for comparable maturities of the Party in which the producer is located;
(m)
Non-originating good or non-originating material.
“Non-originating good” or “non-originating material” means a good or material, as the case may be, that does not qualify as originating under General Note 34, HTSUS, or this subpart;
(n)
Packing materials and containers for shipment.
“Packing materials and containers for shipment” means the goods used to protect a good during its transportation to the United States, and does not include the packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale;
(o)
Producer.
“Producer” means a person who engages in the production of a good in the territory of a Party;
(p)
Production.
“Production” means growing, mining, harvesting, fishing, raising, trapping, hunting, manufacturing, processing, assembling, or disassembling a good;
(q)
Reasonably allocate.
“Reasonably allocate” means to apportion in a manner that would be appropriate under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles;
(r)
Recovered goods.
“Recovered goods” means materials in the form of individual parts that are the result of:
(1) The disassembly of used goods into individual parts; and
(2) The cleaning, inspecting, testing, or other processing that is necessary to improve such individual parts to sound working condition;
(s)
Remanufactured good.
“Remanufactured good” means an industrial good assembled in the territory of one or both of the Parties that is classified in Chapter 84, 85, 87, or 90 or heading 9402, HTSUS, other than a good classified in heading 8418 or 8516, HTSUS, and that:
(1) Is entirely or partially comprised of recovered goods as defined in paragraph (r) of this section; and
(2) Has a similar life expectancy and enjoys a factory warranty similar to such new goods;
(t)
Royalties.
“Royalties” means payments of any kind, including payments under technical assistance agreements or similar agreements, made as consideration for the use of, or right to use, any copyright, literary, artistic, or scientific work, patent, trademark, design, model, plan, secret formula or process, excluding those payments under technical assistance agreements or similar agreements that can be related to specific services such as:
(1) Personnel training, without regard to where performed; and
(2) If performed in the territory of one or both of the Parties, engineering, tooling, die-setting, software design and similar computer services;
(u)
Sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs.
“Sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs” means the following costs related to sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service:
(1) Sales and marketing promotion; media advertising; advertising and market research; promotional and demonstration materials; exhibits; sales conferences, trade shows and conventions; banners; marketing displays; free samples; sales, marketing, and after-sales service literature (product brochures, catalogs, technical literature, price lists, service manuals, sales aid information); establishment and protection of logos and trademarks; sponsorships; wholesale and retail restocking charges; entertainment;
(2) Sales and marketing incentives; consumer, retailer or wholesaler rebates; merchandise incentives;
(3) Salaries and wages, sales commissions, bonuses, benefits (for example, medical, insurance, pension), traveling and living expenses, membership and professional fees, for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service personnel;
(4) Recruiting and training of sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service personnel, and after-sales training of customers' employees, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer;
(5) Product liability insurance;
(6) Office supplies for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service of goods, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer;
(7) Telephone, mail and other communications, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer;
(8) Rent and depreciation of sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service offices and distribution centers;
(9) Property insurance premiums, taxes, cost of utilities, and repair and maintenance of sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service offices and distribution centers, where such costs are identified separately for sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service of goods on the financial statements or cost accounts of the producer; and
(10) Payments by the producer to other persons for warranty repairs;
(v)
Self-produced material.
“Self-produced material” means an originating material that is produced by a producer of a good and used in the production of that good;
(w)
Shipping and packing costs.
“Shipping and packing costs” means the costs incurred in packing a good for shipment and shipping the good from the point of direct shipment to the buyer, excluding the costs of preparing and packaging the good for retail sale;
(x)
Total cost.
“Total cost” means all product costs, period costs, and other costs for a good incurred in the territory of one or both of the Parties. Product costs are costs that are associated with the production of a good and include the value of materials, direct labor costs, and direct overhead. Period costs are costs, other than product costs, that are expensed in the period in which they are incurred, such as selling expenses and general and administrative expenses. Other costs are all costs recorded on the books of the producer that are not product costs or period costs, such as interest. Total
cost does not include profits that are earned by the producer, regardless of whether they are retained by the producer or paid out to other persons as dividends, or taxes paid on those profits, including capital gains taxes;
(y)
Used.
“Used” means utilized or consumed in the production of goods; and
(z)
Value.
“Value” means the value of a good or material for purposes of calculating customs duties or for purposes of applying this subpart.
[77 FR 59069, Sept. 26, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 60193, Oct. 1, 2013]
§ 10.3014
Originating goods.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart and General Note 34, HTSUS, a good imported into the customs territory of the United States will be considered an originating good under the CTPA only if:
(a) The good is wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties;
(b) The good is produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties and:
(1) Each non-originating material used in the production of the good undergoes an applicable change in tariff classification specified in General Note 34, HTSUS, and the good satisfies all other applicable requirements of General Note 34, HTSUS; or
(2) The good otherwise satisfies any applicable regional value content or other requirements specified in General Note 34, HTSUS, and satisfies all other applicable requirements of General Note 34, HTSUS; or
(c) The good is produced entirely in the territory of one or both of the Parties exclusively from originating materials.
§ 10.3015
Regional value content.
(a)
General.
Except for goods to which paragraph (d) of this section applies, where General Note 34, HTSUS, sets forth a rule that specifies a regional value content test for a good, the regional value content of such good must be calculated by the importer, exporter, or producer of the good on the basis of the build-down method described in paragraph (b) of this section or the build-up method described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Build-down method.
Under the build-down method, the regional value content must be calculated on the basis of the formula RVC = ((AV−VNM)/AV) × 100, where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; AV is the adjusted value of the good; and VNM is the value of non-originating materials that are acquired and used by the producer in the production of the good, but does not include the value of a material that is self-produced.
(c)
Build-up method.
Under the build-up method, the regional value content must be calculated on the basis of the formula RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100, where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; AV is the adjusted value of the good; and VOM is the value of originating materials that are acquired or self-produced and used by the producer in the production of the good.
(d)
Special rule for certain automotive goods
—(1)
General.
Where General Note 34, HTSUS, sets forth a rule that specifies a regional value content test for an automotive good provided for in any of subheadings 8407.31 through 8407.34 (engines), subheading 8408.20 (diesel engine for vehicles), heading 8409 (parts of engines), or headings 8701 through 8705 (motor vehicles), and headings 8706 (chassis), 8707 (bodies), and 8708 (motor vehicle parts), HTSUS, the regional value content of such good shall be calculated by the importer, exporter, or producer of the good on the basis of the net cost method described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2)
Net cost method.
Under the net cost method, the regional value content is calculated on the basis of the formula RVC = ((NC−VNM)/NC) × 100, where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; NC is the net cost of the good; and VNM is the value of non-originating materials that are acquired and used by the producer in the production of the good, but does not include the value of a material that is self-produced. Consistent with the provisions regarding allocation of costs set out in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, the net cost of the good must be determined by:
(i) Calculating the total cost incurred with respect to all goods produced by the producer of the automotive good, subtracting any sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, and non-allowable interest costs that are included in the total cost of all such goods, and then reasonably allocating the resulting net cost of those goods to the automotive good;
(ii) Calculating the total cost incurred with respect to all goods produced by the producer of the automotive good, reasonably allocating the total cost to the automotive good, and then subtracting any sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, and non-allowable interest costs that are included in the portion of the total cost allocated to the automotive good; or
(iii) Reasonably allocating each cost that forms part of the total costs incurred with respect to the automotive good so that the aggregate of these costs does not include any sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales service costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs, or non-allowable interest costs.
(3)
Motor vehicles
—(i)
General.
For purposes of calculating the regional value content under the net cost method for an automotive good that is a motor vehicle provided for in any of headings 8701 through 8705, an importer, exporter, or producer may average the amounts calculated under the formula set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section over the producer's fiscal year using any one of the categories described in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section either on the basis of all motor vehicles in the category or those motor vehicles in the category that are exported to the territory of one or both Parties.
(ii)
Categories.
The categories referred to in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section are as follows:
(A) The same model line of motor vehicles, in the same class of vehicles, produced in the same plant in the territory of a Party, as the motor vehicle for which the regional value content is being calculated;
(B) The same class of motor vehicles, and produced in the same plant in the territory of a Party, as the motor vehicle for which the regional value content is being calculated; and
(C) The same model line of motor vehicles produced in the territory of a Party as the motor vehicle for which the regional value content is being calculated.
(4)
Other automotive goods
—(i)
General.
For purposes of calculating the regional value content under the net cost method for automotive goods provided for in any of subheadings 8407.31 through 8407.34, subheading 8408.20, heading 8409, 8706, 8707, or 8708, HTSUS, that are produced in the same plant, an importer, exporter, or producer may:
(A) Average the amounts calculated under the formula set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section over any of the following: the fiscal year, or any quarter or month, of the motor vehicle producer to whom the automotive good is sold, or the fiscal year, or any quarter or month, of the producer of the automotive good, provided the goods were produced during the fiscal year, quarter, or month that is the basis for the calculation;
(B) Determine the average referred to in paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) of this section separately for such goods sold to one or more motor vehicle producers; or
(C) Make a separate determination under paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) or (d)(4)(i)(B) of this section for automotive goods that are exported to the territory of Colombia or the United States.
(ii)
Duration of use.
A person selecting an averaging period of one month or quarter under paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) of this section must continue to use that method for that category of automotive goods throughout the fiscal year.
§ 10.3016
Value of materials.
(a)
Calculating the value of materials.
For purposes of calculating the regional value content of a good under General Note 34, HTSUS, and for purposes of applying the
de minimis
(
see
§ 10.3018) provisions of General Note 34, HTSUS, the value of a material is:
(1) In the case of a material imported by the producer of the good, the adjusted value of the material;
(2) In the case of a material acquired by the producer in the territory where the good is produced, the value, determined in accordance with Articles 1 through 8, Article 15, and the corresponding interpretative notes of the Customs Valuation Agreement, of the material, i.e., in the same manner as for imported goods, with reasonable modifications to the provisions of the Customs Valuation Agreement as may be required due to the absence of an importation by the producer (including, but not limited to, treating a domestic purchase by the producer as if it were a sale for export to the country of importation); or
(3) In the case of a self-produced material, the sum of:
(i) All expenses incurred in the production of the material, including general expenses; and
(ii) An amount for profit equivalent to the profit added in the normal course of trade.
(b)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate application of the principles set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section:

# Example 1.
A producer in Colombia purchases material x from an unrelated seller in Colombia for $100. Under the provisions of Article 1 of the Customs Valuation Agreement, transaction value is the price actually paid or payable for the goods when sold for export to the country of importation adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8. In order to apply Article 1 to this domestic purchase by the producer, such purchase is treated as if it were a sale for export to the country of importation. Therefore, for purposes of determining the adjusted value of material x, Article 1 transaction value is the price actually paid or payable for the goods when sold to the producer in Colombia ($100), adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8. In this example, it is irrelevant whether material x was initially imported into Colombia by the seller (or by anyone else). So long as the producer acquired material x in Colombia, it is intended that the value of material x will be determined on the basis of the price actually paid or payable by the producer adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Article 8.

# Example 2.
Same facts as in Example 1, except that the sale between the seller and the producer is subject to certain restrictions that preclude the application of Article 1. Under Article 2 of the Customs Valuation Agreement, the value is the transaction value of identical goods sold for export to the same country of importation and exported at or about the same time as the goods being valued. In order to permit the application of Article 2 to the domestic acquisition by the producer, it should be modified so that the value is the transaction value of identical goods sold within Colombia at or about the same time the goods were sold to the producer in Colombia. Thus, if the seller of material x also sold an identical material to another buyer in Colombia without restrictions, that other sale would be used to determine the adjusted value of material x.
(c)
Permissible additions to, and deductions from, the value of materials
—(1)
Additions to originating materials.
For originating materials, the following expenses, if not included under paragraph (a) of this section, may be added to the value of the originating material:
(i) The costs of freight, insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in transporting the material within or between the territory of one or both of the Parties to the location of the producer;
(ii) Duties, taxes, and customs brokerage fees on the material paid in the territory of one or both of the Parties, other than duties and taxes that are waived, refunded, refundable, or otherwise recoverable, including credit against duty or tax paid or payable; and
(iii) The cost of waste and spoilage resulting from the use of the material in the production of the good, less the value of renewable scrap or byproducts.
(2)
Deductions from non-originating materials.
For non-originating materials, if included under paragraph (a) of this section, the following expenses may be deducted from the value of the non-originating material:
(i) The costs of freight (“cost of freight” includes the costs of all types of freight, including in-land freight incurred within a Party's territory, regardless of the mode of transportation), insurance, packing, and all other costs incurred in transporting the material within or between the territory of one or both of the Parties to the location of the producer;
(ii) Duties, taxes, and customs brokerage fees on the material paid in the territory of one or both of the Parties,
other than duties and taxes that are waived, refunded, refundable, or otherwise recoverable, including credit against duty or tax paid or payable;
(iii) The cost of waste and spoilage resulting from the use of the material in the production of the good, less the value of renewable scrap or by-products; and
(iv) The cost of originating materials used in the production of the non-originating material in the territory of one or both of the Parties.
(d)
Accounting method.
Any cost or value referenced in General Note 34, HTSUS, and this subpart, must be recorded and maintained in accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles applicable in the territory of the Party in which the good is produced.
[77 FR 59069, Sept. 26, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 60193, Oct. 1, 2013]
§ 10.3017
Accumulation.
(a) Originating materials from the territory of a Party that are used in the production of a good in the territory of another Party will be considered to originate in the territory of that other Party.
(b) A good that is produced in the territory of one or both of the Parties by one or more producers is an originating good if the good satisfies the requirements of § 10.3014 and all other applicable requirements of General Note 34, HTSUS.
§ 10.3018
De minimis.
(a)
General.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a good that does not undergo a change in tariff classification pursuant to General Note 34, HTSUS, is an originating good if:
(1) The value of all non-originating materials used in the production of the good that do not undergo the applicable change in tariff classification does not exceed 10 percent of the adjusted value of the good;
(2) The value of the non-originating materials described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is included in the value of non-originating materials for any applicable regional value content requirement for the good under General Note 34, HTSUS; and
(3) The good meets all other applicable requirements of General Note 34, HTSUS.
(b)
Exceptions.
Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to:
(1) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 4, HTSUS, or a non-originating dairy preparation containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 1901.90 or 2106.90, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in Chapter 4, HTSUS;
(2) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 4, HTSUS, or a non-originating dairy preparation containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 1901.90, HTSUS, which is used in the production of the following goods:
(i) Infant preparations containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 1901.10, HTSUS;
(ii) Mixes and doughs, containing over 25 percent by weight of butterfat, not put up for retail sale, provided for in subheading 1901.20, HTSUS;
(iii) Dairy preparations containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 1901.90 or 2106.90, HTSUS;
(iv) Goods provided for in heading 2105, HTSUS;
(v) Beverages containing milk provided for in subheading 2202.90, HTSUS; or
(vi) Animal feeds containing over 10 percent by weight of milk solids provided for in subheading 2309.90, HTSUS;
(3) A non-originating material provided for in heading 0805, HTSUS, or any of subheadings 2009.11 through 2009.39, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in any of subheadings 2009.11 through 2009.39, HTSUS, or in fruit or vegetable juice of any single fruit or vegetable, fortified with minerals or vitamins, concentrated or unconcentrated, provided for in subheading 2106.90 or 2202.90, HTSUS;
(4) A non-originating material provided for in heading 0901 or 2101, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in heading 0901 or 2101, HTSUS;
(5) A non-originating material provided for in headings 1501 through 1508,
HTSUS, or headings 1511 through 1515, HTSUS;
(6) A non-originating material provided for in heading 1701, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in any of headings 1701 through 1703, HTSUS;
(7) A non-originating material provided for in Chapter 17, HTSUS, that is used in the production of a good provided for in subheading 1806.10, HTSUS; or
(8) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(7) of this section and General Note 34, HTSUS, a non-originating material used in the production of a good provided for in any of Chapters 1 through 24, HTSUS, unless the non-originating material is provided for in a different subheading than the good for which origin is being determined under this subpart.
(c)
Textile and apparel goods
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a textile or apparel good that is not an originating good because certain fibers or yarns used in the production of the component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good do not undergo an applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 34, HTSUS, will nevertheless be considered to be an originating good if:
(i) The total weight of all such fibers or yarns in that component is not more than 10 percent of the total weight of that component; or
(ii) The yarns are nylon filament yarns (other than elastomeric yarns) that are provided for in subheading 5402.11.30, 5402.11.60, 5402.19.30, 5402.19.60, 5402.31.30, 5402.31.60, 5402.32.30, 5402.32.60, 5402.45.10, 5402.45.90, 5402.51.00, or 5402.61.00, HTSUS, and that are products of Canada, Mexico, or Israel.
(2)
Exception for goods containing elastomeric yarns.
A textile or apparel good containing elastomeric yarns (excluding latex) in the component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good will be considered an originating good only if such yarns are wholly formed in the territory of a Party. For purposes of this paragraph, “wholly formed” means that all the production processes and finishing operations, starting with the extrusion of all filaments, strips, films, or sheets, or the spinning of all fibers into yarn, or both, and ending with a finished yarn or plied yarn, took place in the territory of a Party.
(3)
Yarn, fabric, or fiber.
For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, in the case of a textile or apparel good that is a yarn, fabric, or fiber, the term “component of the good that determines the tariff classification of the good” means all of the fibers in the good.
§ 10.3019
Fungible goods and materials.
(a)
General.
A person claiming that a fungible good or material is an originating good may base the claim either on the physical segregation of the fungible good or material or by using an inventory management method with respect to the fungible good or material. For purposes of this section, the term “inventory management method” means:
(1) Averaging;
(2) “Last-in, first-out;”
(3) “First-in, first-out;” or
(4) Any other method that is recognized in the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles of the Party in which the production is performed or otherwise accepted by that country.
(b)
Duration of use.
A person selecting an inventory management method under paragraph (a) of this section for a particular fungible good or material must continue to use that method for that fungible good or material throughout the fiscal year of that person.
§ 10.3020
Accessories, spare parts, or tools.
(a)
General.
Accessories, spare parts, or tools that are delivered with a good and that form part of the good's standard accessories, spare parts, or tools will be treated as originating goods if the good is an originating good, and will be disregarded in determining whether all the non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo an applicable change in tariff classification specified in General Note 34, HTSUS, provided that:
(1) The accessories, spare parts, or tools are classified with, and not invoiced separately from, the good, regardless of whether they are specified
or separately identified in the invoice for the good; and
(2) The quantities and value of the accessories, spare parts, or tools are customary for the good.
(b)
Regional value content.
If the good is subject to a regional value content requirement, the value of the accessories, spare parts, or tools is taken into account as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of the good under § 10.3015.
§ 10.3021
Goods classifiable as goods put up in sets.
Notwithstanding the specific rules set forth in General Note 34, HTSUS, goods classifiable as goods put up in sets for retail sale as provided for in General Rule of Interpretation 3, HTSUS, will not be considered to be originating goods unless:
(a) Each of the goods in the set is an originating good; or
(b) The total value of the non-originating goods in the set does not exceed;
(1) In the case of textile or apparel goods, 10 percent of the adjusted value of the set; or
(2) In the case of a good other than a textile or apparel good, 15 percent of the adjusted value of the set.
§ 10.3022
Retail packaging materials and containers.
(a)
Effect on tariff shift rule.
Packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale, if classified with the good for which preferential tariff treatment under the CTPA is claimed, will be disregarded in determining whether all non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo the applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 34, HTSUS.
(b)
Effect on regional value content calculation.
If the good is subject to a regional value content requirement, the value of such packaging materials and containers will be taken into account as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of the good.

# Example 1.
Colombian Producer A of good C imports 100 non-originating blister packages to be used as retail packaging for good C. As provided in § 10.3016(a)(1), the value of the blister packages is their adjusted value, which in this case is $10. Good C has a regional value content requirement. The United States importer of good C decides to use the build-down method, RVC = ((AV − VNM)/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.3015(b)), in determining whether good C satisfies the regional value content requirement. In applying this method, the non-originating blister packages are taken into account as non-originating. As such, their $10 adjusted value is included in the VNM, value of non-originating materials, of good C.

# Example 2.
Same facts as in Example 1, except that the blister packages are originating. In this case, the adjusted value of the originating blister packages would
not
be included as part of the VNM of good C under the build-down method. However, if the U.S. importer had used the build-up method, RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.3015(c)), the adjusted value of the blister packaging would be included as part of the VOM, value of originating materials.
§ 10.3023
Packing materials and containers for shipment.
(a)
Effect on tariff shift rule.
Packing materials and containers for shipment, as defined in § 10.3013(n), are to be disregarded in determining whether the non-originating materials used in the production of the good undergo an applicable change in tariff classification set out in General Note 34, HTSUS. Accordingly, such materials and containers are not required to undergo the applicable change in tariff classification even if they are non-originating.
(b)
Effect on regional value content calculation.
Packing materials and containers for shipment, as defined in § 10.3013(n), are to be disregarded in determining the regional value content of a good imported into the United States. Accordingly, in applying the build-down, build-up, or net cost method for determining the regional value content of a good imported into the United States, the value of such packing materials and containers for shipment (whether originating or non-originating) is disregarded and not included in AV, adjusted value, VNM, value of non-originating materials, VOM, value of originating materials, or NC, net cost of a good.

# Example.
Colombian producer A produces good C. Producer A ships good C to the United States in a shipping container that it purchased from Company B in Colombia. The shipping container is originating. The value
of the shipping container determined under section § 10.3016(a)(2) is $3. Good C is subject to a regional value content requirement. The transaction value of good C is $100, which includes the $3 shipping container. The U.S. importer decides to use the build-up method, RVC = (VOM/AV) × 100 (
see
§ 10.3015(c)), in determining whether good C satisfies the regional value content requirement. In determining the AV, adjusted value, of good C imported into the U.S., paragraph (b) of this section and the definition of AV require a $3 deduction for the value of the shipping container. Therefore, the AV is $97 ($100-$3). In addition, the value of the shipping container is disregarded and not included in the VOM, value of originating materials.
§ 10.3024
Indirect materials.
An indirect material, as defined in § 10.3013(h), will be considered to be an originating material without regard to where it is produced.

# Example.
Colombian Producer A produces good C using non-originating material B. Producer A imports non-originating rubber gloves for use by workers in the production of good C. Good C is subject to a tariff shift requirement. As provided in § 10.3014(b)(1) and General Note 34, each of the non-originating materials in good C must undergo the specified change in tariff classification in order for good C to be considered originating. Although non-originating material B must undergo the applicable tariff shift in order for good C to be considered originating, the rubber gloves do not because they are indirect materials and are considered originating without regard to where they are produced.
§ 10.3025
Transit and transshipment.
(a)
General.
A good that has undergone production necessary to qualify as an originating good under § 10.3014 will not be considered an originating good if, subsequent to that production, the good:
(1) Undergoes further production or any other operation outside the territories of the Parties, other than unloading, reloading, or any other operation necessary to preserve the good in good condition or to transport the good to the territory of a Party; or
(2) Does not remain under the control of customs authorities in the territory of a non-Party.
(b)
Documentary evidence.
An importer making a claim that a good is originating may be required to demonstrate, to CBP's satisfaction, that the conditions and requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section were met. An importer may demonstrate compliance with this section by submitting documentary evidence. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, bills of lading, airway bills, packing lists, commercial invoices, receiving and inventory records, and customs entry and exit documents.

# Origin Verifications and Determinations
§ 10.3026
Verification and justification of claim for preferential tariff treatment.
(a)
Verification.
A claim for preferential tariff treatment made under § 10.3003(b) or § 10.3011, including any statements or other information submitted to CBP in support of the claim, will be subject to such verification as the Center director deems necessary. In the event that the Center director is provided with insufficient information to verify or substantiate the claim, or the Center director finds a pattern of conduct, indicating that an importer, exporter, or producer has provided false or unsupported declarations or certifications, or the exporter or producer fails to consent to a verification visit, the Center director may deny the claim for preferential treatment. A verification of a claim for preferential tariff treatment under CTPA for goods imported into the United States may be conducted by means of one or more of the following:
(1) Written requests for information from the importer, exporter, or producer;
(2) Written questionnaires to the importer, exporter, or producer;
(3) Visits to the premises of the exporter or producer in the territory of Colombia, to review the records of the type referred to in § 10.3009(c)(1) or to observe the facilities used in the production of the good, in accordance with the framework that the Parties develop for conducting verifications; and
(4) Such other procedures to which the Parties may agree.
(b)
Applicable accounting principles.
When conducting a verification of origin to which Generally Accepted Accounting Principles may be relevant, CBP will apply and accept the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
applicable in the country of production.
§ 10.3027
Special rule for verifications in Colombia of U.S. imports of textile and apparel goods.
(a)
Procedures to determine whether a claim of origin is accurate
—(1)
General.
For the purpose of determining that a claim of origin for a textile or apparel good is accurate, CBP may request that the Government of Colombia conduct a verification, regardless of whether a claim is made for preferential tariff treatment.
(2)
Actions during a verification.
While a verification under this paragraph is being conducted, CBP, if directed by the President, may take appropriate action, which may include:
(i) Suspending the application of preferential tariff treatment to the textile or apparel good for which a claim for preferential tariff treatment has been made, if CBP determines there is insufficient information to support the claim;
(ii) Denying the application of preferential tariff treatment to the textile or apparel good for which a claim for preferential tariff treatment has been made that is the subject of a verification if CBP determines that a person has provided incorrect information to support the claim;
(iii) Detention of any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the person subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information to determine the country of origin of any such good; and
(iv) Denying entry to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the person subject to the verification if CBP determines that the person has provided incorrect information as to the country of origin of any such good.
(3)
Actions following a verification.
On completion of a verification under this paragraph, CBP, if directed by the President, may take appropriate action which may include:
(i) Denying the application of preferential tariff treatment to the textile or apparel good for which a claim for preferential tariff treatment has been made that is the subject of a verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information, or that the person has provided incorrect information, to support the claim; and
(ii) Denying entry to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the person subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information to determine, or that the person has provided incorrect information as to, the country of origin of any such good.
(b)
Procedures to determine compliance with applicable customs laws and regulations of the United States
—(1)
General.
For purposes of enabling CBP to determine that an exporter or producer is complying with applicable customs laws, regulations, and procedures regarding trade in textile and apparel goods, CBP may request that the government of Colombia conduct a verification.
(2)
Actions during a verification.
While a verification under this paragraph is being conducted, CBP, if directed by the President, may take appropriate action which may include:
(i) Suspending the application of preferential tariff treatment to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the person subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information to support a claim for preferential tariff treatment with respect to any such good;
(ii) Denying the application of preferential tariff treatment to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the person subject to the verification if CBP determines that the person has provided incorrect information to support a claim for preferential tariff treatment with respect to any such good;
(iii) Detention of any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the person subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information to determine the country of origin of any such good; and
(iv) Denying entry to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the person subject to the verification if CBP determines that the person has provided incorrect information as to the country of origin of any such good.
(3)
Actions following a verification.
On completion of a verification under this paragraph, CBP, if directed by the
President, may take appropriate action which may include:
(i) Denying the application of preferential tariff treatment to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the person subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information, or that the person has provided incorrect information, to support a claim for preferential tariff treatment with respect to any such good; and
(ii) Denying entry to any textile or apparel good exported or produced by the person subject to the verification if CBP determines there is insufficient information to determine, or that the person has provided incorrect information as to, the country of origin of any such good.
(c)
Action by U.S. officials in conducting a verification abroad.
U.S. officials may undertake or assist in a verification under this section by conducting visits in the territory of Colombia, along with the competent authorities of Colombia, to the premises of an exporter, producer, or any other person involved in the movement of textile or apparel goods from Colombia to the United States.
(d)
Denial of permission to conduct a verification.
If a person does not consent to a verification under this section, CBP may deny preferential tariff treatment to the type of goods of the person that would have been the subject of the verification.
(e)
Continuation of appropriate action.
CBP may continue to take appropriate action under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section until it receives information sufficient to enable it to make the determination described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
[77 FR 59069, Sept. 26, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 60193, Oct. 1, 2013]
§ 10.3028
Issuance of negative origin determinations.
If, as a result of an origin verification initiated under this subpart, CBP determines that a claim for preferential tariff treatment under this subpart should be denied, it will issue a determination in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system to the importer that sets forth the following:
(a) A description of the good that was the subject of the verification together with the identifying numbers and dates of the import documents pertaining to the good;
(b) A statement setting forth the findings of fact made in connection with the verification and upon which the determination is based; and
(c) With specific reference to the rules applicable to originating goods as set forth in General Note 34, HTSUS, and in §§ 10.3013 through 10.3025, the legal basis for the determination.
§ 10.3029
Repeated false or unsupported preference claims.
Where verification or other information reveals a pattern of conduct by an importer, exporter, or producer of false or unsupported representations that goods qualify under the CTPA rules of origin set forth in General Note 34, HTSUS, CBP may suspend preferential tariff treatment under the CTPA to entries of identical goods covered by subsequent representations by that importer, exporter, or producer until CBP determines that representations of that person are in conformity with General Note 34, HTSUS.

# Penalties
§ 10.3030
General.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, all criminal, civil, or administrative penalties which may be imposed on U.S. importers, exporters, and producers for violations of the customs and related laws and regulations will also apply to U.S. importers, exporters, and producers for violations of the laws and regulations relating to the CTPA.
§ 10.3031
Corrected claim or certification by importers.
An importer who makes a corrected claim under § 10.3003(c) will not be subject to civil or administrative penalties under 19 U.S.C. 1592 for having made an incorrect claim or having submitted an incorrect certification, provided that the corrected claim is promptly and voluntarily made.
§ 10.3032
Corrected certification by U.S. exporters or producers.
Civil or administrative penalties provided for under 19 U.S.C. 1592 will not be imposed on an exporter or producer in the United States who promptly and voluntarily provides written notification pursuant to § 10.3009(b) with respect to the making of an incorrect certification.
§ 10.3033
Framework for correcting claims or certifications.
(a) “
Promptly and voluntarily” defined.
Except as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, for purposes of this subpart, the making of a corrected claim or certification by an importer or the providing of written notification of an incorrect certification by an exporter or producer in the United States will be deemed to have been done promptly and voluntarily if:
(1)(i) Done before the commencement of a formal investigation, within the meaning of § 162.74(g) of this chapter; or
(ii) Done before any of the events specified in § 162.74(i) of this chapter have occurred; or
(iii) Done within 30 days after the importer, exporter, or producer initially becomes aware that the claim or certification is incorrect; and
(2) Accompanied by a statement setting forth the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section; and
(3) In the case of a corrected claim or certification by an importer, accompanied or followed by a tender of any actual loss of duties and merchandise processing fees, if applicable, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Exception in cases involving fraud or subsequent incorrect claims
—(1)
Fraud.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a person who acted fraudulently in making an incorrect claim or certification may not make a voluntary correction of that claim or certification. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “fraud” will have the meaning set forth in paragraph (C)(3) of appendix B to part 171 of this chapter.
(2)
Subsequent incorrect claims.
An importer who makes one or more incorrect claims after becoming aware that a claim involving the same merchandise and circumstances is invalid may not make a voluntary correction of the subsequent claims pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Statement.
For purposes of this subpart, each corrected claim or certification must be accompanied by a statement, submitted in writing or via an authorized electronic data interchange system, which:
(1) Identifies the class or kind of good to which the incorrect claim or certification relates;
(2) In the case of a corrected claim or certification by an importer, identifies each affected import transaction, including each port of importation and the approximate date of each importation;
(3) Specifies the nature of the incorrect statements or omissions regarding the claim or certification; and
(4) Sets forth, to the best of the person's knowledge, the true and accurate information or data which should have been covered by or provided in the claim or certification, and states that the person will provide any additional information or data which is unknown at the time of making the corrected claim or certification within 30 days or within any extension of that 30-day period as CBP may permit in order for the person to obtain the information or data.
(d)
Tender of actual loss of duties.
A U.S. importer who makes a corrected claim must tender any actual loss of duties at the time of making the corrected claim, or within 30 days thereafter, or within any extension of that 30-day period as CBP may allow in order for the importer to obtain the information or data necessary to calculate the duties owed.

# Goods Returned After Repair or Alteration
§ 10.3034
Goods re-entered after repair or alteration in Colombia.
(a)
General.
This section sets forth the rules which apply for purposes of obtaining duty-free treatment on goods returned after repair or alteration in Colombia as provided for in subheadings 9802.00.40 and 9802.00.50, HTSUS. Goods returned after having been repaired or altered in Colombia,
regardless of whether such repair or alteration could be performed in the territory of the Party from which the good was exported for repair or alteration, are eligible for duty-free treatment, provided that the requirements of this section are met. For purposes of this section, “repairs or alterations” means restoration, addition, renovation, re-dyeing, cleaning, re-sterilizing, or other treatment that does not destroy the essential characteristics of, or create a new or commercially different good from, the good exported from the United States. The term “repairs or alterations” does not include an operation or process that transforms an unfinished good into a finished good.
(b)
Goods not eligible for duty-free treatment after repair or alteration.
The duty-free treatment referred to in paragraph (a) of this section will not apply to goods which, in their condition as exported from the United States to Colombia, are incomplete for their intended use and for which the processing operation performed in Colombia constitutes an operation that is performed as a matter of course in the preparation or manufacture of finished goods.
(c)
Documentation.
The provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of § 10.8, relating to the documentary requirements for goods entered under subheading 9802.00.40 or 9802.00.50, HTSUS, will apply in connection with the entry of goods which are returned from Colombia after having been exported for repairs or alterations and which are claimed to be duty free.
[77 FR 59069, Sept. 26, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 60193, Oct. 1, 2013]
Pt. 11

# PART 11—PACKING AND STAMPING; MARKING

# Packing and Stamping
Sec.
11.1
Cigars, cigarettes, medicinal preparations, and perfumery.
11.2
Manufactured tobacco.
11.2a
Release from Customs custody without payment of tax on cigars, cigarettes and cigarette papers and tubes.
11.3
Package and notice requirements for cigars and cigarettes; package requirements for cigarette papers and tubes.
11.5
[Reserved]
11.6
Distilled spirits, wines, and malt liquors in bulk.
11.7
Distilled spirits and other alcoholic beverages imported in bottles and similar containers; regulations of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.

# Marking
11.9
Special marking on certain articles.
11.12
Labeling of wool products to indicate fiber content.
11.12a
Labeling of fur products to indicate composition.
11.12b
Labeling textile fiber products.
11.13
False designations of origin and false descriptions; false marking of articles of gold or silver.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 19 U.S.C. 66, 1202 (General Note 3(i) and (j), Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States), 1624.

# Packing and Stamping
§ 11.1
Cigars, cigarettes, medicinal preparations, and perfumery.
(a) All cigars and cigarettes imported into the United States, except importations by mail and in baggage, shall be placed in the public stores or in a designated bonded warehouse to remain until inspected, weighed, and repacked, if necessary, under the Customs and internal-revenue laws. However, if the invoice and entry presented specify all of the information necessary for prompt determination of the estimate duty and tax on the packages of cigars and cigarettes covered thereby, the port director may permit designation of less than the entire importation for examination.
(b) After the cigars and cigarettes have been examined, weighed, and appraised, before release the inspecting officer shall verify that they are in properly constructed packages, conforming to the requirements of the regulations of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, bearing a legible imprint or a securely affixed label stating the quantity, kind, and classification for tax purposes as required by such regulations. Cigars or cigarettes must be in compliance with such requirements before being released for consumption unless specifically exempted therefrom as indicated in § 11.3.
(c) The immediate containers of all domestic cigars, cigarettes, medicinal preparations, and perfumery, which are
returned to the United States and are subject to a duty equal to an internal-revenue tax, shall be stamped by Customs. The packaging requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section apply to returned cigars and cigarettes of domestic origin.
[28 FR 14701, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 78-329, 43 FR 43454, Sept. 26, 1978]
§ 11.2
Manufactured tobacco.
(a) If the invoice and entry presented for manufactured tobacco specify all the information necessary for prompt determination of the estimated duty on the manufactured tobacco covered thereby, the port director may permit designation of less than the entire importation for examination.
(b) In the case of returned American manufactured tobacco, the packages shall be marked or stamped by Customs with the inscription “American goods returned.”
[28 FR 14701, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 67-193, 32 FR 11764, Aug. 16, 1967]
§ 11.2a
Release from Customs custody without payment of tax on cigars, cigarettes and cigarette papers and tubes.
Cigars, cigarettes, and cigarette papers and tubes may be released from Customs custody without payment of any applicable internal revenue tax upon presentation of the Customs entry or withdrawal form and three copies of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Form 2145 (5200.11) or 3072 (5210.14), certified by the appropriate regional regulatory administrator, Bureau of Alcohol, and Tobacco and Firearms. The Customs officer shall complete the notice of release, retain one copy, send one copy to the regional regulatory administrator, and return one copy to the manufacturer. The release may not be made under a mail entry. See § 145.13(b) of this chapter.
[T.D. 78-329, 43 FR 43454, Sept. 26, 1978]
§ 11.3
Package and notice requirements for cigars and cigarettes; package requirements for cigarette papers and tubes.
Exemptions from tax on cigars, cigarettes, and cigarette papers and tubes apply in accordance with the regulations of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms (27 CFR part 275) upon release from Customs custody of such articles imported by consular officers and employees of foreign states. Cigars, cigarettes, cigarette papers, and tubes may also be released without payment of tax as provided in § 11.2a and for exhibition in accordance with part 147 of this chapter. Additionally, cigars, cigarettes, or cigarette papers and tubes may be admitted free of duty and tax under the provisions of Subchapter IV, Chapter 98, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202), or section 321, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1321), §§ 148.63, 148.74, and subpart I of part 148 of this chapter. Except in the foregoing instances and in any instance in which such articles are imported in passengers' baggage or are to be released under a mail entry for the personal consumption of the importer or for disposition as his bona fide gift, the provisions in part 275 of the regulations of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms (27 CFR part 275) as to packages and notices thereon apply.
[T.D. 73-27, 38 FR 2449, Jan. 26, 1973, as amended by T.D. 73-227, 38 FR 22548, Aug. 22, 1973; T.D. 78-329, 43 FR 43454, Sept. 26, 1978; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988]
§ 11.5
[Reserved]
§ 11.6
Distilled spirits, wines, and malt liquors in bulk.
(a) The port director, in his discretion, may require marks, brands, stamps, labels, or similar devices to be placed on any bulk container used for holding, storing, transferring, or conveying imported distilled spirits, wines, and malt liquors, in accordance with 19 U.S.C. 467.
(b) Marks, brands, stamps, labels, or similar devices required by Federal, State, or local statute or regulation may be affixed, and Customs inspection, gauging, marking, or measurement may be done, at the place of unlading or other suitable place, unless the port director determines that inspection, gauging, marking, or measurement shall be done at a public store, warehouse, or other appropriate facility.
(c) Marks, brands, stamps, labels, or similar devices shall be permanent in nature and not subject to obliteration or removal as a result of handling or other condtions. The port director shall determine whether a mark, brand, stamp, label, or similar device is acceptable, based on the nature, surface, and composition of the container.
[T.D. 79-221, 44 FR 46813, Aug. 9, 1979; T.D. 80-26, 45 FR 3901, Jan. 21, 1980; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988]
§ 11.7
Distilled spirits and other alcoholic beverages imported in bottles and similar containers; regulations of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms.
The importation of distilled spirits and other alcoholic beverages in bottles and similar containers is subject to regulations of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms relating to strip stamps and other matters. (27 CFR parts 5, 201, and 251). Customs officers and employees shall perform such functions as are necessary or proper on their part to carry out such regulations.
[28 FR 14701, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 78-329, 43 FR 43454, Sept. 26, 1978]

# Marking
§ 11.9
Special marking on certain articles.
(a) No movement, case, or dial provided for in Chapter 91, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS), shall be released for consumption until marked in exact compliance with the requirements of additional U.S. Note 4, Chapter 91. If any article so required to be marked is found not to be marked to indicate the country of origin, the 10 percent marking duty shall be assessed, unless such marking is accomplished or the merchandise is exported or destroyed under Customs supervision prior to the liquidation of the entry, in accordance with the provisions of 19 U.S.C. 1304(f).
(b) The name of the manufacturer or purchaser which must appear on articles provided for Chapter 91, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS), and specified in Additional U.S. Note 4, Chapter 91, may be either the actual name of the manufacturer or purchaser or a duly registered trade name under which such manufacturer or purchaser carries on his business. A trade-mark shall not be accepted as meeting any such special marking requirement unless it includes the full name of the manufacturer or purchaser. The term “Purchaser” as used in this paragraph means the purchaser in the United States by whom or for whose account the articles are imported.
[28 FR 14701, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 90-51, 55 FR 28190, July 10, 1990; T.D. 97-82, 62 FR 51770, Oct. 3, 1997; 62 FR 55512, Oct. 27, 1997]
§ 11.12
Labeling of wool products to indicate fiber content.
(a) Wool products imported into the United States, except those made more than 20 years prior to importation, and except carpets, rugs, mats, and upholsteries, shall have affixed thereto a stamp, tag, label, or other means of identification, as required by the Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939 (54 Stat. 1129; 15 U.S.C. 68
et seq.)
and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder by the Federal Trade Commission (16 CFR part 300). The term “wool product” means any product, or any portion of a product, which contains, purports to contain, or in any way is represented as containing wool, reprocessed wool, or reused wool.
(b) If imported wool products are not correctly labeled and the Center director is satisfied that the error or omission involved no fraud or willful neglect, the importer shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to label the merchandise under Customs supervision to conform with the requirements of such act and the rules and regulations of the Federal Trade Commission. The compensation and expenses of Customs officers and employees assigned to supervise the labeling shall be reimbursed to the Government and shall be assessed in the same manner as in the case of marking of country of origin, § 134.55 of this chapter.
(c) Packages of wool products subject to the provisions of this section which are not designated for examination may be released pending examination of the designated packages, but only if
there shall have been filed in connection with the entry bonds on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 and/or § 113.68 of this chapter, as appropriate, in such amount as the Center director may require.
(d) The Center director shall give written notice to the importer of any lack of compliance with the Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939 in respect of an importation of wool products, and pursuant to § 141.113 of this chapter shall demand the immediate return of the involved products to Customs custody, unless the lack of compliance is forthwith corrected.
(e) If the products covered by a notice and demand given pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section are not promptly returned to Customs custody and the Center director is not fully satisfied that they have been brought into compliance with the Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939, appropriate action shall be taken to effect the collection of liquidated damages in an amount equal to the entered value of the merchandise not redelivered, plus the estimated duty thereon as determined at the time of entry, unless the owner or consignee shall file with the appropriate Customs officer an application for cancellation of the liability incurred under the bond upon the payment as liquidated damages of a lesser amount than the full amount of the liquidated damages incurred, or upon the basis of such other terms and conditions as the Secretary of the Treasury may deem sufficient. The application shall contain a full statement of the reasons for the requested cancellation and shall be in duplicate.
(f) If any fraudulent violation of the act with respect to imported articles comes to the attention of the Center director, the involved merchandise shall be placed under seizure, or a demand shall be made for the redelivery of the merchandise if it has been released from Customs custody, and the case shall be reported to the Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C.
(Sec. 8, 54 Stat. 1132; 15 U.S.C. 68f; R.S. 251, as amended, secs. 623, as amended, 624, 46 Stat. 759, as amended (19 U.S.C. 66, 1623, 1624))
[28 FR 14701, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972; T.D. 73-175, 38 FR 17446, July 2, 1973; T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41167, Oct. 19, 1984; CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93014, Dec. 20, 2016]
§ 11.12a
Labeling of fur products to indicate composition.
(a) Fur products imported into the United States shall have affixed thereto a label as required by section 4 of the Fur Products Labeling Act (15 U.S.C. 69b) and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder by the Federal Trade Commission (16 CFR 301.1-301.49). The term “fur product” means any article of wearing apparel made in whole or in part of fur or used fur; except that such term shall not include such articles as the Federal Trade Commission shall exempt by reason of the relatively small quantity or value of the fur or used fur contained therein.
(b) If imported fur products are not correctly labeled and the Center director is satisfied that the error or omission involved no fraud or willful neglect, the importer shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to label the merchandise under Customs supervision to conform with the requirements of such act and the rules and regulations of the Federal Trade Commission. The compensation and expenses of Customs officers and employees assigned to supervise the labeling shall be reimbursed to the Government and shall be assessed in the same manner as in the case of marking of country of origin, § 134.55 of this chapter.
(c) Packages of fur products subject to the provisions of this section which are not designated for examination may be released pending examination of the designated packages, but only if there shall have been filed in connection with the entry bonds on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 and/or § 113.68 of this chapter, as appropriate, in such amount as the Center director may require.
(d) The Center director shall give written notice to the importer of any lack of compliance with the Fur Products Labeling Act in respect of an importation of fur products, and pursuant to § 141.113 of this chapter shall demand the immediate return of the involved products to Customs custody, unless the lack of compliance is forthwith corrected.
(e) If the products covered by a notice and demand given pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section are not promptly returned to Customs custody and the Center director is not fully satisfied that they have been brought into compliance with the Fur Products Labeling Act, appropriate action shall be taken to effect the collection of liquidated damages in an amount equal to the entered value of the merchandise not redelivered, plus the estimated duty thereon as determined at the time of entry, unless the owner or consignee shall file with the appropriate Customs officer an application for cancellation of the liability incurred under the bond upon the payment as liquidated damages of a lesser amount than the full amount of the liquidated damages incurred, or upon the basis of such other terms and conditions as the Secretary of the Treasury may deem sufficient. The application shall contain a full statement of the reasons for the requested cancellation and shall be in duplicate.
(f) If any fraudulent violation of the act with respect to imported articles comes to the attention of a Center director, the involved merchandise shall be placed under seizure, or a demand shall be made for the redelivery of the merchandise if it has been released from Customs custody, and the case shall be reported to the Federal Trade Commission, Washington, DC 20580.
(Sec. 6, 65 Stat. 178; 15 U.S.C. 69d; R.S. 251, as amended, secs. 623, as amended, 624, 46 Stat. 759, as amended (19 U.S.C. 66, 1623, 1624))
[28 FR 14701, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972; T.D. 73-175, 38 FR 17446, July 2, 1973; T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41167, Oct. 19, 1984; CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93014, Dec. 20, 2016]
§ 11.12b
Labeling textile fiber products.
(a) Textile fiber products imported into the United States shall be labeled or marked in accordance with the Textile Fiber Products Identification Act (15 U.S.C. 70 through 70k) and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder by the Federal Trade Commission (16 CFR part 303) unless exempt from marking or labeling under section 12 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 70i). An invoice or other paper, containing the specified information may be used in lieu of a label where the textile product is not in the form intended for sale, delivery to, or for use by the ultimate consumer. Rule 31 of the Federal Trade Commission (16 CFR 303.31).
(b) If imported fiber products are not correctly labeled and the Center director is satisfied that the error or omission involved no fraud or willful neglect, the importer shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to label the merchandise under customs supervision to conform with the requirements of such Act and the rules and regulations of the Federal Trade Commission. The compensation and expenses of Customs officers and employees assigned to supervise the labeling shall be reimbursed to the Government and shall be assessed in the same manner as in the case of marking of country of origin, § 134.55 of this chapter.
(c) Packages of fiber products subject to the provisions of this section which are not designated for examination may be released pending examination of the designated packages, but only if there shall have been filed in connection with the entry bonds on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 and/or § 113.68 of this chapter, as appropriate, in such amount as the Center director may require.
(d) The Center director shall give written notice to the importer of any lack of compliance with the Fiber Products Identification Act in respect of an importation of fiber products, and pursuant to § 141.113 of this chapter shall demand the immediate return of the involved products to customs custody, unless the lack of compliance is forthwith corrected.
(e) If the products covered by a notice and demand given pursuant to the preceding paragraph are not promptly returned to Customs custody and the Center director is not fully satisfied that they have been brought into compliance with the Fiber Products Identification Act, appropriate action shall be taken to effect the collection of liquidated damages in an amount equal to the entered value of the merchandise not redelivered, plus the estimated duty thereon as determined at the time of entry, unless the owner or consignee shall file with the appropriate Customs officer an application for cancellation of the liability incurred under the bond upon the payment as liquidated damages of a lesser amount than the full amount of the liquidated damages incurred, or upon the basis of such other terms and conditions as the Secretary of the Treasury may deem sufficient. The application shall contain a full statement of the reasons for the requested cancellation and shall be in duplicate.
(f) If any willful or flagrant violation of the Act with respect to the importation of articles comes to the attention of a Center director, the involved merchandise shall be placed under seizure, or a demand shall be made for the redelivery of the merchandise if it has been released from Customs custody, and the case shall be reported to the Federal Trade Commission, Washington DC 20580.
(Sec. 501, 65 Stat. 290, secs. 2-12, 14, 72 Stat. 1717; 15 U.S.C. 70-70k, 31 U.S.C. 483a; R.S. 251, as amended, secs. 623, as amended, 624, 46 Stat. 759, as amended (19 U.S.C. 66, 1623, 1624))
[28 FR 14701, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972; T.D. 73-175, 38 FR 17446, July 2, 1973; T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41167, Oct. 19, 1984; CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93014, Dec. 20, 2016]
§ 11.13
False designations of origin and false descriptions; false marking of articles of gold or silver.
(a) Articles which bear, or the containers which bear, false designations of origin, or false descriptions or representations, including words or other symbols tending falsely to describe or represent the articles, are prohibited importation under 15 U.S.C. 294, 295, 296, 1124, 1125 or 48 U.S.C. 1405q, and shall be detained.
(b) Articles made in whole or in part of gold or silver or alloys thereof imported for sale by manufacturers or dealers which are marked or labeled in a manner indicating a greater degree of fineness than the actual fineness of the gold or silver or alloys thereof, and any plated or filled articles so imported which are marked or labeled to indicate the fineness of the gold or silver and are not also marked or labeled to indicate the plated or filled condition or are marked or labeled with the word “sterling” or the word “coin”, are prohibited importation and shall be detained, and the facts shall be reported to the United States attorney.
(c) Whenever any articles are detained in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this section, and the case of any articles detained under paragraph (b) of this section the United States attorney has indicated that he does not intend to prosecute, the articles shall be seized and forfeited in the usual manner, except that, upon the filing of a petition therefor by the importer prior to final disposition of the articles, the port director may release the articles upon the condition that the prohibited marking be removed or obliterated or that the articles and containers be properly marked to indicate their origin, contents, or condition, or may permit the articles to be exported or destroyed under Customs supervision, and without expense to the Government.
(d) Articles forfeited for violation of section 294, 1124, or 1125, Title 15 and section 545, Title 18, U.S. Code, may be disposed of in accordance with the procedure applicable to other Customs forfeitures, but may not be released from Customs custody except upon the removal by and at the expense of the party in interest of the prohibited
marking by reason of which the articles were seized, except articles disposed of under § 133.52 (a) or (b) of this chapter.
(Secs. 1-5, 34 Stat. 260-262, secs. 42, 43, 60 Stat. 440, 441, sec. 1, 62 Stat. 716, sec. 618, 46 Stat. 757; 15 U.S.C. 294-298, 1124, 1125, 18 U.S.C. 545, 19 U.S.C. 1618)
[28 FR 14701, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 79-159, 44 FR 31967, June 4, 1979; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988]
Pt. 12

# PART 12—SPECIAL CLASSES OF MERCHANDISE

# Food, Drugs, and Cosmetics, Economic Poisons, Hazardous Substances, and Dangerous Caustic or Corrosive Substances
Sec.
12.1
Cooperation with certain agencies; joint regulations.
12.3
Release under bond; liquidated damages.
12.4
Exportation.
12.5
Shipment to other ports.

# Importation of Certain Cheeses
12.6
Affidavits required to accompany entry.

# Milk and Cream
12.7
Permits required for importation.

# Meat and Meat-Food Products
12.8
Inspection; bond; release.
12.9
Release for final delivery to consignee.

# Plants and Plant Products
12.10
Regulations and orders of the Department of Agriculture.
12.11
Requirements for entry and release.
12.12
Release under bond.
12.13
Unclaimed shipments.
12.14
Detention.
12.15
Disposition; refund of duty.

# Agricultural and Vegetable Seeds
12.16
Joint regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Agriculture.

# Viruses, Serums, and Toxins for Treatment of Domestic Animals
12.17
Importation restricted.
12.18
Labels.
12.19
Detention; samples.
12.20
Disposition.

# Viruses, Serums, Toxins, Antitoxins, and Analogous Products for the Treatment of Man
12.21
Licensed establishments.
12.22
Labels; samples.
12.23
Detention; examination; disposition.

# Domestic Animals, Animal Products, and Animal Feeding Materials
12.24
Regulations of the Department of Agriculture.

# Wild Animals, Birds, and Insects
12.26
Importations of wild animals, fish, amphibians, reptiles, mollusks, and crustaceans; prohibited and endangered and threatened species; designated ports of entry; permits required.
12.27
Importation or exportation of wild animals or birds, or the dead bodies thereof illegally captured or killed, etc.
12.28
Importation of wild mammals and birds in violation of foreign law.
12.29
Plumage and eggs of wild birds.
12.30
Whaling.
12.31
Plant pests.
12.32
Honeybees and honeybee semen.

# Tea
12.33
Importation of tea; entry; examination for customs purposes.

# White Phosphorus Matches
12.34
Importation prohibited; certificate of inspection; importer's declaration.
12.35
[Reserved]

# Narcotic Drugs
12.36
Regulations of Bureau of Narcotics.

# Liquors
12.37
Restricted importations.
12.38
Labeling requirements; shipments.

# Unfair Competition
12.39
Imported articles involving unfair methods of competition or practices.

# Immoral Articles
12.40
Seizure; disposition of seized articles; reports to United States attorney.
12.41
Prohibited films.

# Merchandise Produced by Convict, Forced, or Indentured Labor
12.42
Findings of Commissioner of CBP.
12.43
Proof of admissibility.
12.44
Disposition.
12.45
Transportation and marketing of prison-labor products.

# Counterfeit Coins, Obligations, and Other Securities; Illustrations or Reproductions of Coins or Stamps
12.48
Importation prohibited; exceptions to prohibition of importation; procedure.

# Consumer Products and Industrial Equipment Subject to Energy Conservation or Labeling Standards
12.50
Consumer products and industrial equipment subject to energy conservation or labeling standards.

# Fur-Seal or Sea-Otter Skins
12.60
Importation prohibited.
12.61
Fur-seal or sea-otter skins permitted entry.
12.62
Enforcement; duties of Customs officers.
12.63
Seal-skin or sea-otter-skin waste.

# Entry of Motor Vehicles, Engines, and Equipment Containing Engines Under the Clean Air Act, as Amended
12.73
Importation of motor vehicles and motor vehicle engines.
12.74
Importation of nonroad and stationary engines, vehicles, and equipment.

# Motor Vehicles and Motor Vehicle Equipment Manufactured on or After January 1, 1968
12.80
Federal motor vehicle safety standards.

# Safety Standards for Boats and Associated Equipment
12.85
Coast Guard boat and associated equipment safety standards.

# Electronic Products
12.90
Definitions.
12.91
Electronic products offered for importation under the Act.

# Switchblade Knives
12.95
Definitions.
12.96
Imports unrestricted under the Act.
12.97
Importations contrary to law.
12.98
Importations permitted by statutory exceptions.
12.99
Procedures for permitted entry.
12.100
Importations in good faith; common or contract carriage.
12.101
Seizure of prohibited switchblade knives.
12.102
Forfeiture.
12.103
Report to the U.S. Attorney.

# Cultural Property
12.104
Definitions.
12.104a
Importations prohibited.
12.104b
State Parties to the Convention.
12.104c
Importations permitted.
12.104d
Detention of articles; time in which to comply.
12.104e
Seizure and forfeiture.
12.104f
Temporary disposition of materials and articles.
12.104g
Specific items or categories designated by agreements or emergency actions.
12.104h
Exempt materials and articles.
12.104i
Enforcement.
12.104j
Emergency protection for Iraqi cultural antiquities.
12.104k
Emergency protection for Syrian cultural antiquities.

# Pre-Columbian Monumental and Architectural Sculpture and Murals
12.105
Definitions.
12.106
Importation prohibited.
12.107
Importations permitted.
12.108
Detention of articles; time in which to comply.
12.109
Seizure and forfeiture.

# Pesticides and Devices
12.110
Definitions.
12.111
Registration.
12.112
Notice of arrival of pesticides and devices.
12.113
Arrival and entry of shipment of pesticides and devices.
12.114
Release or refusal of delivery.
12.115
Release under bond of shipment detained for examination.
12.116
Samples.
12.117
Procedure after examination.

# Chemical Substances in Bulk and as Part of Mixtures and Articles
12.118
Toxic Substances Control Act.
12.119
Scope.
12.120
Definitions.
12.121
Reporting requirements.
12.122
Detention of certain shipments.
12.123
Procedure after detention.
12.124
Time limitations and extensions.
12.125
Notice of exportation.
12.126
Notice of abandonment.
12.127
Decision to store or dispose.

# Softwood Lumber From Canada
12.140
Entry of softwood lumber products from Canada.
12.142
Entry of softwood lumber and softwood lumber products from any country into the United States.

# Steel Products
12.145
Entry or admission of certain steel products.

# Merchandise Subject to Economic Sanctions
12.150
Merchandise prohibited by economic sanctions; detention; seizure or other disposition; blocked property.
12.151
[Reserved]
12.152
Prohibitions and conditions on the importation and exportation of rough diamonds.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 19 U.S.C. 66, 1202 (General Note 3(i), Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS)), 1624.
Section 12.1 also issued under 21 U.S.C. 371(b);
Section 12.3 also issued under 7 U.S.C. 135h, 21 U.S.C. 381;
Section 12.4 also issued under 21 U.S.C. 381(b);
Section 12.6 also issued under 7 U.S.C. 1854;
Section 12.10 also issued under 7 U.S.C. 151-162;
Section 12.15 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1558;
Section 12.16 also issued under 7 U.S.C. 1592(b);
Sections 12.21 through 12.23 also issued under 42 U.S.C. 262;
Section 12.26 also issued under 18 U.S.C. 42;
Section 12.28 also issued under 18 U.S.C. 42, 19 U.S.C. 1527;
Section 12.34 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1202 (additional U.S. Note to Chapter 36, HTSUS);
Section 12.37 also issued under 27 U.S.C. 203;
Section 12.39 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1337, 1623;
Sections 12.40 and 12.41 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1305;
Sections 12.42 through 12.44 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1307, Pub. L. 105-61 (111 Stat. 1272), and Public L. 114-125 (130 Stat. 122);
Sections 12.73 and 12.74 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1484, 42 U.S.C. 7522, 7601;
Section 12.50 also issued under 42 U.S.C. 6301;
Section 12.85 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1623, 46 U.S.C. 4302, 4306, 4310;
Sections 12.95 through 12.103 also issued under 15 U.S.C. 1241-1245;
Sections 12.104 through 12.104i also issued under 19 U.S.C. 2612;
Section 12.104j also issued under Pub. L. 108-429, 118 Stat. 2600; 19 U.S.C. 2612;
Section 12.104k also issued under Pub. L. 114-151, 130 Stat. 369; 19 U.S.C. 2612;
Sections 12.105 through 12.109 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 2094;
Sections 12.110 through 12.117 also issued under 7 U.S.C. 136
et seq.;
Sections 12.118 through 12.127 also issued under 15 U.S.C. 2601
et seq.;
Section 12.140 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1484, 2416(a), 2171;
Section 12.142 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1484; section 3301 of Pub. L. 110-246.
Section 12.150 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1595a and 1618; 22 U.S.C. 401.
Section 12.152 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1484, 1498; the Clean Diamond Trade Act (Pub. L. 108-19, 117 Stat. 631 (19 U.S.C. 3901 et seq.)); Executive Order 13312 dated July 29, 2003.

# Source:
28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, unless otherwise noted.

# Food, Drugs, and Cosmetics, Economic Poisons, Hazardous Substances, and Dangerous Caustic or Corrosive Substances
§ 12.1
Cooperation with certain agencies; joint regulations.
(a)
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
The importation into the United States of food, drugs, devices, cosmetics, and tobacco products as defined in section 201 (f), (g), (h), and (i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321 (f), (g), (h), (i)) is governed by section 801 of the Act, as amended (21 U.S.C. 381) and regulations issued under authority of section 701(b) of the Act (21 U.S.C. 371(b)) by the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the Secretary of the Treasury (21 CFR 1.83 through 1.99).
(b)
Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act.
The importation of pesticides and devices is governed by section 17(c) of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 136
o
(c)), and regulations issued under the authority of section 17(e) of that Act (7 U.S.C. 1360(e)) by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, as set forth below (§ 12.110
et seq.
).
(c)
Federal Hazardous Substances Act.
The importation of hazardous substances, misbranded hazardous substances, or banned hazardous substances as defined in section 2 of the Federal Hazardous Substances Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 1261), is governed by regulations issued under the authority of sections 10(b) and 14 of the Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 1269, 1273), by the Consumer Product Safety Commission (16 CFR 1500.265 through 1500.272).
[T.D. 68-191, 33 FR 11019, Aug. 2, 1968, as amended by T.D. 75-194, 40 FR 32321, Aug. 1, 1975; T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35475, Aug. 16, 1982; CBP Dec. 10-29, 75 FR 52450, Aug. 26, 2010]
§ 12.3
Release under bond; liquidated damages.
(a)
Release.
No food, drug, device, cosmetic , tobacco product, pesticide, hazardous substance or dangerous caustic or corrosive substance that is the subject of § 12.1 will be released except in accordance with the laws and regulations applicable to the merchandise. When any merchandise that is the subject of § 12.1 is to be released under bond pursuant to regulations applicable to that merchandise, a bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter, will be required.
(b)
Bond amount.
The bond referred to in paragraph (a) of this section must be in a specific amount prescribed by the port director based on the circumstances of the particular case that is either:
(1) Equal to the domestic value (see § 162.43(a) of this chapter) of the merchandise at the time of release as if the merchandise were admissible and otherwise in compliance; or
(2) Equal to three times the value of the merchandise as provided in § 113.62(n)(1) of this chapter.
(c)
Liquidated damages.
Whenever liquidated damages arise with regard to any food, drug, device or cosmetic subject to § 12.1(a) for failure to redeliver merchandise into Customs custody or for failure to rectify any noncompliance with the applicable provisions of admission, including the failure to export or destroy the merchandise within the time period prescribed by law after the merchandise has been refused admission pursuant to the provisions of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, those liquidated damages will be assessed pursuant to § 113.62(n)(1) of this chapter in the amount of the bond prescribed under paragraph (b) of this section.
[T.D. 01-26, 66 FR 16853, Mar. 28, 2001; CBP Dec. 08-46, 73 FR 71780, Nov. 25, 2008; CBP Dec. 10-29, 75 FR 52451, Aug. 26, 2010; CBP Dec. 18-05, 83 FR 27404, June 12, 2018]
§ 12.4
Exportation.
The exportation of merchandise, the subject of § 12.1, refused admission into the United States in accordance with regulations applicable thereto shall be under Customs supervision in accordance with the regulations set forth in §§ 18.25 and 18.26 of this chapter.
[T.D. 68-191, 33 FR 11019, Aug. 2, 1968]
§ 12.5
Shipment to other ports.
When imported merchandise, the subject of § 12.1, is shipped to another port for reconditioning or exportation, such shipment must be made in the same manner as shipments in bond in accordance with the requirements of part 18 of this chapter.
[CBP Dec. 17-13, 82 FR 45394, Sept. 28, 2017]

# Importation of Certain Cheeses
§ 12.6
Affidavits required to accompany entry.
(a) Cheeses produced in the member states of the European Communities shall not be permitted entry into the Customs territory of the United States (excluding Puerto Rico) if exported from any country or area other than the country of origin, or into Puerto Rico, unless accompanied by:
(1) An affidavit, or its electronic equivalent, in the event of shipments into the Customs territory of the United States (excluding Puerto Rico), of the producer or exporter that the cheese has not received and will not receive restitution payments of the type referred to in Executive Order No. 11851, dated April 10, 1975 (40 FR 16645); or
(2) An affidavit, or its electronic equivalent, in the event of shipments into Puerto Rico, of the importer that the cheese will be consumed in Puerto Rico or areas outside the Customs territory of the United States. Proof of actual consumption shall be furnished to the appropriate Customs officer within three years after the date such cheese is entered or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption.
(b) These affidavits shall not be required to accompany importations of cheese produced in the member states of the European Communities if such cheese is shipped directly to the United States (excluding Puerto Rico) from the country of origin on a through bill of lading.
[T.D. 75-210, 40 FR 36767, Aug. 22, 1975, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61285, Oct. 13, 2015]

# Milk and Cream
§ 12.7
Permits required for importation.
(a) Under the Act of February 15, 1927 (44 Stat. 1101, as amended, 21 U.S.C. 141-149), commonly known as the Federal Import Milk Act, the importation into the United States of milk and cream is prohibited unless the person by whom such milk or cream is shipped or transported into the United States holds a valid permit, or its electronic equivalent, from the Department of Health and Human Services. Such permits become invalid at the end of one year unless applications for renewal are filed prior to the date of expiration.
(b) The regulations of the Department of Health and Human Services under the said act require that each container of milk or cream shipped or transported into the United States by a permittee shall have firmly attached thereto a tag showing in clear and legible type the product (raw milk, pasteurized milk, raw cream, or pasteurized cream) the permit number and the name and address of the shipper; except that in case of unit shipments consisting of milk only or cream only under one permit number, each container need not be so marked if the vehicle of transportation is sealed and tagged with the above-mentioned tag. In such case the tag is required to show, in addition to the other required information, the number of containers and the contents of each. Customs officers shall not permit the importation of any milk or cream that is not tagged in accordance with such regulations.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35475, Aug. 16, 1982; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61285, Oct. 13, 2015]

# Meat and Meat-Food Products
§ 12.8
Inspection; bond; release.
(a) All imported meat and meat-food products offered for entry into the United States are subject to the regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Agriculture under the Animal Health Protection Act. (7 U.S.C. 8301,
et seq.
). The term “meat and meat-food products,” for the purpose of this section, shall include any imported article of food or any imported article which enters or may enter into the composition of food for human consumption, which is derived or prepared in whole or in part from any portion of the carcass of any cattle, sheep, swine, or goat, if such portion is all or a considerable and definite portion of the article, except such articles as organotherapeutic substances, meat juice, meat extract, and the like, which are only for medicinal purposes and are advertised only to the medical profession. Such meat and meat-food products will not be released from CBP custody prior to inspection by an inspector of the Food Safety and Inspection Service, Meat and Poultry Inspection, except when authority is given by such inspector for inspection at the importer's premises or other place not under CBP supervision. In such case a bond for the return to CBP custody of the merchandise shall be given by the consignee or agent on CBP Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter, and the conveyances or packages in which such merchandise is removed to the place of examination shall be sealed or corded and sealed by a customs officer or an inspector of the Food Safety and Inspection Service, Meat and Poultry Inspection, with import-meat seals furnished by the Department of Agriculture unless bearing United States CBP seals, or in the case of packages otherwise identified as provided for in this section. When cording is necessary for proper sealing, the cords shall be furnished and affixed by the importer or his agent. Import-meat seals or cords and seals may be broken only by a CBP officer or inspector of the Meat Inspection Division, Agricultural Research Service.
In lieu of cording and sealing packages, the carrier or importer may furnish and attach to each package of product a warning notice on bright yellow paper, not less than 5 by 8 inches in size, containing the following legend in black type of a conspicuous size:
(Name of Truck Line or Carrier)

# Notice
This package of meat or meat product must be delivered intact to an inspector of the Meat Inspection Division, U.S. Department of Agriculture.

# Warning
Failure to comply with these instructions will result in penalty action being taken against the holder of the CBP entry bond.
If the product is found to be acceptable upon inspection the package will be marked “U.S. Inspected and Passed” and this warning notice defaced.
(b) Liquidated damages assessed for breach of a bond taken under this section, if not in excess of the Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer's delegated authority, and if a written application for relief is filed, may be canceled by the port director upon the payment of less than the full amount as he shall deem appropriate, or without the payment of any amount, as may be deemed appropriate, but the Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer shall not act under this paragraph unless the officer in charge of the local office of the Food Safety and Inspection Service, Meat and Poultry Inspection, Department of Agriculture, is in full agreement with the proposed action. If there is no local inspector of the Food Safety and Inspection Service, Meat and Poultry Inspection, the port director shall not act unless he has obtained the full agreement of the Food Safety and Inspection Service, Meat and Poultry Inspection in Washington.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 78-99, 43 FR 13060, Mar. 29, 1978; T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35476, Aug. 16, 1982; T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41167, Oct. 19, 1984; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13675, Mar. 22, 1999; T.D. 99-64, 64 FR 43265, Aug. 10, 1999; T.D. 00-57, 65 FR 53574, Sept. 5, 2000; CBP Dec. 10-29, 75 FR 52451, Aug. 26, 2010]
§ 12.9
Release for final delivery to consignee.
No meat, meat-food products, or animal casings shall be released for final delivery to the consignee until the port director is advised by the Department of Agriculture, or its representative, that the merchandise is admissible.

# Plants and Plant Products
§ 12.10
Regulations and orders of the Department of Agriculture.
The importation into the United States of plants and plant products is subject to regulations and orders of the Department of Agriculture restricting or prohibiting the importation of such plants and plant products. Customs officers and employees shall perform such functions as are necessary or proper on their part to carry out such regulations and orders of the Department of Agriculture and the provisions of law under which they are made.
§ 12.11
Requirements for entry and release.
(a) The importer or his representative shall submit to the director of the port of first arrival, for each entry of plants or plant products requiring a plant quarantine permit, a notice of arrival, or its electronic equivalent, for any type of entry except rewarehouse and informal mail entries. Such notice shall be on a form, or its electronic equivalent, provided for the purpose by the Department of Agriculture. The director of the port of arrival shall compare the notice of arrival, or its electronic equivalent, which he receives from the importer or his representative with the shipping documents, certify its agreement therewith, and transmit it, together with any accompanying certificates or other documents pertaining to the sanitary status of the shipment, to the Department of Agriculture. The merchandise may not be moved, stored, or otherwise disposed of until the notice of arrival, or its electronic equivalent, has been submitted and release for the intended purpose has been authorized by an inspector of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs.
(b) Where plant or plant products are shipped from the port of first arrival to another port or place for inspection or other treatment by a representative of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs and all CBP requirements for the release of the merchandise have been met, the merchandise must be forwarded as an in-bond shipment pursuant to part 18 of this chapter to the representative of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs at the place at which the inspection or other treatment is to
take place. No further release by the port director will be required.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 78-99, 43 FR 13060, Mar. 29, 1978; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61285, Oct. 13, 2015; CBP Dec. 17-13, 82 FR 45394, Sept. 28, 2017]
§ 12.12
Release under bond.
Plants or plant products which require fumigation, disinfection, sterilization, or other treatment as a condition of entry may be released to the permittee for treatment at a plant approved by the Department of Agriculture upon the giving of a bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter to insure that the merchandise is treated under the supervision and to the satisfaction of an inspector of the Department of Agriculture or returned to Customs custody when demanded by the port director.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41167, Oct. 19, 1984]
§ 12.13
Unclaimed shipments.
(a) If plants or plant products enterable into the United States under the rules and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Agriculture are unclaimed, they may be sold subject to the provisions of subparts C and D of part 127 of this chapter to any person to whom a permit has been issued who can comply with the requirements of the regulations governing the material involved.
(b) Unclaimed plants and plant products not complying with the requirements mentioned in this section shall be destroyed, by burning or otherwise, under Customs supervision.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 74-114, 39 FR 12091, Apr. 3, 1974]
§ 12.14
Detention.
(a) Port directors shall refuse release of all plants or plant products with respect to which a notice of prohibition has been promulgated by the Secretary of Agriculture under any of the various quarantines. If an importer refuses to export a prohibited shipment immediately, the port director shall report the facts to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs and the United States attorney and withhold delivery pending advice from that Department.
(b) In case of doubt as to whether any plant or plant product is prohibited, the port director shall detain it pending advice from the Department of Agriculture.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 78-99, 43 FR 13060, Mar. 29, 1978]
§ 12.15
Disposition; refund of duty.
Plants or plant products which are prohibited admission into the United States under Federal law or regulations and are exported or destroyed under proper supervision are exempt from duty and any duties collected thereon shall be refunded. (See §§ 158.41 and 158.45(c) of this chapter.)
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 72-258, 37 FR 20174, Sept. 27, 1972]

# Agricultural and Vegetable Seeds
§ 12.16
Joint regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Agriculture.
(a) The importation into the United States of agricultural and vegetable seeds and screenings thereof is governed by rules and regulations prescribed jointly by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Agriculture under section 402(b) of the Federal Seed Act of August 9, 1939 (7 CFR part 201).
(b) Under the said joint rules and regulations, port directors are required to draw samples of such seeds and screenings, forward them to the seed laboratories, and notify the owner or consignee that such samples have been drawn and that the shipment shall be held intact pending a decision of the Livestock, Meat, Grain, and Seed Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, in the matter.
(c) It is further provided in said joint rules and regulations that after samples have been drawn such seeds and screenings shall be admitted into the commerce of the United States only if they have been found to meet the requirements of the Federal Seed Act of August 9, 1939, and the said regulations, but if the containers bear sufficient marks of identification the port director may release the shipment,
pending examination and decision in the matter, upon the giving of a bond. The bond shall be filed with the port director on Customs Form 301 and contain the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter. In case of default the port director shall issue a claim for liquidated damages under the bond.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35476, Aug. 16, 1982; T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41167, Oct. 19, 1984; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988]

# Viruses, Serums, and Toxins for Treatment of Domestic Animals
§ 12.17
Importation restricted.
The importation into the United States of viruses, serums, toxins, and analogous products for use in the treatment of domestic animals is prohibited unless the importer holds a permit from the Department of Agriculture covering the specific product. The port director shall notify the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Veterinary Services, Washington, D.C., of the arrival of any such product, and detain it until he shall receive notice from that Department that a permit to import the shipment has been issued.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 78-99, 43 FR 13060, Mar. 29, 1978; T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35476, Aug. 16, 1982; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988]
§ 12.18
Labels.
Each separate container of such virus, serum, toxin, or analogous product imported is required by the regulations of the Department of Agriculture to bear the true name of the product and the permit number assigned by the Department of Agriculture in the following form: “U.S. Veterinary Permit No. ________,” or an abbreviation thereof authorized by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Veterinary Services. Each separate container also shall bear a serial number affixed by the manufacturer for identification of the product with the records of preparation thereof, together with a return date.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 78-99, 43 FR 13060, Mar. 29, 1978]
§ 12.19
Detention; samples.
(a) The port director shall detain all shipments of such products for which no permit to import has been issued pending instructions from the Department of Agriculture.
(b) Samples shall be furnished to the Department of Agriculture upon its request, and the port director shall immediately notify the consignee of any such request.
§ 12.20
Disposition.
Viruses, serums, or toxins rejected by the Department of Agriculture shall be released by the port director to that Department for destruction, or exported under Customs supervision at the expense of the importer if exportation is authorized by the Department of Agriculture.

# Viruses, Serums, Toxins, Antitoxins, and Analogous Products for the Treatment of Man
§ 12.21
Licensed establishments.
The bringing into the United States for sale, barter, or exchange, of any virus, therapeutic serum, toxin, antitoxin, or analogous product, or arsphenamine or its derivatives (or any other trivalent organic arsenic compound), applicable to the prevention, treatment, or cure of diseases or injuries of man is prohibited unless such virus, serum, toxin, antitoxin, or other product has been manufactured at an establishment holding an unsuspended and unrevoked license issued by the Secretary of Health and Human Services for such manufacture.
[T.D. 69-201, 34 FR 14328, Sept. 12, 1969, as amended by T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35476, Aug. 16, 1982]
§ 12.22
Labels; samples.
Each package of such products imported for sale, barter, or exchange shall be labeled or plainly marked with the name, address, and license number of the manufacturer, and the date beyond which the contents cannot be expected to yield their specific results. From each lot of product the port director shall select at random at least
two final containers. The random sample together with a copy of the associated documents which describe and identify the shipment shall be forwarded to the Director, Bureau of Biologics, Food and Drug Administration, 8800 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, Md. 20014. For shipments of 20 or less final containers, samples need not be forwarded, provided a copy of an official release from the Bureau of Biologics accompanies each shipment.
[T.D. 69-201, 34 FR 14328, Sept. 12, 1969, as amended by T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35476, Aug. 16, 1982]
§ 12.23
Detention; examination; disposition.
(a) Port directors shall detain all importations of unlicensed viruses, therapeutic serums, toxins, antitoxins, and analogous products, and arsphenamines or its derivatives (or any other trivalent organic arsenic compound) for the treatment or cure of diseases or injuries of man pending examination by the Director, Bureau of Biologics, unless satisfied from evidence furnished at the time of entry that the products are intended solely for purposes of controlled investigation and not for sale, barter, or exchange, as evidenced by a copy of a filed “Notice of Claimed Investigational Exemption for a New Drug,” pursuant to § 312.1 of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act Regulations (21 CFR 312.1), or are being imported under the short supply provisions of § 601.22 of the Public Health Service Regulations (42 CFR 601.22).
(b) If the shipment is imported for sale, barter, or exchange and is found by the Director, Division of Biologics Standards, to be admissible, the port director shall release it upon receipt of a report from him that the shipment is admissible.
(c) If the Director, Division of Biologics Standards, reports that the shipment was found upon examination not to conform to the law and the regulations, the port director shall not release the shipment but shall permit the exportation or destruction thereof under Customs supervision at the option of the importer.
(d) Shipments of such products for use in the treatment of man but made from or with material of animal origin other than human, shall, unless accompanied by a Department of Agriculture, Veterinary Services, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) permit, be detained until proof is presented to the port director that their importation is not prohibited under 9 CFR part 94 or part 122.
[T.D. 69-201, 34 FR 14328, Sept. 12, 1969, as amended by T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35476, Aug. 16, 1982]

# Domestic Animals, Animal Products, and Animal Feeding Materials
§ 12.24
Regulations of the Department of Agriculture.
(a) The importation into the United States of domestic animals, animal products, and animal feeding materials is subject to inspection and quarantine regulations of the Department of Agriculture, Customs officers and employees are authorized and directed to perform such functions as are necessary or proper on their part to carry out such regulations of the Department of Agriculture.
(b) Inspection by an inspector of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Veterinary Services is required for all horses, cattle, sheep, other ruminants, and swine as a prerequisite to their entry from any foreign country. Orders listing the ports designated as quarantine stations for the inspection and quarantine of animals will be issued by the Secretary of Agriculture, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, whenever conditions warrant.
(c) The entry of domestic animals may be made, but shall not be required, before the expiration of the quarantine period. Such animals, if not entered at the time of arrival, shall be considered as under general order while under quarantine and shall not be released except upon notice from the port director that the importer has complied with all the requirements for entry.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 78-99, 43 FR 13060, Mar. 29, 1978; T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35476, Aug. 16, 1982; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988]

# Wild Animals, Birds, and Insects
§ 12.26
Importations of wild animals, fish, amphibians, reptiles, mollusks, and crustaceans; prohibited and endangered and threatened species; designated ports of entry; permits required.
(a)(1) The importation into the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States of live specimens of:
(i) Any species of the so-called “flying fox” or fruit bat of the genus Pteropus;
(ii) Any species of mongoose or meerkat of the genera Atilax, Cynictis, Helogale, Herpestes, Ichneumia, Mungos, and Suricata;
(iii) Any species of European rabbit the genus Oryctolagus;
(iv) Any species of Indian wild dog, red dog, or dhole of the genus Cuon;
(v) Any species of multimammate rat or mouse of the genus Mastomys;
(vi) Any live specimens or egg of the species of so-called “pink starling” or “rosy pastor” Sturnus roseus;
(vii) The species of dioch (including the subspecies black-fronted, red-billed, or Sudan dioch) Quelea quelea;
(viii) Any species of Java sparrow, Padda oryzivora;
(ix) The species of red-whiskered bulbul, Pycnonotus jocosus;
(x) Any live fish or viable eggs of the family
Clariidae;
(xi) Any other species of wild mammals, wild birds, fish (including mollusks and crustacea), amphibians, reptiles, or the offspring or eggs of any of the foregoing which the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe by regulations to be injurious to human beings, to the interest of agriculture, horticulture, forestry, or to wildlife or the wildlife resources of the United States, is prohibited, except as may be authorized by the issuance of a permit by the Director, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Department of the Interior, Washington, DC 20240, or his authorized representative. If any such prohibited specimen is imported, or if any specie or subspecie of other live or dead fish or wildlife, including any parts, products, or eggs thereof, appearing on the Endangered Species List published by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, is imported, Customs release of the prohibited specimen or endangered fish or wildlife shall be refused unless there has been issued and presented in connection with entry a proper U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service permit authorizing the import transaction. In the absence of such permit, injurious specimens prohibited entry shall be required to be immediately exported or destroyed. Changes in injurious species and endangered species or subspecies which are prohibited or restricted importation may be published from time to time in 50 CFR part 13—Importation of Wildlife or Eggs Thereof or in part 17—Conservation of Endangered Species and Other Fish or Wildlife. Unreleased species or subspecies of live or dead endangered fish or wildlife, including parts, products, or eggs thereof, shall remain under detention subject to seizure and delivery to an appropriate regional director or other agent of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for disposition as appropriate pursuant to 50 CFR part 17.
(2) Fish and eggs of salmonids of the fish family Salmonidae are prohibited entry into the United States for any purpose unless such importations are by direct shipment, accompanied by the signed certification of a qualified fish pathologist in substantially the form as prescribed in 50 CFR 13.7. The following are excepted from the certification requirements:
(i) Salmon landed in North America and brought into the United States for processing or sale;
(ii) Any salmonid caught in the wild in North America under a sport or a commercial fishing license; and
(iii) Fish or eggs of the family Salmonidae when processed or prepared in accordance with 50 CFR 13.7(c), or otherwise exempted from the requirement of certification.
(3) Regulations (50 CFR part 17) require the importer or his agent to file a Declaration for the Importation of Fish or Wildlife, unless it is an import transaction exempted from the requirement by 50 CFR part 13 or part 17. Such declaration on U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Form 3-177, available to importers through Customs ports of entry, shall be filed with the appropriate Customs officer at the port of
entry conducting the actual Customs clearance and release of the declared fish, wild mammal, or bird, amphibian, reptile, mollusk, crustacean, or dead body or egg thereof. The declaration on Form 3-177 shall show the common and scientific names, number, and country of origin of all species or subspecies declared, designate and identify any species listed on the U.S. List of Endangered Foreign Fish and Wildlife, 50 CFR part 17, appendix A, and indicate whether any species is subject to laws and regulations in any foreign country regarding its taking, transportation, or sale. See paragraph (g) of this section for special documentation requirements.
(4) Federal agencies, subject to requirements in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, may import solely for their own use live wildlife except migratory birds, or their eggs, without a permit from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, upon filing the declaration on Form 3-177. Importation of bald or golden eagles, or their eggs is prohibited.
(5) Customs entry for consumption or bonded warehousing of fish and wildlife, as defined in 50 CFR 17.2 (e) and (f), intended for importation into the United States, or admission into a foreign trade zone, shall be filed at a port of entry among those designated for Customs entry in 50 CFR part 17, appendix B. However, Customs entry for consumption or bonded warehousing of shipments subject to emergency diversion or otherwise authorized under regulations or by permit issued by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service pursuant to 50 CFR part 17, appendices B and C, may be filed for examination and release at the ports of entry so named or permitted, but no consumption or bonded warehouse entry shall be filed or accepted at an undesignated port for any endangered specie or subspecie permitted importation pursuant to 50 CFR 17.12 except in the case of an emergency diversion of live endangered fish or wildlife accepted for such entry in accordance with item 2(b) of 50 CFR part 17, appendix B. Importations of fish and wildlife subject to regulations of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service which arrive from abroad at any place in the United States not designated as an authorized port for Customs entry, unless occurring under conditions or circumstances in which Customs entry for consumption or bonded warehousing and final clearance has been authorized by U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service regulations or permit, may be entered only for immediate transportation without appraisement for movement under Customs bond to one of the designated ports of entry. Customs entry, release, and delivery of any shipment of shellfish and fishery products defined in 50 CFR 17.2(j) imported for commercial purposes is authorized at any port of entry, except insofar as such items include any species or subspecies which appears on the Endangered Species List in 50 CFR part 17, appendix A.
(b) Permits are required for the importation of wild animals and birds as follows:
(1) Wild birds protected by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (16 U.S.C. 703 through 711) and the regulations promulgated thereunder (50 CFR part 10), may be imported from foreign countries for scientific, propagating, or other limited purposes only under permits issued by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, United States Department of the Interior, Washington, DC, 20240. State game departments, municipal game farms or parks, and public museums, zoological parks or societies, and scientific or educational institutions may import migratory birds without a permit. Such migratory birds, when imported from Mexico, must be accompanied by Mexican export permits (50 CFR 16.3 and 16.5).
(2) Game mammals (antelopes, mountain sheep, deer, bears, peccaries, squirrels, rabbits, and hares), protected by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (16 U.S.C. 703 through 711), dead or alive, or their parts or products, must be accompanied by Mexican export permits (50 CFR 15.3) when imported from Mexico.
(3) Wild ruminants (all animals which chew the cud, such as cattle, buffaloes, sheep, goats, deer, antelopes, camels, llamas, and giraffes) and swine (various varieties of wild hogs), except from Canada and certain northern States of Mexico may be imported only under a permit from the Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service, Veterinary Services, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Such permits must be obtained before the animals are shipped from the country of exportation. All wild ruminants and swine must be inspected at designated ports of entry by veterinarians of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Veterinary Services, United States Department of Agriculture.
(4) Psittacine birds, which include all birds commonly known as parrots, Amazons, African grays, cockatoos, macaws, parrotlets, beebees, parakeets, lovebirds, lories, lorikeets, and all other birds of the order Psittaciformes, when destined for a zoological park or medical research institution without having had prior confinement and treatment abroad at an approved treatment center, and psittacine birds taken out of the United States but inadmissible under paragraph (c) of this section, may be imported when accompanied by a permit issued by the Surgeon General. Application for such a permit may be made to the Chief, Foreign Quarantine Program, National Communicable Disease Center, U.S. Public Health Service, Atlanta, Ga. 30333, or to a Public Health Service quarantine station established at a port of entry in the United States.
(5) Ducks, geese, swans, turkeys, pigeons, doves, pheasants, grouse, partridges, quail, guinea fowl, and pea fowl, except from Canada, may be imported only under a permit from the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Veterinary Services, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Such permits must be obtained before the birds are shipped from the country of origin. Such birds from Canada must be accompanied by a certificate issued by a Canadian Government veterinarian. All such birds must be inspected at designated ports of entry by veterinarians of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Veterinary Services, United States Department of Agriculture.
(c) Psittacine birds as defined in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, not to exceed two such birds by members of a family comprising a single household in any 12-month period, may be imported under prescribed conditions (see 42 CFR 71.164(e)) without permit and without prior confinement and treatment, to be kept as pets by the owner, who will be required to comply with the Foreign Quarantine Regulations of the U.S. Public Health Service. Birds taken out of the United States and being returned may be admitted, without permit, upon full compliance with prescribed conditions of those regulations for admission of birds imported as pets. No such birds shall be released until the importer has complied with applicable requirements of the Public Health regulations.
(d) Cats, dogs, and monkeys are subject to the Foreign Quarantine Regulations of the United States Public Health Service, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Washington, D.C. Such animals shall not be released until the Public Health regulations are complied with by the importer.
(e) If a shipment contains migratory birds for which a permit is required by the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior, and such permit is not at hand when the birds arrive, an examination thereof shall be made at once by the port director and any duties estimated to be due shall be collected. A stipulation shall be filed with the port director within 24 hours of the entry to produce the necessary permit within 30 days from the date of entry, whereupon final liquidation shall be suspended until the permit is produced or the 30-day period expires. The shipment may be immediately released if a bond is filed with the port director on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter, in an amount equal to the entered value plus estimated duties. If the bond conditions are violated the port director shall issue a claim for liquidated damages under the bond. In lieu of filing a bond the merchandise may be left in Customs custody at the risk and expense of the importer pending issuance of the permit.
(f) If the permit referred to in paragraph (e) of this section is refused by the Fish and Wildlife Service, or if the permit is not produced within the said 30 days, an authorized CBP official
shall promptly recall the property, if delivered under bond, and shall require its immediate exportation at the expense of the importer or consignee.
(g)(1) All import shipments of fish and wildlife subject to the regulations or permit requirements of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, published pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973, 16 U.S.C. 1531, or other statutory authority, shall be subject to examination or inspection by that agency's officer serving the port of entry, for determination as to permissible release or such other disposition as he may direct. Customs officers performing examinations of such fish and wildlife in accordance with regulations of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in 50 CFR part 10 and parts 13 through 17, shall release shipments only upon submission by the importer of evidence sufficient to establish compliance with those regulations, any applicable permit requirements, and compliance with applicable identification and package or container marking requirements as specified by 50 CFR 17.6(a) and 17.9. In case of doubt as to whether fish, birds, or other wildlife belong to prohibited or endangered species or subspecies or whether an entry permit is required, or in case of suspicion on the part of officers of the Customs that the species sought to be entered are prohibited or endangered species or subspecies imported under other names or descriptions, the importation shall be refused Customs release, and the importer shall be responsible for concluding arrangements acceptable to the regional director or other agent of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for proper handling, custody, and care, at the importer's expense and risk, of the unreleased fish, birds, or other wildlife. No Customs disposition of the importation shall be concluded pending the determination by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service of the true nature of the species or subspecies. In case of refusal or neglect of the importer or consignee, or agent of either, to have the identity so established, final disposition of the importation shall be required as determined by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. In addition to U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Form 3-177, required to be filed as prescribed in 50 CFR 17.4 upon entry of importations of fish and wildlife, entrants shall present appropriate foreign export permits, other acceptable foreign documentary evidence of lawful taking, transportation, or sale, or appropriate American consular certificates upon importation of fish and wildlife species or subspecies subject to such documentation requirements of 50 CFR 17.4 (c) and (d).
(2) Any antique article imported under § 10.53(g) of this chapter shall be entered at one of the following ports:
Boston, Massachusetts
New York, New York
Baltimore, Maryland, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Miami, Florida, San Juan, Puerto Rico
New Orleans, Louisiana
Houston, Texas
Los Angeles, California
San Francisco, California
Anchorage, Alaska, Honolulu, Hawaii
O'Hare International Airport, Chicago, Illinois
(h) All invoices of animals and birds shall specify the species covered thereby and the number of each species. In the event of the return to the port director of any importation under the bond given under paragraph (e) of this section, if the number and species of birds does not correspond with the description stated in the invoice and if no satisfactory explanation of any discrepancy is furnished, a claim for liquidated damages shall be issued under the bond.
(i) The privilege of entry for immediate transportation granted by section 552, Tariff Act of 1930, shall not be allowed for importations of fish, birds, or other wildlife which are confirmed at the port of first arrival or discharge to be injurious prohibited species, or which require permits issued prior to importation, or which are subject to quarantine regulations or inspection at the ports of first arrival or discharge or other specified place of veterinary inspection. However, entry for immediate transportation properly is allowed for any importation of fish, birds, or other wildlife which at the place of first arrival or discharge is not confirmed to be an injurious prohibited specie and which, following compliance with any applicable quarantine regulations or required veterinary inspection, is being transported by means of an in-bond
movement to a port of entry designated in 50 CFR part 17, appendix B, for Customs entry (see paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section). Ports of designated entry, inspection, quarantine, and related enforcement procedures covering certain animals and poultry and certain animal and poultry products imported into the United States are regulated by requirements and standards prescribed in regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture, Department of Agriculture (see 9 CFR parts 92-96; 19 CFR 12.8 and 12.24).
(j) Wild animals and birds shall be imported under humane and healthful conditions, due regard being given to the accommodations and facilities necessary for the species transported.
(k) When any Customs officer has good reason to believe that wild animals or birds have been imported under inhumane or unhealthful conditions in violation of 18 U.S.C. 42, an immediate investigation shall be made to ascertain whether they have in fact been transported under such conditions. The investigation shall determine the provisions made on the vessel or other conveyance for the accommodation of the animals or birds, the suitability of the boxes, cages, stalls, etc., the space, ventilation, and protection from the elements accorded the animals or birds, the facilities for cleaning, feeding, watering, bedding, and such other services as may be required for the species imported. The investigation shall also determine, the physical condition of such animals or birds and the ratio of dead, crippled, diseased, or starving animals or birds. If necessary, officers of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Veterinary Services, or Fish and Wildlife Service, or other officers or experts, may be called upon to assist customs officers in the matter.
(l) Unless the port director is satisfied that the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 42 have not been violated, he shall report the matter to the United States attorney for appropriate action.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 12.26, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 12.27
Importation or exportation of wild animals or birds, or the dead bodies thereof illegally captured or killed, etc.
Customs officers shall perform all duties required of them under statutory provisions that prohibit or restrict the importation or exportation of wild animals or birds, or the dead bodies thereof, or the eggs of such birds, killed, captured, taken, transported, etc., contrary to law. Such laws and statutory provisions include 18 U.S.C. 43, 44, 3054, 3112.
[T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988]
§ 12.28
Importation of wild mammals and birds in violation of foreign law.
No imported wild mammal or bird, or part or product thereof, shall be released from Customs custody, except as permitted under § 12.26(i) relating to an in-bond movement to a port designated for wildlife entry, if the port director has knowledge of a foreign law or regulation obliging enforcement of section 527(a), Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1527(a)), unless the importation is an excepted transaction entitled to entry under the provisions of section 527(c) of the Tariff Act or, in connection with the entry, there is presented documentation in the manner specified in 50 CFR 17.4(c) (1) or (2) required for import transactions subject to foreign laws or regulations regarding taking, transportation, or sale of wildlife including wild mammals and birds or parts or products thereof (see § 12.26).
[T.D. 70-242, 35 FR 17994, Nov. 24, 1970, as amended by T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35476, Aug. 16, 1982]
§ 12.29
Plumage and eggs of wild birds.
(a) The provisions of Chapter 5, Additional U.S. Note 1, relating to the plumage of any bird, apply to all such plumage, whether imported separately or upon the bird itself, except (1) the feathers of birds specifically excepted by Additional U.S. Note 1 to Chapter 5, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS), (2) plumage imported for scientific or educational purposes, (3) fully-manufactured artificial flies used for fishing, (4) plumage
on game birds killed in foreign countries by residents of the United States and not imported for sale or other commercial purposes, and (5) plumage on live wild birds.
(b) The feathers or skins of certain birds may be imported for use in the manufacture of artificial flies used for fishing or for millinery purposes only under a permit issued by the Fish and Wildlife Service, United States Department of Interior, Washington DC 20240. No feathers or skins of the pro-species provided for by Additional U.S. Note 1, Chapter 5, HTSUS, shall be permitted to be entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption, unless the requisite permit is presented with the entry or withdrawal.
(c) The importation of the eggs of wild nongame birds is prohibited except as dead natural history specimens for museum or scientific collection purposes. The eggs of migratory birds may be imported for propagating purposes or for scientific and other limited purposes under permits issued by the Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Department of the Interior, Washington, DC 20240. State game departments, municipal game farms or parks, and public museums, zoological parks or societies, and scientific or educational institutions may import the eggs of migratory birds without a permit (50 CFR 16.3). The eggs of certain game or migratory birds imported for hatching, such as ducks, geese, swans, turkeys, pigeons, doves, pheasant, grouse, partridges, quail, guinea fowl, and pea fowl, are subject to the regulations of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Veterinary Services, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Such regulations require that permits, except for eggs from Canada offered for entry at certain land border ports, must be obtained before the eggs are shipped from the country of origin and that all eggs shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by a national government veterinarian of the country of origin and inspected at a designated port of entry.
(d) Upon the attempted importation of eggs of wild birds, the importation of which is prohibited by Chapter 4, Additional U.S. Note 26, the eggs shall be seized and the importer accorded an opportunity to assent to forfeiture. In the event the importer refuses or fails to assent to the forfeiture of the prohibited eggs, the port director shall proceed to forfeit them under the provisions of the tariff act applicable to seizure and forfeiture of merchandise valued at less than $2,500.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 66-68, 31 FR 5358, Apr. 5, 1966; T.D. 78-99, 43 FR 13060, Mar. 29, 1978; T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35476, Aug. 16, 1982; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 97-82, 62 FR 51770, Oct. 3, 1997]
§ 12.30
Whaling.
The importation and exportation of whales or whale products taken or processed in violation of the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling signed at Washington under date of December 2, 1946 (Publication No. 3383, Department of State, Whaling Convention), or of the Whaling Convention Act of 1949 (16 U.S.C. 916 through 916(1)), or of any regulation issued under the Act (50 CFR part 351) is unlawful. Customs officers and employees shall perform all functions required of them by the above-mentioned convention, law and regulation.
[T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988]
§ 12.31
Plant pests.
The importation in a live state of insects which are injurious to cultivated crops, including vegetables, field crops, bush fruits, and orchard, forest or shade trees, and of the eggs, pupae, or larvae of such insects, except for scientific purposes under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Agriculture, is prohibited. All packages containing live insects or their eggs, pupae, or larvae arriving from abroad, unless accompanied by a permit issued by the Department of Agriculture, shall be detained and submitted to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Plant Protection and Quarantine Programs of that Department for inspection and determination of their admissibility into the United States.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 78-99, 43 FR 13060, Mar. 29, 1978; T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35476, Aug. 16, 1982; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988]
§ 12.32
Honeybees and honeybee semen.
(a) Honeybees from any country may be imported into the U.S. by the Department of Agriculture for experimental or scientific purposes. All other importations of honeybees are prohibited except those from a country which the Secretary of Agriculture has determined to be free of diseases dangerous to honeybees.
(b) Honeybee semen may be imported into the U.S. only from countries determined by the Secretary of Agriculture to be free of undesirable honeybees, and which take adequate precautions to prevent the importation of undersirable honeybees and their semen.
(c) The importation of honeybees and honeybee semen is governed by joint regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Treasury published in Treasury Decisions and the
Federal Register
from time to time.
[T.D. 85-3, 50 FR 1044, Jan. 9, 1985, as amended by T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988]

# Tea
§ 12.33
Importation of tea; entry; examination for customs purposes.
(a) The importation of any merchandise as tea which is inferior in purity, quality, and fitness for consumption to the standards prescribed by the Act of March 2, 1897, as amended (21 U.S.C. 41 through 50), is prohibited. Customs officers and employees shall perform all duties required of them by the said act and regulations.
(b) The importation of tea is subject also to the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and the regulations thereunder. See §§ 12.1 to 12.5.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) The port director may order such an examination of packages containing tea as will satisfy him that no dutiable goods are packed therein. For this purpose the customary designation shall be made of packages for examination in public stores.
(e) If the invoice has not been received, the importer may use an additional copy of the chop list and release permit required by the regulations of the Department of Health and Human Services as a pro forma invoice, marking “Pro forma invoice” across the face thereof.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 78-99, 43 FR 13060, Mar. 29, 1978; T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35477, Aug. 16, 1982; T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41167, Oct. 19, 1984; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 97-82, 62 FR 51770, Oct. 3, 1997]

# White Phosphorus Matches
§ 12.34
Importation prohibited; certificate of inspection; importer's declaration.
(a) The importation into the United States of white phosphorus matches is prohibited.
(b) Invoices covering matches imported into the United States shall be accompanied by a certificate of official inspection of the Government of the country of manufacture, or its electronic equivalent, in the following form:

# Certificate of Official Inspection of Matches
I, ________________ (Name), do hereby certify that I am the ____________ (Official title), that according to the chemical analysis made by me the matches described below do not contain white or yellow phosphorus and that therefore they are not white phosphorus matches as defined in the Act of Congress of the United States of America approved April 9, 1912;
Number of case mark
Description of matches
Name and address of manufacturer
Name of consignee and address, vessel, and date of shipment
(Signature)
(Official title)
(c) In the absence of such certificate, the matches shall be detained until a certificate is produced or the importer submits satisfactory evidence to show that the matches were not in fact manufactured with the use of poisonous white or yellow phosphorus.
(d) The production of the above certificate shall not be required on the entry of matches manufactured in countries which prohibit the use of
white or yellow phosphorus in the manufacture of matches.
(e) At the time of filing an entry for imported matches, the importer shall make a declaration, or its electronic equivalent, that to the best of his knowledge and belief no matches included in the invoice and entry are white phosphorus matches.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35477, Aug. 16, 1982; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61285, Oct. 13, 2015]
§ 12.35
[Reserved]

# Narcotic Drugs
§ 12.36
Regulations of Bureau of Narcotics.
The importation and exportation of narcotic drugs are governed by regulations of the Drug Enforcement Administration Bureau of Narcotics. Customs officers and employees shall perform all duties imposed upon them by such regulations and the laws under which they are issued. Such regulations are in addition to, and not in lieu of, the Customs, internal-revenue, and other pertinent laws and regulations.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 78-99, 43 FR 13060, Mar. 29, 1978; T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35477, Aug. 16, 1982; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988]

# Liquors
§ 12.37
Restricted importations.
(a) The basic permit requirements prescribed by the act of August 29, 1935 (27 U.S.C. 203), shall not be deemed applicable when the port director is satisfied that the liquor is for personal use or for experimental purposes in the making of analyses, tests, or comparisons.
(b) The production of a basic permit shall not be required when spirits are withdrawn from warehouse under any form of withdrawal entry.
(c) Blending or rectifying of wines or distilled spirits in class 6 manufacturing warehouses, or the bottling of imported distilled spirits in class 8 manipulation warehouses, shall not be permitted unless the proprietor has obtained an appropriate permit from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 78-329, 43 FR 43454, Sept. 26, 1978; T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35477, Aug. 16, 1982; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988]
§ 12.38
Labeling requirements; shipments.
All shipments of liquor not labeled as required by 18 U.S.C. 1263 and any vessel or vehicle, other than a common carrier, used in the transportation of such liquor shall be seized and disposed of in accordance with 18 U.S.C. 3615 .
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 70-249, 35 FR 18265, Dec. 1, 1970; T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35477, Aug. 16, 1982; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988; CBP Dec. 04-28, 69 FR 52599, Aug. 27, 2004 ; CBP Dec. 08-25, 73 FR 40725, July 16, 2008]

# Unfair Competition
§ 12.39
Imported articles involving unfair methods of competition or practices.
(a)
Determinations of the International Trade Commission.
Under section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1337), unfair methods of competition and unfair practices in the importation or sale of articles, the effect or tendency of which is to destroy, substantially injure, or prevent the establishment of an efficiently and economically operated United States industry, or to restrain or monopolize trade and commerce in the United States, are unlawful. After an investigation of an alleged violation of section 337, the U.S. International Trade Commission (“the Commission”) may determine that section 337 has been violated. The Commission also may determine during the course of its investigation that there is reason to believe that a violation of section 337 exists. The Commission's determination in either case is effective on the date of its publication in the
Federal Register
and is referred to the President, who may disapprove the determination for policy reasons on or before the close of a 60-day period beginning on the day after the day he receives a copy of the determination. A Commission determination disapproved by the President shall have no force or effect as of the date the Commission is
notified of his disapproval. If the Commission's determination is not disapproved by the President during the 60-day period, or if he notifies the Commission before the close of the period that he approves the determination, the determination becomes final on the day after the close of the period or the day of the notification, whichever is earlier.
(b)
Exclusion from entry; entry under bond; notice of exclusion order.
(1) If the Commission finds a violation of section 337, or reason to believe that a violation exists, it may direct the Secretary of the Treasury to exclude from entry into the United States the articles concerned which are imported by the person violating or suspected of violating section 337. The Commission's exclusion order remains in effect until the Commission determines, and notifies the Secretary of the Treasury, that the conditions which led to the exclusion no longer exist, or until the determination of the Commission on which the order is based is disapproved by the President.
(2) During the period the Commission's exclusion order remains in effect, excluded articles may be entered under a single entry bond in an amount determined by the International Trade Commission to be sufficient to protect the complainant from any injury. On or after the date that the Commission's determination of a violation of section 337 becomes final, as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, articles covered by the determination will be refused entry. If a violation of section 337 is found, the bond may be forfeited to the complainant under terms and conditions prescribed by the Commission. To enter merchandise that is the subject of a Commission exclusion order, importers must:
(i) File with CBP prior to entry a bond in the amount determined by the Commission that contains the conditions identified in the special importation and entry bond set forth in appendix B to part 113 of this chapter; and
(ii) Comply with the terms set forth in 19 CFR 210.50(d) in the event of a forfeiture of this bond.
(3) CBP shall notify each importer or consignee of articles released under bond pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section when the Commission's determination of a violation of section 337 becomes final and that entry of the articles is refused. The importer or consignee shall export or destroy the released articles under customs supervision within 30 days after the date of notification. The port director who released the articles shall assess liquidated damages in the full amount of the bond if the importer or consignee fails to export or destroy the released articles under Customs supervision within the 30-day period.
(4) In addition to the notice given to importers or consignees of articles released under bond, CBP shall provide written notice to all owners, importers or consignees of articles which are denied entry into the United States pursuant to an exclusion order that any future attempt to import such articles may result in the articles being seized and forfeited. Copies of all such notices are to be forwarded to the Executive Director, Commercial Targeting and Enforcement, Office of International Trade, at CBP Headquarters, and to the Office of The General Counsel, USITC, 500 E Street, SW., Washington, DC 20436.
(c)
Seizure and Forfeiture Orders.
(1) In addition to issuing an exclusion order under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Commission may issue an order providing that any article determined to be in violation of § 337 be seized and forfeited to the United States. Such order may be issued if:
(i) The owner, importer, or consignee of the article previously attempted to import the article or like articles into the United States;
(ii) The article or like articles were previously denied entry into the United States by reason of an exclusion order issued under paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(iii) Upon such previous denial of entry, CBP had notified the owner, importer, or consignee of the article in writing of both the exclusion order and that seizure and forfeiture would result from any further attempt to import the article or like articles into the United States.
(2) Upon receipt of any seizure order issued by the Commission in accordance with this paragraph, Customs
shall immediately notify all ports of entry of the property subject to the seizure order and identify the persons notified under paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(3) The port director in the port in which the article was seized shall issue a notice of seizure to parties known to have an interest in the seized property. All interested parties to the property shall have an opportunity to petition for relief under the provisions of 19 CFR part 171. All petitions must be filed within 30 days of the date of issuance of the notice of seizure, and failure of a claimant to petition will result in the commencement of administrative forfeiture proceedings. All petitions will be decided by the appropriate Customs officer, based upon the value of the articles under seizure.
(4) If seized articles are found to be not includable in an order for seizure and forfeiture, then the seizure and the forfeiture shall be remitted in accordance with standard Customs procedures.
(5) Forfeited merchandise shall be disposed of in accordance with the Customs laws.
(d)
Certain importations by or for the United States.
Any exclusion from entry under section 337 based on claims of United States letters patent shall not apply to articles imported by and for the use of the United States, or imported for, and to be used for, the United States with the authorization or consent of the Government.
(e)
Importations of semiconductor chip products.
(1) In accordance with the Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984 (17 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
), if the owner of a mask work which is registered with the Copyright Office seeks to have CBP deny entry to any imported semiconductor chip products which infringe his rights in such mask work, the owner must obtain a court order enjoining, or an order of the U.S. International Trade Commission (USITC), under section 337, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C.1337), excluding, importation of such products. Exclusion orders issued by the USITC are enforceable by CBP under paragraph (b) of this section. Court orders or exclusion orders issued by the USITC shall be forwarded, for enforcement purposes, to the Director, Border Security and Trade Compliance Division, Office of International Trade, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Washington, DC 20229.
(2) CBP shall enforce any court order or USITC exclusion order based upon a mask work registration in accordance with the terms of such order. Court orders may require either denial of entry or the seizure of violative semiconductor chip products. Forfeiture proceedings in accordance with part 162 of this chapter shall be instituted against any such products so seized.
(3) This regulation will be effective against all importers regardless of whether they have knowledge that their importations are in violation of the Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984 (17 U.S.C. 901 through 904).
[T.D. 79-231, 44 FR 49247, Aug. 22, 1979, as amended by T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41167, Oct. 19, 1984; T.D. 87-132, 52 FR 39221, Oct. 21, 1987; T.D. 95-87, 60 FR 54941, Oct. 27, 1995; T.D. 99-27, 64 FR 13675, Mar. 22, 1999; T.D. 00-87, 65 FR 77815, Dec. 13, 2000; 65 FR 80497, Dec. 21, 2000; CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93014, Dec. 20, 2016]

# Immoral Articles
§ 12.40
Seizure; disposition of seized articles; reports to United States attorney.
(a) Any book, pamphlet, paper, writing, advertisement, circular, print, picture, or drawing containing any matter advocating or urging treason or insurrection against the United States or forcible resistance to any law of the United States, or containing any threat to take the life of or inflict bodily harm upon any person in the United States, seized under section 305, Tariff Act of 1930, shall be transmitted to the United States attorney for his consideration and action.
(b) Upon the seizure of articles or matter prohibited entry by section 305, Tariff Act of 1930 (with the exception of the matter described in paragraph (a) of this section), a notice of the seizure of such articles or matter shall be sent to the consignee or addressee.
(c) When articles of the class covered by paragraph (b) of this section are of small value and no criminal intent is apparent, a blank assent to forfeiture, Customs Form 4607, shall be sent with the notice of seizure. Upon receipt of
the assent to forfeiture duly executed, the articles shall be destroyed if not needed for official use and the case closed.
(d) In the case of a repeated offender or when the facts indicate that the importation was made deliberately with intent to evade the law, the facts and evidence shall be submitted to the United States attorney for consideration of prosecution of the offender as well as an action in rem under section 305 for condemnation of the articles.
(e) All cases in which articles have been seized pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 1305(a) should be referred to the U.S. Attorney, for possible institution of condemnation proceedings, within 4 days, but in no event more than 14 days, after the date of Customs initial examination. The referral to the U.S. Attorney should be initiated simultaneously with the mailing to the importer of the seizure notice and the assent to forfeiture form. If the importer declines to execute an assent to forfeiture of the articles other than those mentioned in paragraph (a) of this section and fails to submit, within 30 days after being notified of his privilege to do so, a petition under section 618, Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1618), for remission of the forfeiture and permission to export the seized articles, then the U.S. Attorney, who has already received information concerning the seizure pursuant to this paragraph, may proceed with the condemnation action.
(f) If seizure is made of books or other articles which do not contain obscene matter but contain information or advertisements relative to means of causing unlawful abortion, the procedure outlined in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section shall be followed.
(g) In any case when a book is seized as being obscene and the importer declines to execute an assent to forfeiture on the ground that the book is a classic, or of recognized and established literary or scientific merit, a petition addressed to the Secretary of the Treasury with evidence to support the claim may be filed by the importer for release of the book. Mere unsupported statements or allegations will not be considered. If the ruling is favorable, release of such book shall be made only to the ultimate consignee.
(h) Whenever it clearly appears from information, instructions, advertisements enclosed with or appearing on any drug or medicine or its immediate or other container, or otherwise that such drug or medicine is intended for inducing unlawful abortion, such drug or medicine shall be detained or seized.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 71-165, 36 FR 12209, June 29, 1971; T.D. 76-261, 41 FR 39022, Sept. 14, 1976; T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35477, Aug. 16, 1982; T.D. 85-186, 50 FR 47207, Nov. 15, 1985; T.D. 93-66, 58 FR 44130, Aug. 19, 1993]
§ 12.41
Prohibited films.
(a) Importers of films, shall certify on Customs Form 3291 that the imported films contain no obscene or immoral matter, nor any matter advocating or urging treason or insurrection against the United States or forcible resistance to any law of the United States, nor any threat to take the life or inflict bodily harm upon any person in the United States. When imported films are claimed to be free of duty as American goods returned, this certification may be made on Customs Form 3311, or its electronic equivalent, in the space designated “Remarks” in lieu of on Form 3291.
(b) Films exposed abroad by a foreign concern or individual shall be previewed by a qualified employee of the Customs Service before release. In case such films are imported as undeveloped negatives exposed abroad, the approximate number of feet shall be ascertained by weighing before they are allowed to be developed and printed and such film shall be previewed by a qualified employee of the Customs Service after having been developed and printed.
(c) Any objectionable film shall be detained pending instructions from Headquarters, U.S. Customs Service or a decision of the court as to its final disposition.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61285, Oct. 13, 2015]

# Merchandise Produced By Convict, Forced, or Indentured Labor
§ 12.42
Findings of Commissioner of CBP.
(a) If any port director or other principal Customs officer has reason to believe that any class of merchandise that is being, or is likely to be, imported into the United States is being produced, whether by mining, manufacture, or other means, in any foreign locality with the use of convict labor, forced labor, or indentured labor under penal sanctions, including forced child labor or indentured child labor under penal sanctions, so as to come within the purview of section 307, Tariff Act of 1930, he shall communicate his belief to the Commissioner of CBP. Every such communication shall contain or be accompanied by a statement of substantially the same information as is required in paragraph (b) of this section, if in the possession of the port director or other officer or readily available to him.
(b) Any person outside CBP who has reason to believe that merchandise produced in the circumstances mentioned in paragraph (a) of this section is being, or is likely to be, imported into the United States may communicate his belief to any port director or the Commissioner of CBP. Every such communication shall contain, or be accompanied by:
(1) A full statement of the reasons for the belief;
(2) A detailed description or sample of the merchandise; and
(3) All pertinent facts obtainable as to the production of the merchandise abroad.
(c) If any information filed with a port director pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section does not conform with the requirements of that paragraph, the communication shall be returned promptly to the person who submitted it with detailed written advice as to the respects in which it does not conform. If such information is found to comply with the requirements, it shall be transmitted by the port director within 10 days to the Commissioner of CBP, together with all pertinent additional information available to the port director.
(d) Upon receipt by the Commissioner of CBP of any communication submitted pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section and found to comply with the requirements of the pertinent paragraph, the Commissioner will cause such investigation to be made as appears to be warranted by the circumstances of the case and the Commissioner or his designated representative will consider any representations offered by foreign interests, importers, domestic producers, or other interested persons.
(e) If the Commissioner of CBP finds at any time that information available reasonably but not conclusively indicates that merchandise within the purview of section 307 is being, or is likely to be, imported, he will promptly advise all port directors accordingly and the port directors shall thereupon withhold release of any such merchandise pending instructions from the Commissioner as to whether the merchandise may be released otherwise than for exportation.
(f) If it is determined on the basis of the foregoing that the merchandise is subject to the provisions of the said section 307, the Commissioner of CBP, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, will publish a finding to that effect in a weekly issue of the Customs Bulletin and in the
Federal Register.
(g) Any merchandise of a class specified in a finding made under paragraph (f) of this section, which is imported directly or indirectly from the locality specified in the findings and has not been released from CBP custody before the date of publication of such finding in the
Federal Register
shall be considered and treated as an importation prohibited by section 307, Tariff Act of 1930, unless the importer establishes by satisfactory evidence that the merchandise was not mined, produced, or manufactured in any part with the use of a class of labor specified in the finding.
(h) The following findings made under the authority of section 307, Tariff Act of 1930 are currently in effect with respect to the merchandise listed below:
Merchandise
Country
T.D.
Furniture, clothes hampers, and palm leaf bags
Ciudad Victoria, Tamaulipas, Mexico
53408
54725
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 00-52, 65 FR 45875, July 26, 2000; CBP Dec. 17-04, 82 FR 26584, June 8, 2017]
§ 12.43
Proof of admissibility.
(a) If an importer of any article detained under § 12.42(e) or (g) desires to contend that the article was not mined, produced, or manufactured in any part with the use of a class of labor specified in section 307, Tariff Act of 1930, he shall submit to the port director or Commissioner of CBP within 3 months after the date the article was imported a certificate of origin, or its electronic equivalent, in the form set forth below, signed by the foreign seller or owner of the article. If the article was mined, produced, or manufactured wholly or in part in a country other than that from which it was exported to the United States, an additional certificate, or its electronic equivalent, in such form and signed by the last owner or seller in such other country, substituting the facts of transportation from such other country for the statements with respect to shipment from the country of exportation, shall be so submitted.

# Certificate of Origin
I, ________________, foreign seller or owner of the merchandise hereinafter described, certify that such merchandise, consisting of ________________ (Quantity) of ________________ (Description) in ____________________ (Number and kind of packages) bearing the following marks and numbers ____________ was mined, produced, or manufactured by ________________ (Name) at or near ________________, and was laden on board ____________________ (Carrier to the United States) at ________________ (Place of lading) (Place of final departure from country of exportation) which departed from on ____________; (Date); and that ____________________ (Class of labor specified in finding) was not employed in any stage of the mining, production, or manufacture of the merchandise or of any component thereof.
Dated ____________
(Signature)
(b) The importer shall also submit to the port director or Commissioner of CBP within such 3-month period a statement, or its electronic equivalent, of the ultimate consignee of the merchandise, showing in detail that he had made every reasonable effort to determine the source of the merchandise and of every component thereof and to ascertain the character of labor used in the production of the merchandise and each of its components, the full results of his investigation, and his belief with respect to the use of the class of labor specified in the finding in any stage of the production of the merchandise or of any of its components.
(c) If the certificate or certificates and statements specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, or its electronic equivalent, are submitted within the time prescribed and the Commissioner finds that the merchandise is admissible, the port director concerned will be advised to that effect, whereupon he shall release the merchandise upon compliance with the usual entry requirements.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61285, Oct. 13, 2015; CBP Dec. 17-04, 82 FR 26584, June 8, 2017]
§ 12.44
Disposition.
(a)
Export and abandonment.
Merchandise detained pursuant to § 12.42(e) may be exported at any time prior to seizure pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, or before it is deemed to have been abandoned as provided in this section, whichever occurs first. Provided no finding has been issued by the Commissioner of CBP under § 12.42(f) and the merchandise has not been exported within 3 months after the date of importation, the port director will ascertain whether the proof specified in § 12.43 has been submitted within the time prescribed in that section. If the proof has not been timely submitted, or if the Commissioner of CBP advises the port director that the proof furnished does not establish the admissibility of the merchandise, the port director will promptly advise the importer in writing that the merchandise is excluded from entry. Upon the expiration of 60 days after the delivery or mailing of such advice by the port director, the merchandise will be deemed
to have been abandoned and will be destroyed, unless it has been exported or a protest has been filed as provided for in section 514, Tariff Act of 1930.
(b)
Seizure and summary forfeiture.
In the case of merchandise covered by a finding under § 12.42(f), if the Commissioner of CBP advises the port director that the proof furnished under § 12.43 does not establish the admissibility of the merchandise, or if no proof has been timely furnished, the port director shall seize the merchandise for violation of 19 U.S.C. 1307 and commence forfeiture proceedings pursuant to part 162, subpart E, of this chapter.
(c)
Prison-labor goods.
Nothing in this chapter precludes CBP from seizing for forfeiture merchandise imported in violation of 18 U.S.C. 1761 and 1762 concerning prison-labor goods.
[T.D. 00-52, 65 FR 45875, July 26, 2000, as amended by CBP Dec. 17-04, 82 FR 26584, June 8, 2017]
§ 12.45
Transportation and marketing of prison-labor products.
If any apparent violation of section 1761 or 1762, title 18, United States Code, with respect to any imported article comes to the attention of a port director, he shall detain the article and report the facts to the appropriate United States attorney. If the United States attorney advises the port director that action should be taken against the article, it shall be seized and held pending the receipt of further instructions from the United States attorney or the court.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988]

# Counterfeit Coins, Obligations, and Other Securities; Illustrations or Reproductions of Coins or Stamps
§ 12.48
Importation prohibited; exceptions to prohibition of importation; procedure.
(a) In accordance with Chapter 25, Title 18, United States Code, any token, disk, or device in the likeness or similitude of any coin of the United States or of a foreign country; counterfeits of coins in circulation in the United States; counterfeited, forged, or altered obligations or other securities of the United States or of any foreign government; or plates, dies, or other apparatus which may be used in making any of the foregoing, when brought into the United States, shall be seized, and delivered to the nearest representative of the United States Secret Service, together with a report of the facts, for appropriate disposition.
(b) In accordance with section 504 of title 18, United States Code, the printing, publishing, or importation or the making or importation of the necessary plates for such printing or publishing for philatelic, numismatic, educational, historical, or newsworthy purposes in articles, books, journals, newspapers, or albums (but not for advertising purposes, except illustrations of stamps and paper money in philatelic or numismatic advertising of legitimate numismatists and dealers in stamps or publishers of or dealers in philatelic or numismatic articles, books, journals, newspapers, or albums) of black and white illustrations of canceled and uncanceled United States postage stamps shall be permitted.
(c) The importation (but not for advertising purposes except philatelic advertising) of motion-picture films, microfilms, or slides, for projection upon a screen or for use in telecasting, of postage and revenue stamps and other obligations and securities of the United States and postage and revenue stamps, notes, bonds, and other obligations or securities of any foreign government, bank, or corporation shall be permitted.
(d) Printed matter of the character described in section 504, title 18, United States Code,
32
containing reproductions of postage or revenue stamps, executed in accordance with any exception stated in section 504, or colored reproductions of canceled foreign postage
stamps may be admitted to entry. Printed matter containing illustrations or reproductions not executed in accordance with such exceptions shall be treated as prohibited importations. If no application for exportation or assent to forfeiture and destruction is received by the port director within 30 days from the date of notification to the importer that the articles are prohibited, the articles shall be reported to the United States attorney for forfeiture.
32
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the following are permitted:
(1) The printing, publishing, or importation, or the making or importation of the necessary plates for such printing or publishing, of illustrations of:
(A) Postage stamps of the United States,
(B) Revenue stamps of the United States,
(C) Any other obligation or other security of the United States, and
(D) Postage stamps, revenue stamps, notes, bonds, and any other obligation or other security of any foreign government, bank, or
corporation, for philatelic, numismatic, educational, historical, or newsworthy purposes in articles, books, journals, newspapers, or albums (but not for advertising purposes, except illustrations of stamps and paper money in philatelic or numismatic advertising of legitimate numismatists and dealers in stamps or publishers of or dealers in philatelic or numismatic articles, books, journals, newspapers, or albums). Illustrations permitted by the foregoing provisions of this section shall be made in accordance with the following conditions—
(i) All illustrations shall be in black and white, except that illustrations of postage stamps issued by the United States or by any foreign government may be in color;
(ii) All illustrations (including illustrations of uncanceled postage stamps in color) shall be of a size less than three-fourths or more than one and one-half, in linear dimension, of each part of any matter so illustrated which is covered by subparagraph (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this paragraph, except that black and white illustrations of postage and revenue stamps issued by the United States or by any foreign government and colored illustrations of canceled postage stamps issued by the United States may be in the exact linear dimension in which the stamps were issued; and
(iii) The negatives and plates used in making the illustrations shall be destroyed after their final use in accordance with this section.
(2) The making or importation, but not for advertising purposes except philatelic advertising, of motion-picture films, microfilms, or slides, for projection upon a screen or for use in telecasting, of postage and revenue stamps and other obligations and securities of the United States, and postage and revenue stamps, notes, bonds, and other obligations or securities of any foreign government, bank, or corporation. No prints or other reproductions shall be made from such films or slides, except for the purposes of paragraph (1), without the permission of the Secretary of the Treasury.
For the purposes of this section the term “postage stamp” includes “postage meter stamps.” (18 U.S.C. 504).
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35477, Aug. 16, 1982; T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988]

# Consumer Products and Industrial Equipment Subject to Energy Conservation or Labeling Standards
§ 12.50
Consumer products and industrial equipment subject to energy conservation or labeling standards.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following terms have the meanings indicated:
Covered import.
The term “covered import” means a consumer product or industrial equipment that is classified by the Department of Energy as covered by an applicable energy conservation standard, or by the Federal Trade Commission as covered by an applicable energy labeling standard, pursuant to the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975, as amended (42 U.S.C. 6291-6317), and for which an entry for consumption has been filed, including products and equipment withdrawn from warehouse for consumption or foreign merchandise entered for consumption from a foreign trade zone.
DOE.
The term “DOE” means the Department of Energy.
Energy conservation standard.
The term “energy conservation standard” means any standard meeting the definitions of that term in 42 U.S.C. 6291(6) or 42 U.S.C. 6311(18).
FTC.
The term “FTC” means the Federal Trade Commission.
Noncompliant covered import.
The term “noncompliant covered import” means a covered import determined to be in violation of 42 U.S.C. 6302 or 42 U.S.C. 6316 as not in compliance with applicable energy conservation or energy labeling standards.
(b)
CBP action; refusal of admission.
CBP will refuse admission into the customs territory of the United States to any covered import found to be noncompliant with applicable energy conservation or energy labeling standards. If DOE or FTC notifies CBP that a covered import does not comply with an applicable energy conservation or energy labeling standard, CBP will refuse admission to the covered import, or
pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, CBP may allow conditional release of the covered import so that it may be brought into compliance. CBP may make a finding that a covered import is noncompliant without having received a prior written noncompliance notice from DOE or FTC. In such a situation, CBP will confer with DOE or FTC, as applicable, as to disposition of the import.
(c)
DOE or FTC notice.
Upon a determination that a covered import is not in compliance with applicable energy conservation or labeling standards, DOE or FTC, as applicable, will provide CBP with a written or electronic notice that identifies the importer and contains a description of the noncompliant covered import that is sufficient to enable CBP to identify the subject merchandise and refuse admission thereof into the customs territory of the United States.
(d)
Conditional release.
In lieu of immediate refusal of admission into the customs territory of the United States, CBP, pursuant to a written or electronic recommendation from DOE or FTC, may permit the release of a noncompliant covered import to the importer of record for purposes of reconditioning, re-labeling, or other modification. The release from CBP custody of any such covered import will be deemed conditional and subject to the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter. Conditionally released covered imports are subject to the jurisdiction of DOE and/or FTC.
(1)
Duration.
Unless extended in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the conditional release period will terminate upon the earliest occurring of the following events:
(i) The date CBP issues a notice of refusal of admission to the importer;
(ii) The date DOE or FTC issues a notice to CBP stating that the covered import is in compliance and may proceed; or
(iii) At the conclusion of the 30-day period following the date of release.
(2)
Extension.
An importer may request an extension of the conditional release period from DOE or FTC if made within the initial 30-day conditional release period or any subsequent authorized extension thereof. CBP may permit an extension of the conditional release period if recommended electronically or in writing, by DOE or FTC.
(3)
Issuance of redelivery notice and demand for redelivery.
If DOE or FTC notifies CBP in writing or electronically that noncompliant covered imports have not timely been brought into compliance, CBP will issue a refusal of admission notice to the importer and, in addition, CBP will demand the redelivery of the specified covered import to CBP custody. The demand for redelivery may be made concurrently with the notice of refusal of admission.
(4)
Liquidated damages.
A failure to comply with a demand for redelivery made under this paragraph (d) will result in the assessment of liquidated damages equal to three times the value of the covered product. Value as used in this provision means value as determined under 19 U.S.C. 1401a.
[78 FR 40390, July 5, 2013]

# Fur-Seal or Sea-Otter Skins
§ 12.60
Importation prohibited.
The transportation, importation, sale, or possession of the skins of fur seals or sea otters is prohibited if such skins were taken contrary to the provisions of section 2 of the act of February 26, 1944 (58 Stat. 100-104) or, the case of such skins taken under the authority of the act or any fur-seal agreement, if the skins are not officially marked and certified as required by section 2 of the act. Section 16 makes the act inapplicable to skins taken for scientific purposes under a special permit.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988]
§ 12.61
Fur-seal or sea-otter skins permitted entry.
(a) Fur-seal or sea-otter skins taken by Indians, Aleuts, or other aborigines under the authority of section 3 of the act, fur-seal skins taken under the authority of the Canadian Government, and fur-seal skins taken on the Pribilof Islands and other specified areas under the authority of section 4 of the act shall be admitted to entry if officially marked and certified as having been lawfully taken and if accompanied by a declaration of the shipper identifying
the skins by marks and numbers as those covered by the official certificate.
(b) Fur-seal or sea-otter skins taken in waters or on land not specified in the act or in the fur-seal agreement with Canada or other fur-seal agreement shall be admitted to entry upon the production of evidence satisfactory to the port director that they have been so taken.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988]
§ 12.62
Enforcement; duties of Customs officers.
(a) In accordance with the authority contained in sections 10 and 12 of the act, Customs officers shall arrest or cause to be arrested persons violating the provisions of the act or of any regulation made pursuant thereto; shall search vessels when there is reasonable cause to believe that such vessels are subject to seizure under the act, shall seize any vessel used or employed or which it appears has been or is about to be used or employed in violation of the act or any regulation made pursuant thereto; and shall seize fur seals and sea otters, or the skins thereof, killed, captured, transported, imported, offered for sale, or possessed by any person contrary to the provisions of the act or of any regulation made pursuant thereto.
(b) All articles, including vessels and equipment, seized by Customs officers for violation of the act shall be turned over to the nearest officer or agent of the Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior, for appropriate disposition under the act, receipts to be taken in duplicate therefor. One copy of each such receipt shall be transmitted to Headquarters, U.S. Customs Service with a detailed report of the facts in the particular case involved.
[28 FR 14710, Dec. 31, 1963, as amended by T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51253, Dec. 21, 1988]
§ 12.63
Seal-skin or sea-otter-skin waste.
Seal-skin or sea-otter-skin waste composed of small pieces not large enough to be sewed together and utilized as dressed fur shall not be subject to the requirements of the regulations in this part.

# Entry of Motor Vehicles, Engines, and Equipment Containing Engines Under the Clean Air Act, as Amended
§ 12.73
Importation of motor vehicles and motor vehicle engines.
(a)
Applicability of EPA requirements.
This section is ancillary to the regulations of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued under the Clean Air Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 7401
et seq.
), and found in 40 CFR parts 85, 86, 1036, 1037, and 1068. The EPA regulations should be consulted for more detailed information concerning EPA emission requirements. This section applies to imported motor vehicles; this section also applies to separately imported engines only if they will be installed in highway motorcycles or heavy-duty motor vehicles. All references in this section to “motor vehicles” include these highway motorcycles and heavy-duty engines. Nothing in this section should be construed as limiting or changing in any way the applicability of the EPA regulations.
(b)
Importation of complying vehicles
—(1)
Labeled vehicles.
Vehicles which in their condition as imported are covered by an EPA certificate of conformity and which bear the manufacturer's label showing such conformity and other EPA-required information will be deemed in compliance with applicable emission requirements for the purpose of CBP admissibility and entry liquidation determinations. This paragraph does not apply to importations of Independent Commercial Importers covered by paragraph (d) of this section.
(2)
Pending certification.
Vehicles otherwise covered by paragraph (b)(1) of this section which were manufactured for compliance with applicable emission requirements, but for which an application for a certificate of conformity is pending with the EPA may be conditionally released from CBP custody pending production of the certificate of conformity within 120 days of release.
(c)
Importation of vehicles previously in compliance
—(1)
Vehicles of returning residents.
Vehicles of residents returning
from Canada, Mexico or other countries as EPA may designate are not covered by this section.
(2)
Vehicles of commuting nonresidents and tourists.
A port director through the issuance of an appropriate means of identification to be affixed to a vehicle may waive all of the requirements of this section for a nonresident regularly crossing the Canadian or Mexican border, or waive the requirements for Mexico or Canadian-registered vehicles of tourists or other travelers.
(d)
Importation of vehicles by an Independent Commercial Importer (ICI).
An ICI is generally an importer that does not have a contract with a foreign or domestic motor vehicle manufacturer for distributing products into the United States market (
see
40 CFR 85.1502). ICIs act independently of motor vehicle manufacturers, but are required to bring motor vehicles into compliance with all applicable emissions requirements found in 40 CFR part 86 and any other applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act. Before the vehicle is deemed to be in compliance with applicable emission requirements and finally admitted into the United States, the ICI must keep the vehicle in storage for a 15-business day period. This period follows notice to EPA of completion of the compliance work to give EPA the opportunity to conduct confirmatory testing and inspect the vehicle and records. The 15-business day period is part of the 120-day period in which an ICI must bring the vehicle into compliance with applicable emission requirements. A motor vehicle may also be conditionally admitted by an ICI if it meets the requirements in 40 CFR 85.1505 or 85.1509. Individuals and businesses not entitled to enter nonconforming motor vehicles may arrange for their importation through an ICI certificate holder. In these circumstances, the ICI will not act as an agent or broker for CBP transaction purposes unless it is otherwise licensed or authorized to do so.
(e)
Exemptions and exclusions from emission requirements based on age of vehicle.
The following motor vehicles may be imported by any person and do not have to be shown to be in compliance with emission requirements before they are entitled to admissibility:
(1) Gasoline-fueled light-duty trucks and light-duty motor vehicles manufactured before January 1, 1968;
(2) Diesel-fueled light-duty motor vehicles manufactured before January 1, 1975;
(3) Diesel-fueled light-duty trucks manufactured before January 1, 1976;
(4) Highway motorcycles manufactured before January 1, 1978;
(5) Gasoline-fueled and diesel-fueled heavy-duty engines manufactured before January 1, 1970; and
(6) Motor vehicles not otherwsie exempt from EPA emission requirements and more than 20 years old. Age is determined by subtracting the year of production (as opposed to model year) from the year of importation. The exemption under this subparagraph is available only if the vehicle is imported by an ICI.
(f)
Exemption for exports.
A new motor vehicle intended solely for export to a country not having the same emission standards applicable in the United States is not required to be covered by an EPA certificate of conformity if both the vehicle and its container bear a label or tag indicating that it is intended solely for export. 40 CFR 85.1709.
(g)
Exemptions for diplomats, foreign military personnel and nonresidents.
Subject to the condition that they are not resold in the United States, the following motor vehicles are exempt from applicable emission requirements:
(1) A motor vehicle imported solely for the personal use of a nonresident importer or consignee and the use will be for a period not to exceed one year; and
(2) A motor vehicle of a member of the armed forces of a foreign country on assignment in the United States, or of a member of the personnel of a foreign government on assignment in the United States or other individual who comes within the class of persons for whom free entry of motor vehicles has been authorized by the Department of State in accordance with general principles of international law. For special documentation requirements see paragraph (i)(6) of this section.
(h)
Other exemptions and exclusions.
EPA regulations in 40 CFR parts 85, 86
and 1068 allow for exempting or excluding vehicles from certification requirements. The following scenarios illustrate several examples of exemptions or exclusions that apply only if prior approval has been obtained in writing from EPA:
(1)
Importations for repairs.
A motor vehicle imported for repairs is any motor vehicle which is imported solely for repairs or alterations and which is not sold, leased, registered or licensed for use or operated on public roads or highways in the United States. 40 CFR 85.1511(b)(1);
(2)
Importations for testing.
A test vehicle is any motor vehicle imported solely for testing. Test vehicles may be operated on and registered for use on public roads or highways provided that the operation is an integral part of the test. 40 CFR 85.1511(b)(2). This exemption is limited to a period not exceeding one year from the date of importation unless a request is made under 40 CFR 85.1705(f) for a one-year extension;
(3)
Prototype vehicles.
A prototype vehicle is any motor vehicle imported for use as a prototype in applying for EPA certification. 40 CFR 85.1511(b)(3) and 85.1706. In the case of an ICI, unless the vehicle is brought into conformity within 180 days from the date of entry it will be exported or otherwise disposed of subject to paragraph (l) of this section;
(4)
Display vehicles.
A display vehicle is any motor vehicle which is imported solely for display and which will not be sold, leased, registered or licensed for use on or operated on the public roads or highways in the United States. 40 CFR 85.1511(b)(4);
(5)
Racing cars.
A racing car is any vehicle that meets one or more of the criteria found at 40 CFR 85.1703(a), and that will not be registered or licensed for use on or operated on public roads or highways in the United States.
See also
40 CFR 85.1511(e).
(6)
National security importations.
A national security importation includes any motor vehicle imported for purposes of national security by a manufacturer. 40 CFR 85.1511(c)(1), 85.1702(a)(2) and 85.1708; and
(7)
Hardship exemption.
A hardship exemption includes any motor vehicle imported by anyone qualifying for a hardship exemption. 40 CFR 85.1511(c)(2).
(i)
Documentation requirements
—(1)
Exception for certain companies that
manufacture and import motor vehicles.
The special documentation requirements of this paragraph do not apply to the importation of motor vehicles by the company that manufactures the motor vehicles if the motor vehicles are covered by a valid EPA Certificate of Conformity (COC) held by the manufacturer and the motor vehicles are labeled to show compliance with applicable emission requirements pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(2)
Release.
CBP will not release a motor vehicle from custody unless the importer has submitted all documents necessary to demonstrate compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
(3)
Required EPA documentation.
Unless otherwise exempt, importers of motor vehicles must submit one of the following EPA declaration forms to CBP at the time of entry, or when filing a weekly entry from an FTZ in accordance with § 146.63(c)(1) of this chapter at the time of entry summary:
(i) For heavy-duty motor vehicle engines, whether they are installed in a vehicle or separately imported as loose engines, submit EPA Declaration Form 3520-21, “Importation of Engines, Vehicles, and Equipment Subject to Federal Air Pollution Regulations;”
(ii) For all other motor vehicles, submit EPA Declaration Form 3520-1, “Importation of Motor Vehicles and Motor Vehicle Engines Subject to Federal Air Pollution Regulations.”
(4)
Filing method.
The EPA declaration forms required to be submitted to CBP pursuant to paragraph (i)(3) of this section must be filed with CBP electronically in the Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) or via any other CBP-authorized electronic data interchange system, or as a paper filing, at the time of entry, or when filing a weekly entry from an FTZ in accordance with § 146.63(c)(1) of this chapter at the time of entry summary.
(5)
Recordkeeping.
Documents supporting the information required in EPA Declaration Form 3520-1 must be retained by the importer for a period of at least five (5) years in accordance
with § 163.4 of this chapter and must be provided to CBP upon request.
(6)
Documentation for diplomatic or foreign military personnel exemption.
In order for a diplomat or foreign military personnel to claim an exemption pursuant to paragraph (g)(2) of this section, CBP must receive a Department of State-approved form DS-1504 (“Request for Customs Clearance of Merchandise”) or its electronic equivalent.
(j)
Release under bond.
If an EPA declaration form filed in accordance with paragraph (i)(3) of this section states that the entry is being filed under one or more of the exemptions and exclusions identified in paragraph (h)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section, the entry will be accepted only if the importer, consignee, or surety, as appropriate, files a basic importation and entry bond containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter, or files electronically in ACE or via any other CBP-authorized electronic data interchange system. The importer or consignee must deliver to CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically, documentation of EPA approval before the exemption or exclusion indicated on the EPA declaration form expires, or before some later deadline specified by the Center director based on good cause. If the EPA approval is not delivered to CBP, either to the port of entry or electronically, within the specified period, the importer or consignee must deliver or cause to be delivered to the port director those vehicles which were released under a bond required by this paragraph (j). In the event that the vehicle or engine is not redelivered within five (5) days following the date the exemption or exclusion indicated on the EPA declaration form expires, or any later deadline specified by the Center director, whichever is later, liquidated damages will be assessed in the full amount of the bond, if it is a single entry bond, or if a continuous bond is used, in the amount that would have been assessed under a single entry bond.
(k)
Notices of inadmissibility or detention.
If a motor vehicle is determined to be inadmissible before or after release from CBP custody, the importer or consignee will be notified in writing of the inadmissibility determination and/or redelivery requirement. However, if a motor vehicle cannot be released from CBP custody merely because the importer has failed to attach to the entry the documentation required by paragraph (i) of this section, the vehicle will be held in detention by the port director for a period not to exceed 30-calendar days after filing of the entry at the risk and expense of the importer pending submission of the missing documentation. An additional 30-calendar day extension may be granted by the port director upon application for good cause shown. If the requisite EPA declaration form required pursuant to paragraph (i)(3) of this section has not been filed within this deadline, which must not exceed 60 days from the date of entry, CBP will issue a notice of inadmissibility.
(l)
Disposal of vehicles not entitled to admission.
A motor vehicle denied admission under any provision of this section will be disposed of in accordance with applicable CBP laws and regulations. However, a motor vehicle or engine will not be disposed of in a manner in which it may ultimately either directly or indirectly reach a consumer in a condition in which it is not in conformity with applicable EPA emission requirements.
(m)
Prohibited importations.
The importation of motor vehicles other than in accordance with this section and the EPA regulations in 40 CFR parts 85, 86, 600, 1036, 1037, and 1068 is prohibited.
[T.D. 88-40, 53 FR 26240, July 12, 1988, as amended by T.D. 01-14, 66 FR 8767, Feb. 2, 2001; CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93015, Dec. 20, 2016; CBP Dec. 16-29, 81 FR 94977, Dec. 27, 2016; CBP Dec. 19-11, 84 FR 46677, Sept. 5, 2019]
§ 12.74
Importation of nonroad and stationary engines, vehicles, and equipment.
(a)
Applicability of EPA regulations.
The requirements governing the importation of nonroad and stationary engines subject to conformance with applicable emission standards of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) are contained in 40 CFR parts 1033 through 1068. These EPA regulations should be consulted for detailed information as to the admission requirements for subject nonroad and
stationary engines. EPA emission regulations also apply to vehicles and equipment with installed engines and all references in this section to nonroad or stationary engines include the vehicles and equipment in which the engines are installed. Nothing in this section may be construed as limiting or changing in any way the applicability of the EPA regulations.
(b)
Documentation requirements
—(1)
Exception for certain companies that manufacture and import nonroad or stationary engines, including engines incorporated into vehicles and equipment.
The special documentation requirements of this paragraph (b) do not apply to the importation of nonroad or stationary engines, including engines incorporated into vehicles or equipment, by the company that manufactures the engines, provided that the engines are covered by a valid EPA Certificate of Conformity (COC) held by the importing manufacturer and bear the manufacturer's label showing such conformity and other EPA-required information.
(2)
Release.
CBP will not release engines, vehicles, or equipment from custody unless the importer has submitted all required documents to demonstrate that the engines, vehicles, or equipment meet all applicable requirements.
(3)
Required EPA documentation.
Importers of nonroad or stationary engines, including engines incorporated into vehicles and equipment, must submit EPA Declaration Form 3520-21, “Importation of Engines, Vehicles, and Equipment Subject to Federal Air Pollution Regulations,” to CBP at the time of entry, or when filing a weekly entry from an FTZ in accordance with § 146.63(c)(1) of this chapter at the time of entry summary.
(4)
Filing method.
EPA Declaration Form 3520-21 may be filed with CBP electronically in the Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) or via any other CBP-authorized electronic data interchange system, or as a paper filing, at the time of entry, or when filing a weekly entry from an FTZ in accordance with § 146.63(c)(1) of this chapter at the time of entry summary.
(5)
Recordkeeping.
Documents supporting the information required in EPA Declaration Form 3520-21 must be retained by the importer for a period of at least five (5) years in accordance with § 163.4 of this chapter and must be provided to CBP upon request.
(c)
Release under bond
—(1)
Conditional admission.
If the EPA declaration form states that the entry for a nonconforming nonroad engine is being filed under one of the exemptions described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, under which the engine may be conditionally admitted under bond, the entry will be accepted only if the importer, consignee, or surety, as appropriate, files a basic importation and entry bond containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62(c) of this chapter, or files electronically in ACE or via any other CBP-authorized electronic data interchange system.
(2)
Final admission.
Should final admission be sought and granted pursuant to EPA regulations for an engine conditionally admitted initially under one of the exemptions described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the importer or consignee must deliver to the port director the prescribed statement. The statement must be delivered within the period authorized by EPA for the specific exemption, or such additional period as the port director of CBP may allow for good cause shown. Otherwise, the importer or consignee must deliver or cause to be delivered to the port director the subject engine, either for export or other disposition under applicable CBP laws and regulations (
see
paragraph (e) of this section). If such engine is not redelivered within five (5) days following the allotted period, liquidated damages will be assessed in the full amount of the bond, if a single entry bond, or if a continuous bond, the amount that would have been assessed under a single entry bond (
see
40 CFR 1068.335).
(3)
Exemptions.
EPA regulations in 40 CFR parts 60 and 1033 through 1068 allow for exempting or excluding imported engines from certification requirements (see especially 40 CFR part 1068, subpart D). The specific exemptions under which a nonconforming nonroad engine may be conditionally admitted, and for which a CBP bond is required, are as follows:
(i) Repairs or alterations (
see
40 CFR 1068.325(a)).
(ii) Testing (
see
40 CFR 1068.325(b)).
(iii) Display (
see
40 CFR 1068.325(c)).
(iv) Export (
see
40 CFR 1068.325(d)).
(v) Diplomatic or military (
see
40 CFR 1068.325(e)).
(vi) Delegated assembly (
see
40 CFR 1068.325(f)).
(vii) Partially complete engines, vehicles, or equipment (
see
40 CFR 1068.325(g)).
(d)
Notice of inadmissibility or detention.
If an engine is found to be inadmissible either before or after release from CBP custody, the importer or consignee will be notified in writing of the inadmissibility determination and/or redelivery requirement. If the inadmissibility is due to the fact that the importer or consignee did not file the EPA Declaration Form 3520-21 at the time of entry, or when filing a weekly entry from an FTZ in accordance with § 146.63(c)(1) of this chapter at the time of entry summary, the port director may hold the subject engine in detention at the importer's risk and expense for up to 30 days from the entry filing date. The port director may grant the importer's request for a 30-day extension for good cause. The port director will issue a notice of inadmissibility if documentation is still incomplete after this deadline, which must not exceed 60 days from the filing date for importation.
(e)
Disposal of engines not entitled to admission; prohibited importations.
A nonroad or stationary engine denied admission under EPA regulations must be disposed of consistent with such EPA regulations and in accordance with applicable CBP laws and regulations. The importation of nonroad or stationary engines other than as prescribed under EPA regulations is prohibited.
[T.D. 98-50, 63 FR 29122, May 28, 1998, as amended by T.D. 01-14, 66 FR 8767, Feb. 2, 2001; CBP Dec. 10-29, 75 FR 52451, Aug. 26, 2010; CBP Dec. 16-29, 81 FR 94979, Dec. 27, 2016]

# Motor Vehicles and Motor Vehicle Equipment Manufactured On or After January 1, 1968
§ 12.80
Federal motor vehicle safety standards.
(a)
Standards prescribed by the Department of Transportation.
Motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment manufactured on or after January 1, 1968, offered for sale, or introduction or delivery for introduction in interstate Commerce, or importation into the United States are subject to Federal motor vehicle safety standards (“safety standards”) prescribed by the Secretary of Transportation under sections 103 and 119 of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966, as amended (15 U.S.C. 1392, 1407) (“the Act”), and set forth in 49 CFR part 571. A motor vehicle (“vehicle”) or item of motor vehicle equipment (“equipment item”), manufactured on or after January 1, 1968, is not permitted entry into the Customs territory of the United States unless (with certain exceptions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section) it is in conformity with applicable safety standards in effect at the time the vehicle or equipment item was manufactured.
(b)
Requirements for entry and release.
(1) Unless the requirement for filing is waived by the port director as provided for in paragraph (f) of this section, each vehicle or equipment item offered for introduction into the Customs territory of the United States shall be denied entry unless the importer or consignee files with the entry a declaration, in duplicate, which declares or affirms one of the following:
(i) The vehicle or equipment item was manufactured on a date when no applicable safety standards were in effect.
(ii) The vehicle or equipment item conforms to all applicable safety standards (or, the vehicle does not conform solely because readily attachable equipment items which will be attached to the vehicle before it is offered for sale to the first purchaser for purposes other than resale are not attached) and bears a certification label or tag to that effect permanently affixed by the original manufacturer to the vehicle or to the equipment item,
or to the outside of the container in which the equipment item is delivered, in accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary of Transportation (49 CFR parts 555, 567, 568 and 571) under section 114 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 1403).
(iii) The vehicle or equipment item was not manufactured in conformity to all applicable safety standards, but it has been or will be brought into conformity. Within 120 days after entry, or within a period not to exceed 180 days after entry, if additional time is granted by the Administrator, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“Administrator, NHTSA”), the importer or consignee will submit a true and complete statement to the Administrator, NHTSA, identifying the manufacturer, contractor, or other person who has brought the vehicle or equipment item into conformity, describing the exact nature and extent of the work performed, and certifying that the vehicle or equipment item has been brought into conformity, and that the vehicle or equipment item will not be sold or offered for sale until the Administrator, NHTSA, issues an approval letter to the port director stating that the vehicle or equipment item described in the declaration has been brought into conformity with all applicable safety standards.
(iv) The vehicle or equipment item is intended solely for export, and the vehicle or equipment item, and the outside of the container of the equipment item, if any, bears a label or tag to that effect.
(v) The importer or consignee is a nonresident of the United States, is importing the vehicle or equipment item primarily for personal use for a period not exceeding 1 year from the date of entry, will not sell it in the United States during that period, and has stated his passport number and country of issue, if he has a passport, on the declaration.
(vi) The importer or consignee is a member of the armed forces of a foreign country on assignment in the U.S. or is a member of the personnel of a foreign government on assignment in the U.S. or other individual who is within the class of persons for whom free entry of vehicles has been authorized by the Department of State in accordance with general principles of international law, is importing the vehicle or equipment item for purposes other than resale; and a copy of his official orders, if any, is attached to the declaration (or, if a qualifying member of the personnel of a foreign government on assignment in the U.S., the name of the Embassy to which he is accredited is stated on the declaration).
(vii) The vehicle or equipment item is imported solely for the purpose of show, test, experiment, competition (a vehicle the configuration of which at the time of entry is such that it cannot be licensed for use on the public roads is considered to be imported for the purpose of competition), repair or alteration, and the statement required by 19 CFR 12.80(c)(2) or (c)(3) is attached to the declaration.
(viii) The vehicle was not manufactured primarily for use on the public roads and is not a “motor vehicle” as defined in section 102 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 1391).
(ix) The vehicle is an “incomplete vehicle” as defined in 49 CFR part 568.
(2) A vehicle imported solely for the purpose of test or experiment which is the subject of a declaration filed under paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section may be licensed for use on the public roads for a period not to exceed 1 year from the date of importation if use on the public roads is an integral part of the test or experiment. The vehicle may be licensed for use on the public roads for one or more further periods which, when added to the initial 1 year period, shall not exceed a total of 3 years, upon application to and approval by the Administrator, NHTSA.
(c)
Declaration; contents.
(1) Each declaration filed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall include the name and address in the United States of the importer or consignee, the date and the entry number (if applicable), the make, model, and engine and body serial numbers, or other identification number (if a vehicle), or a description of the item (if an equipment item), and shall be signed by the importer or consignee.
(2) Each declaration filed under paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section which relates to a vehicle or equipment item reported for the purpose of show, competition, repair, or alteration shall
have attached a statement fully describing the use to be made of the vehicle or equipment item and its ultimate disposition.
(3) Each declaration filed under paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section which relates to a vehicle imported solely for the purpose of test or experiment shall have attached a statement fully describing the test or experiment, the estimated period of time necessary to use the vehicle on the public roads, and the disposition to be made of the vehicle after completion of the test or experiment.
(4) Any declaration filed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section may, if appropriate, relate to more than one vehicle or equipment item imported on the same entry.
(d)
Declaration; disposition.
The port director shall forward the original of each declaration submitted to him under paragraph (b)(1) of this section as soon as practicable to the Director, Office of Vehicle Safety Compliance, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Washington, DC 20590.
(e)
Release under bond.
(1) If a declaration is filed under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, the entry shall be accepted only if the importer or consignee gives a bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter. An approval letter shall be issued upon approval by the Administrator, NHTSA, of the conformity statement submitted by the importer or consignee as provided for in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section. The approval letter shall be forwarded by the Administrator, NHTSA, to the port director with a copy to the importer or consignee. Upon receipt of the approval letter the port director shall cancel the charge against the bond.
(2) If the approval letter is not received by the port director within 180 days after entry, the port director shall issue a Notice of Redelivery, Customs Form 4647, or its electronic equivalent, requiring the redelivery to Customs custody of the vehicle or equipment item. If the vehicle or equipment item is not redelivered to Customs custody or exported under Customs supervision within the period allowed by the port director in the Notice of Redelivery, liquidated damages shall be assessed in the full amount of a bond if it is single entry bond or if a continuous bond is used, the amount that would have been taken under a single entry bond.
(f)
Waiver of declaration requirements.
The requirement that a declaration be filed under paragraph (b)(1)(i), (b)(1)(ii), or (b)(1)(v) of this section as a condition to the introduction of a vehicle or equipment item into the Customs territory of the United States may be waived by the port director for a United States, Canadian, or Mexican registered vehicle arriving via land borders.
(g)
Vehicle or equipment item introduced by means of a fraudulent or false declaration.
Any person who enters, introduces, attempts to enter or introduce, or aids or abets the entry, introduction, or attempted entry or introduction, of a vehicle or equipment item into the Customs territory of the United States by means of a fraudulent entry declaration, or by means of a false entry declaration made without reasonable cause to believe the truth of the declaration, may incur liabilities under section 592, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1592).
(h)
Vehicle or equipment item denied entry.
If a vehicle or equipment item is denied entry under the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, the port director shall refuse to release the vehicle or equipment item for entry into the Customs territory of the United States and shall issue a notice of that refusal to the importer or consignee.
(i)
Disposition of vehicle or equipment item denied entry; redelivery.
A vehicle or equipment item denied entry under paragraph (b) of this section, or redelivered to Customs custody under paragraph (e) of this section, which is not exported under Customs supervision within 90 days from the date of the notice of denial of entry or date of redelivery, shall be disposed of under applicable Customs laws and regulations, except that disposition shall not
result in the introduction of the vehicle or equipment item into the Customs territory of the United States in violation of the Act.
[T.D. 78-478, 43 FR 56659, Dec. 4, 1978, as amended by T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41167, Oct. 19, 1984; T.D. 86-203, 51 FR 42997, Nov. 28, 1986; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61285, Oct. 13, 2015]

# Safety Standards for Boats and Associated Equipment
§ 12.85
Coast Guard boat and associated equipment safety standards.
(a)
Applicability of standards or regulations prescribed by the Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard.
Boats and associated equipment (as hereinafter defined) are subject to U.S. Coast Guard safety regulations or standards when imported or, under certain conditions, brought into the United States after November 1, 1972. Those regulations or standards are prescribed by the Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard, pursuant to sections 5, 7, and 39, Federal Boat Safety Act of 1971 (46 U.S.C. 1454, 1456, 1488), as set forth in 33 CFR parts 181, 183.
(1) The term “boats” includes:
(i) All vessels manufactured or used primarily for noncommercial use.
(ii) All vessels leased, rented, or chartered to another for the latter's noncommercial use.
(iii) All vessels engaged in the carrying of six or fewer passengers (see section 4.80 of this chapter on prohibitions against foreign vessels transporting passengers in the coastwise trade).
(2) For purposes of § 12.85 the term “boat” does not include:
(i) Foreign vessels temporarily using waters subject to U.S. jurisdiction.
(ii) Military or public vessels of the United States, except recreational type public vessels.
(iii) A vessel whose owner is a State or subdivision thereof, which is principally used for governmental purposes, and which is clearly identifiable as such.
(iv) Ships' lifeboats.
(3) The term “associated equipment” means:
(i) Any system, part, or component of a boat as originally manufactured, or a similar part or component manufactured or sold for replacement, repair, or improvement of such system, part, or component (excluding radio equipment).
(ii) Any accessory or equipment for, or appurtenance to, a boat (excluding radio equipment).
(iii) Any marine safety article, accessory, or equipment intended for use by a person on board a boat (excluding radio equipment).
(4) The term “product” as used in this section, includes the terms “boats” and “associated equipment” as defined in paragraphs (a) (1), (2), and (3) of this section.
(b)
Evidence of compliance with boating standards or regulations as condition of
entry. A product for which entry is sought into the Customs territory of the United States will, subject to the exceptions specified in paragraph (c) of this section, be denied entry unless accompanied by evidence of compliance with standards or regulations as follows:
(1) A product subject to standards prescribed in 33 CFR part 183 will have affixed to it a compliance certification label in accordance with the requirements of subpart B, 33 CFR part 181.
(2) A boat hull subject to subpart C, 33 CFR part 181 will have affixed to it a hull identification number affixed by the importer or the original manufacturer. The number shall comply with the format requirements of subpart C, 33 CFR part 181.
(c)
Products not in compliance with standards or regulations: Alternative evidence required as condition of entry and release.
Certain products shall be permitted entry and release without a compliance certification label or hull identification number affixed, as is required by subparts B and C, 33 CFR part 181, if they fall within one of the following categories, and if the conditions for entry and release specified for each category of product are met:
(1)
Products manufactured before standards or regulations in effect.
For certain products manufactured before an applicable standard or regulation was in effect, a declaration, or its electronic equivalent, will be filed in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section. The declaration, or its electronic equivalent, will state that the product was manufactured before
the applicable standard or regulation was in effect. If the port director believes that it is necessary in a particular case, he may communicate with the nearest Coast Guard district commander by the most expedient means to request that the Coast Guard determine that alteration of the product is not required.
(2)
Products exempted from standards or regulations by Coast Guard Grant of Exemption.
For certain products specifically exempted from applicable standards or regulations by a Coast Guard Grant of Exemption, a declaration, or its electronic equivalent, will be filed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The declaration, or its electronic equivalent, will state that the product has been specifically exempted from applicable standards or regulations by a U.S. Coast Guard Grant of Exemption, issued under the authority of section 9 of the Federal Boat Safety Act of 1971 (46 U.S.C. 1458), and in effect on the date the product was manufactured. The declaration, or its electronic equivalent, will also state that the product complies with all the terms and conditions of the exemption. A copy of the exemption, or its electronic equivalent, certified by the importer or consignee to be a true copy, shall be attached to each declaration, or its electronic equivalent.
(3)
Products to be brought into conformity.
In the case of products that are not in conformity at the time of entry but will be brought into conformity, a declaration, or its electronic equivalent, will be filed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The declaration, or its electronic equivalent, will state that the product does not conform with applicable safety standards or regulations, but that the importer or consignee will bring the product into conformity with safety standards or regulations, and will also state that the product will not be sold or offered for sale, or used on waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and on the high seas beyond the territorial seas for a vessel owned in the United States except for the purpose of bringing it into conformity, until the bond has been satisfied with respect to this obligation. To secure entry under this provision, bond must be given in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(4)
Certain products entering the United States for repair or alteration.
In the case of a nonresident of the United States who wishes to enter a product for the purpose of making repairs or alterations to it for a period not exceeding 1 year from the date of entry, a declaration, or its electronic equivalent, will be filed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The declaration, or its electronic equivalent, shall state that the importer or consignee is a nonresident of the United States, that the product is being brought in for the purpose of making repairs or alterations to it, that it will not remain in the Customs territory of the United States for more than 1 year following the date of the entry, and that it will not be offered for sale, sold, or used for pleasure in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States during that time.
(5)
Products owned by certain foreign governments.
In the case of an importer or consignee employed in one of the capacities set forth in this subparagraph, a declaration, or its electronic equivalent, will be filed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The declaration, or its electronic equivalent, shall state that the importer or consignee is either a member of the armed forces of a foreign country on assignment in the U.S. or is a member of the personnel of a foreign government on assignment in the U.S. or other individual who comes within the class of persons for whom free entry of boats has been authorized by the Department of State in accordance with general principles of international law, and that he is importing the product for purposes other than resale.
(6)
Certain products entered for tests, experiments, exhibits, or races.
An importer or consignee seeking to enter a product for period not to exceed 1 year, for tests, experiments, exhibits, or races but not for sale in the United States, shall file a declaration, or its electronic equivalent, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The declaration, or its electronic equivalent, shall state that the importer or consignee is importing the product solely for the stated purpose and that
it will not be sold or operated in the United States, unless the operation is an integral part of the stated use for which the product was imported. The importer or consignee shall attach to the declaration, or its electronic equivalent, a description of use for which the product is being imported, the time period estimated for completion, and disposition to be made of the product after completion. Entry under this paragraph may be authorized for a period not to exceed 1 year from the date of importation. However, this period may be extended at the discretion of the port director for one or more additional periods which, when added to the initial 1-year period, shall not exceed a total of 3 years.
(d)
Declaration requirements.
All declarations submitted must:
(1) Be filed at the time of entry, in duplicate on Form CG-5096, or its electronic equivalent.
(2) Be signed by the importer or consignee.
(3) State the name and U.S. address of the importer or consignee.
(4) State the entry number and date.
(5) Provide the make, model, and hull identification number, if affixed, or date of manufacture if hull identification number not affixed, of any boat, and a description of any equipment or component.
(6) Identify, if known, the city or state in which the product will be principally located.
(7) Be sent by the port director, to the Commandant (G-BBS-1/42), U.S. Coast Guard, Washington, D.C. 20593.
(e)
Release under bond
—(1)
When bond required.
A bond will be required of the importer or consignee on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter, in such amount as the port director deems appropriate, when a declaration is made that a product is to be brought into conformity. When the importer or consignee of a product declares that it will be brought into conformity before being sold or offered for sale, or before being used on waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and on the high seas beyond the territorial seas for a vessel owned in the United States and seeks entry of the product under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the entry shall be accepted only if bond is given for the production of a statement by either the importer or the consignee that the product described in the declaration is in conformity with applicable safety standards or regulations. The statement shall identify the person or firm who has brought the product into conformity with the standards or regulations and shall describe the nature and extent of the work performed.
(2)
Time limitation to produce statement for which bond is obligated.
Within 180 days after entry, the importer or consignee shall deliver to both the port director and the Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard, a copy of the statement for production of which the bond was obligated. If the statement is not delivered to the director of the port of entry of the product within 180 days after the date of entry, the importer or consignee shall deliver or cause to be delivered to the port director the product that was released in accordance with this paragraph.
(3)
Damages to be assessed against bond.
In the event that any product is not redelivered within 5 days following the date required by paragraph (e)(2) of this section, liquidated damages shall be assessed in the full amount of the bond if it is a single entry bond, or if a continuous bond is used, the amount that would have been taken under a single entry bond.
(f)
Products refused entry.
If a product is denied entry under the provisions of this section, the port director shall refuse to release the product for entry into the United States and shall issue a notice of the refusal to the importer or consignee.
(g)
Disposition of products refused entry into the United States; redelivered products.
Products which are denied entry under paragraph (b) of this section, or which are redelivered in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section, and which are not exported under Customs supervision within 90 days from the date of notice of refusal of admission or date of redelivery, shall be disposed of under Customs laws and regulations. However, no such disposition shall result in an introduction into the United States of a product in violation
of the Federal Boat Safety Act of 1971 (46 U.S.C. 1451-1489).
[T.D. 76-166, 41 FR 23398, June 10, 1976, as amended by T.D. 82-220, 47 FR 52138, Nov. 19, 1982; T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41168, Oct. 19, 1984; T.D. 86-203, 51 FR 42997, Nov. 28, 1986; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61285, Oct. 13, 2015]

# Electronic Products
§ 12.90
Definitions.
As used in §§ 12.90 and 12.91, the term “the Act” shall mean the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 201
et seq.
), as amended by the Radiation Control for Health and Safety Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 263b
et seq.
), and as further amended from time to time.
[T.D. 83-235, 48 FR 52436, Nov. 18, 1983]
§ 12.91
Electronic products offered for importation under the Act.
(a)
Standards prescribed by the Department of Health and Human Services.
Electronic products offered for importation into the customs territory of the United States are subject to standards prescribed under section 358 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 263f) unless intended solely for export. Prescribed standards shall not apply to any electronic product intended solely for export if:
(1) Such product and the outside of any shipping container used in the export of such product are labeled or tagged to show that it is intended for export, and
(2) Such product meets all the applicable requirements of the country to which it is intended for export.
(See 21 CFR, chapter I, subchapter J.)
(b)
Requirements for entry and release.
Electronic products subject to standards in effect under section 358 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 263f), when offered for importation into the customs territory of the United States, shall be refused entry unless there is filed with the entry, in duplicate, a declaration (FDA Form FD 2877) verified by the importer of record which identifies the products and affirms:
(1) That the electronic products were manufactured before the date of any applicable electronic product performance standard (the date of manufacture shall be specified); or
(2) That the electronic products comply with all standards in effect under section 358 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 263f), and chapter I, subchapter J, title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (21 CFR, chapter I, subchapter J), and that the certification required by section 360 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 263h) in the form of a label or tag is attached to the product; or
(3)(i) That the electronic products do not comply with all standards in effect under section 358 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 263f), and chapter I, subchapter J, title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (21 CFR, chapter I, subchapter J), but are being imported for the purpose of research, investigations, studied, demonstrations, or training, (ii) that the products will not be introduced into commerce and when the use for which they were imported is completed they will be destroyed or exported under Customs supervision, and (iii) that an exemption for these products has been or will be requested from the National Center for Devices and Radiological Health, Food and Drug Administration, in accordance with section 360B(b) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 263j); or
(4) That the electronic products do not comply with all standards in effect under section 358 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 263f) and chapter I, subchapter J, Code of Federal Regulations (21 CFR, chapter I, subchapter J), but that a timely and adequate petition for permission to bring the products into compliance with applicable standards has been or will be filed with the Secretary of Health and Human Services in accordance with section 360 of the Public Health Service Act, as amended, and as implemented by 21 CFR 1005.21.
(c)
Notice of sampling.
When a sampling of a product offered for importation has been requested by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as provided for in 21 CFR 1005.10, the port director having jurisdiction over the shipment from which the sample is procured shall give to its owner or importer of record prompt notice of delivery of, or intention to deliver, the sample. If the notice so requires, the owner or importer of record shall hold the shipment of which the sample is typical and not release the shipment until notice of the results of the tests of the
sample from the Secretary of Health and Human Services stating the product fulfills the requirements of the Act.
(d)
Release under bond.
If a declaration filed in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section states that the entry is being made under circumstances described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the entry shall be accepted only if the owner or importer of record gives a bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter, for the production of a notification from the Secretary of Health and Human Services or his designee, in accordance with 21 CFR 1005.23, that the electronic product described in the declaration filed by the importer of record is in compliance with the applicable standards. The bond shall be in an amount deemed appropriate by the port director. Within 180 days after the entry of such additional period as the port director may allow for good cause shown, the importer of record shall take any action necessary to insure delivery to the port director of the notification described in this paragraph. If the notification is not delivered to the director of the port of entry of the electronic products within 180 days of the date of entry or such additional period as may be allowed by the port director, for good cause shown, the importer of record shall deliver or cause to be delivered to the port director those electronic products which were released. In the event that any electronic products are not redelivered to Customs custody or exported under Customs supervision within the period allowed by the port director in the Notice of Redelivery (Customs Form 4647, or its electronic equivalent), liquidated damages shall be assessed in the full amount of a bond if it is a single entry bond, or if a continuous bond is used, the amount that would have been taken under a single entry bond.
(e)
Release without bond—special exemptions.
For certain electronic products the Director, National Center for Devices and Radiological Health, has granted special exemptions from the otherwise applicable standards under the Act. Such exempted products may be imported and released without bond if they meet all the criteria of the special exemption. If a special exemption is granted after the product has been imported under bond in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, the bond conditions pertaining to the notification of compliance from the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall be deemed to have been satisfied.
(f)
Merchandise refused entry.
If electronic products are denied entry under any provision of this section, the port director shall refuse to release the merchandise for entry into the United States.
(g)
Disposition of merchandise refused entry into the United States; redelivered merchandise.
Electronic products which are denied entry under paragraph (b) of this section, or which are redelivered in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, and which are not exported under Customs supervision within 90 days from the date of notice of refusal of admission or date of redelivery, shall be disposed of under Customs laws and regulations. However, no such disposition shall result in an introduction into the United States of an electronic product in violation of the Act (42 U.S.C. 263f, 263h).
[T.D. 83-235, 48 FR 52436, Nov. 18, 1983, as amended by T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41168, Oct. 19, 1984; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61285, Oct. 13, 2015]

# Switchblade Knives
§ 12.95
Definitions.
Terms as used in §§ 12.96 through 12.103 of this part are defined as follows:
(a)
Switchblade knife.
“Switchblade knife” means any imported knife, or components thereof, or any class of imported knife, including “switchblade”, “Balisong”, “butterfly”, “gravity” or “ballistic” knives, which has one or more of the following characteristics or identities:
(1) A blade which opens automatically by hand pressure applied to a button or device in the handle of the knife, or any knife with a blade which opens automatically by operation of inertia, gravity, or both;
(2) Knives which, by insignificant preliminary preparation, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, can be
altered or converted so as to open automatically by hand pressure applied to a button or device in the handle of the knife or by operation of inertia, gravity, or both;
(3) Unassembled knife kits or knife handles without blades which, when fully assembled with added blades, springs, or other parts, are knives which open automatically by hand pressure applied to a button or device in the handle of the knife or by operation of inertia, gravity, or both; or
(4) Knives with a detachable blade that is propelled by a spring-operated mechanism, and components thereof.
(b)
Insignificant preliminary preparation.
“Insignificant preliminary preparation” means preparation with the use of ordinarily available tools, instruments, devices, and materials by one having no special manual training or skill for the purpose of modifying blade heels, relieving binding parts, altering spring restraints, or making similar minor alterations which can be accomplished in a relatively short period of time.
(c)
Utilitarian use.
“Utilitarian use” includes but is not necessarily limited to use:
(1) For a customary household purpose;
(2) For usual personal convenience, including grooming;
(3) In the practice of a profession, trade, or commercial or employment activity;
(4) In the performance of a craft or hobby;
(5) In the course of such outdoor pursuits as hunting and fishing; and
(6) In scouting activities.
[T.D. 71-243, 36 FR 18859, Sept. 23, 1971, as amended by T.D. 90-50, 55 FR 28192, July 10, 1990]
§ 12.96
Imports unrestricted under the Act.
(a)
Common and special purpose knives.
Imported knives with a blade style designed for a primary utilitarian use, as defined in § 12.95(c), shall be admitted to unrestricted entry provided that in condition as entered the imported knife is not a switchblade knife as defined in § 12.95(a)(1). Among admissible common and special purpose knives are jackknives and similar standard pocketknives, special purpose knives, scout knives, and other knives equipped with one or more blades of such single edge nonweapon styles as clip, skinner, pruner, sheep foot, spey, coping, razor, pen, and cuticle.
(b)
Weapons with fixed blades.
Importations of certain articles having a fixed unexposed or exposed blade are not within the prohibition of 15 U.S.C. 1241 through 1245. However, upon release by Customs, possession of these admissible articles which include such weapons as sword canes, camel whips, swords, sheath knives, machetes and similar devices that may be capable of use as weapons may be in violation of State or municipal laws.
[T.D. 71-243, 36 FR 18860, Sept. 23, 1971, as amended by T.D. 90-50, 55 FR 28192, July 10, 1990]
§ 12.97
Importations contrary to law.
Importations of switchblade knives, except as permitted by 15 U.S.C. 1244, are importations contrary to law and are subject to forfeiture under 19 U.S.C. 1595a(c).
[T.D. 90-50, 55 FR 28192, July 10, 1990]
§ 12.98
Importations permitted by statutory exceptions.
The importation of switchblade knives is permitted by 15 U.S.C. 1244, when:
(a) Imported pursuant to contract with a branch of the Armed Forces of the United States;
(b) Imported by a branch of the Armed Forces of the United States or any member or employee thereof acting in the performance of his duty; or
(c) A switchblade knife, other than a ballistic knife, having a blade not exceeding 3 inches in length is in the possession of and is being transported on the person of an individual who has only one arm.
[T.D. 71-243, 36 FR 18860, Sept. 23, 1971, as amended by T.D. 90-50, 55 FR 28192, July 10, 1990]
§ 12.99
Procedures for permitted entry.
(a)
Declaration required.
The entry of switchblade knives, the importation of which is permitted under § 12.98 shall be accompanied by a declaration, or its electronic equivalent, in duplicate, of
the importer or consignee stating the facts of the import transaction as follows:
(1)
Importation pursuant to Armed Forces contract.
(i) The names of the contracting Armed Forces branch and its supplier;
(ii) The specific contract relied upon identified by its date, number, or other contract designation; and
(iii) A description of the kind or type of knife imported, the quantity entered, and the aggregate entered value of the importation.
(2)
Importation by a branch, member, or employee of the Armed Forces.
(i) The name of the Armed Forces branch by or for the account of which entry is made or the branch of the importing member or employee acting in performance of duty; and
(ii) The description, quantity, and aggregate entered value of the importation.
(3)
Importation by a one-armed person.
A statement that the knife has a blade not exceeding 3 inches in length and is possessed by and transported on the declarant's person solely for his necessary personal convenience, accommodation, and use as a one-armed individual.
(b)
Attachments to declaration.
Details for purposes of a declaration required under paragraph (a) of this section may be furnished by reference in the declaration, or its electronic equivalent, to attachment of the original or copy of the contract, or its electronic equivalent, or other documentation which contains the information.
(c)
Execution of declaration.
Declarations required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be executed as follows:
(1)
Contract supplier; Armed Forces branch; member or employee.
Declarations made under paragraph (a) or (b) of § 12.98 shall affirm that facts and data furnished are declared on knowledge, information, or belief of a signing officer, partner, or authorized representative of an importing contract supplier or of a commissioned officer, contracting officer, or employee authorized to represent an Armed Forces importing branch. The signature to a declaration shall appear over the declarant's printed or typewritten name, his title or rank, and the identity of the contract supplier or Armed Forces branch he represents or in which he has membership or employment.
(2)
One-armed person.
Declarations made under paragraph (c) of § 12.98, signed by the eligible person, shall be presented upon his arrival directly to a Customs officer who shall visually confirm the facts declared. An eligible knife shall be released only to the declarant.
(d)
Verification of declared information.
The importer, consignee, or declarant of knives permitted entry under § 12.98 upon request shall furnish Customs additional documentary evidence from an Armed Forces branch or other relevant source as Customs officers may require in order to:
(1) Verify declared statements;
(2) Resolve differences pertaining to quantity, description, value, or other discrepancy disclosed by the importation, entry, or related documentation;
(3) Establish the declarant's authority to act; or
(4) Authenticate a signature.
[T.D. 71-243, 36 FR 18860, Sept. 23, 1971, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61285, Oct. 13, 2015]
§ 12.100
Importations in good faith; common or contract carriage.
(a)
Exportation in lieu of seizure.
Upon a claim that the importer acted in good faith without knowledge of applicable laws and regulations, Customs officers may authorize detained inadmissible knives to be exported otherwise than in the mails, at no expense to the Government, under the procedures of §§ 18.25 through 18.27 of this chapter.
(b)
Common or contract carriers.
In accordance with 15 U.S.C. 1244(1), excepted from the penalties of the Act are the shipping, transporting, or delivering for shipment in interstate commerce, in the ordinary course of business of common or contract carriage, of any switchblade knife. However, imported switchblade knives as defined in § 12.95(a) so shipped or transported to a port of entry or place of Customs examination are prohibited importations subject to §§ 12.95-12.103 and disposition
as therein required, authorized, or permitted.
[T.D. 71-243, 36 FR 18860, Sept. 23, 1971, as amended by T.D. 90-50, 55 FR 28192, July 10, 1990]
§ 12.101
Seizure of prohibited switchblade knives.
(a)
Importations contrary to law.
Inadmissible importations which are not exported in accordance with § 12.100(a) shall be seized under 19 U.S.C. 1595a(c).
(b)
Notice of seizure.
Notice of Customs seizure shall be sent or given to the importer or consignee, which shall inform him of his right to file a petition under section 618, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1618), for remission of the forfeiture and permission to export the seized switchblade knives. (See part 171 of this chapter.)
[T.D. 71-243, 36 FR 18860, Sept. 23, 1971, as amended by T.D. 90-50, 55 FR 28192, July 10, 1990]
§ 12.102
Forfeiture.
If the importer or consignee fails to submit, within 60 days after being notified of his right to do so, a petition under section 618, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1618), for remission of the forfeiture and permission to export the seized importation, the seized prohibited knives shall be forfeited in accordance with applicable provisions of sections 602 through 611, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1602 through 1611), and the procedures of part 162 of this chapter.
[T.D. 71-243, 36 FR 18860, Sept. 23, 1971, as amended by T.D. 78-99, 43 FR 13060, Mar. 29, 1978; T.D. 00-57, 65 FR 53574, Sept. 5, 2000]
§ 12.103
Report to the U.S. Attorney.
Should circumstances and facts of the import transaction show evidence of deliberate violation of 15 U.S.C. 1241 through 1245, so as to present a question of criminal liability, the evidence, accompanied by reports of investigative disclosures, findings, and recommendation, shall be transmitted to the U.S. Attorney for consideration of criminal prosecution. The port director shall hold the seized switchblade knives intact pending disposition of the case.
[T.D. 71-243, 36 FR 18860, Sept. 23, 1971, as amended by T.D. 72-81, 37 FR 5364, Mar. 15, 1972; T.D. 90-50, 55 FR 28192, July 10, 1990]

# Cultural Property

# Source:
Sections 12.104 through 12.104i issued by T.D. 86-52, 51 FR 6907, Feb. 27, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 12.104
Definitions.
For purposes of §§ 12.104 through 12.104i:
(a) The term,
archaeological or ethnological material of the State Party
to the 1970 UNESCO Convention means—
(1) Any object of archaeological interest. No object may be considered to be an object of archaeological interest unless such subject—
(i) Is of cultural significance;
(ii) Is at least 250 years old; and
(iii) Was normally discovered as a result of scientific excavation, clandestine or accidental digging, or exploration on land or under water; or in addition to paragraphs (a)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section;
(iv) Meets such standards as are generally acceptable as archaeological such as, but not limited to, artifacts, buildings, parts of buildings, or decorative elements, without regard to whether the particular objects are discovered by exploration or excavation;
(2) Any object of ethnological interest. No object may be considered to be an object of ethnological interest unless such object—
(i) Is the product of a tribal or nonindustrial society, and
(ii) Is important to the cultural heritage of a people because of its distinctive characteristics, comparative rarity, or its contribution to the knowledge of the origins, development or history of that people;
(3) Any fragment or part of any object referred to in paragraph (a) (1) or (2) of this section which was first discovered within, and is subject to export control by the State Party.
(b) The term
Convention
means the Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export, and Transfer of Ownership of
Cultural Property adopted by the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization at its sixteenth session (823 U.N.T.S. 231 (1972)).
(c) The term
cultural property
includes articles described in Article 1 (a) through (k) of the Convention, whether or not any such article is specifically designated by any State Party for the purposes of Article 1. Article 1 lists the following categories:
(1) Rare collections and specimens of fauna, flora, minerals and anatomy, and objects of palaeontological interest;
(2) Property relating to history, including the history of science and technology and military and social history, to the life of national leaders, thinkers, scientists and artists and to events of national importance;
(3) Products of archaeological excavations (including regular and clandestine) or of archaeological discoveries;
(4) Elements of artistic or historical monuments or archaeological sites which have been dismembered;
(5) Antiquities more than 100 years old, such as inscriptions, coins and engraved seals;
(6) Objects of ethnological interest;
(7) Property of artistic interest, such as:
(i) Pictures, paintings and drawings produced entirely by hand on any support and in any material (excluding industrial designs and manufactured articles decorated by hand);
(ii) Original works of statuary art and sculpture in any material;
(iii) Original engravings, prints and lithographs;
(iv) Original artistic assemblages and montages in any material;
(8) Rare manuscripts and incunabula, old books, documents and publications of special interest (historical, artistic, scientific, literary, etc.) singly or in collections;
(9) Postage, revenue and similar stamps, singly or in collections;
(10) Archives, including sound, photographic and cinematographic archives;
(11) Articles of furniture more than 100 years old and old musical instruments.
(d) The term
designated archaeological or ethnological material
means any archaeological or ethnological material of the State Party which—
(1) Is—
(i) Covered by an agreement under 19 U.S.C. 2602 that enters into force with respect to the U.S., or
(ii) Subject to emergency action under 19 U.S.C. 2603 and
(2) Is listed by regulation under 19 U.S.C. 2604.
(e) The term
museum
means a public or private nonprofit agency or institution organized on a permanent basis for essentially educational or esthetic purposes, which, utilizing a professional staff, owns or utilizes tangible objects, cares for them, and exhibits them to the public on a regular basis (Museum Services Act; Pub. L. 94-462; 20 U.S.C. 968). For the purposes of these regulations, the term
recognized museum
under the Cultural Property Implementation Act shall be synonymous with
museum.
(f) The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate, the Commissioner of Customs.
(g) The term
State Party
means any nation which has ratified, accepted, or acceded to the 1970 UNESCO Convention.
(h) The term
United States
or
U.S.,
includes the customs territory of the United States, the U.S. Virgin Islands and any territory or area the foreign relations for which the U.S. is responsible.
[T.D. 86-52, 51 FR 6907, Feb. 27, 1986; 51 FR 15316, Apr. 23, 1986; 51 FR 17332, May 12, 1986]
§ 12.104a
Importations prohibited.
(a) No article of cultural property documented as appertaining to the inventory of a museum or religious or secular public monument or similar institution in any State Party which was stolen from such museum, monument, or institution after April 12, 1983, or after the date of entry into force of the Convention for the State Party, whichever date is later, may be imported into the U.S.
(b) No archaeological or ethnological material designated pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 2604 and listed in § 12.104g, that is exported (whether or not such exportation is to the U.S.) from the State
Party after the designation of such material under 19 U.S.C. 2604 may be imported into the U.S. unless the State Party issues a certificate or other documentation which certifies that such exportation was not in violation of the laws of the State Party.
§ 12.104b
State Parties to the Convention.
(a) The following is a list of State Parties which have deposited an instrument of ratification, acceptance, accession or succession, the date of such deposit and the date of entry into force for each State Party:
State party
Date of deposit
Date of entry into force
Algeria
June 24, 1974 (R)
Sept. 24, 1974.
Angola
Nov. 7, 1991 (R)
Feb. 7, 1992.
Argentina
Jan. 11, 1973 (R)
Apr. 11, 1973.
Armenia, Republic of
Sept. 5, 1993 (S)
See Note 1.
Australia
Oct. 30, 1989 (Ac)
Jan. 30, 1990.
Bangladesh
Dec. 9, 1987 (R)
Mar. 9, 1988.
Belarus
Apr. 28, 1988 (R)
July 28, 1988.
Belize
Jan. 26, 1990 (R)
Apr. 26, 1990.
Bolivia
Oct. 4, 1976 (R)
Jan. 4, 1977.
Bosnia-Herzegovina
July 12, 1993 (S)
See Note 2.
Brazil
Feb. 16, 1973 (R)
May 16, 1973.
Bulgaria
Sept. 15, 1971 (R)
Apr. 24, 1972.
Burkina Faso
Apr. 7, 1987 (R)
July 7, 1987.
Cambodia
Sept. 26, 1972 (R)
Dec. 26, 1972.
Cameroon
May 24, 1972 (R)
Aug. 24, 1972.
Canada
Mar. 28, 1978 (Ac)
June 28, 1978.
Central African Republic
Feb. 1, 1972 (R)
May 1, 1972.
China, People's Republic of
Nov. 28, 1989 (Ac)
Feb. 28, 1990.
Colombia
May 24, 1988 (Ac)
Aug. 24, 1988.
Cote d'Ivoire
Oct. 30, 1990 (R)
Jan. 30, 1991.
Croatia
July 6, 1992 (S)
See Note 2.
Cuba
Jan. 30, 1980 (R)
Apr. 30, 1980.
Cyprus
Oct. 19, 1979 (R)
Jan. 19, 1980.
Czech Republic
Mar. 26, 1993 (S)
See Note 4.
Dominican Republic
Mar. 7, 1973 (R)
June 7, 1973.
Ecuador
Mar. 24, 1971 (Ac)
Apr. 24, 1972.
Egypt
Apr. 5, 1973 (Ac)
July 5, 1973.
El Salvador
Feb. 20, 1978 (R)
May 20, 1978.
Georgia, Republic of
Nov. 4, 1992 (S)
See Note 1.
Greece
June 5, 1981 (R)
Sept. 5, 1981.
Grenada
Sept. 10, 1992 (Ac)
Dec. 10, 1992.
Guatemala
Jan. 14, 1985 (R)
Apr. 14, 1985.
Guinea
Mar. 18, 1979 (R)
June 18, 1979.
Honduras
Mar. 19, 1979 (R)
June 19, 1979.
Hungary
Oct. 23, 1978 (R)
Jan. 23, 1979.
India
Jan. 24, 1977 (R)
Apr. 24, 1977.
Iran
Jan. 27, 1975 (Ac)
Apr. 27, 1975.
Iraq
Feb. 12, 1973 (Ac)
May 12, 1973.
Italy
Oct. 2, 1978 (R)
Jan. 2, 1979.
Jordan
Mar. 15, 1974 (R)
June 15, 1974.
Korea, Democratic People's Republic of
May 13, 1983 (R)
Aug. 13, 1983.
Korea, Republic of
Feb. 14, 1983 (Ac)
May 14, 1983.
Kuwait
June 22, 1972 (Ac)
Sept. 22, 1972.
Lebanon
Aug. 25, 1992 (R)
Nov. 25, 1992.
Libya
Jan. 9, 1973 (R)
Apr. 9, 1973.
Madagascar
June 21, 1989 (R)
Sept. 21, 1989.
Mali
Apr. 6, 1987 (R)
July 6, 1987.
Mauritania
Apr. 27, 1977 (R)
July 27, 1977
Mauritius
Feb. 27, 1978 (Ac)
May 27, 1978.
Mexico
Oct. 4, 1972 (Ac)
Jan. 4, 1973.
Mongolia
June 23, 1991 (Ac)
Aug. 23, 1991.
Nepal
June 23, 1976 (R)
Sept. 23, 1976.
Nicaragua
Apr. 19, 1977 (R)
July 19, 1977.
Niger
Oct. 16, 1972 (R)
Jan. 16, 1973.
Nigeria
Jan. 24, 1972 (R)
Apr. 24, 1972.
Oman
June 2, 1978 (Ac)
Sept. 2, 1978.
Pakistan
Apr. 30, 1978 (R)
July 30, 1981.
Panama
Aug. 13, 1973 (Ac)
Nov. 13, 1973.
Peru
Oct. 24, 1979 (Ac)
Jan. 24, 1980.
Poland
Jan. 31, 1974 (R)
Apr. 30, 1974.
Portugal
Dec. 9, 1985 (R)
Mar. 9, 1986.
Qatar
Apr. 20, 1977 (Ac)
July 20, 1977.
Romania
Dec. 6, 1993 (R)
Mar. 6, 1994.
Russian Federation
Apr. 28, 1988 (R)
See Note 3.
Saudi Arabia
Sept. 8, 1976 (Ac)
Dec. 8, 1976.
Senegal
Dec. 9, 1984 (R)
Mar. 9, 1985.
Slovak Republic
Mar. 31, 1993 (S)
See Note 4.
Slovenia, Republic of
Oct. 10, 1992 (S)
See Note 2.
Spain
Jan. 10, 1986 (R)
Apr. 10, 1986.
Sri Lanka
Apr. 7, 1981 (Ac)
July 7, 1981.
Syria
Feb. 21, 1975 (Ac)
May 21, 1975.
Tadjikistan, Republic of
Aug. 11, 1992 (S)
See Note 1.
Tanzania
Aug. 2, 1977 (R)
Nov. 2, 1977.
Tunisia
Mar. 10, 1975 (R)
June 10, 1975.
Turkey
Apr. 21, 1981 (R)
July 21, 1981.
Ukraine
Apr. 28, 1988 (R)
July 28, 1988.
United States of America
Sept. 2, 1983 (Ac)
Dec. 2, 1983.
Uruguay
Aug. 9, 1977 (R)
Nov. 9, 1977.
Yugoslavia
Oct. 3, 1972 (R)
Jan. 3, 1973.
Zaire
Sept. 23, 1974 (R)
Dec. 23, 1974.
Zambia
June 21, 1985 (R)
Sept. 21, 1985.
Code for reading second column: Ratification (R); Acceptance (Ac); Accession (A); Succession (S).
Notes:
1. The Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Georgia, and the Republic of Tadjikistan each deposited a notification of succession in which each declared itself bound by the Convention as ratified by the USSR on April 28, 1988 and which entered into force on July 28, 1988.
2. Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia each deposited notification of succession in which each declared itself bound by the Convention as ratified by Yugoslavia on Oct. 3, 1972 and entered into force on January 3, 1973.
3. The Government of the Russian Federation informed the Director General of UNESCO that the Russian Federation continues without interruption the participation of the USSR in all UNESCO Conventions. The instrument of ratification was deposited by the former USSR on April 28, 1988. and entered into force on July 28, 1988.
4. The Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic each deposited a notification of succession in which each declared itself bound by the Convention as accepted by Czechoslovakia on Feb. 14, 1977 and which entered into force on May 14, 1977.
(b) Additions to and deletions from the list of State Parties will be accomplished by
Federal Register
notice, from time to time, as the necessity arises.
[T.D. 86-52, 51 FR 6907, Feb. 27, 1986, as amended by T.D. 88-59, 53 FR 38287, Sept. 30, 1988; T.D. 90-13, 55 FR 4996, Feb. 13, 1990; T.D. 95-71, 60 FR 47467, Sept. 13, 1995 ; CBP Dec. 08-25, 73 FR 40725, July 16, 2008]
§ 12.104c
Importations permitted.
Designated archaeological or ethnological material for which entry is sought into the U.S., will be permitted entry if at the time of making entry:
(a) A certificate, its electronic equivalent, or other documentation, issued by the Government of the country of origin of such material in a form acceptable to the Secretary is filed with the port director, such form being, but not limited to, an affidavit, license, or permit, or their electronic equivalents, from an appropriate, authorized State Party official under seal, certifying that such exportation was not in violation of the laws of that country, or
(b) Satisfactory evidence is presented to the port director that such designated material was exported from the State Party not less than 10 years before the date of such entry and that neither the person for whose account the material is imported (or any related person) contracted for or acquired an interest, directly or indirectly, in such material more than 1 year before that date of entry, or
(c) Satisfactory evidence is presented to the port director that such designated material was exported from the State Party on or before the date on which such material was designated under 19 U.S.C. 2604.
(d) The term “satisfactory evidence” means—
(1) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section—
(i) One or more declarations under oath, or their electronic equivalents, by the importer, or the person for whose account the material is imported, stating that, to the best of his knowledge—
(A) The material was exported from the State Party not less than 10 years before the date of entry into the U.S., and
(B) Neither such importer or person (or any related person) contracted for or acquired an interest, directly or indirectly, in such material more than 1 year before the date of entry of the material; and
(ii) A statement, or its electronic equivalent, provided by the consignor, or person who sold the material to the importer, which states the date, or, if not known, his belief, that the material was exported from the State Party not less than 10 years before the date of entry into the U.S. and the reasons on which the statement is based; and
(2) For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section—
(i) One or more declarations under oath, or their electronic equivalents, by the importer or the person for whose account the material is to be imported, stating that, to the best of his knowledge, the material was exported from the State Party on or before the date such material was designated under 19 U.S.C. 2604, and
(ii) A statement, or its electronic equivalent, by the consignor or person who sold the material to the importer which states the date, or if not known, his belief, that the material was exported from the State Party on or before the date such material was designated under 19 U.S.C. 2604, and the reasons on which the statement is based.
(e)
Related persons.
For purposes of paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section, a person shall be treated as a related person to an importer, or to a person for whose account material is imported, if such person—
(1) Is a member of the same family as the importer or person of account, including, but not limited to, membership as a brother or sister (whether by whole or half blood), spouse, ancestor, or lineal descendant;
(2) Is a partner or associate with the importer or person of account in any partnership, association, or other venture; or
(3) Is a corporation or other legal entity in which the importer or person of account directly or indirectly owns, controls, or holds power to vote 20 percent or more of the outstanding voting stock or shares in the entity.
[T.D. 86-52, 51 FR 6907, Feb. 27, 1986, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61285, Oct. 13, 2015]
§ 12.104d
Detention of articles; time in which to comply.
In the event an importer cannot produce the certificate, documentation, or evidence, or the electronic equivalent, required in § 12.104c at the time of making entry, the port director shall take the designated archaeological or ethnological material into Customs custody and send it to a bonded warehouse or public store to be held at the risk and expense of the consignee until the certificate, documentation, or evidence, or the electronic equivalent, is presented to such officer. The certificate, documentation, or evidence, or the electronic equivalent, must be presented within 90 days after the date on which the material is taken into Customs custody, or such longer period as may be allowed by the port director for good cause shown.
[T.D. 86-52, 51 FR 6907, Feb. 27, 1986, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61285, Oct. 13, 2015]
§ 12.104e
Seizure and forfeiture.
(a) Whenever any designated archaeological or ethnological material is imported into the U.S. in violation of 19 U.S.C. 2606, and the importer states in writing that he will not attempt to secure the certificate, documentation, or evidence, or the electronic equivalent, required by § 12.104c, or such certificate, documentation, or evidence, or the electronic equivalent, is not presented to the port director before the expiration of the time provided in § 12.104d, the material shall be seized and summarily forfeited to the U.S. in accordance with part 162 of this chapter.
(1) Any designated archaeological or ethnological material which is forfeited to the U.S. shall, in accordance with the provisions of Title III of Pub. L. 97-446, 19 U.S.C. 2609(b):
(i) First be offered for return to the State Party;
(ii) If not returned to the State Party be returned to a claimant with respect to whom the designated material was forfeited if that claimant establishes—
(A) Valid title to the material;
(B) That the claimant is a bona fide purchaser for value of the material; or
(iii) If not returned to the State Party under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this
section or to a claimant under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, be disposed of in the manner prescribed by law for articles forfeited for violation of the customs laws. No return of material may be made under paragraph (a)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section unless the State Party or claimant, as the case may be, bears the expenses incurred incident to the return and delivery, and complies with such other requirements relating to the return as the Secretary shall prescribe.
(b) Whenever any stolen article of cultural property is imported into the U.S. in violation of 19 U.S.C. 2607, such cultural property shall be seized and forfeited to the U.S. in accordance with part 162 of this chapter.
(1) Any stolen article of cultural property which is forfeited to the U.S. shall, in accordance with the provisions of Title III of Pub. L. 97-446, 2609(c):
(i) First be offered for return to the State Party in whose territory is situated the institution referred to in 19 U.S.C. 2607 and shall be returned if that State Party bears the expenses incident to such return and delivery and complies with such other requirements relating to the return as the Secretary prescribes; or
(ii) If not returned to such State Party, be disposed of in the manner prescribed by law for articles forfeited for violation of the customs laws.
[T.D. 86-52, 51 FR 6907, Feb. 27, 1986, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61285, Oct. 13, 2015]
§ 12.104f
Temporary disposition of materials and articles.
Pending a final determination as to whether any archaeological or ethnological material, or any article of cultural property, has been imported into the U.S. in violation of 19 U.S.C. 2606 or 19 U.S.C. 2607, the Secretary may permit such material or article to be retained at a museum or other cultural or scientific institution in the U.S. if he finds that sufficient safeguards will be taken by the museum or institution for the protection of such material or article; and sufficient bond is posted by the museum or institution to ensure its return to the Secretary.
§ 12.104g
Specific items or categories designated by agreements or emergency actions.
(a) The following is a list of agreements imposing import restrictions on the described articles of cultural property of State Parties. The listed Treasury Decision contains the Designated Listing with a complete description of specific items or categories of archaeological or ethnological material designated by the agreement as coming under the protection of the Convention on Cultural Property Implementation Act. Import restrictions listed below shall be effective for no more than five years beginning on the date on which the agreement enters into force with respect to the United States. This period may be extended for additional periods of not more than five years if it is determined that the factors which justified the initial agreement still pertain and no cause for suspension of the agreement exists. Any such extension is indicated in the listing.
State party
Cultural
Property
Decision No.
Albania
Archaeological material of Albania ranging in date from approximately 300,000 B.C. to A.D. 1750, and ethnological material of Albania ranging in date from approximately A.D. 400 to 1913
CBP Dec. 22-06
Algeria
Archaeological material representing Algeria's cultural heritage that is at least 250 years old, dating from the Paleolithic (approximately 2.4 million years ago), Neolithic, Classical, Byzantine, and Islamic periods and into the Ottoman period to A.D. 1750
CBP Dec. 19-09, extended by CBP Dec. 24-13.
Belize
Archaeological material, representing Belize's cultural heritage that is at least 250 years old, dating from the Pre-Ceramic (from approximately 9000 B.C.), Pre-Classic, Classic, and Post-Classic Periods of the Pre-Columbian era through the Early and Late Colonial Periods
CBP Dec. 13-05 extended by CBP Dec. 23-02
Bolivia
Archaeological and Ethnological Material from Bolivia
T.D. 01-86 extended by CBP Dec. 21-18
Bulgaria
Archaeological material from Bulgaria ranging from approximately 1.6 million years ago through approximately A.D. 1750, and ecclesiastical ethnological material of Bulgaria ranging in date from the beginning of the 4th century A.D. through approximately A.D. 1900
CBP Dec. 24-02.
Cambodia
Archaeological material of Cambodia ranging from approximately 2,500 B.C. to A.D. 1750, and ethnological material of Cambodia ranging from approximately A.D. 1400 to 1891
CBP Dec. 23-11.
Canada
Archaeological artifacts and ethnological material culture of Canadian origin
T.D. 97-31
Chile
Archaeological material representing Chile's cultural heritage from the Paleoindian period (c. 31,000 B.C.) to the Huri Moai phase in Chile (A.D. 1680-1868)
CBP Dec. 20-16
Colombia
Pre-Columbian archaeological material ranging approximately from 1500 B.C. to 1530 A.D. and ecclesiastical ethnological material of the Colonial period ranging approximately from A.D. 1530 to 1830
CBP Dec. 06-09 extended by CBP Dec. 21-05
Costa Rica
Archaeological material representing Costa Rica's cultural heritage from approximately 12,000 B.C. to A.D. 1550
CBP Dec. 21-06
Cyprus
Archaeological material ranging approximately from the 11th millennium B.C. to A.D. 1770 and ethnological material ranging from approximately the 4th century A.D. to A.D. 1878
CBP Dec. 22-15
Ecuador
Archaeological material that is at least 250 years old, dating from the Pre-ceramic period and into the Colonial period (approximately 12,000 B.C. to A.D. 1769), and ethnological material, including Colonial period ecclesiastical material and Colonial period secular paintings, documents, and manuscripts, dating from A.D. 1532 to 1822
CBP Dec. 20-03, corrected by CBP Dec. 24-10, extended by CBP Dec. 25-03.
Egypt
Archaeological material representing Egypt's cultural heritage ranging approximately from 300,000 B.C. to A.D. 1750, and ethnological material ranging from A.D. 1517 to 1914
CBP Dec. 21-17
El Salvador
Archaeological material representing El Salvador's Pre-Hispanic cultures ranging in date from approximately 8000 B.C. through A.D. 1550 and ecclesiastical ethnological material from the Colonial period through the first half of the twentieth century ranging in date from approximately A.D. 1525 to 1950
CBP Dec. 20-04
Greece (Hellenic Republic)
Archeological materials representing Greece's cultural heritage ranging in date from approximately 3rd millennium B.C. to 15th century A.D., and ecclesiastical ethnological material from Greece from the early Christian, Byzantine, and post-Byzantine periods, including objects made from A.D. 324 through 1830
CBP Dec. 21-16
Guatemala
Archaeological material, c. 12,000 B.C. to A.D. 1524, and Hispanic period ecclesiastical ethnological material, c. A.D. 1524 to 1821
CBP Dec. 12-17 extended by CBP Dec. 22-24
Honduras
Archaeological material of Pre-Columbian cultures ranging approximately from 1200 B.C. to 1500 A.D, and ecclesiastical ethnological materials dating from the Colonial Period, c. A.D. 1502 to 1821
CBP Dec. 14-03 extended by CBP Dec. 24-06.
Italy
Archaeological Material of pre-Classical, Classical, and Imperial Roman periods ranging approximately from the 9th century B.C. to the 4th century A.D
T.D. 01-06 extended by CBP Dec. 21-01
Jordan
Archaeological material representing Jordan's cultural heritage from the Paleolithic period (c. 1.5 million B.C.) to the middle of the Ottoman period in Jordan (A.D. 1750)
CBP Dec. 20-02, extended by CBP Dec. 25-02.
Libya
Archaeological material and ethnological material from Libya.
CBP Dec. 23-03
Mali
Archaeological material from Mali from the Paleolithic Era (Stone Age) to approximately the mid-eighteenth century, and ethnological materials dating between the twelfth and twentieth centuries
CBP Dec. 22-23
Morocco
Archaeological material from Morocco ranging in date from approximately 1 million B.C. to A.D. 1750, and ethnological material from Morocco ranging in date from approximately A.D. 1549 to 1912
CBP Dec. 21-02
Nicaragua
Archaeological material of pre-Columbian cultures ranging approximately from 8000 B.C. to 1500 A.D
T.D. 00-75 extended by CBP Dec. 15-13
Nigeria
Archaeological material of Nigeria ranging from approximately B.C. 1500 to A.D. 1770, and ethnological material of Nigeria ranging from approximately A.D. 200 to the early 20th century A.D
CBP Dec. 22-05
Pakistan
Archaeological material of Pakistan ranging from the Lower Paleolithic Period (approximately 2,000,000 Years Before Present) through A.D. 1750, and ethnological material of Pakistan ranging in date from approximately A.D. 800 through 1849
CBP Dec. 24-09.
People's Republic of China
Archaeological materials representing China's cultural heritage from the Paleolithic Period (c. 75,000 B.C.) through the end of the Tang Period (A.D. 907) and monumental sculpture and wall art at least 250 years old as of January 14, 2009
CBP Dec. 19-02, extended by CBP Dec. 24-01.
Peru
Archaeological material of Peru ranging from approximately 12000 B.C. to A.D. 1532, and ethnological material of Peru ranging from approximately A.D. 1532 to 1821
CBP Dec. 23-10
Tunisia
Archaeological material of Tunisia ranging in date from approximately 200,000 B.C. to A.D. 1750, and ethnological material of Tunisia ranging in date from approximately A.D. 1574 to 1881
CBP Dec. 24-12.
Turkey
Archaeological material representing Turkey's cultural heritage ranging from approximately 1,200,000 B.C. to A.D. 1770, and ethnological material ranging from the 1st century A.D. to A.D. 1923
CBP Dec. 21-09
Yemen
Archaeological material of Yemen ranging in date from approximately 200,000 B.C. to A.D. 1773, and ethnological material of Yemen ranging in date from approximately A.D. 1517 through 1918
CBP Dec. 24-15.
(b) The following is a list of emergency actions imposing import restrictions on the described articles of cultural property of State Parties. The listed decision contains a complete description of specific items or categories of archaeological or ethnological material designated by the emergency actions as coming under the protection of the Convention on Cultural Property Implementation Act. Import restrictions listed below shall be effective for no more than five years from the date on which the State Party requested those restrictions. This period may be extended for three more years if it is determined that the emergency condition continues to apply with respect to the archaeological or ethnological material. Any such extension is indicated in the listing.
State party
Cultural property
Decision No.
Afghanistan
Archaeological and ethnological material from Afghanistan
CBP Dec. 22-04
Ukraine
Archaeological material of Ukraine ranging in date from approximately the Paleolithic period (c. 1.4 million years ago) through 1774 C.E., and ethnological material of Ukraine ranging in date from approximately 200 C.E. to 1917 C.E
CBP Dec. 24-16.
[T.D. 86-52, 51 FR 6907, Feb. 27, 1986]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 12.104g, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 12.104h
Exempt materials and articles.
The provisions of these regulations shall not apply to—
(a) Any archaeological or ethnological material or any article of cultural property which is imported into the U.S. for temporary exhibition or display, if such material or article is rendered immune from seizure under judicial process by the U.S. Information Agency, Office of the General Counsel and Congressional Liaison, pursuant to the Act entitled “An Act
to render immune from seizure under judicial process certain objects of cultural significance imported into the United States for temporary display or exhibition, and for other purposes”, approved October 19, 1965 (22 U.S.C. 2459); or
(b) Any designated archaeological or ethnological material or any article of cultural property imported into the U.S. if such material or article—
(1) Has been held in the U.S. for a period of not less than 3 consecutive years by a recognized museum or religious or secular monument or similar institution, and was purchased by that institution for value, in good faith, and without notice that such material or article was imported in violation of these regulations, but only if—
(i) The acquisition of such material or article has been reported in a publication of such institution, any regularly published newspaper or periodical with a circulation of at least 50,000, or a periodical or exhibition catalog which is concerned with the type of article or materials sought to be exempted from these regulations,
(ii) Such material or article has been exhibited to the public for a period or periods aggregating at least 1 year during such 3-year period, or
(iii) Such article or material has been cataloged and the catalog material made available upon request to the public for at least 2 years during such 3-year period;
(2) If paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply, has been within the U.S. for a period of not less than 10 consecutive years and has been exhibited for not less than 5 years during such period in a recognized museum or religious or secular monument or similar institution in the U.S. open to the public;
(3) If paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section do not apply, has been within the U.S. for a period of not less than 10 consecutive years and the State Party concerned has received or should have received during such period fair notice (through such adequate and accessible publication, or other means, as the Secretary or his designee shall prescribe) of its location within the U.S.; and
(4) If none of the preceding subparagraphs apply, has been within the U.S. for a period of not less than 20 consecutive years and the claimant establishes that it purchased the material or article for value without knowledge or reason to believe that it was imported in violation of law.
§ 12.104i
Enforcement.
In the customs territory of the United States, and in the U.S. Virgin Islands, the provisions of these regulations shall be enforced by appropriate customs officers. In any other territory or area within the U.S., but not within such customs territory or the U.S. Virgin Islands, such provisions shall be enforced by such persons as may be designated by the President.
§ 12.104j
Emergency protection for Iraqi cultural antiquities.
(a)
Restriction.
Importation of archaeological or ethnological material of Iraq is restricted pursuant to the Emergency Protection for Iraqi Cultural Antiquities Act of 2004 (title III of Pub. L. 108-429) and section 304 of the Convention on Cultural Property Implementation Act (19 U.S.C. 2603).
(b)
Description of restricted material.
The term “archaeological or ethnological material of Iraq” means cultural property of Iraq and other items of archaeological, historical, cultural, rare scientific, or religious importance illegally removed from the Iraq National Museum, the National Library of Iraq, and other locations in Iraq, since the adoption of United Nations Security Council Resolution 661 of 1990. CBP Decision 08-17 sets forth the Designated List of Archaeological and Ethnological Material of Iraq that describes the types of specific items or categories of archaeological or ethnological material that are subject to import restrictions.
[73 FR 23342, Apr. 30, 2008]
§ 12.104k
Emergency protection for Syrian cultural antiquities.
(a)
Restriction.
Importation of archaeological or ethnological material of Syria is restricted pursuant to the Protect and Preserve International Cultural Property Act (Pub. L. 114-151) and
section 304 of the Convention on Cultural Property Implementation Act (19 U.S.C. 2603), unless a restriction is waived pursuant to section 3(c) of the Protect and Preserve International Cultural Property Act.
(b)
Description of restricted material.
The term “archaeological or ethnological material of Syria” means cultural property as defined in section 302 of the Convention on Cultural Property Implementation Act (19 U.S.C. 2601) that is unlawfully removed from Syria on or after March 15, 2011. CBP Decision 16-10 sets forth the Designated List of Archaeological and Ethnological Material of Syria that describes the types of objects or categories of archaeological or ethnological material that are subject to import restrictions.
[CBP 16-10, 81 FR 53920, Aug. 15, 2016]

# Pre-Columbian Monumental and Architectural Sculpture and Murals
§ 12.105
Definitions.
For purposes of §§ 12.106 through 12.109:
(a) The term
pre-Columbian monumental or architectural sculpture or mural
means any stone carving or wall art listed in paragraph (b) of this section which is the product of a pre-Columbian Indian culture of Belize, Bolivia, Columbia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Panama, Peru, or Venezuela.
(b) The term
stone carving or wall art
includes:
(1) Such stone monuments as altars and altar bases, archways, ball court markers, basins, calendars, and calendrical markers, columns, monoliths, obelisks, statues, stelae, sarcophagi, thrones, zoomorphs;
(2) Such architectural structures as aqueducts, ball courts, buildings, bridges, causeways, courts, doorways (including lintels and jambs), forts, observatories, plazas, platforms, facades, reservoirs, retaining walls, roadways, shrines, temples, tombs, walls, walkways, wells;
(3) Architectural masks, decorated capstones, decorative beams of wood, frescoes, friezes, glyphs, graffiti, mosaics, moldings, or any other carving or decoration which had been part of or affixed to any monument or architectural structure, including cave paintings or designs;
(4) Any fragment or part of any stone carving or wall art listed in the preceding subparagraphs.
(c) The term
country of origin,
as applied to any pre-Columbian monumental or architectural sculpture or mural, means the country where the sculpture or mural was first discovered.
[T.D. 73-119, 38 FR 10807, May 2, 1973, as amended by T.D. 73-151, 38 FR 14677, June 4, 1973; T.D. 73-165, 38 FR 16044, June 20, 1973; 42 FR 42684, Aug. 24, 1977; T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35477, Aug. 16, 1982]
§ 12.106
Importation prohibited.
Except as provided in section 12.107, no pre-Columbian monumental or architectural sculpture or mural which is exported (whether or not such exportation is to the United States) from its country of origin after June 1, 1973, may be imported into the United States.
[T.D. 78-273, 43 FR 36055, Aug. 15, 1978]
§ 12.107
Importations permitted.
Pre-Columbian monumental or architectural sculpture or mural for which entry is sought into the Customs territory of the United States will be permitted entry if at the time of making entry:
(a) A certificate, or its electronic equivalent, issued by the Government of the country of origin of such sculpture or mural, in a form acceptable to the Secretary, certifying that such exportation was not in violation of the laws of that country, is filed with the port director; or
(b) Satisfactory evidence is presented to the port director that such sculpture or mural was exported from the country of origin on or before June 1, 1973; or
(c) Satisfactory evidence is presented to the port director that such sculpture or mural is not an article listed in § 12.105.
[T.D. 73-119, 38 FR 10807, May 2, 1973, as amended by T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35477, Aug. 16, 1982; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61285, Oct. 13, 2015]
§ 12.108
Detention of articles; time in which to comply.
If the importer cannot produce the certificate or evidence required in § 12.107 at the time of making entry, the port director shall take the sculpture or mural into Customs custody and send it to a bonded warehouse or public store to be held at the risk and expense of the consignee until the certificate or evidence is presented to such officer. The certificate or evidence must be presented within 90 days after the date on which the sculpture or mural is taken into Customs custody, or such longer period as may be allowed by the port director for good cause shown.
[T.D. 73-119, 38 FR 10807, May 2, 1973]
§ 12.109
Seizure and forfeiture.
(a) Whenever any pre-Columbian monumental or architectural sculpture or mural listed in § 12.105 is detained in accordance with § 12.108 and the importer states in writing that he will not attempt to secure the certificate or evidence required, or such certificate or evidence is not presented to the port director prior to the expiration of the time provided in § 12.108, the sculpture or mural shall be seized and summarily forfeited to the United States in accordance with part 162 of this chapter.
(b) Any pre-Columbian monumental or architectural sculpture or mural which is forfeited to the United States shall in accordance with the provisions of Title II of Pub. L. 92-587, 19 U.S.C. 2093(b):
(1) First be offered for return to the country of origin, and shall be returned if that country presents a request in writing for the return of the article and agrees to bear all expenses incurred incident to such return; or
(2) If not returned to the country of origin, be disposed of in accordance with law, pursuant to the provisions of section 609, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1609), and § 162.46 of this chapter.
[T.D. 73-119, 38 FR 10807, May 2, 1973, as amended by T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35477, Aug. 16, 1982]

# Pesticides and Devices
§ 12.110
Definitions.
Except as otherwise provided below, the terms used in §§ 12.111 through 12.117 have the meanings set forth for those terms in the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 136
et seq.
), hereinafter referred to as “the Act.” The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
[T.D. 75-194, 40 FR 32321, Aug. 1, 1975, as amended by CBP Dec. 16-15, 81 FR 67143, Sept. 30, 2016]
§ 12.111
Registration.
Certain imported pesticides are required to be registered under the provisions of section 3 of the Act, and under the regulations (40 CFR part 152) promulgated thereunder by the Administrator before being permitted entry into the United States. Devices, although not required to be registered, must not bear any statement, design, or graphic representation that is false or misleading in any particular.
[T.D. 75-194, 40 FR 32321, Aug. 1, 1975, as amended by CBP Dec. 16-15, 81 FR 67143, Sept. 30, 2016]
§ 12.112
Notice of arrival of pesticides and devices.
(a)
General.
An importer or the importer's agent desiring to import pesticides or devices into the United States must submit to the Administrator, prior to the arrival of the shipment in the United States, a Notice of Arrival of Pesticides and Devices (Notice of Arrival) on U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Form 3540-1. The Administrator will complete the Notice of Arrival and provide notification to the importer or the importer's agent indicating the disposition to be made of a pesticide or device upon its entry into the United States. In the alternative, the importer or the importer's agent may file an electronic alternative to the Notice of Arrival, with the filing of the entry documentation, via any CBP-authorized electronic data interchange system.
(b)
Chemicals imported for use other than as pesticides.
Chemicals which can be used as pesticides but which are not
imported for such use and are not shown on the Index of Pesticide Products located in the Environmental Protection Agency's handbook entitled Recognition and Management of Pesticide Poisonings, found at
http://www.epa.gov
, may be entered without the submission of the Notice of Arrival.
[T.D. 75-194, 40 FR 32321, Aug. 1, 1975, as amended by CBP Dec. 10-29, 75 FR 52451, Aug. 26, 2010; CBP Dec. 16-15, 81 FR 67143, Sept. 30, 2016]
§ 12.113
Arrival and entry of shipment of pesticides and devices.
(a)
Notice of Arrival form filed with CBP.
Upon entry of a shipment of pesticides or devices into the United States, and concurrent with the filing of the entry documentation, CBP must be in receipt of a completed Notice of Arrival of Pesticides and Devices (Notice of Arrival) on U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Form 3540-1 or its electronic alternative submitted via any CBP-authorized electronic data interchange system. A completed Notice of Arrival must have been signed by the Administrator and indicate any action to be taken by CBP with respect to the shipment. CBP will compare entry information for the shipment of pesticides or devices with the information in the Notice of Arrival and notify the Administrator of any discrepancies.
(b)
EPA Notice of Arrival declaration form not presented.
When a shipment of pesticides or devices arrives and entry is attempted in the United States without a completed Notice of Arrival having been filed with CBP pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the shipment will be detained by CBP at the importer's risk and expense until the completed Notice of Arrival is presented to CBP or until other disposition is ordered by the Administrator. Such detention is not to exceed a period of 30-calendar days, or such additional extended 30-calendar day detention period as CBP may for good cause authorize. An importer or its agent may request an extension of the initial 30-calendar day detention period by filing a request with the director of the CBP port of entry.
(c)
Disposition of pesticides or devices remaining under detention.
A shipment of pesticides or devices that remains detained or undisposed of due to the failure to timely submit to CBP a completed Notice of Arrival will be treated as a prohibited importation. CBP will cause the destruction of any such shipment not exported by the consignee within 90-calendar days after the expiration of the detention period specified or authorized by paragraph (b) of this section.
[CBP Dec. 16-15, 81 FR 67143, Sept. 30, 2016]
§ 12.114
Release or refusal of delivery.
If the EPA directs the port director to release the shipment of pesticides or devices, the shipment will be released to the consignee. If the EPA directs the port director to refuse delivery of the shipment, the shipment will be refused delivery and treated as a prohibited importation. The port director will cause the destruction of any shipment refused delivery and not exported by the consignee within 90-calendar days after notice of such refusal of delivery.
[CBP Dec. 16-15, 81 FR 67143, Sept. 30, 2016]
§ 12.115
Release under bond of shipment detained for examination.
If the EPA so directs, a shipment of pesticides or devices will be detained at the importer's risk and expense by the port director pending an examination by the Administrator to determine whether the shipment complies with the requirements of the Act. However, a shipment detained for examination may be released to the consignee prior to a determination by the Administrator provided a bond is furnished on CBP Form 301, or its electronic equivalent, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter, for the return of the merchandise to CBP custody, and upon entry of the merchandise and the satisfaction of all other applicable laws. The bond will be in an amount deemed appropriate by CBP. When a shipment of pesticides or devices is released to the consignee under bond, the pesticides or devices must not be used or otherwise disposed of until the determination on compliance with the requirements of the Act is made by the Administrator.
[CBP Dec. 16-15, 81 FR 67143, Sept. 30, 2016]
§ 12.116
Samples.
Upon the request of the Administrator, either on the completed Notice of Arrival or otherwise, the port director will deliver to the Administrator samples of the imported pesticides or devices, together with all accompanying labels, circulars, and advertising matter pertaining to such merchandise. The port director will notify the consignee that the samples of imported pesticides or devices, together with all accompanying labels, circulars, and advertising matter pertaining to such merchandise have been delivered to the Administrator.
[T.D. 75-194, 40 FR 32322, Aug. 1, 1975, as amended by CBP Dec. 16-15, 81 FR 67143, Sept. 30, 2016]
§ 12.117
Procedure after examination.
(a)
Merchandise complying with the Act.
If, upon examination or analysis of a sample from a shipment of pesticides or devices, the sample is found to be in compliance with the Act, the Administrator will notify the port director that the shipment may be released to the consignee.
(b)
Merchandise not complying with the Act.
If, upon examination or analysis of a sample from a shipment of pesticides or devices, the sample is found to be in violation of the Act, the consignee will be notified promptly by the Administrator of the nature of the violation and be given a reasonable time, not to exceed 20 days, to submit written material or, at his option, to appear before the Administrator and introduce testimony, to show cause why the shipment should not be destroyed or refused entry. If, after consideration of all the evidence presented, it is still the opinion of the Administrator that the merchandise is in violation of the Act, the Administrator will notify the port director of this opinion and the port director will either (1) refuse delivery to the consignee, or (2) if the shipment has been released to the consignee under bond, demand redelivery of the shipment under the terms of the bond. If the merchandise is not redelivered within 30 days after the date of demand by the port director, the port director will issue a demand for liquidated damages in the full amount of the bond if it is a single entry bond, or if a continuous bond is used, the amount that would have been taken under a single entry bond. The port director will cause the destruction of any merchandise refused delivery to the consignee, or redelivered by the consignee pursuant to a demand therefor, and not exported by the consignee within 90 days after notice of such refusal of delivery or within 90 days after such redelivery, as applicable.
[T.D. 75-194, 40 FR 32322, Aug. 1, 1975, as amended by T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41168, Oct. 19, 1984; CBP Dec. 16-15, 81 FR 67143, Sept. 30, 2016]

# Chemical Substances in Bulk and as Part of Mixtures and Articles

# Source:
Sections 12.118 through 12.127 issued by T.D. 83-158, 48 FR 34739, Aug. 1, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 12.118
Toxic Substances Control Act.
The Toxic Substances Control Act (“TSCA”) (15 U.S.C. 2601
et seq.
) governs the importation into the customs territory of the United States of a chemical substance in bulk form or as part of a mixture, and articles containing a chemical substance or mixture. Such importations are also governed by these regulations which are issued under the authority of section 13(b) of TSCA (15 U.S.C. 2612(b)).
[CBP Dec. 16-28, 81 FR 94985, Dec. 27, 2016]
§ 12.119
Scope.
Sections 12.120 through 12.127 apply to the importation into the customs territory of the United States of:
(a) Chemical substances in bulk form and as part of a mixture under TSCA;
(b) TSCA-excluded chemicals; and
(c) Articles containing a chemical substance or mixture if so required by the Administrator by specific rule under TSCA.
[CBP Dec. 16-28, 81 FR 94985, Dec. 27, 2016]
§ 12.120
Definitions.
Except as otherwise provided below, the terms used in §§ 12.121 through 12.127 have the meanings set forth for those terms in TSCA.
(a)
Article
—(1)
Article
means a manufactured item which:
(i) Is formed to a specific shape or design during manufacture,
(ii) Has end use functions dependent in whole or in part upon its shape or design during the end use, and
(iii) Has either no change of chemical composition during its end use or only those changes of composition which have no commercial purpose separate from that of the article and that may occur as described in § 12.120(a)(2); except that fluids and particles are not considered articles regardless of shape or design.
(2) The allowable changes of composition, referred to in § 12.120(a)(1), are those which result from a chemical reaction that occurs upon the end use of other chemical substances, mixtures, or articles such as adhesives, paints, miscellaneous cleaners or other household products, fuels and fuel additives, water softening and treatment agents, photographic films, batteries, matches, and safety flares in which the chemical substance manufactured upon end use of the article is not itself manufactured for distribution in commerce or for use as an intermediate.
(b)
TSCA chemical substance in bulk form.
“TSCA chemical substance in bulk form” means a chemical substance as set forth in section 3(2) of TSCA, (15 U.S.C. 2602(2)) (other than as part of an article) in containers used for purposes of transportation or containment, provided that the chemical substance is intended to be removed from the container and has an end use or commercial purpose separate from the container.
(c)
TSCA chemical substance as part of a mixture.
“TSCA chemical substance as part of a mixture” means a chemical substance as set forth in section 3(2) of TSCA, (15 U.S.C. 2602(2)) that is part of a combination of two or more chemical substances as set forth in section 3(10) of TSCA.
(d)
TSCA-excluded chemicals.
“TSCA-excluded chemicals” means any chemicals that are excluded from the definition of TSCA chemical substance by section 3(2)(B) (ii)-(vi) of TSCA, (15 U.S.C. 2602(2) (B) (ii)-(vi)) (other than as part of a mixture), regardless of form.
(e)
Covered commodity.
“Covered commodity” means merchandise that meets the terms of one of the definitions specified in paragraph (a), (b), or (d) of this section or that is a mixture as defined in TSCA.
(f)
Administrator.
“Administrator” means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
[T.D. 83-158, 48 FR 34739, Aug. 1, 1983, as amended by CBP Dec. 16-28, 81 FR 94985, Dec. 27, 2016]
§ 12.121
Reporting requirements.
(a)
Certification required.
(1) The importer or the authorized agent of such an importer of a TSCA chemical substance in bulk form or as part of a mixture, must certify in writing or electronically that the chemical shipment complies with all applicable rules and orders under TSCA by filing with CBP the following statement:
I certify that all chemical substances in this shipment comply with all applicable rules or orders under TSCA and that I am not offering a chemical substance for entry in violation of TSCA or any applicable rule or order thereunder.
(2) The importer or the authorized agent of such an importer of any TSCA-excluded chemical not clearly identified as such must certify in writing or electronically that the chemical shipment is not subject to TSCA by filing with CBP the following statement:
I certify that all chemicals in this shipment are not subject to TSCA.
(3)
Filing of certification.
(i) The appropriate certification required under paragraph (a) of this section must be filed with the director of the port of entry in writing or electronically to the Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) system or any other CBP-authorized EDI system prior to release of the shipment. For each entry subject to certification under paragraph (a), the name, phone number, and email address of the certifier (the importer or the importer's authorized agent) shall be included.
(ii) Written certifications must appear as a typed or stamped statement:
(A) On an appropriate entry document or commercial invoice or on an attachment to that entry document or invoice; or
(B) In the event of release under a special permit for an immediate delivery as provided for in § 142.21 of this chapter or in the case of an entry as provided for in § 142.3 of this chapter, on the commercial invoice or on an attachment to that invoice.
(b)
TSCA chemical substances or mixtures as parts of articles.
An importer of a TSCA chemical substance or mixture as part of an article must comply with the certification requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section only if required to do so by a rule or order issued under TSCA.
(c)
Facsimile signatures.
The certification statements required under paragraph (a) of this section may be signed by means of an authorized facsimile signature.
[CBP Dec. 16-28, 81 FR 94985, Dec. 27, 2016]
§ 12.122
Detention of certain shipments.
(a) The director of the port of arrival will detain, at the importer's risk and expense, shipments of covered commodity:
(1) Which have been banned from the customs territory of the United States by a rule or order issued under section 5 or 6 of TSCA (15 U.S.C. 2604 or 2605) or
(2) Which have been ordered seized because of imminent hazards as specified under section 7 of TSCA (15 U.S.C. 2606).
(b) The director of the port of entry will detain shipments of covered commodity at the importer's risk and expense, in the following situations:
(1) Whenever the Administrator has reasonable grounds to believe that the shipment is not in compliance with TSCA and notifies the port director to detain the shipment.
(2) Whenever the port director has reasonable grounds to believe that the shipment is not in compliance with TSCA; or
(3) Whenever the importer fails to certify compliance with TSCA as required by § 12.121.
(c) Upon detention of a shipment, the port director will give prompt notice to the Administrator and the importer. The notice will include the reasons for detention.
(d) A detained shipment will not be held in the custody of the port director for more than 48 hours after the date of detention. Thereafter, the shipment will be promptly turned over to the Administrator for storage or disposition as provided for in §§ 12.127 and 127.28(i), unless previously released to the importer under bond as provided in § 12.123(b). Notice of intent to abandon the shipment by the importer will constitute a waiver of all time periods specified in parts 12 and 127.
[T.D. 83-158, 48 FR 34739, Aug. 1, 1983, as amended by CBP Dec. 16-28, 81 FR 94986, Dec. 27, 2016]
§ 12.123
Procedure after detention.
(a)
Submission of written documentation.
If a shipment is detained by a port director under § 12.122, the importer may submit written documentation to the Administrator with a copy to the port director within 20 days from the date of notice of detention, to show cause why the shipment should not be refused entry. If an importer submits that documentation, the Administrator will allow or deny entry of the shipment within 10 days of receipt of the documentation, and in any case will allow or deny entry of the shipment within 30 days of the date of notice of detention.
(b)
Release under Bond.
The port director may release to the importer a shipment detained for any of the reasons given in § 12.122 when the port director has reasonable grounds to believe that the shipment may be brought into compliance, or when the port director deems it appropriate under § 141.66 of this chapter. Any such release will be conditioned upon furnishing a bond on CBP Form 301, containing the conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter for the return of the shipment to CBP custody. If a shipment of a covered commodity is released to the importer under bond, the shipment will be held intact and will not be used or otherwise disposed of until the Administrator makes a final determination on entry as provided for in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Determination by the Administrator.
After consideration of the available evidence and within 30 days from the notice of detention, the Administrator will notify the port director and the
importer of his decision either to permit or refuse entry of the shipment. If the Administrator finds that the shipment is in compliance with TSCA, the port director will release the shipment to the importer. If the Administrator finds that the shipment is not in compliance, the port director will:
(1) Refuse delivery to the importer, giving reasons for such refusal, or
(2) If the shipment has been released on bond, demand its redelivery under the terms of the bond, giving reasons for such demand. If the merchandise is not redelivered within 30 days from the date of the redelivery notice, the port director will assess liquidated damages in the full amount of the bond.
[T.D. 83-158, 48 FR 34739, Aug. 1, 1983, as amended at CBP Dec. 10-29, 75 FR 52451, Aug. 26, 2010; CBP Dec. 16-28, 81 FR 94986, Dec. 27, 2016]
§ 12.124
Time limitations and extensions.
(a)
Time limitations.
The importer of a shipment of a covered commodity which has been detained under § 12.122 must bring the shipment into compliance with TSCA or export the shipment from the customs territory of the United States within 90 days after notice of detention or 30 days of demand for redelivery, whichever comes first.
(b)
Time extensions.
The port director, upon notification by the Administrator, may grant an extension of not more than 30 days if, due to delays caused by the Environmental Protection Agency or the CBP:
(1) The importer is unable, for good cause shown, to bring a shipment into compliance with the Act within the required time period; or
(2) The importer is unable to export the shipment from the customs territory of the United States within the required time period.
[T.D. 83-158, 48 FR 34739, Aug. 1, 1983, as amended by CBP Dec. 16-28, 81 FR 94986, Dec. 27, 2016]
§ 12.125
Notice of exportation.
Whenever the Administrator directs the port director to refuse entry under § 12.123 and the importer exports the non-complying shipment within the 30 day period of notice of refusal of entry or within 90 days of demand for redelivery, the importer must submit notice of the exportation either in writing to the port director or electronically to ACE or any other CBP-authorized EDI system. The importer must include the following information in the notice of exportation:
(a) The name and address of the exporter or his agent;
(b) A description of the covered commodity exported;
(c) The destination (country);
(d) The port of arrival at the destination;
(e) The carrier;
(f) The date of exportation; and
(g) The bill of lading or the air way bill number.
[T.D. 83-158, 48 FR 34739, Aug. 1, 1983, as amended by CBP Dec. 16-28, 81 FR 94986, Dec. 27, 2016]
§ 12.126
Notice of abandonment.
If the importer intends to abandon the shipment after receiving notice of refusal of entry, the importer must present a notice of intent to abandon in writing to the port director or electronically to ACE or any other CBP-authorized EDI system. Notification under this section is a waiver of any right to export the merchandise. The importer will remain liable for any expense incurred in the storage and/or disposal of abandoned merchandise.
[CBP Dec. 16-28, 81 FR 94986, Dec. 27, 2016]
§ 12.127
Decision to store or dispose.
A shipment detained under § 12.122 will be considered to be unclaimed or abandoned and will be turned over to the Administrator for storage or disposition as provided for in § 127.28(i) of this chapter if the importer has not brought the shipment into compliance with TSCA and has not exported the shipment within the time limitations or extensions specified according to § 12.124. The importer will remain liable for any expense in the storage and/or disposal of abandoned merchandise.
[CBP Dec. 16-28, 81 FR 94986, Dec. 27, 2016]

# Softwood Lumber
§ 12.140
Entry of softwood lumber products from Canada.
The requirements set forth in this section are applicable for as long as the Softwood Lumber Agreement (SLA 2006), entered into on September 12, 2006, by the Governments of the United States and Canada, remains in effect.
(a)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply for purposes of this section:
(1)
British Columbia Coast.
“British Columbia Coast” means the Coastal Forest Regions as defined by the existing
Forest Regions and Districts Regulation,
B.C. Reg. 123/2003.
(2)
British Columbia Interior.
“British Columbia Interior” means the Northern Interior Forest Region and the Southern Interior Forest Region as defined by the existing
Forest Regions and Districts Regulation,
B.C. Reg. 123/2003.
(3)
Date of shipment.
“Date of shipment” means, in the case of products exported by rail, the date when the railcar that contains the products is assembled to form part of a train for export; otherwise, the date when the products are loaded aboard a conveyance for export. If a shipment is transshipped through a Canadian reload center or other inventory location, the date of shipment is the date the merchandise leaves the reload center or other inventory location for final shipment to the United States.
(4)
Maritimes.
“Maritimes” means New Brunswick, Canada; Nova Scotia, Canada; Prince Edward Island, Canada; and Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada.
(5)
Region.
“Region” means British Columbia Coast or British Columbia Interior as defined in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section; Alberta, Canada; Manitoba, Canada; Maritimes, Canada; Northwest Territories, Canada; Nunavut Territory, Canada; Ontario, Canada; Saskatchewan, Canada; Quebec, Canada; or Yukon Territory, Canada.
(6)
Region of Origin.
“Region of Origin” means the Region where the facility at which the softwood lumber product was first produced into such a product is located, regardless of whether that product was further processed (for example, by planing or kiln drying) or was transformed from one softwood lumber product into another such product (for example, a remanufactured product) in another Region, with the following exceptions:
(i) The Region of Origin of softwood lumber products first produced in the Maritime Provinces from logs originating in a non-Maritime Region will be the Region, as defined above, where the logs originated; and
(ii) The Region of Origin of softwood lumber products first produced in the Yukon, Northwest Territories or Nunavut (the ‘Territories’) from logs originating outside the Territories will be the Region where the logs originated.
(7)
SLA 2006.
“SLA 2006” or “SLA” means the Softwood Lumber Agreement entered into between the Governments of Canada and the United States on September 12, 2006.
(8)
Softwood lumber products.
“Softwood lumber products” mean those products described as covered by the SLA 2006 in Annex 1A of the Agreement.
(b)
Reporting requirements.
In the case of softwood lumber products from Canada listed in Annex 1A of the SLA 2006 as covered by the scope of the Agreement, the following information must be included on the electronic entry summary documentation (CBP Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent) for each entry (except for entries of softwood lumber products whose Region of Origin is the Maritimes, in which case entry summary documentation must be submitted in paper as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section):
(1)
Region of Origin.
The letter code representing a softwood lumber product's Canadian Region of Origin, as posted on the Administrative Message Board in the Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) or any other CBP-authorized electronic data interchange system. (For example, the letter code “XD” designates softwood lumber products whose Region of Origin is British Columbia Coast. The letter code “XE” designates softwood lumber products whose Region of Origin is British Columbia Interior.)
(2)
Export Permit Number
—(i)
Export Permit Number issued by Canada at time of filing entry summary documentation.
The 8-digit Canadian-issued Export Permit Number, preceded by one of the following letter codes:
(A) The letter code assigned to represent the date of shipment (
i.e.
, “A” represents January, “B” represents February, “C” represents March,
etc.
), except for those softwood lumber products produced by a company listed in Annex 10 of the SLA 2006 or whose Region of Origin is the Maritimes, Yukon, Northwest Territories or Nunavut;
(B) The letter code “X”, which designates a company listed in Annex 10 of the SLA 2006; or
(C) The letter code assigned to represent the Maritimes (code M); Yukon (code Y); Northwest Territories (code W); or Nunavut (code N), for softwood lumber products originating in these regions.
(ii)
No Export Permit Number required due to softwood lumber product's exempt status.
Where an Export Permit Number is not required because the imported softwood lumber product is specifically identified as exempt from SLA 2006 export measures pursuant to Annex 1A of the Agreement, notwithstanding the fact that the exempt goods are classifiable in residual Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States provisions otherwise listed as covered by the SLA 2006, the alpha-numeric code “P88888888” must be used in the Export Permit Number data entry field on the CBP Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent.
(c)
Original Maritime Certificate of Origin.
Where a softwood lumber product's Region of Origin is the Maritimes, the original paper copy of the Certificate of Origin issued by the Maritime Lumber Bureau must be submitted to CBP and the entry summary documentation for each such entry must be in paper and not electronic. The Certificate of Origin must specifically state that the corresponding CBP entries are for softwood lumber products first produced in the Maritimes from logs originating in the Maritimes or State of Maine.
(d)
Recordkeeping.
Importers must retain copies of export permits, certificates of origin, and any other substantiating documentation issued by the Canadian Government pursuant to the recordkeeping requirements set forth in part 163 of title 19 to the CFR.
[CBP Dec. 08-10, 73 FR 20784, Apr. 17, 2008, as amended by CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61285, Oct. 13, 2015]
§ 12.142
Entry of softwood lumber and softwood lumber products from any country into the United States.
(a)
In general.
This section, pursuant to the “Softwood Lumber Act of 2008” (“the Act”) (Title VIII of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1202
et seq.
)), prescribes entry requirements applicable to certain imports of softwood lumber and softwood lumber products exported from any country into the United States.
(b)
Softwood lumber products covered.
The softwood lumber and softwood lumber products covered by this section are those products described in section 804(a) of Title VIII of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1202
et seq.
).
(c)
Entry requirements for shipments subject to the importer declaration program.
For each shipment of softwood lumber or softwood lumber products described in section 804(a) of Title VIII to the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, (19 U.S.C. 1202
et seq.
) that is entered or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, in the customs territory of the United States, the following information must be electronically submitted to CBP (except that, pursuant to 19 CFR 12.140(c), entries of softwood lumber and softwood lumber products for which a Certificate of Origin has been issued from Canada's Maritime Lumber Bureau must be submitted to CBP in paper):
(1)
Export price.
Each importer must provide the export price, expressed in U.S. dollars, on the entry summary in the designated space provided on the CBP Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent.
(i) For purposes of this section, “export price” means one of the following:
(A) In the case of softwood lumber or a softwood lumber product that has undergone only primary processing, the value that would be determined F.O.B. at the facility where the product underwent the last primary processing before export.
(B) In the case of softwood lumber or a softwood lumber product that underwent the last remanufacturing before export by a manufacturer who does not hold tenure rights provided by the country of export, did not acquire standing timber directly from the country of export, and is not related to the person who holds tenure rights or acquired standing timber directly from the country of export, the value that would be determined F.O.B. at the facility where the softwood lumber or softwood lumber product underwent the last primary processing.
(C) In the case of softwood lumber or a softwood lumber product that underwent the last remanufacturing before export by a manufacturer who holds tenure rights provided by the country of export, acquired standing timber directly from the country of export, or is related to the person who holds tenure rights or acquired standing timber directly from the country of export, the value that would be determined F.O.B. at the facility where the softwood lumber or softwood lumber product underwent the last processing before export.
(D) In the case of softwood lumber or a softwood lumber product described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A), (B) or (C) of this section for which an F.O.B. value cannot be determined, the export price will be the market price for the identical softwood lumber or softwood lumber product sold in an arm's-length transaction in the country of export at approximately the same time as the exported softwood lumber or softwood lumber product. The market price will be determined in the following order of preference:
(
1
) The market price for the softwood lumber or softwood lumber product sold at substantially the same level of trade (as described in 19 CFR 351.412(c)) as the exported softwood lumber or softwood lumber product but in different quantities.
(
2
) The market price for the softwood lumber or softwood lumber product sold at a different level of trade (as defined in 19 CFR 351.412(c)) than the exported softwood lumber or softwood lumber product but in similar quantities.
(
3
) The market price for the softwood lumber or softwood lumber product sold at a different level of trade (as defined in 19 CFR 351.412(c)) than the exported softwood lumber or softwood lumber product and in different quantities.
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the following definitions apply:
(A)
F.O.B.
The term “F.O.B.” means a value consisting of all charges payable by a purchaser, including those charges incurred in the placement of merchandise on board of a conveyance for shipment, but does not include the actual shipping charges or any applicable export charges.
(B)
Related to the person.
The term “related to the person” means:
(
1
) A person bears a relationship to such other person described in section 152(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
(
2
) A person bears a relationship to such person described in section 267(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, except that “5 percent” will be substituted for “50 percent” each place it appears;
(
3
) The person and such other person are part of a controlled group of corporations, as that term is defined in section 1563(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, except that “5 percent” will be substituted for “80 percent” each place it appears;
(
4
) The person is an officer or director of such other person; or
(
5
) The person is the employer of such other person.
(C)
Tenure rights.
The term “tenure rights” means rights to harvest timber from public land granted by the country of export.
(2)
Estimated export charge.
(i) Each importer must provide the estimated export charge, if any, to be collected by the country (including any political subdivision of the country) from which the softwood lumber or softwood lumber product was exported pursuant to an international agreement entered into by that country and the United States as calculated by applying the percentage determined and published by the Under Secretary for International Trade of the Department of Commerce to the export price. Any applicable estimated export charge must
be expressed in U.S. dollars and reported on the entry summary in the designated space.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph, the terms “estimated export charge” or “export charge” mean any tax, charge, or other fee collected by the country from which softwood lumber or a softwood lumber product, as described in section 804(a) within Title VIII of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1202
et seq.
), as amended, is exported pursuant to an international agreement entered into by that country and the United States.
(3)
Importer declaration.
(i) Each importer, except as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, must provide a softwood lumber declaration on the electronic entry summary by entering the letter code “Y” in the first space of the field designated for the estimated export charge data.
(ii) Each importer of softwood lumber and softwood lumber products for which a Certificate of Origin has been issued from Canada's Maritime Lumber Bureau must provide a softwood lumber declaration on the paper entry summary by entering the letter code “Y” in the first space of the field designated for the estimated export charge.
See
19 CFR 12.140(c),
(iii) The letter code “Y” represents the importer's declaration to CBP that:
(A) The importer has made appropriate inquiry, including seeking appropriate documentation from the exporter and consulting the determinations published by the Under Secretary for International Trade of the Department of Commerce pursuant to section 805(b) of Title VIII of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1202
et seq.
); and
(B) To the best of the person's knowledge and belief:
(
1
) The export price provided is determined in accordance with the definition set forth in section 802(5) of Title VIII of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1202
et seq.
);
(
2
) The export price provided is consistent with the export price provided on the export permit, if any, granted by the country of export; and
(
3
) The exporter has paid, or committed to pay, all export charges due in accordance with the volume, export price, and export charge rate or rates, if any, as calculated under an international agreement entered into by the country of export and the United States and consistent with the export charge determinations published by the Under Secretary for International Trade of the Department of Commerce.
(iv) Any substantiating documentation that supports an importer's softwood lumber declaration is subject to the recordkeeping provisions set forth in part 163 of title 19 to the CFR.
(d)
Entry requirements for home packages and kits
—(1)
Declaration and required documentation.
Home packages and kits as described in section 804(c)(7)(A)(i) through (iv) of the Title VIII of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1202
et seq.
) are not subject to the entry requirements set forth in paragraph (c) of this section. However, the importer is required to make a declaration pursuant to section 804(c)(7)(B) and is required to retain and produce upon demand by CBP, the following documentation:
(i) A copy of the appropriate home design, plan, or blueprint matching the customs entry in the United States.
(ii) A purchase contract from a retailer of home kits or packages signed by a customer not affiliated with the importer.
(iii) A listing of all parts in the package or kit being entered into the United States that conforms to the home design, plan, or blueprint for which such parts are being imported.
(iv) If a single contract involved multiple entries, an identification of all the items required to be listed under paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section that are included in each individual shipment.
(2)
Records and retention.
There is no requirement to present physical copies of the softwood lumber home packages and kits documentation to CBP at the time of filing the entry summary; however copies must be maintained in accordance with the applicable recordkeeping provisions set forth in part 163 of title 19 to the CFR.
(e)
Other softwood lumber entry requirements.
Other entry requirements may be applicable to certain imports of softwood lumber or softwood lumber from Canada. Importers are advised to
refer to § 12.140 (19 CFR 12.140) of this chapter for information regarding applicability and entry requirements.
[CBP Dec. 08-32, 73 FR 49937, Aug. 25, 2008, as amended at CBP Dec. 10-27, 75 FR 52453, Aug. 26, 2010; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61285, Oct. 13, 2015]

# Steel Products
§ 12.145
Entry or admission of certain steel products.
In any case in which a steel import license number is required to be obtained under regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Commerce, that license number must be included:
(a) On the entry summary, Customs Form 7501, or on an electronic equivalent, at the time of filing, in the case of merchandise entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, in the customs territory of the United States; or
(b) On Customs Form 214, at the time of filing under part 146 of this chapter, in the case of merchandise admitted into a foreign trade zone.
[T.D. 03-13, 68 FR 13839, Mar. 21, 2003]

# Merchandise Subject to Economic Sanctions
§ 12.150
Merchandise prohibited by economic sanctions; detention; seizure or other disposition; blocked property.
(a)
Generally.
Merchandise from certain countries designated by the President as constituting a threat to the national security, foreign policy, or economy of the United States shall be detained until the question of its release, seizure, or other disposition has been determined under law and regulations issued by the Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) (31 CFR Chapter V).
(b)
Seizure.
When an unlicensed importation of merchandise subject to OFAC's regulations is determined to be prohibited, no entry for any purpose shall be permitted and, unless the immediate reexportation or other disposition of such merchandise under Customs supervision has previously been authorized by OFAC, the merchandise shall be seized.
(c)
Licenses.
OFAC's regulations may authorize OFAC to issue licenses on a case-by-case basis authorizing the importation of otherwise prohibited merchandise under certain conditions. If such a license is issued subsequent to the attempted entry and seizure of the merchandise, importation shall be conditioned upon the importer:
(1) Agreeing in writing to hold the Government harmless, and
(2) Paying any storage and other Customs fees, costs, or expenses, as well as any mitigated forfeiture amount or monetary penalty imposed or assessed by Customs or OFAC, or both.
(d)
Blocked property.
Merchandise which constitutes property in which the government or any national of certain designated countries has an interest may be blocked (frozen) pursuant to OFAC's regulations and may not be transferred, sold, or otherwise disposed of without an OFAC license.
(e)
Additional information.
For further information concerning importing merchandise prohibited under economic sanctions programs currently in effect, the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury should be contacted. The address of that office is 1500 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Annex 2nd Floor, Washington, DC 20220.
[T.D. 96-42, 61 FR 24889, May 17, 1996]
§ 12.151
[Reserved]
§ 12.152
Prohibitions and conditions on the importation and exportation of rough diamonds.
(a)
General.
The Clean Diamond Trade Act (Pub. L. 108-19) requires the President, subject to certain waiver authorities, to prohibit the importation into, or exportation from, the United States, of any rough diamond, from whatever source, that has not been controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme. By Executive Order 13312 dated July 29, 2003, published in the
Federal Register
(68 FR 45151) on July 31, 2003, the President implemented the Clean Diamond Trade Act, effective for rough diamonds imported into, or exported from, the United States on or after July 30, 2003. Pursuant to Executive Order 13312 and other authorities, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), Department of
the Treasury, promulgated the Rough Diamonds Control Regulations (see 31 CFR part 592). Any persons importing into or exporting from the United States a shipment of rough diamonds must comply with the requirements of CBP, OFAC, and the U.S. Census Bureau (15 CFR part 30).
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme.
“Controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme” means meeting the requirements set forth in 31 CFR 592.301;
(2)
Kimberley Process Certificate.
“Kimberley Process Certificate” means a forgery resistant document that meets the minimum requirements listed in Annex I of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme, as well as the requirements listed in 31 CFR 592.307;
(3)
Rough diamond.
“Rough diamond” means any diamond that is unworked or simply sawn, cleaved, or bruted and classifiable under subheading 7102.10, 7102.21, or 7102.31 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States;
(4)
United States.
“United States”, when used in the geographic sense, means the several states, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States; and
(5)
United States person.
“United States person” means:
(i) Any United States citizen or any alien admitted for permanent residence into the United States;
(ii) Any entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including its foreign branches); and
(iii) Any person in the United States.
(c)
Original Kimberley Process Certificate.
A shipment of rough diamonds imported into, or exported from, the United States must be accompanied by an original Kimberley Process Certificate.
(d)
Formal Entry Required.
Formal entry is required when importing a shipment of rough diamonds. Formal entry procedures are prescribed in part 142 of this chapter.
(e)
Report of Kimberley Process Certificate Unique Identifying Number.
Customs brokers, importers, and filers making entry of a shipment of rough diamonds must either submit through CBP's Automated Broker Interface (ABI) system the unique identifying number of the Kimberley Process Certificate accompanying the shipment or, for non-ABI entries, indicate the certificate number on the CBP Form 7501, Entry Summary, on each applicable line item.
(f)
Maintenance of Kimberley Process Certificate
—(1)
Ultimate consignee.
The ultimate consignee identified on the CBP Form 7501, Entry Summary, or its electronic equivalent filed with CBP in connection with an importation of rough diamonds must retain the original Kimberley Process Certificate for a period of at least five years from the date of importation and must make the certificate available for examination at the request of CBP.
(2)
Importer.
The U.S. person that imports into the United States a shipment of rough diamonds must retain a copy of the Kimberley Process Certificate accompanying the shipment for a period of at least five years from the date of importation and must make the copy available for examination at the request of CBP.
(3)
Exporter.
The U.S. person that exports from the United States a shipment of rough diamonds must retain a copy of the Kimberley Process Certificate accompanying the shipment for a period of at least five years from the date of exportation and must make the copy available for examination at the request of CBP.
[78 FR 40629, July 8, 2013]
Pt. 18

# PART 18—TRANSPORTATION IN BOND AND MERCHANDISE IN TRANSIT

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
18.0
Scope; definitions.
18.1
In-bond application and entry; general rules.
18.2
Carriers, cartmen, and lightermen.
18.3
Transfers.
18.4
Sealing conveyances, compartments, and containers.
18.5
Diversion.
18.6
Short shipments; shortages; entry and allowance.
18.7
Lading for exportation; notice and proof of exportation; verification.
18.8
Liability for not meeting in-bond requirements; liquidated damages; payment of taxes, duties, fees, and charges.
18.9
New in-bond movement for forwarded or returned merchandise.
18.10
Special manifest.

# Subpart B—Immediate Transportation Without Appraisement
18.11
General rules.
18.12
Entry at port of destination.

# Subpart C—Shipment of Baggage In-Bond
18.13
Procedure; manifest.
18.14
Shipment of baggage in transit to foreign countries.

# Subpart D—Transportation and Exportation
18.20
General rules.
18.21
[Reserved]
18.22
Procedure at port of exportation.
18.23
Change of port of exportation or first foreign port; change of entry.
18.24
Retention of goods within port limits; dividing of shipments.

# Subpart E—Immediate Exportation
18.25
Direct exportation.
18.26
Indirect exportation.
18.27
Port marks.

# Subpart F—Merchandise Transported by Pipeline
18.31
Pipeline transportation of bonded merchandise.

# Subpart G—Merchandise Not Otherwise Subject to CBP Control Exported Under Cover of a TIR Carnet
18.41
Applicability.
18.42
Direct exportation.
18.43
Indirect exportation.
18.44
Abandonment of exportation.
18.45
Supervision of exportation.

# Subpart H—Importer Security Filings
18.46
Changes to Importer Security Filing information.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 19 U.S.C. 66, 1202 (General Note 3(i), Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States), 1551, 1552, 1553, 1623, 1624; Section 18.1 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1484, 1557, 1490; Section 18.2 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1551a; Section 18.3 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1565; Section 18.4 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1322, 1323; Section 18.7 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1490, 1557; 1646a; Section 18.11 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1484; Section 18.12 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1448, 1484, 1490; Section 18.13 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1498(a); Section 18.14 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1498. Section 18.25 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1490. Section 18.26 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1490. Section 18.31 also issued under 19 U.S.C. 1553a.

# Source:
CBP Dec. 17-13, 82 FR 45394, Sept. 28, 2017, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 18.0
Scope; definitions.
(a)
Scope.
Except as provided in parts 122 (Air commerce) and 123 (CBP relations with Canada and Mexico) of this chapter, this part sets forth the requirements and procedures pertaining to the transportation of merchandise in-bond, as authorized by §§ 551, 552, and 553 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C 1551, 1552, and 1553).
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this part, the following terms will have the meanings indicated unless either the context in which they are used requires a different meaning or a different definition is prescribed for a particular part or portion thereof:
Bonded carrier.
“Bonded carrier” means a carrier of merchandise whose bond under § 113.63 of this chapter is obligated for the transportation and delivery of merchandise.
Common carrier.
“Common carrier” means a common carrier of merchandise owning or operating a railroad, steamship, pipeline, truck line, or other transportation line or route.
Origination port.
“Origination port” is the U.S. port at which the transportation of merchandise in-bond commences.
Port of destination.
“Port of destination” is the U.S. port at which merchandise is delivered after being shipped in-bond from the origination port where it was entered as an immediate transportation entry.
Port of diversion.
“Port of diversion” is the U.S. port to which merchandise is diverted while in transit from the origination port to the port of destination or the port of exportation.
Port of exportation.
“Port of exportation” is the U.S. port at which in-bond merchandise entered for transportation and exportation or for immediate exportation is delivered for exportation from the United States.
§ 18.1
In-bond application and entry; general rules.
(a)
General requirement.
In order to transport merchandise in-bond (transport imported merchandise, secured by a bond, from one port to another prior to the appraisement of the merchandise and without the payment of duties), an in-bond application as described in paragraph (d) of this section is required. An in-bond application consists of a transportation entry and a manifest. A transportation entry as described in paragraph (b) of this section may be made for any imported merchandise upon its arrival at a port of entry, subject to the prohibitions and restrictions provided in this part.
(b)
Types of transportation entries and withdrawals.
The following types of transportation entries and withdrawals may be made for merchandise to be transported in-bond:
(1) Entry for immediate transportation (IT).
(2) Warehouse withdrawal for immediate transportation.
(3) Warehouse withdrawal for immediate exportation or for transportation and exportation.
(4) Entry for transportation and exportation (T
E).
(5) Entry for immediate exportation (IE).
(6) Entry of vessel and aircraft supplies for immediate exportation (IE).
(7) Entry of vessel and aircraft supplies for transportation and exportation (T
E).
(c)
Who may file.
A transportation entry may be filed by:
(1) The carrier, or authorized agent of the carrier, that brings the merchandise to the origination port;
(2) The carrier, or authorized agent of the carrier, that is to accept the merchandise under its bond or a carnet for transportation to the port of destination or the port of exportation; or
(3) Any person or the authorized agent of any person, who has a sufficient interest in the merchandise as shown by the bill of lading or manifest, a certificate of the importing carrier (such as a power of attorney or letter of authorization), or by any other document. CBP may request evidence to demonstrate sufficient interest.
(d)
In-bond application.
An in-bond application consisting of a transportation entry and manifest must be transmitted to CBP via a CBP-approved EDI system as specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section in order to transport merchandise in-bond.
(1)
Contents.
Except for the other identifying information described in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section which is optional, the in-bond application must contain the following information:
(i)
Commodity HTSUS number.
The six-digit Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) number of the merchandise must be provided.
(ii)
Description of merchandise subject to regulation by another government agency.
Merchandise subject to regulation by a U.S. government agency other than CBP must contain a sufficient description of the merchandise to enable the agency concerned to determine the contents of the shipment.
(iii)
Other identifying information.
If a visa, permit, license, entry number, or other similar number or identifying information has been issued by the U.S. Government, foreign government or other issuing authority, relating to the merchandise, the visa, permit, license, entry number, or other similar number or identifying information may be provided.
(iv)
Quantity.
