(b) To request a referendum, eligible producers may obtain form LS-51-1 in person, by mail, or by facsimile during the request for referendum period from the county FSA office where FSA maintains and processes the producer's, corporation's, or other entity's administrative farm records. For the producer, corporation, or other entity not participating in FSA programs, the opportunity to request a referendum would be provided at the county FSA office serving the county where the producer, corporation, or other entity owns or rents land. Eligible producers
may also obtain form LS-51-1 via the Internet at a Web site provided by the Secretary. For those persons who chose to obtain form LS-51-1 via the Internet, the completed form and required documentation must be submitted to the county FSA office where FSA maintains and processes the producer's, corporation's, or other entity's administrative farm records. For producers, corporations, or other entities not participating in FSA programs, the opportunity to request a referendum would be provided at the county FSA office serving the county where the producer, corporation, or other entity owns or rents land.
(c) Producers or producer entities may return form LS-51-1 and the accompanying documentation in-person, by mail, or facsimile to the appropriate county FSA office. Form LS-51-1 returned in-person or by facsimile, must be received in the appropriate county FSA office prior to the close of the work day on the final day of the Request for Referendum period to be considered a valid request. Form LS-51-1 and the accompanying documentation returned by mail must be postmarked no later than midnight of the final day of the Request for Referendum period and must be received in the county FSA office prior to the start of canvassing Form LS 51-1.
(d) Producers who obtain form LS-51-1 in-person at the appropriate FSA county office may complete and return the form the same day, accompanied by documentation, such as a sales receipt, showing that soybean assessments were paid during the representative period.
[69 FR 13461, Mar. 23, 2004, as amended at 74 FR 9049, Mar. 2, 2009; 79 FR 12039, Mar. 4, 2014]
§ 1220.623
Canvassing requests.
(a) Canvassing of Form LS-51-1 shall take place at the opening of county FSA offices on the 5th business day following the Request for Referendum period. Such canvassing, acting on behalf of the Administrator, AMS, shall be in the presence of at least two members of the county committee. If two or more of the counties have been combined and are served by one county office, the canvassing of the requests shall be conducted by at least one member of the county committee from each county served by the county office. The FSA State committee or the State Executive Director if authorized by the State Committee, may designate the County Executive Director (CED) and a county or State FSA office employee to canvass the requests and report the results instead of two members of the county committee when it is determined that the number of eligible voters is so limited that having two members of the county committee present for this function is impractical, and designate the CED and/or another county or State FSA office employee to canvass requests in any emergency situation precluding at least two members of the county committee from being present to carry out the functions required in this section.
(b) The request for referendum should be canvassed as follows:
(1)
Number of eligible requests for a referendum.
Each person who was a producer during the representative period and provides documentation to prove that they paid an assessment will be considered eligible to request a referendum.
(2)
Number of ineligible requests for a referendum.
If FSA cannot determine that a producer is eligible based on the submitted documentation or if the producer fails to submit the required documentation, the producer shall be determined to be ineligible. FSA shall notify ineligible producers in writing as soon as practicable but no later than the 8th business day following the final day of the Request for Referendum period.
(c)
Appeal.
A person declared to be ineligible by FSA can appeal such decision and provide additional documentation to the FSA county office within 5 business days after the postmark date of the letter of notification of ineligibility. FSA will then make a final decision on the producer's eligibility and notify the producer of the decision.
(d)
Number of valid requests for referendum.
A person has been declared eligible and has provided and completed all of the required information on form LS-51-1.
(e)
Number of invalid requests for a referendum.
An invalid request for referendum includes, but is not limited to the following:
(1) Form LS-51-1 is not signed or all required information has not been provided;
(2) Form LS-51-1 and supporting documentation returned in-person or by facsimile was not received by the last business day of the Request for Referendum period;
(3) Form LS-51-1 and supporting documentation returned by mail was not postmarked by midnight of the final day of the Request for Referendum period;
(4) Form LS-51-1 and supporting documentation returned by mail was not received in the county FSA office prior to canvassing of the ballots;
(5) Form LS-51-1 or supporting documentation is mutilated or marked in such a way that any required information on the form is illegible; or
(6) Form LS-51-1 and supporting documentation not returned to the appropriate county FSA office.
§ 1220.624
Confidentiality.
The names of persons requesting a referendum shall be confidential and may not be divulged except as the Secretary may direct.
§ 1220.625
Counting requests.
(a) The requests for a referendum shall be counted by county FSA offices on the same day as the requests are canvassed if there are no ineligibility determinations to resolve. For those county FSA offices that do have ineligibility determinations, the requests shall be counted no later than the 14th business day following the final day of the Request for Referendum period.
(b) Requests for a referendum shall be counted as follows:
(1) Total number of producers who returned a Request for Referendum form LS-51-1;
(2) Number of ineligible producers requesting a referendum;
(3) Number of eligible producers requesting a referendum;
(4) Number of valid requests for a referendum; and
(5) Number of invalid requests for a referendum.
§ 1220.626
FSA county office report.
The county FSA office report shall be certified as accurate and complete by the CED or designee, acting on behalf of the Administrator, AMS, as soon as may be reasonably possible, but in no event later than 18th business day following the final day of the specified period, have prepared and certified the county summary of requests on a form provided by the Administrator, FSA. Each county FSA office shall transmit the results in its county to the FSA State office. The results in each county may be made available to the public upon notification by the Administrator, FSA, that the final results have been released by the Secretary. A copy of the report shall be posted for 30 days following the date of notification by the Administrator, FSA, in the county FSA office in a conspicuous place accessible to the public. One copy shall be kept on file in the county FSA office for a period of at least 12 months after notification by FSA that the final results have been released by the Secretary.
§ 1220.627
FSA State office report.
Each FSA State office shall transmit to the Administrator, FSA, as soon as possible, but in no event later than the 20th business day following the final day of the Request for Referendum period, a report summarizing the data contained in each of the reports from the county FSA offices. One copy of the State summary shall be filed for a period of not less than 12 months after the results have been released and available for public inspection after the results have been released.
§ 1220.628
Results of the request for referendum.
(a) The Administrator, FSA, shall submit to the Administrator, AMS, the reports from all State FSA offices. The Administrator, AMS, shall tabulate the results of the Request for Referendum. USDA will issue an official press release announcing the results of the Request for Referendum and publish the same results in the
Federal Register.
In addition, USDA will post the official results at a Web site address provided by the Secretary. Subsequently, State reports and related papers shall be
available for public inspection upon request during normal business hours at an address provided by the Secretary.
(b) If the Secretary deems necessary, a State report or county report shall be reexamined and checked by such persons who may be designated by the Secretary.
[69 FR 13461, Mar. 23, 2004, as amended at 74 FR 9049, Mar. 2, 2009; 79 FR 12040, Mar. 4, 2014]
§ 1220.629
Disposition of records.
Each FSA CED will place in sealed containers marked with the identification of the “Request for Soybean Referendum,” all of the form LS-51-1's along with the accompanying documentation and county summaries. Such records will be placed in a secure location under the custody of the FSA CED for a period of not less than 12 months after the date of notification by the Administrator, FSA, that the final results have been announced by the Secretary. If the county FSA office receives no notice to the contrary from the Administrator, FSA, by the end of the 12 month period as described above, the CED or designee shall destroy the records.
§ 1220.630
Instructions and forms.
The Administrator, AMS, is authorized to prescribe additional instructions and forms not inconsistent with the provisions of this subpart.
Pt. 1221

# PART 1221—SORGHUM PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION ORDER

# Subpart A—Sorghum Promotion, Research, and Information Order

# Definitions
Sec.
1221.1
Act.
1221.2
Board.
1221.3
Calendar year.
1221.4
Certified organization.
1221.5
Conflict of interest.
1221.6
Crop year.
1221.7
Customs.
1221.8
Department.
1221.9
First handler.
1221.10
Fiscal period.
1221.11
Handle.
1221.12
Harvest.
1221.13
Importer.
1221.14
Information.
1221.15
Market.
1221.16
Net market price.
1221.17
Net market value.
1221.18
Order.
1221.19
Part and subpart.
1221.20
Person.
1221.21
Producer.
1221.22
Production.
1221.23
Promotion.
1221.24
Qualified sorghum producer organization.
1221.25
Referendum.
1221.26
Research.
1221.27
Secretary.
1221.28
Sorghum.
1221.29
State.
1221.30
Suspend.
1221.31
Terminate.
1221.32
United States.

# Sorghum Promotion, Research, and Information Board
1221.100
Establishment and representation.
1221.101
Nominations.
1221.102
Nominee's agreement to serve.
1221.103
Appointment.
1221.104
Term of office.
1221.105
Vacancies.
1221.106
Removal.
1221.107
Certification of organizations.
1221.108
Procedure.
1221.109
Compensation and reimbursement.
1221.110
Powers and duties.
1221.111
Prohibited activities.

# Expenses and Assessments
1221.112
Budget and expenses.
1221.113
Financial statements.
1221.114
Operating reserve.
1221.115
Investment of funds.
1221.116
Assessments.
1221.117
Exemptions.

# Promotion, Research, and Information
1221.121
Programs, plans, and projects.
1221.122
Independent evaluation.
1221.123
Patents, copyrights, inventions, trademarks, information, publications, and product formulations.

# Reports, Books, and Records
1221.124
Reports.
1221.125
Books and records.
1221.126
Use of information.
1221.127
Confidential treatment.

# Qualification of Sorghum Producer Organizations
1221.128
Qualification.

# Miscellaneous
1221.129
Right of the Secretary.
1221.130
Referenda.
1221.131
Suspension or termination.
1221.132
Proceedings after termination.
1221.133
Effect of termination or amendment.
1221.134
Personal liability.
1221.135
Separability.
1221.136
Amendments.
1221.137
Rules and regulations.
1221.138
OMB control numbers.

# Subpart B—Procedures for the Conduct of Referenda

# Definitions
1221.200
Terms defined.
1221.201
Administrator, AMS.
1221.202
Administrator, FSA.
1221.203
Eligible person.
1221.204
Farm Service Agency.
1221.205
Farm Service Agency County Committee.
1221.206
Farm Service Agency County Executive Director.
1221.207
Farm Service Agency State Committee.
1221.208
Farm Service Agency State Executive Director.
1221.209
Public notice.
1221.210
Representative period.
1221.211
Voting period.

# Procedures
1221.220
General.
1221.221
Supervision of the process for conducting referenda.
1221.222
Eligibility.
1221.223
Time and place of the referendum.
1221.224
Facilities.
1221.225
Certification and referendum ballot form.
1221.226
Certification and voting procedures.
1221.227
Canvassing voting ballots.
1221.228
Counting ballots.
1221.229
FSA county office report.
1221.230
FSA State office report.
1221.231
Results of the referendum.
1221.232
Disposition of records.
1221.233
Instructions and forms.
1221.234
Confidentiality.
Subparts C-E [Reserved]

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7411-7425 and 7 U.S.C. 7401.

# Source:
73 FR 25407, May 6, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Sorghum Promotion, Research, and Information Order

# Definitions
§ 1221.1
Act.
Act
means the Commodity Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7411-7425), and any amendments thereto.
§ 1221.2
Board.
Board
or
Sorghum Promotion, Research, and Information Board
means the administrative body established pursuant to § 1221.100, or such other name as recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
§ 1221.3
Calendar year.
Calendar year
means the 12-month period from January 1 through December 31.
§ 1221.4
Certified organization.
Certified organization
means any organization that has been certified by the Secretary pursuant to this part as eligible to submit nominations for membership on the Board.
§ 1221.5
Conflict of interest.
Conflict of interest
means a situation in which a representative or employee of the Board has a direct or indirect financial interest in a person or business that performs a service for, or enters into a contract with, the Board for anything of economic value.
§ 1221.6
Crop year.
Crop year
means the time period by which the USDA reports crop production for sorghum and is indicated by the calendar year in which sorghum is normally harvested.
§ 1221.7
Customs.
Customs
means the U.S. Customs and Border Protection of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
§ 1221.8
Department.
Department
means the United States Department of Agriculture or any officer or employee of the USDA to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1221.9
First handler.
First handler
means the first person who buys or takes possession (excluding a common or contract carrier of sorghum owned by another) of more
than 1,000 bushels of grain sorghum; or 5,000 tons of sorghum forage, sorghum hay, sorghum haylage, sorghum billets, or sorghum silage from producers in a calendar year for marketing. The term first handler includes a producer who markets sorghum of the producer's own production directly to consumers. In any case in which sorghum is pledged as collateral for a loan issued under any Commodity Credit Corporation price support loan program and the sorghum is forfeited by the producer in lieu of loan repayment, the Commodity Credit Corporation will be considered a first handler.
§ 1221.10
Fiscal period.
Fiscal period
means the 12-month period ending on December 31 or such other consecutive 12-month period as shall be recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
§ 1221.11
Handle.
Handle
means to engage in the receiving or acquiring of sorghum and in the shipment (except as a common or contract carrier of sorghum owned by another) or sale of sorghum, or other activity causing sorghum to enter the current of commerce.
§ 1221.12
Harvest.
Harvest
means combining or threshing sorghum for grain and/or severing the stalks from the land with mechanized equipment.
§ 1221.13
Importer.
Importer
means any person importing more than 1,000 bushels of grain sorghum; or 5,000 tons of sorghum forage, sorghum hay, sorghum haylage, sorghum billets, or sorghum silage into the United States in a calendar year as a principal or as an agent, broker, or consignee of any person who produces or purchases sorghum outside of the United States for sale in the United States, and who is listed as the importer of record for such sorghum.
§ 1221.14
Information.
Information
means information and programs that are designed to develop new markets and marketing strategies; increase market efficiency; enhance the image of sorghum on a national or international basis; and assist producers in meeting their conservation objectives. These include, but are not exclusive to:
(a) Consumer information, which means any action taken to provide information to, and broaden the understanding of, the general public regarding the consumption, use, nutritional attributes, and care of sorghum;
(b) Industry information, which means information and programs that will lead to the development of new markets, new marketing strategies, or increased efficiency for the sorghum industry, and activities to enhance the image of the sorghum industry.
§ 1221.15
Market.
Market
means to sell or otherwise dispose of sorghum into intrastate, interstate, or foreign commerce by buying, distributing, or otherwise placing sorghum into commerce.
§ 1221.16
Net market price.
Net market price
means the sales price, or other value, per volumetric unit, received by a producer for sorghum after adjustments for any premium or discount.
§ 1221.17
Net market value.
Net market value
means:
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b)and (c) of this section, the value found by multiplying the net market price by the appropriate quantity of the volumetric units or the minimum value in a production contract received by a producer for sorghum after adjustments for any premium or discount.
(b) For imported sorghum, the total value paid by the importer for the sorghum as reported on the appropriate Customs form; or
(c) For sorghum pledged as collateral for a loan issued under any Commodity Credit Corporation price support loan program, the principal amount of the loan.
§ 1221.18
Order.
Order
means an order issued by the Secretary under section 514 of the Act that provides for a program of generic promotion, research, and information regarding agricultural commodities authorized under the Act.
§ 1221.19
Part and subpart.
Part
means the Sorghum Promotion, Research, and Information Order and all rules, regulations, and supplemental orders issued pursuant to the Act and the Order. The Order shall be a subpart of such part.
§ 1221.20
Person.
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity.
§ 1221.21
Producer.
Producer
means any person who is engaged in the production and sale of sorghum in the United States and who owns, or shares the ownership and risk of loss of, the sorghum.
§ 1221.22
Production.
Production,
as used in § 1221.100, means:
(a) for the purpose of establishing the initial Board in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) of § 1221.100, the volume of grain sorghum produced during the last 5 crop years, excluding the high and low years, and
(b) For the purpose of reapportionment in paragraphs (e) and (f) of § 1221.100, the total assessments collected by the Board during the last 5 crop years, excluding the high and low years.
§ 1221.23
Promotion.
Promotion
means any action taken to present a favorable image of sorghum to the public and the end-user industry for the purpose of improving the competitive position of sorghum and stimulating the sale of sorghum. This includes paid advertising and public relations.
§ 1221.24
Qualified sorghum producer organization.
Qualified sorghum producer organization
means a qualified State-legislated sorghum promotion, research, and education commission or organization, approved by the Secretary. For States without a qualified State-legislated sorghum promotion, research, and education commission or organization, qualified sorghum producer organization means any qualified organization that has the primary purpose of representing sorghum producers, has sorghum producers as members, and that is approved by the Secretary.
§ 1221.25
Referendum.
Referendum
means a referendum conducted by the Secretary pursuant to the Act whereby producers and importers are provided the opportunity to vote to determine whether the continuance of this subpart is favored by a majority of eligible persons voting.
§ 1221.26
Research.
Research
means any type of test, study, or analysis designed to advance the knowledge, image, desirability, use, marketability, production, product development, or quality of sorghum, including, but not limited to, research relating to yield, nutritional value, cost of production, new product development, inbred and hybrid development, nutritional value, health research, and marketing of sorghum.
§ 1221.27
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1221.28
Sorghum.
Sorghum
means any harvested portion of
Sorghum bicolor
(L.) Moench or any related species of the genus Sorghum of the family Poaceae. This includes, but is not limited to, grain sorghum (including hybrid sorghum seeds, inbred sorghum line seed, and sorghum cultivar seed), sorghum forage, sorghum hay, sorghum haylage, sorghum billets, and sorghum silage.
§ 1221.29
State.
State
means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any territory or possession of the United States.
§ 1221.30
Suspend.
Suspend
means to issue a rule under section 553 of title 5, U.S.C., to temporarily prevent the operation of an order
or part thereof during a particular period of time specified in the rule.
§ 1221.31
Terminate.
Terminate
means to issue a rule under section 553 of title 5, U.S.C., to cancel permanently the operation of an order or part thereof beginning on a certain date specified in the rule.
§ 1221.32
United States.
United States
or
U.S.
means collectively the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.

# Sorghum Promotion, Research, and Information Board
§ 1221.100
Establishment and representation.
There is hereby established a Sorghum Promotion, Research, and Information Board, hereinafter called the Board. Representation includes, but is not limited to, fixed State seats determined by total production with at-large seats to allow representation from a broad geographical area. The Board shall initially be composed of 13 representatives, with the maximum number of producers from one State limited to 6, appointed by the Secretary from nominations as follows:
(a) The largest production State based on total production shall have 5 sorghum producers to serve as representatives.
(b) The second largest production State based on total production shall have 3 sorghum producers to serve as representatives.
(c) The third largest production State based on total production shall have one sorghum producer to serve as a representative.
(d) There shall be 4 sorghum producers to serve as at-large national representatives with at least two representatives appointed from States not described in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.
(e) If the value of assessments on imported sorghum reaches or exceeds the production of the third largest sorghum production State, there shall be one importer to serve as a representative plus an additional at-large national representative, with the maximum number of producers from one State being increased from six to seven.
(f) At least once every 5 years, the Board will review the geographical distribution of production of sorghum in the United States, the production of sorghum in the United States, and the value of assessments on sorghum imported into the United States. The review will be based on Board assessment records and statistics from the USDA. If warranted, the Board may recommend to the Secretary that representation on the Board be altered to reflect any changes in geographical distribution of domestic sorghum production. If, in the review, the Board determines that the value of assessments on sorghum imported into the United States exceeds 15 percent of the production of sorghum, the Board shall recommend to the Secretary that the nomination procedures and appointments to the Board be altered as necessary or appropriate to facilitate the equitable representation of importers on the Board.
§ 1221.101
Nominations.
All nominations authorized under this section shall be made in the following manner:
(a) Nominations for State-specific and at-large national seats shall be obtained by the Secretary from eligible organizations certified under § 1221.107. Certified eligible organizations representing producers in a State, or when making nominations for at-large seats, shall submit to the Secretary at least two nominees for each vacant seat. If the Secretary determines that a State is not represented by a certified eligible organization, then the Secretary may solicit nominations from other organizations or other persons residing in the State.
(b) If so required pursuant to § 1221.100(f), at least two nominations for the importer representative shall be submitted by the Board to the Secretary.
(c) After the establishment of the initial Board, the Secretary shall announce when a vacancy does or will exist. Nominations for subsequent
Board representatives shall be submitted to the Secretary not less than 90 days prior to the expiration of the terms of the representatives whose terms are expiring, in the manner as described in this section. In the case of vacancies due to reasons other than the expiration of a term of office, successor Board members shall be appointed pursuant to section 1221.105.
(d) When there is more than one certified eligible organization representing a State or when the Secretary solicits nominations from organizations and persons residing in that State, or when eligible certified organizations are nominating persons for at-large positions, eligible certified organizations may caucus and jointly nominate two qualified producers for each position on the Board for which a representative is to be appointed. If joint agreement is not reached with respect to any such nominations, or if no caucus is held, each eligible organization may submit to the Secretary two nominees for each appointment to be made to represent that State, or to fill an at-large position.
§ 1221.102
Nominee's agreement to serve.
Any producer or person nominated to serve on the Board shall file with the Secretary at the time of the nomination a written agreement to:
(a) Serve on the Board if appointed;
(b) Disclose any relationship with any sorghum promotion entity or with any organization that has or is being considered for a contractual relationship with the Board; and
(c) Withdraw from participation in deliberations, decision-making, or voting on matters that concern the relationship disclosed under paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 1221.103
Appointment.
From the nominations made pursuant to § 1221.101, the Secretary shall appoint the representatives of the Board on the basis of representation provided in § 1221.100.
§ 1221.104
Term of office.
(a) The term of office for the representatives of the Board shall be three years, except for the initial term, pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) Representatives may serve a maximum of 2 consecutive 3-year terms.
(c) When the Board is first established, the Secretary shall establish staggered terms as follows:
(1) Largest Production State—2 representatives shall serve a 2-year term, 1 representative shall serve a 3-year term, and 2 representatives shall serve a 4-year term.
(2) Second Largest Production State—1 representative shall serve a 2-year term, 1 representative shall serve a 3-year term, and 1 representative shall serve a 4-year term.
(3) Third Largest Production State—The representative shall serve a 3-year term.
(4) At-large national—1 representative shall serve a 2-year term, 2 representatives shall serve a 3-year term, and 1 representative shall serve a 4-year term.
(5) States with multiple representatives shall have their staggered terms assigned by the Secretary. At-large national representatives shall also have their staggered terms assigned by the Secretary.
(6) Representatives serving initial terms of 2 or 4 years shall be eligible to serve a single term of 3 years after their initial 2- or 4-year term.
(d) Each representative shall continue to serve until a successor is appointed by the Secretary and has accepted the position.
(e) Any successor appointed pursuant to § 1221.105 serving 1 year or less may serve two consecutive 3-year terms.
§ 1221.105
Vacancies.
To fill any vacancy occasioned by the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any member of the Board, a successor for the unexpired term of such representative shall be appointed by the Secretary pursuant to § 1221.103 from the most recent list of nominations for the position pursuant to § 1221.101 or the Secretary shall request nominations for a successor pursuant to § 1221.101, except that said nomination and replacement shall not be required if an unexpired term is less than 6 months.
§ 1221.106
Removal.
If the Secretary determines that any person appointed under this part fails or refuses to perform his or her duties properly or engages in an act of dishonesty or willful misconduct, the Secretary shall remove the person from office. A person appointed under this part or any employee of the Board may be removed by the Secretary if the Secretary determines that the person's continued service would be a detriment to the purposes of the Act.
§ 1221.107
Certification of organizations.
(a) The eligibility of State, regional, or national organizations to participate in making nominations for membership on the Board shall be certified by the Secretary. Those organizations that may seek certification include:
(1) State-legislated sorghum promotion, research, and information organizations;
(2) Organizations whose primary purpose is to represent sorghum producers within a State, region, or at the national level; or,
(3) Organizations that have sorghum producers as members.
(b) Such eligibility shall be based, in addition to other information, upon a report submitted by the organization that shall contain information deemed relevant and specified by the Secretary for the making of such determination, including the following:
(1) The geographic territory covered by the organization's active membership;
(2) The nature and size of the organization's active membership, proportion of active membership accounted for by producers, a map showing the sorghum producing counties in which the organization has active members, the volume of sorghum produced in each such county, the number of sorghum producers in each such county, and the size of the organization's active sorghum producer membership in each such county;
(3) The extent to which the sorghum producer membership of such organization is represented in setting the organization's policies;
(4) Evidence of stability and permanency of the organization;
(5) Sources from which the organization's operating funds are derived;
(6) The functions of the organization; and
(7) The ability and willingness of the organization to further the purpose and objectives of the Act.
(c) The primary consideration in determining the eligibility of an organization shall be whether its sorghum producer membership consists of a sufficiently large number of sorghum producers who produce a relatively significant volume of sorghum to reasonably warrant its participation in the nomination of State specific and national at-large members to the Board. Any sorghum producer organization found eligible by the Secretary under this section shall be certified by the Secretary, and the Secretary's determination as to eligibility shall be final.
§ 1221.108
Procedure.
(a) At a Board meeting, it will be considered a quorum when a simple majority of the voting representatives are present.
(b) At the start of each fiscal period, the Board will approve a chairperson, vice chairperson, and secretary/treasurer who will conduct meetings throughout that period.
(c) All Board representatives and the Secretary or the Secretary's designee will be notified at least 30 days in advance of all Board and committee meetings, unless an emergency meeting is declared.
(d) Each voting representative of the Board will be entitled to one vote on any matter put to the Board, and the motion will carry if supported by a simple majority of the total votes of the Board representatives present at the meeting.
(e) It will be considered a quorum at a committee meeting when a simple majority of those assigned to the committee are present at the meeting. Committees may consist of individuals other than Board representatives, and such individuals may vote in committee meetings. Committee members shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses, as approved by the Board.
(f) In lieu of voting at a properly convened meeting and, when in the opinion of the chairperson of the Board such action is considered necessary, the Board may take action if supported by a simple majority of the Board representatives by mail, telephone, electronic mail, facsimile, or any other means of communication. In that event, all representatives must be notified and provided the opportunity to vote. Any action so taken shall have the same force and effect as though such action had been taken at a properly convened meeting of the Board. All telephone votes shall be confirmed promptly in writing. All votes shall be recorded in Board minutes.
(g) There shall be no voting by proxy.
(h) The chairperson shall be a voting representative.
(i) The organization of the Board and the procedures for conducting meetings of the Board shall be in accordance with its bylaws, which shall be established by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
§ 1221.109
Compensation and reimbursement.
The representatives of the Board shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses, as approved by the Board, incurred by them in the performance of their duties as Board representatives.
§ 1221.110
Powers and duties.
The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
(a) To administer the Order in accordance with its terms and conditions and to collect assessments;
(b) To develop and recommend to the Secretary for approval such bylaws as may be necessary for the functioning of the Board, and such rules as may be necessary to administer the Order, including activities authorized to be carried out under the Order;
(c) To meet not less than annually, and organize, and select from among the representatives of the Board a chairperson, other officers, committees, and subcommittees, as the Board determines appropriate;
(d) To employ persons, other than the representatives, as the Board considers necessary to assist the Board in carrying out its duties and to determine the compensation and specify the duties of such persons;
(e) To develop programs, plans, and projects, and enter into contracts or agreements, which must be approved by the Secretary before becoming effective, for the development and carrying out of programs, plans, or projects of research, information, or promotion, and the payment of costs thereof with funds collected pursuant to this subpart. Each contract or agreement shall provide that: Any person who enters into a contract or agreement with the Board shall develop and submit to the Board a proposed activity; keep accurate records of all of its transactions relating to the contract or agreement; account for funds received and expended in connection with the contract or agreement; make periodic reports to the Board of activities conducted under the contract or agreement; and, make such other reports available as the Board or the Secretary considers relevant. Furthermore, any contract or agreement shall provide that:
(1) The contractor or agreeing party shall develop and submit to the Board a program, plan, or project together with a budget or budgets that shall show the estimated cost to be incurred for such program, plan, or project;
(2) The contractor or agreeing party shall keep accurate records of all its transactions and make periodic reports to the Board of activities conducted, submit accounting for funds received and expended, and make such other reports as the Secretary or the Board may require;
(3) The Secretary may audit the records of the contracting or agreeing party periodically; and
(4) Any subcontractor who enters into a contract with a Board contractor and who receives or otherwise uses funds allocated by the Board shall be subject to the same provisions as the contractor.
(f) To prepare and submit for approval of the Secretary fiscal period budgets in accordance with § 1221.112;
(g) To maintain such records and books and prepare and submit such reports and records from time to time to
the Secretary as the Secretary may prescribe; to make appropriate accounting with respect to the receipt and disbursement of all funds entrusted to it; and to keep records that accurately reflect the actions and transactions of the Board;
(h) To cause its books to be audited by a competent auditor at the end of each fiscal period and at such other times as the Secretary may request, and to submit a report of the audit directly to the Secretary;
(i) To give the Secretary the same notice of Board and committee meetings as is given to representatives in order that the Secretary's representative(s) may attend such meetings;
(j) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any producer, first handler or importer;
(k) To furnish to the Secretary any information or records that the Secretary may request;
(l) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of the Order;
(m) To recommend to the Secretary such amendments to the Order as the Board considers appropriate; and with the approval of the Secretary, to make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of this subpart;
(n) To work to achieve an effective, continuous, and coordinated program of promotion, research, consumer information, evaluation, and industry information designed to strengthen the sorghum industry's position in the marketplace; maintain and expand existing markets and uses for sorghum; and to carry out programs, plans, and projects designed to provide maximum benefits to the sorghum industry;
(o) To provide not less than annually a report to producers and importers accounting for the funds expended by the Board, and describing programs implemented under the Act; and to make such report available to the public upon request; and
(p) To invest funds in accordance with § 1221.115.
§ 1221.111
Prohibited activities.
The Board may not engage in, and shall prohibit the employees and agents of the Board from engaging in:
(a) Any action that is a conflict of interest;
(b) Using funds collected by the Board under the Order to undertake any action for the purpose of influencing legislation or governmental action or policy, by local, State, national, and foreign governments, other than recommending to the Secretary amendments to this part; and
(c) Any advertising, including promotion, research, and information activities authorized to be carried out under the Order that is false or misleading or disparaging to another agricultural commodity.

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 1221.112
Budget and expenses.
(a) Prior to the beginning of each fiscal period, and as may be necessary thereafter, the Board shall prepare and submit to the Secretary a budget for the fiscal period covering its anticipated expenses and disbursements in administering this subpart. Each such budget shall include:
(1) A statement of objectives and strategy for each program, plan, or project;
(2) A summary of anticipated revenue, with comparative data for at least one preceding year (except for the initial budget);
(3) A summary of proposed expenditures for each program, plan, or project; and
(4) Staff and administrative expense breakdowns, with comparative data for at least one preceding year (except for the initial budget).
(b) Each budget shall provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures and to provide for a reserve as set forth in this subpart.
(c) Subject to this section, any amendment or addition to an approved budget that increases the budget must be approved by the Secretary. Shifts of funds that do not result in an increase in the Board's approved budget and that are consistent with this subpart and the Board's governing bylaws need not have prior approval by the Secretary.
(d) The Board is authorized to incur such expenses, including provision for a reasonable reserve, as the Secretary
finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Board for its maintenance and functioning, and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. Such expenses shall be paid from funds received by the Board.
(e) With approval of the Secretary, the Board may borrow money for the payment of administrative expenses, subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board. Any funds borrowed by the Board shall be expended only for startup costs and capital outlays and are limited to the first fiscal period of operation of the Board.
(f) The Board may accept voluntary contributions, but these shall only be used to pay expenses incurred in the conduct of programs, plans, and projects in accordance with the Order. Such contributions shall be free from any encumbrance by the donor and the Board shall retain complete control of their use.
(g) The Board shall reimburse the Secretary for all expenses incurred by the Secretary in the implementation, administration, and supervision of the Order, including all referendum costs in connection with the Order.
(h) The Board shall determine annually an allocation amount no less than 15 percent but no more than 25 percent of the total assessments collected on all sorghum available for any fiscal period, less the expenses pursuant to paragraph (i), for use by qualified sorghum producer organizations pursuant to § 1221.128 for State programs of generic promotion, research, and information. Amounts allocated by the Board for State generic promotion, research, and information programs will be based on requests submitted to the Board by qualified sorghum producer organizations when it is determined that these requests meet the goals and objectives stated in the Act and Order. The request shall include detailed programs, plans, or projects with budgets. Qualified sorghum producer organizations shall not submit requests for State generic promotion, research, and information programs that exceed the annual allocation amount determined by the Board which shall be the product of:
(1) The State's proportional contribution based on reports submitted by first handlers pursuant to § 1221.124(a) to total assessments remitted on all sorghum for the previous fiscal period; multiplied by
(2) The total assessments collected on all sorghum for the previous fiscal period less expenses pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section.
(i) The Board may not expend for administration, maintenance, and functioning of the Board in any fiscal period an amount that exceeds 10 percent of the assessments and other income received by the Board for that fiscal period except for the initial fiscal period. Reimbursements to the Secretary required under paragraph (i) of this section are excluded from this limitation on spending.
(j) The Board shall allocate all other funds available for any fiscal period, to the extent practicable, subject to paragraphs (g), (h), (i), (j), and (k) of this section on programs, plans, or projects, as provided for in § 1221.121.
(k) The Board shall determine annually the allocation of total funds pursuant to this section, with the approval of the Secretary.
[73 FR 25407, May 6, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 35106, July 25, 2018]
§ 1221.113
Financial statements.
(a) As requested by the Secretary, the Board shall prepare and submit financial statements to the Secretary on a monthly basis. Each such financial statement shall include, but not be limited to, a balance sheet, income statement, and expense budget. The expense budget shall show expenditures during the time period covered by the report, fiscal period-to-date expenditures, and the unexpended budget.
(b) Each financial statement shall be submitted to the Secretary within 30 days after the end of the time period to which it applies.
(c) The Board shall submit annually to the Secretary an annual financial statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal period to which it applies.
§ 1221.114
Operating reserve.
The Board may establish an operating monetary reserve and may carry over to subsequent fiscal period excess funds in a reserve so established,
provided
that funds in the reserve shall not exceed one fiscal period's anticipated expenses.
§ 1221.115
Investment of funds.
The Board may invest, pending disbursement, funds it receives under this subpart, only in obligations of the United States or any agency of the United States; general obligations of any State or any political subdivision of a State; interest bearing accounts or certificates of deposit of financial institutions that are members of the Federal Reserve system; or obligations that are fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States.
§ 1221.116
Assessments.
(a) The funds to cover the Board's expenses shall be paid from assessments on producers and importers, donations from any person not subject to assessments under this Order, and other funds available to the Board and subject to the limitations contained therein.
(b) First handlers of domestic sorghum shall be responsible for collecting assessments from producers on all domestically handled sorghum. This includes sorghum of the first handler's own production. Grain pledged as collateral for a Commodity Credit Corporation price support loan program shall be considered handled sorghum. A first handler shall not collect an assessment on sorghum from a producer when said producer presents documentation demonstrating that an assessment has previously been collected on said sorghum.
(c) The following assessment rates for sorghum shall apply:
(1) Grain sorghum shall be initially assessed at a rate of 0.6 percent of net market value received by the producer pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section; and
(2) Sorghum forage, sorghum hay, sorghum haylage, sorghum billets, and sorghum silage shall be initially assessed at a rate of 0.35 percent of net market value received by the producer pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.
(d) Importers of sorghum shall pay an assessment to the Board through Customs on sorghum imported into the United States. The following apply to imported sorghum:
(1) The assessment rates for imported sorghum shall be the same or equivalent to the rates for sorghum produced in the United States.
(2) The import assessment shall be uniformly applied to imported sorghum that is identified by the numbers 1007.00.0020 and 1007.00.0040 in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
(3) The assessments due on imported sorghum shall be paid when the sorghum enters the United States.
(4) If Customs does not collect an assessment from an importer, the importer is responsible for paying the assessment to the Board.
(e) The Board will review the assessment rates and may make recommendations to modify the assessment rates to the Secretary. Assessment rates may be raised or lowered no more than 0.2 percent of net market value received by producers and importers in any one calendar year. The maximum assessment rate cannot exceed 1 percent of the net market value received by producers and importers.
(f) Each person responsible for collecting assessments under paragraph (b) of this section shall remit the amount due to the Board in such a manner as required by regulations recommended by the Board and prescribed by the Secretary.
(g) Any unpaid assessment due to the Board pursuant to this section shall be increased 2 percent each month beginning with the day following the date such assessments were due. Any remaining amount due, which shall include any unpaid charges previously made pursuant to this paragraph, shall be increased at the same rate on the corresponding day of each month thereafter until paid. For the purposes of this paragraph, any assessment determined at a later date than the date prescribed by this subpart because of a person's failure to timely submit a report to the Board shall be considered to have been payable by the date it would
have been due if the report had been filed timely. The timeliness of a payment to the Board shall be based on the applicable postmark date or the date actually received by the Board.
(h) An additional charge shall be imposed on any person subject to a late payment charge in the form of interest on the outstanding portion of any amount for which the person is liable. The rate of interest shall be prescribed by the Secretary.
(i) Persons failing to remit total assessments due in a timely manner may also be subject to actions under Federal debt collection procedures.
(j) The Board may authorize other organizations to collect assessments on its behalf with the approval of the Secretary.
(k) The collection of assessments pursuant to this section shall begin with respect to sorghum handled on or after the effective date established by the Secretary and shall continue until terminated or suspended by the Secretary.
(l) If the Board is not in place by the date the first assessments are to be collected, the Secretary shall have the authority to receive assessments and invest them on behalf of the Board, and shall pay such assessments and any interest earned to the Board when it is formed. The Secretary shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations concerning assessments and the collection of assessments, if the Board is not in place or is otherwise unable to develop such rules and regulations.
(m) Payment remitted pursuant to this subpart shall be in the form of a negotiable instrument made payable to the Board. Such remittances and the reports specified in §§ 1221.124 and 1221.125 shall be mailed to the location designated by the Board.
§ 1221.117
Exemptions.
(a) Any importer of less than and including 1,000 bushels of grain sorghum or 5,000 tons of sorghum forage, sorghum hay, sorghum haylage, sorghum billets, or sorghum silage per calendar year may claim an exemption from the assessment required under § 1221.116.
(b) An importer desiring an exemption shall apply to the Board, on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption. An importer shall certify that the importer will import less than and including 1,000 bushels of grain sorghum or 5,000 tons of sorghum forage, sorghum hay, sorghum haylage, sorghum billets, or sorghum silage.
(c) Upon receipt of an application, the Board shall determine whether an exemption may be granted. The Board then will issue, if deemed appropriate, a certificate of exemption to each person who is eligible to receive one. It is the responsibility of these persons to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.
(d) Importers who receive a certificate of exemption shall be eligible for reimbursement of assessments collected by Customs. These importers shall apply to the Board for reimbursement of any assessments paid. No interest will be paid on the assessments collected by Customs. Requests for reimbursement shall be submitted to the Board within 90 days of the last day of the calendar year the sorghum was actually imported.
(e) Any person who desires an exemption from assessments for a subsequent calendar year shall reapply to the Board, on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption.
(f) The Board may require persons receiving an exemption from assessments to provide to the Board reports on the disposition of exempt sorghum and, in the case of importers, proof of payment of assessments.
(g) A producer or importer who operates under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic production or handling system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:
(1) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP), or certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under a U.S. equivalency arrangement established under the NOP, are eligible for exemption;
(2) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products of a producer or importer regardless of whether the agricultural commodity
subject to the exemption is produced or imported by a person that also produces or imports conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;
(3) The producer or importer maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522) (OFPA) and the NOP regulations issued under OFPA (7 CFR part 205); and
(4) Any producer or importer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(h) To apply for an exemption under this section, the applicant shall submit a request to the Board on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time during the year initially, and annually thereafter on or before January 1, for as long as the producer or importer continues to be eligible for the exemption.
(i) A producer or importer request for exemption shall include the following:
(1) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;
(2) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid certificate of organic operation issued under the OFPA and the NOP;
(3) Certification that the applicant produces or imports organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;
(4) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent under the OFPA and the NOP;
(5) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and
(6) Such other information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.
(j) If the applicant complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant an assessment exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the producer or importer within 30 days. If the application is disapproved, the Board will notify the applicant of the reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe.
(k) The producer or importer shall provide a copy of the Certificate of Exemption to each first handler. The first handler shall maintain records showing the name and address of the exempt producer or importer and the exemption number assigned by the Board.
(l) The exemption will apply at the first reporting period following the issuance of the exemption.
[73 FR 25407, May 6, 2008, as amended at 80 FR 82032, Dec. 31, 2015]

# Promotion, Research, and Information
§ 1221.121
Programs, plans, and projects.
(a) The Board shall receive and evaluate, or on its own initiative develop, and submit to the Secretary for approval any program, plan, or project authorized under this subpart. Such programs, plans, or projects shall provide for:
(1) The establishment, issuance, effectuation, and administration of appropriate programs for promotion, research, and information, including consumer and industry information, with respect to sorghum; and
(2) The establishment and conduct of research with respect, but not limited to: The yield, use, nutritional value and benefits, sale, distribution, and marketing of sorghum, and the creation of new products thereof, to the end that the marketing and use of sorghum may be encouraged, expanded, improved, or made more acceptable; and to advance the image, desirability, or quality of sorghum.
(b) No program, plan, or project shall be implemented prior to its approval by the Secretary. Once a program, plan, or project is so approved, the Board shall take appropriate steps to implement it.
(c) Each program, plan, or project implemented under this subpart shall be reviewed or evaluated periodically by the Board to ensure that it contributes to an effective program of promotion, research, or information. If it is found by the Board that any such
program, plan, or project does not contribute to an effective program of promotion, research, or information, then the Board shall terminate such program, plan, or project.
(d) No program, plan, or project including advertising shall be false or misleading or disparaging to another agricultural commodity. Sorghum of all origins shall be treated equally.
§ 1221.122
Independent evaluation.
Pursuant to the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7401), the Board shall, not less often than every five years, authorize and fund, from funds otherwise available to the Board, an independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the Order and other programs conducted by the Board pursuant to the Act. The Board shall submit to the Secretary, and make available to the public, the results of each periodic independent evaluation conducted under this paragraph.
§ 1221.123
Patents, copyrights, inventions, trademarks, information, publications, and product formulations.
(a) Any patents, copyrights, inventions, trademarks, information, publications, or product formulations developed through the use of funds collected by the Board under the provisions of this subpart shall be the property of the U.S. Government, as represented by the Board, and shall, along with any rents, royalties, residual payments, or other income from the rental, sales, leasing, franchising, or other uses of such patents, copyrights, inventions, trademarks, information, publications, or product formulations, inure to the benefit of the Board; shall be considered income subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board; and may be licensed subject to approval by the Secretary. Upon termination of this subpart, § 1221.132 shall apply to determine disposition of all such property.
(b) Should patents, copyrights, inventions, trademarks, information, publications, or product formulations be developed through the use of funds collected by the Board under this subpart and funds contributed by another organization or person, ownership and related rights to such patents, copyrights, inventions, trademarks, information, publications, or product formulations shall be determined by agreement between the Board and the party contributing funds towards the development of such patents, copyrights, inventions, trademarks, information, publications, or product formulations in a manner consistent with paragraph (a) of this section.

# Reports, Books, and Records
§ 1221.124
Reports.
(a) Each first handler, on a State-by-State basis, will be required to provide to the Board periodically such information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, which may include but not be limited to the following:
(1) Number of bushels or tons of domestic sorghum within the State that were marketed to the first handler;
(2) Number of bushels or tons of domestic sorghum within the State on which an assessment was paid;
(3) The amount of assessments remitted on sorghum within the State;
(4) Date that any assessments were paid within the State;
(5) The explanation, if necessary, to show why the remittance is less than the applicable assessment rate multiplied by the net market price multiplied by the number of bushels or tons within the State that were marketed to the first handler; and
(6) The first handler's tax identification number.
(b) Each importer will be required to provide to the Board periodically such information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, which may include but not be limited to the following:
(1) Number of bushels or tons of sorghum imported;
(2) Number of bushels or tons of imported sorghum on which an assessment was paid;
(3) The amount of assessments remitted;
(4) Date that any assessments were paid;
(5) The explanation, if necessary, to show why the remittance is less than
the applicable assessment rate multiplied by the net market value; and
(6) The importer's tax identification number.
§ 1221.125
Books and records.
(a) Each first handler, producer, or importer subject to this subpart shall maintain and make available during normal business hours for inspection By employees or agents of the Board or the Secretary such books and records as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this part, including records necessary to verify any required reports. Such records shall be maintained for at least 2 years beyond the fiscal period of their applicability.
(b) Each first handler responsible for collecting assessments pursuant to this subpart is required to give the producer from whom the assessment was collected, written evidence of payment of the assessment paid pursuant to this subpart. Such written evidence serving as a receipt shall include, but not be limited to, the following information:
(1) Name and address of the first handler,
(2) Name of producer who paid the assessment,
(3) Total number of bushels or tons of sorghum on which the assessment was paid,
(4) Total assessment paid by the producer,
(5) Date on which assessments were paid, and
(6) Such other information as the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may require.
§ 1221.126
Use of information.
Information from records or reports required pursuant to this subpart shall be made available to the Secretary as is appropriate to the administration or enforcement of the Act, subpart, or any regulation issued under the Act. In addition, the Secretary may authorize the use, under this part, of information regarding producers, first handlers, or importers, that is accumulated under laws or regulations other than the Act or regulations issued under the Act.
§ 1221.127
Confidential treatment.
All information obtained from books, records, or reports under the Act and this part shall be kept confidential by all persons, including all employees and former employees of the Board, all officers and employees and former officers and employees of contracting and subcontracting agencies or agreeing parties having access to such information. Such information shall not be available to Board representatives, first handlers, producers, or importers. Only those persons having a specific need for such information to effectively administer the provisions of this subpart shall have access to such information. Only such information so obtained as the Secretary deems relevant shall be disclosed by them, and then only in a judicial proceeding or administrative hearing brought at the direction, or on the request, of the Secretary, or to which the Secretary or any officer of the United States is a party, and involving this subpart. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit:
(a) The issuance of general statements based upon the reports of the number of persons subject to this subpart or statistical data collected there from, which statements do not identify the information furnished by any person; and
(b) The publication, by direction of the Secretary, of the name of any person who has been adjudged to have violated this part, together with a statement of the particular provisions of this part violated by such person.

# Qualification of Sorghum Producer Organizations
§ 1221.128
Qualification.
(a) Organizations receiving qualification from the Secretary will be entitled to submit requests for funding to the Board pursuant to § 1221.112(h). Only one sorghum producer organization per State may be qualified.
(b) State-legislated sorghum promotion, research, and information organizations may request qualification and will be considered first for qualification by the Secretary.
(c) If a State-legislated sorghum promotion, research, and information organization does not elect to seek qualification from the Secretary within a specified time period as determined by
the Secretary, or does not meet eligibility requirements as specified by the Secretary, then any State sorghum producer organization whose primary purpose is to represent sorghum producers within a State, or any other State organization that has sorghum producers as part of its membership, may request qualification.
(d) Qualification shall be based, in addition to other available information, upon a factual report submitted by the organization that shall contain information deemed relevant and specified by the Secretary for the making of such determination, including the following:
(1) The geographic territory covered by the organization's active membership;
(2) The nature and size of the organization's active membership, proportion of active membership accounted for by producers, a map showing the sorghum-producing counties in which the organization has active members, the volume of sorghum produced in each such county, the number of sorghum producers in each such county, and the size of the organization's active sorghum producer membership in each such county;
(3) The extent to which the sorghum producer membership of such organization is represented in setting the organization's policies;
(4) Evidence of stability and permanency of the organization;
(5) Sources from which the organizations operating funds are derived;
(6) The functions of the organization; and
(7) The ability and willingness of the organization to further the purpose and objectives of the Act.
(e) The primary consideration in determining the eligibility of an organization shall be whether its sorghum producer membership consists of a sufficiently large number of sorghum producers who produce a relatively significant volume of sorghum to reasonably warrant its qualification to submit requests for funding to the Board. Any sorghum producer organization found eligible by the Secretary under this section will be qualified by the Secretary, and the Secretary's determination as to eligibility shall be final.
[73 FR 25407, May 6, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 35106, July 25, 2018]
§ 1221.128
Qualification.
(a) Organizations receiving qualification from the Secretary will be entitled to submit requests for funding to the Board pursuant to § 1221.112(h). Only one sorghum producer organization per State may be qualified.
[83 FR 35106, July 25, 2018]

# Miscellaneous
§ 1221.129
Right of the Secretary.
All fiscal matters, programs, plans, or projects, rules or regulations, reports, or other substantive actions proposed and prepared by the Board shall be submitted to the Secretary for approval.
§ 1221.130
Referenda.
(a) For the purpose of ascertaining whether the persons subject to this part favor the continuation, suspension, or termination of this part, the Secretary shall conduct a referendum among persons subject to assessments under § 1221.116 who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have engaged in the production or importation of sorghum.
(1) The referendum shall be conducted not later than 3 years after assessments first begin under this part.
(2) This part will be approved in a referendum if a majority of those persons voting vote for approval.
(b) The Secretary shall conduct a subsequent referendum:
(1) Not later than 7 years after assessments first begin under this part;
(2) At the request of the Board; or
(3) At the request of 10 percent or more of the sorghum producers and importers eligible to vote to determine if the persons favor the continuation, suspension, or termination of this part.
(c) The Secretary may conduct a referendum at any time to determine whether the continuation, suspension or termination of this part or a provision of this part is favored by sorghum producers and importers eligible to vote.
(d) The Board shall reimburse the Secretary for any expenses incurred by the Secretary to conduct referenda.
(e) A referendum conducted under this section with respect to this part shall be conducted in the manner determined by the Secretary to be appropriate.
§ 1221.131
Suspension or termination.
(a) The Secretary shall suspend or terminate this part or subpart or a provision thereof if the Secretary finds that the subpart or a provision thereof obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the purposes of the Act, or if the Secretary determines that this subpart or a provision thereof is not favored by persons voting in a referendum conducted pursuant to the Act.
(b) The Secretary shall suspend or terminate this subpart at the end of the fiscal period whenever the Secretary determines that its suspension or termination is approved or favored by a majority of the producers and importers voting who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production or importation of sorghum.
(c) If, as a result of a referendum the Secretary determines that this subpart is not approved, the Secretary shall:
(1) No later than 180 days after making the determination, suspend or terminate, as the case may be, collection of assessments under this subpart; and
(2) As soon as practical, suspend or terminate, as the case may be, activities under this subpart in an orderly manner.
§ 1221.132
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of this subpart, the Board shall recommend not more than five of its representatives to the Secretary to serve as trustees for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Board. Such persons, upon designation by the Secretary, shall become trustees of all of the funds and property then in the possession or under control of the Board, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered, or any other claim existing at the time of such termination.
(b) The said trustees shall:
(1) Continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary;
(2) Carry out the obligations of the Board under any contracts or agreements entered into pursuant to the Order;
(3) From time to time, account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Board and the trustees, to such person or persons as the Secretary may direct; and
(4) Upon request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary and appropriate to vest in such persons, title and right to all funds, property and claims vested in the Board or the trustees pursuant to the Order.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property or claims have been transferred or delivered pursuant to the Order shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the Board and upon the trustees.
(d) Any residual funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be turned over to the Secretary to be disposed of, to the extent practical, by qualified organizations pursuant to § 1221.128 in the interest of continuing sorghum promotion, research, and information programs.
§ 1221.133
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination or amendment of this part or any subpart thereof, shall not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this part; or
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this part; or
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the United States, or of the Secretary, or of any other persons with respect to any such violation.
§ 1221.134
Personal liability.
No representative or employee of the Board shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to
any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such representative or employee, except for acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct.
§ 1221.135
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid or the applicability thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart or the applicability thereof to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
§ 1221.136
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed from time to time by the Board or by any interested person affected by the provisions of the Act, including the Secretary.
§ 1221.137
Rules and regulations.
The Secretary may prescribe such rules and regulations as may be necessary to effectively carry out the provisions of this subpart.
§ 1221.138
OMB control number.
The control number assigned to the information collection requirements of this part by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35, is OMB control number 0581-0246.

# Subpart B—Procedures for the Conduct of Referenda

# Source:
75 FR 70575, November 18, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1221.200
Terms defined.
As used throughout this subpart, unless the context otherwise requires, terms shall have the same meaning as the definition of such terms in subpart A of this part.
§ 1221.201
Administrator, AMS.
Administrator, AMS,
means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, or any officer or employee of USDA to whom there has been delegated or may be delegated the authority to act in the Administrator's stead.
§ 1221.202
Administrator, FSA.
Administrator, FSA,
means the Administrator of the Farm Service Agency, or any officer or employee of USDA to whom there has been delegated or may be delegated the authority to act in the Administrator's stead.
§ 1221.203
Eligible person.
Eligible person
is defined as any person subject to the assessment who during the representative period determined by the Secretary has engaged in the production or importation of sorghum. Such persons are eligible to participate in the referendum.
§ 1221.204
Farm Service Agency.
Farm Service Agency,
also referred to as “FSA,” means the Farm Service Agency of USDA.
§ 1221.205
Farm Service Agency County Committee.
Farm Service Agency County Committee,
also referred to as “FSA County Committee or COC,” means the group of persons within a county who are elected to act as the Farm Service Agency County Committee.
§ 1221.206
Farm Service Agency County Executive Director.
Farm Service Agency County Executive Director,
also referred to as “CED,” means the person employed by the FSA County Committee to execute the policies of the FSA County Committee and to be responsible for the day-to-day operation of the FSA county office, or the person acting in such capacity.
§ 1221.207
Farm Service Agency State Committee.
Farm Service Agency State Committee,
also referred to as “FSA State Committee,” means the group of persons within a State who are appointed by the Secretary to act as the Farm Service Agency State Committee.
§ 1221.208
Farm Service Agency State Executive Director.
Farm Service Agency State Executive Director,
also referred to as “SED,”
means the person within a State who is appointed by the Secretary to be responsible for the day-to-day operation of the FSA State Office, or the person acting in such capacity.
§ 1221.209
Public notice.
Public notice
means not later than 30 days before the referendum is conducted, the Secretary shall notify the eligible voters in such manner as determined by the Secretary, of the voting period during which voting in the referendum will occur. The notice shall explain any registration and voting procedures established under section 518 of the Act.
§ 1221.210
Representative period.
Representative period
means the period designated by the Secretary pursuant to section 518 of the Act.
§ 1221.211
Voting period.
The term
voting period
means a 4-week period to be announced by the Secretary for voting in the referendum.

# Procedures
§ 1221.220
General.
A referendum to determine whether eligible persons favor the continuance of this part shall be carried out in accordance with this subpart.
(a) The referendum will be conducted at county FSA offices for producers and through AMS headquarters offices for importers.
(b) The Secretary shall determine if at least a majority of those persons voting favor the continuance of this part.
§ 1221.221
Supervision of the process for conducting referenda.
The Administrator, AMS, shall be responsible for supervising the process of permitting persons to vote in a referendum in accordance with this subpart.
§ 1221.222
Eligibility.
(a) Any person subject to the assessment who during the representative period determined by the Secretary has engaged in the production or importation of sorghum is eligible to participate in the referendum. An eligible person at the time of the referendum and during the representative period, shall be entitled to cast only one vote in the referendum.
(b)
Proxy registration.
Proxy registration is not authorized, except that an officer or employee of a corporate producer or importer, or any guardian, administrator, executor, or trustee of a person's estate, or an authorized representative of any eligible producer or importer entity (other than an individual person), such as a corporation or partnership, may vote on behalf of that entity. Further, an individual cannot vote on behalf of another individual (
i.e.,
spouse, family members, sharecrop lease, joint tenants, tenants in common, owners of community property, a partnership, or a corporation).
(c) Any individual, who votes on behalf of any producer or importer entity, shall certify that he or she is authorized by such entity to take such action. Upon request of the county FSA or AMS office, the person voting may be required to submit adequate evidence of such authority.
(d)
Joint and group interest.
A group of individuals, such as members of a family, joint tenants, tenants in common, a partnership, owners of community property, or a corporation who engaged in the production or importation of sorghum during the representative period as a producer or importer entity shall be entitled to cast only one vote; provided, however, that any individual member of a group who is an eligible person separate from the group may vote separately.
§ 1221.223
Time and place of the referendum.
(a) The opportunity to vote in the referendum shall be provided during a 4-week period beginning and ending on a date determined by the Secretary. Eligible persons shall have the opportunity to vote following the procedures established in this subpart during the normal business hours of each county FSA or AMS office.
(b) Persons can determine the location of county FSA offices by contacting the nearest county FSA office, the State FSA office, or through an online search of FSA's Web site.
(c) Each eligible producer shall cast a ballot in the county FSA office where FSA maintains the person's administrative farm records. For eligible persons not participating in FSA programs, the opportunity to vote will be provided at the county FSA office serving the county where the person owns or rents land. A person engaged in the production of sorghum in more than one county will vote in the county FSA office where the person does most of his or her business.
(d) Each eligible importer will cast a ballot in the Marketing Programs Branch, Livestock and Seed Program, AMS, USDA, Room 2628-S, STOP 0251, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20250-0251; Telephone: (202) 720-1115; Fax: (202) 720-1125.
§ 1221.224
Facilities.
Each county FSA office will provide:
(a) A voting place that is well known and readily accessible to persons in the county and that is equipped and arranged so that each person can complete and submit a ballot in secret without coercion, duress, or interference of any sort whatsoever, and
(b) A holding container of sufficient size so arranged that no ballot or supporting documentation can be read or removed without breaking seals on the container.
§ 1221.225
Certification and referendum ballot form.
Form LS-379 shall be used to vote in the referendum and certify eligibility. Eligible persons will be required to complete a ballot in its entirety, vote “yes” or “no” to continue the program and provide documentation such as a sales receipt or remittance form showing that the person voting was engaged in the production of sorghum during the representative period. The person or authorized representative shall sign the ballot certifying that they or the entity they represent were engaged in the production of sorghum during the representative period.
§ 1221.226
Certification and voting procedures.
(a) Each eligible person shall be provided the opportunity to cast a ballot during the voting period announced by the Secretary.
(1) Each eligible person shall be required to complete Form LS-379 in its entirety, sign it and, provide evidence that they were engaged in the production or importation of sorghum during the representative period. The person must legibly place his or her name and, if applicable, the entity represented, address, county and, telephone number. The person shall sign and certify on Form LS-379 that:
(i) The person was engaged in the production or importation of sorghum during the representative period;
(ii) The person voting on behalf of a corporation or other entity is authorized to do so;
(iii) The person has cast only one vote; and
(2) Only a completed and signed Form LS-379 accompanied by supporting documentation showing that the person was engaged in the production or importation of sorghum during the representative period shall be considered a valid vote.
(b) To vote, eligible producers may obtain Form LS-379 in-person, by mail, or by facsimile from county FSA offices or through the Internet during the voting period. A completed and signed Form LS-379 and supporting documentation, such as a sales receipt or remittance form, must be returned to the appropriate county FSA office where FSA maintains and processes the person's administrative farm records. For a person not participating in FSA programs, the opportunity to vote in a referendum will be provided at the county FSA office serving the county where the person owns or rents land. A person engaged in the production of sorghum in more than one county will vote in the county FSA office where the person does most of his or her business. A completed and signed Form LS-379 and the supporting documentation may be returned in-person, by mail, or facsimile to the appropriate county FSA office. Form LS-379 and supporting documentation returned in-person or by facsimile, must be received in the appropriate county FSA office prior to the close of the work day on the final day of the voting period to be considered a valid ballot.
Form LS-379 and the accompanying documentation returned by mail must be postmarked no later than midnight of the final day of the voting period and must be received in the county FSA office on the 5th business day following the final day of the voting period. To vote, eligible importers may obtain Form LS-379 in-person, by mail or, by facsimile from AMS offices or through the Internet during the voting period. A completed and signed Form LS-379 and supporting documentation, such as a U.S. Customs and Border Protection form 7501, must be returned to the AMS headquarters office.
(c) A completed and signed Form LS-379 and the supporting documentation may be returned in-person, by mail, or facsimile to the appropriate county FSA office for producers and to AMS office for importers. Form LS-379 and supporting documentation returned in-person or by facsimile, must be received in the appropriate county FSA office for producers or the AMS office for importers prior to the close of the work day on the final day of the voting period to be considered a valid ballot. Form LS-379 and the accompanying documentation returned by mail must be postmarked no later than midnight of the final day of the voting period and must be received in the county FSA office for producers and the AMS office for importers on the 5th business day following the final day of the voting period.
(d) Persons who obtain Form LS-379 in-person at the appropriate FSA county office may complete and return it the same day along with the supporting documentation. Importers who obtain Form LS-379 in-person at the appropriate AMS office may complete and return it the same day along with the supporting documentation.
§ 1221.227
Canvassing voting ballots.
(a) Canvassing of Form LS-379 shall take place at the appropriate county FSA offices or AMS office on the 6th business day following the final day of the voting period. Canvassing of producer ballots shall be in the presence of at least two members of the county committee. If two or more of the counties have been combined and are served by one county office, the canvassing of the requests shall be conducted by at least one member of the county committee from each county served by the county office. The FSA State committee or the State Executive Director, if authorized by the State Committee, may designate the County Executive Director (CED) and a county or State FSA office employee to canvass the ballots and report the results instead of two members of the county committee when it is determined that the number of eligible voters is so limited that having two members of the county committee present for this function is impractical, and designate the CED and/or another county or State FSA office employee to canvass requests in any emergency situation precluding at least two members of the county committee from being present to carry out the functions required in this section.
(b) Canvassing of importer ballots will be performed by AMS personnel or any other person as deemed necessary.
(c) Form LS-379 should be canvassed as follows:
(1)
Number of valid ballots.
A person has been declared eligible by FSA or AMS to vote by completing Form LS-379 in its entirety, signing it, and providing supporting documentation that shows the person who cast the ballot during the voting period was engaged in the production or importation of sorghum. Such ballot will be considered a valid ballot.
(2)
Number of ineligible ballots.
If FSA or AMS cannot determine that a person is eligible based on the submitted documentation or if the person fails to submit the required supporting documentation, the person shall be determined to be ineligible. FSA or AMS shall notify ineligible persons in writing as soon as practicable but no later than the 8th business day following the final day of the voting period.
(d)
Appeal.
A person declared to be ineligible by FSA or AMS can appeal such decision and provide additional documentation to the FSA county office or AMS within 5 business days after the postmark date of the letter of notification of ineligibility. FSA or AMS will then make a final decision on the person's eligibility and notify the person of the decision.
(e)
Invalid ballots.
An invalid ballot includes, but is not limited to the following:
(1) Form LS-379 is not signed or all required information has not been provided;
(2) Form LS-379 and supporting documentation returned in-person or by facsimile was not received by close of business on the last business day of the voting period;
(3) Form LS-379 and supporting documentation returned by mail was not postmarked by midnight of the final day of the voting period;
(4) Form LS-379 and supporting documentation returned by mail was not received in the county FSA or AMS office by the 5th business day following the final day of the voting period;
(5) Form LS-379 or supporting documentation is mutilated or marked in such a way that any required information on the Form is illegible; or
(6) Form LS-379 and supporting documentation not returned to the appropriate county FSA or AMS office.
§ 1221.228
Counting ballots.
(a) Form LS-379 shall be counted by county FSA offices or the AMS office on the same day as the ballots are canvassed if there are no ineligibility determinations to resolve. For those county FSA offices that do have ineligibility determinations, the requests shall be counted no later than the 14th business day following the final day of the voting period.
(b) Ballots shall be counted as follows:
(1) Number of valid ballots cast;
(2) Number of persons favoring the Order;
(3) Number of persons not favoring the Order;
(4) Number of invalid ballots.
§ 1221.229
FSA county office report.
The county FSA office report shall be certified as accurate and complete by the CED or designee, acting on behalf of the Administrator, AMS, as soon as may be reasonably possible, but in no event shall submit no later than the 18th business day following the final day of the specified period. Each county FSA office shall transmit the results in its county to the FSA State office. The results in each county may be made available to the public upon notification by the Administrator, FSA, that the final results have been released by the Secretary. A copy of the report shall be posted for 30 calendar days following the date of notification by the Administrator, FSA, in the county FSA office in a conspicuous place accessible to the public. One copy shall be kept on file in the county FSA office for a period of at least 12 months after notification by FSA that the final results have been released by the Secretary.
§ 1221.230
FSA State office report.
Each FSA State office shall transmit to the Administrator, FSA, as soon as possible, but in no event later than the 20th business day following the final day of the voting period, a report summarizing the data contained in each of the reports from the county FSA offices. One copy of the State summary shall be filed for a period of not less than 12 months after the results have been released and available for public inspection after the results have been released.
§ 1221.231
Results of the referendum.
(a) The Administrator, FSA, shall submit to the Administrator, AMS, reports from all State FSA offices. The Administrator, AMS shall tabulate the results of the ballots. USDA will issue an official press release announcing the results of referendum and publish the same results in the
Federal Register.
In addition, USDA will post the official results on its Web site. State reports and related papers shall be available for public inspection upon request during normal business hours at the Marketing Programs Branch; Livestock and Seed Program, AMS, USDA, Room 2628-S; STOP 0251; 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC.
(b) If the Secretary deems necessary, a State report or county report shall be reexamined and checked by such persons who may be designated by the Secretary.
§ 1221.232
Disposition of records.
Each FSA CED will place in sealed containers marked with the identification of the “Sorghum Checkoff Program Referendum,” all of the Forms LS-379 along with the accompanying documentation and county summaries. Such records will be placed in a secure location under the custody of FSA CED for a period of not less than 12 months after the date of notification by the Administrator, FSA, that the final results have been announced by the Secretary. If the county FSA office receives no notice to the contrary from the Administrator, FSA, by the end of the 12 month period as described above, the CED or designee shall destroy the records.
§ 1221.233
Instructions and forms.
The Administrator, AMS, is authorized to prescribe additional instructions and forms not inconsistent with the provisions of this subpart.
§ 1221.234
Confidentiality
The names of persons voting in the referendum and ballots shall be confidential and the contents of the ballots shall not be divulged except as the Secretary may direct. The public may witness the opening of the ballot box and the counting of the votes but may not interfere with the process.
Subparts C-E [Reserved]
Pt. 1222

# PART 1222—PAPER AND PAPER-BASED PACKAGING PROMOTION, RESEARCH AND INFORMATION ORDER

# Subpart A—Paper and Paper-Based Packaging Promotion, Research and Information Order

# Definitions
Sec.
1222.1
Act.
1222.2
Board.
1222.3
Conflict of interest.
1222.4
Converted products.
1222.5
Customs or CBP.
1222.6
Department or USDA.
1222.7
Fiscal period and marketing year.
1222.8
Importer.
1222.9
Information.
1222.10
Kraft process.
1222.11
Linerboard.
1222.12
Manufacture or produce.
1222.13
Manufacturer or producer.
1222.14
Medium.
1222.15
Order.
1222.16
Panel.
1222.17
Paper and paper-based packaging.
1222.18
Part and subpart.
1222.19
Person.
1222.20
Program, plans and projects.
1222.21
Promotion.
1222.22
Pulp.
1222.23
Research.
1222.24
Secretary.
1222.25
Short ton or ton.
1222.26
State.
1222.27
Suspend.
1222.28
Terminate.
1222.29
United States.

# Paper and Packaging Board
1222.40
Establishment and membership.
1222.41
Nominations and appointments.
1222.42
Term of office.
1222.43
Removal and vacancies.
1222.44
Procedure.
1222.45
Reimbursement and attendance.
1222.46
Powers and duties.
1222.47
Prohibited activities.

# Expenses and Assessments
1222.50
Budget and expenses.
1222.51
Financial statements.
1222.52
Assessments.
1222.53
Exemption from assessment.

# Promotion, Research and Information
1222.60
Programs, plans and projects.
1222.61
Independent evaluation.
1222.62
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, inventions, product formulations, and publications.

# Reports, Books, and Records
1222.70
Reports.
1222.71
Books and records.
1222.72
Confidential treatment.

# Miscellaneous
1222.80
Right of the Secretary.
1222.81
Referenda.
1222.82
Suspension or termination.
1222.83
Proceedings after termination.
1222.84
Effect of termination or amendment.
1222.85
Personal liability.
1222.86
Separability.
1222.87
Amendments.
1222.88
OMB control numbers.

# Subpart B—Referendum Procedures
1222.100
General.
1222.101
Definitions.
1222.102
Voting.
1222.103
Instructions.
1222.104
Subagents.
1222.105
Ballots.
1222.106
Referendum report.
1222.107
Confidential information.
1222.108
OMB Control number.

# Subpart C—Provisions Implementing the Paper and Paper-Based Packaging Promotion, Research and Information Order
1222.520
Late payment and interest charges for past due assessments.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7411-7425; 7 U.S.C. 7401.

# Source:
78 FR 56820, Sept. 16, 2013, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Paper and Paper-Based Packaging Promotion, Research and Information Order

# Source:
79 FR 3706, Jan. 22, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1222.1
Act.
Act
means the Commodity Promotion, Research and Information Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7411-7425), and any amendments thereto.
§ 1222.2
Board.
Board
means the Paper and Packaging Board established pursuant to § 1222.40, or such other name as recommended by the Board and approved by the Department.
[80 FR 80209, Dec. 24, 2015]
§ 1222.3
Conflict of interest.
Conflict of interest
means a situation in which a member or employee of the Board has a direct or indirect financial interest in a person who performs a service for, or enters into a contract with, the Board for anything of economic value.
§ 1222.4
Converted products.
Converted products
means products made from paper and paper-based packaging.
§ 1222.5
Customs or CBP.
Customs or CBP
means the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, an agency of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
§ 1222.6
Department or USDA.
Department or USDA
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1222.7
Fiscal period and marketing year.
Fiscal period and marketing year
means the 12-month period ending on December 31 or such other period as recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
§ 1222.8
Importer.
Importer
means any person who imports paper and paper-based packaging from outside the United States for sale in the United States as a principal or as an agent, broker, or consignee of any person who manufactures paper and paper-based packaging outside the United States for sale in the United States, and who is listed in the import records as the importer of record for such paper and paper-based packaging.
§ 1222.9
Information.
Information
means information and programs for consumers, customers and industry, including educational activities, information and programs designed to enhance and broaden the understanding of the use and attributes of paper and paper-based packaging, increase efficiency in manufacturing paper and paper-based packaging, maintain and expand existing markets, and develop new markets and marketing strategies. These include:
(a) Consumer education and information, which means any action taken to provide information to, and broaden the understanding of, the general public regarding paper and paper-based packaging; and
(b) Industry information, which means information and programs that would enhance the image of the paper and paper-based packaging industry.
§ 1222.10
Kraft process.
Kraft process
means a process that transforms wood into a high quality strong pulp for making paper and paper-based packaging.
§ 1222.11
Linerboard.
Linerboard
means a grade of containerboard that is used as facing material in the manufacture of corrugated or solid fiber shipping boxes.
§ 1222.12
Manufacture or produce.
Manufacture or produce
means the process of transforming pulp into paper and paper-based packaging.
§ 1222.13
Manufacturer or producer.
Manufacturer or producer
means any person who manufactures paper and paper-based packaging in the United States.
§ 1222.14
Medium.
Medium
means a grade of containerboard used as the inner fluting material in the manufacture of corrugated or solid fiber shipping boxes.
§ 1222.15
Order.
Order
means an order issued by the Secretary under section 514 of the Act that provides for a program of generic promotion, research, and information regarding agricultural commodities authorized under the Act.
§ 1222.16
Panel.
Panel
means the Paper and Paper-Based Packaging Panel formed to pursue development of a paper and paper-based packaging promotion, research and information program.
§ 1222.17
Paper and paper-based packaging.
(a)
Paper and paper-based packaging
means:
(1) Printing, writing and related paper, which is coated or uncoated paper that is subsequently converted into products used for printing, writing and other communication purposes, such as file folders, envelopes, catalogues, magazines and brochures. For purposes of this Order, printing, writing and related paper includes thermal paper but does not include carbonless paper;
(2) Kraft packaging paper, which is coarse unbleached, semi-bleached or fully bleached grades of paper that are subsequently converted into products such as grocery bags, multiwall sacks, waxed paper and other products;
(3) Containerboard, which is all forms of linerboard and medium that is used to manufacture corrugated boxes, shipping containers and related products; and
(4) Paperboard, which is solid bleached kraft board, recycled board and unbleached kraft board that is subsequently converted into a wide variety of end uses, including folding boxes, food and beverage packaging, tubes, cans, and drums, and other miscellaneous products. Paperboard does not include construction-related products such as gypsum wallboard facings and panel board.
(b) For purposes of this Order, paper and paper-based packaging does not include tissue paper, newsprint or converted products.
§ 1222.18
Part and subpart.
Part
means the Paper and Paper-Based Packaging Promotion, Research and Information Order and all rules, regulations, and supplemental orders issued pursuant to the Act and the Order. The Order shall be a
subpart
of such part.
§ 1222.19
Person.
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity.
§ 1222.20
Programs, plans and projects.
Programs, plans and projects
means those research, promotion and information programs, plans or projects established pursuant to the Order.
§ 1222.21
Promotion.
Promotion
means any action, including paid advertising and the dissemination of information, utilizing public relations or other means, to enhance and broaden the understanding of the use and attributes of paper and paper-based
packaging for the purpose of maintaining and expanding markets for paper and paper-based packaging.
§ 1222.22
Pulp.
Pulp
means the material that is produced by chemically or mechanically separating cellulose fibers from wood or recycling recovered fiber.
§ 1222.23
Research.
Research
means any type of test, study, or analysis designed to enhance the image, desirability, use, marketability, manufacturing, recyclability, reusability or quality of paper and paper-based packaging, including research directed to product characteristics and product development, including new uses of existing products, new products or improved technology in the manufacturing of paper and paper-based packaging.
§ 1222.24
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any other officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1222.25
Short ton or ton.
Short ton or ton
means a measure of weight equal to 2,000 pounds.
§ 1222.26
State.
State
means any of the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any territory or possession of the United States.
§ 1222.27
Suspend.
Suspend
means to issue a rule under 5 U.S.C. 553 to temporarily prevent the operation of an order or part thereof during a particular period of time specified in the rule.
§ 1222.28
Terminate.
Terminate
means to issue a rule under 5 U.S.C. 553 to cancel permanently the operation of an order or part thereof beginning on a date certain specified in the rule.
§ 1222.29
United States.
United States
means collectively the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories and possessions of the United States.

# Paper and Packaging Board
§ 1222.40
Establishment and membership.
(a)
Establishment of the Board.
There is hereby established a Paper and Packaging Board to administer the terms and provisions of this Order. The Board shall be composed of manufacturers and importers of paper and paper-based packaging that manufacture or import 100,000 short tons or more of paper and paper-based packaging during a marketing year. Seats on the Board shall be apportioned as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section based on the geographical distribution of the quantity of paper and paper-based packaging manufactured in the United States and the quantity of paper and paper-based packaging imported to the United States.
(b)
Composition of Board.
The 2020 Board shall be composed of 10 members. The 2021 Board shall be composed of 9 members. The 2022 Board and each subsequent Board shall be composed of 8 members. The Boards shall be established as follows:
(1)
Manufacturers.
For the 2020 Board, 9 members shall be manufacturers. For the 2021 Board, 8 members shall be manufacturers, and for the 2022 Board and each subsequent Board, 7 members shall be manufacturers, from the following two regions:
(i) Five members shall be from the South for the 2020 Board, five members shall be from the South for the 2021 Board, and four members shall be from the South for the 2022 Board and each subsequent Board. The South shall consist of the states of Alabama, Arkansas, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and West Virginia; and
(ii) Four members shall be from all other parts of the United States for the 2020 Board, and three members shall be from all other parts of the United
States for the 2021 Board and each subsequent Board. All other parts of the United States consist of those states not listed in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2)
Importers.
One member shall be an importer.
(c) At least once in every five-year period, but not more frequently than once in every three-year period, the Board will review the geographical distribution of the quantity of paper and paper-based packaging manufactured within the United States and the quantity of paper and paper-based packaging imported to the United States. The review will be conducted using the Board's annual assessment receipts and, if available, other reliable reports from the industry. If warranted, the Board will recommend to the Secretary that the membership or size of the Board be adjusted to reflect changes in geographical distribution of the quantity of paper and paper-based packaging manufactured in the United States and the quantity of paper and paper-based packaging imported to the United States. Any changes in Board composition shall be implemented by the Secretary through rulemaking.
[78 FR 56820, Sept. 16, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 80209, Dec. 24, 2015; 84 FR 31462, July 2, 2019]
§ 1222.41
Nominations and appointments.
(a) Nominees must manufacture or import 100,000 short tons or more of paper and paper-based packaging in a marketing year.
(b) Initial nominations shall be submitted to the Secretary by the Panel. Before considering any nominations, the Panel shall publicize the nomination process, using trade press or other means it deems appropriate, and shall conduct outreach to all known manufacturers and importers manufacturing or importing 100,000 short tons or more of paper and paper-based packaging in a marketing year to generate nominees that reflect the range of operations within the paper and paper-based packaging industry. The Panel may use regional caucuses, mail or other methods to elicit potential nominees. The Panel shall work with USDA to ensure that all eligible candidates are aware of the opportunity to serve on the Board. The Panel shall submit the nominations to the Secretary and recommend two nominees for each Board position specified in § 1222.40(b). The Secretary shall select the initial members of the Board from the nominations submitted by the Panel.
(c) Subsequent nominations shall be conducted as follows:
(1) The Board shall conduct outreach to all known manufacturers and importers manufacturing or importing 100,000 short tons or more of paper and paper-based packaging in a marketing year. Manufacturers and importers may submit nominations to the Board;
(2) Manufacturer and importer nominees may provide the Board a short background statement outlining their qualifications to serve on the Board;
(3) Nominees may seek nomination to the Board for all vacant seats for which the nominees are qualified;
(4) For domestic seats allocated by region, domestic manufacturers must manufacture paper and paper-based packaging in the region for which they seek nomination. Nominees that manufacture in both regions may seek nomination in one region of their choice. The Board will issue the call for nominations to all known manufacturers and recommend nominees for each open seat and the additional nominees to the Secretary;
(5) Nominees that are both a manufacturer and an importer may seek nomination to the board as either a manufacturer or importer so long as they meet the qualifications. The Board will issue the call for nominations to all known importers and recommend nominees for each open seat and the additional nominees to the Secretary;
(6) The Board will evaluate all the nominees and recommend at least two names for each open seat. Other qualified persons interested in serving in the open seats, but not recommended by the Board, will be designated by the Board as additional nominees for consideration by the Secretary;
(7) The Board must submit nominations to the Secretary at least six months before the new Board term begins. From the nominations submitted
by the Board, the Secretary shall select the members of the Board;
(8) Any manufacturer or importer nominated to serve on the Board shall file with the Secretary at the time of the nomination a background questionnaire;
(9) From the nominations made pursuant to this section, the Secretary shall appoint members of the Board on the basis of representation provided in § 1222.40(b);
(10) No two members shall be employed by a single corporation, company, partnership or any other legal entity; and,
(11) The Board may recommend to the Secretary modifications to its nomination procedures as it deems appropriate. Any such modification shall be implemented through rulemaking by the Secretary.
[79 FR 3706, Jan. 22, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 31462, July 2, 2019]
§ 1222.42
Term of office.
(a) With the exception of the initial Board, each Board member shall serve for a term of three years or until the Secretary selects his or her successor. Each term of office shall begin on January 1 and end on December 31. No member may serve more than two full consecutive three-year terms, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) For the initial Board, the terms of the Board members shall be staggered for two, three and four years. Determination of which of the initial members shall serve a term of two, three or four years shall be recommended to the Secretary by the Panel.
§ 1222.43
Removal and vacancies.
(a) The Board may recommend to the Secretary that a member be removed from office if the member consistently fails or refuses to perform his or her duties properly or engages in dishonest acts or willful misconduct. If the Secretary determines that any person appointed under this subpart consistently fails or refuses to perform his or her duties properly or engages in acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct, the Secretary shall remove the person from office. A person appointed under this subpart or any employee of the Board may be removed by the Secretary if the Secretary determines that the person's continued service would be detrimental to the purposes of the Act.
(b) If a member resigns, is removed from office, or in the event of death of any member or if any member of the Board ceases to work for or be affiliated with a manufacturer or importer, or if a manufacturer ceases to do business in the region he or she represents, such position shall become vacant.
(c) If a position becomes vacant, nominations to fill the vacancy will be conducted using the nominations process set forth in this Order or the Board may recommend to the Secretary that he or she appoint a successor from the most recent list of nominations for the position.
(d) A vacancy will not be required to be filled if the unexpired term is less than six months.
§ 1222.44
Procedure.
(a) A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum.
(b) Each member of the Board shall be entitled to one vote on any matter put to the Board and the motion will carry if supported by a majority of Board members, except for recommendations to change the assessment rate or to adopt a budget, both of which require affirmation by two-thirds of the total number of Board members.
(c) At an assembled meeting, all votes shall be cast in person.
(d) In lieu of voting at an assembled meeting and, when in the opinion of the chairperson of the Board such action is considered necessary, the Board may take action if supported by a majority of members (unless two-thirds is required under the Order) by mail, telephone, electronic mail, facsimile, or any other means of communication. In that event, all members must be notified and provided the opportunity to vote. Any action so taken shall have the same force and effect as though such action had been taken at an assembled meeting. All votes shall be recorded in Board minutes.
(e) There shall be no proxy voting.
§ 1222.45
Reimbursement and attendance.
Board members shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses, as approved by the Board, which they incur when performing Board business.
§ 1222.46
Powers and duties.
The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
(a) To administer this subpart in accordance with its terms and conditions and to collect assessments;
(b) To develop and recommend to the Secretary for approval such bylaws as may be necessary for the functioning of the Board, and such rules and regulations as may be necessary to administer the Order, including activities authorized to be carried out under the Order;
(c) To meet not less than annually, organize, and select from among the members of the Board a chairperson, vice chairperson, secretary/treasurer, other officers, and committees and subcommittees, as the Board determines to be appropriate. The committee and subcommittees may include persons other than Board members, including representatives of Board members, as the Board deems necessary and appropriate, provided Board members or their representative constitute a majority of all committees and subcommittees;
(d) To employ or contract with persons, other than the Board members, as the Board considers necessary to assist the Board in carrying out its duties, and to determine the compensation and specify the duties of the persons;
(e) To notify manufacturers and importers of all Board meetings through a press release or other means and to give the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the Board (including committee, subcommittee, and the like) as is given to members so that the Secretary's representative(s) may attend such meetings, and to keep and report minutes of each meeting of the Board to the Secretary;
(f) To develop and submit programs, plans and projects to the Secretary for the Secretary's approval, and enter into contracts or agreements related to such programs, plans and projects, which must be approved by the Secretary before becoming effective, for the development and carrying out of programs, plans or projects of promotion, research and information. The payment of costs for such activities shall be from funds collected pursuant to this Order. Each contract or agreement shall provide that:
(1) The contractor or agreeing party shall develop and submit to the Board a program, plan or project together with a budget or budgets that shall show the estimated cost to be incurred for such program, plan or project;
(2) The contractor or agreeing party shall keep accurate records of all its transactions and make periodic reports to the Board of activities conducted, submit accounting for funds received and expended, and make such other reports as the Secretary or the Board may require;
(3) The Secretary may audit the records of the contracting or agreeing party periodically; and
(4) Any subcontractor who enters into a contract with a Board contractor and who receives or otherwise uses funds allocated by the Board shall be subject to the same provisions as the contractor.
(g) To prepare and submit for the approval of the Secretary fiscal year budgets in accordance with § 1222.50;
(h) To borrow funds necessary for startup expenses of the Order during the first year of operation by the Board;
(i) To invest assessments collected and other funds received pursuant to the Order and use earnings from invested assessments to pay for activities carried out pursuant to the Order;
(j) To recommend changes to the assessment rates as provided in this part;
(k) To cause its books to be audited by an independent auditor at the end of each fiscal year and at such other times as the Secretary may request, and to submit a report of the audit directly to the Secretary;
(l) To periodically prepare and make public reports of program activities and, at least once each fiscal year, to make public an accounting of funds received and expended;
(m) To maintain such minutes, books and records and prepare and submit
such reports and records from time to time to the Secretary as the Secretary may prescribe; to make appropriate accounting with respect to the receipt and disbursement of all funds entrusted to it; and to keep records that accurately reflect the actions and transactions of the Board;
(n) To act as an intermediary between the Secretary and any manufacturer or importer;
(o) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of the Order;
(p) To recommend to the Secretary such amendments to the Order as the Board considers appropriate; and
(q) To work to achieve an effective, continuous, and coordinated program of promotion, research, and information and to carry out programs, plans, and projects designed to provide maximum benefits to the paper and paper-based packaging industry.
§ 1222.47
Prohibited activities.
The Board may not engage in, and shall prohibit the employees and agents of the Board from engaging in:
(a) Any action that would be a conflict of interest;
(b) Using funds collected by the Board under the Order to undertake any action for the purpose of influencing legislation or governmental action or policy, by local, state, national, and foreign governments or subdivision thereof, other than recommending to the Secretary amendments to the Order; and
(c) No program, plan or project including advertising shall be false, misleading or disparaging to another agricultural commodity. Paper and paper-based packaging of all geographic origins shall be treated equally.

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 1222.50
Budget and expenses.
(a) At least 60 calendar days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, and as may be necessary thereafter, the Board shall prepare and submit to the Department a budget for the fiscal year covering its anticipated expenses and disbursements in administering this part. The budget for research, promotion or information may not be implemented prior to approval by the Secretary. Each such budget shall include:
(1) A statement of objectives and strategy for each program, plan or project;
(2) A summary of anticipated revenue, with comparative data for at least one preceding fiscal year, except for the initial budget;
(3) A summary of proposed expenditures for each program, plan or project; and
(4) Staff and administrative expense breakdowns, with comparative data for at least one preceding fiscal year, except for the initial budget.
(b) Each budget shall provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures and to provide for a reserve as set forth in this Order.
(c) Subject to this section, any amendment or addition to an approved budget must be approved by the Department, including shifting funds from one program, plan or project to another. Shifts of funds that do not result in an increase in the Board's approved budget and are consistent with governing bylaws need not have prior approval by the Department.
(d) The Board is authorized to incur such expenses, including provision for a reserve, as the Secretary finds reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Board for its maintenance and functioning, and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. Such expenses shall be paid from funds received by the Board.
(e) With approval of the Department, the Board may borrow money for the payment of startup expenses subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board. Any funds borrowed shall be expended only for startup costs and capital outlays and are limited to the first year of operation by the Board.
(f) The Board may accept voluntary contributions. Such contributions shall be free from any encumbrance by the donor and the Board shall retain complete control of their use. The Board may receive funds from outside sources with approval of the Secretary for specific authorized projects.
(g) The Board shall reimburse the Secretary for all expenses incurred by the Secretary in the implementation, administration, enforcement and supervision of the Order, including all referendum costs in connection with the Order.
(h) For fiscal years beginning three years after the date of the establishment of the Board, the Board may not expend for administration, maintenance, and the functioning of the Board an amount that is greater than 15 percent of the assessment and other income received by and available to the Board for the fiscal year. For purposes of this limitation, reimbursements to the Secretary shall not be considered administrative costs.
(i) The Board may establish an operating monetary reserve and may carry over to subsequent fiscal years excess funds in any reserve so established:
Provided,
That, the funds in the reserve do not exceed one fiscal year's budget of expenses. Subject to approval by the Secretary, such reserve funds may be used to defray any expenses authorized under this subpart.
(j) Pending disbursement of assessments and all other revenue under a budget approved by the Secretary, the Board may invest assessments and all other revenues collected under this part in:
(1) Obligations of the United States or any agency of the United States;
(2) General obligations of any State or any political subdivision of a State;
(3) Interest bearing accounts or certificates of deposit of financial institutions that are members of the Federal Reserve System;
(4) Obligations fully guaranteed as to principal interest by the United States; or
(5) Other investments as authorized by the Secretary.
§ 1222.51
Financial statements.
(a) The Board shall prepare and submit financial statements to the Department on a quarterly basis, or at any other time as requested by the Secretary. Each such financial statement shall include, but not be limited to, a balance sheet, income statement, and expense budget. The expense budget shall show expenditures during the time period covered by the report, year-to-date expenditures, and the unexpended budget.
(b) Each financial statement shall be submitted to the Department within 30 calendar days after the end of the time period to which it applies.
(c) The Board shall submit to the Department an annual financial statement within 90 calendar days after the end of the fiscal year to which it applies.
§ 1222.52
Assessments.
(a) The Board's programs and expenses shall be paid by assessments on manufacturers and importers, other income of the Board, and other funds available to the Board.
(b) Subject to the exemptions specified in § 1222.53, each manufacturer and importer shall pay an assessment to the Board in the amount of 35 cents per short ton or its equivalent manufactured and imported. The assessment shall be on the roll of paper and paper-based packaging manufactured or imported, except that the assessment for cut-size printing and writing paper imported or made by domestic manufacturers prior to leaving the manufacturer's mill shall be on the cut-size paper.
(c) At least 24 months after the Order becomes effective and periodically thereafter, the Board shall review and may recommend to the Secretary, upon an affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the Board, a change in the assessment rate. A change in the assessment rate is subject to rulemaking by the Secretary.
(d) Domestic manufacturers shall remit to the Board the amount due no later than the 30th calendar day of the month following the end of the quarter in which the paper and paper-based packaging was manufactured.
(e) Each importer of paper and paper-based packaging shall pay through Customs to the Board an assessment on the paper and paper-based packaging imported into the United States identified in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) number listed in the following table. In the event that any HTSUS number subject to assessment is changed and such change is merely a replacement of a previous number and has no impact on
the description of the paper and paper-based packaging involved, assessments will continue to be collected based on the new number.
Table 1 to § 1222.52(
e
)
Paper and paper-based packaging
Assessment
$/kg
4802.54.1000
$0.000386
4802.54.3100
0.000386
4802.54.5000
0.000386
4802.54.6100
0.000386
4802.55.1000
0.000386
4802.55.2000
0.000386
4802.55.4000
0.000386
4802.55.6000
0.000386
4802.55.7020
0.000386
4802.55.7040
0.000386
4802.56.1000
0.000386
4802.56.2000
0.000386
4802.56.4000
0.000386
4802.56.6000
0.000386
4802.56.7020
0.000386
4802.56.7050
0.000386
4802.56.7090
0.000386
4802.57.1000
0.000386
4802.57.2000
0.000386
4802.57.4000
0.000386
4802.57.4020
0.000386
4802.57.4040
0.000386
4802.57.4090
0.000386
4802.58.1000
0.000386
4802.58.2020
0.000386
4802.58.2040
0.000386
4802.58.2080
0.000386
4802.58.5000
0.000386
4802.58.6020
0.000386
4802.58.6040
0.000386
4802.61.1000
0.000386
4802.61.2000
0.000386
4802.61.3110
0.000386
4802.61.3135
0.000386
4802.61.3191
0.000386
4802.61.5000
0.000386
4802.61.6020
0.000386
4802.61.6040
0.000386
4802.62.1000
0.000386
4802.62.2000
0.000386
4802.62.3000
0.000386
4802.62.5000
0.000386
4802.62.6120
0.000386
4802.62.6140
0.000386
4802.69.1000
0.000386
4802.69.2000
0.000386
4802.69.3000
0.000386
4804.11.0000
0.000386
4804.19.0000
0.000386
4804.21.0000
0.000386
4804.29.0000
0.000386
4804.31.4020
0.000386
4804.31.4040
0.000386
4804.31.6000
0.000386
4804.39.4020
0.000386
4804.39.4049
0.000386
4804.39.6020
0.000386
4804.39.6040
0.000386
4804.41.2000
0.000386
4804.41.4000
0.000386
4804.42.0010
0.000386
4804.42.0020
0.000386
4804.42.0030
0.000386
4804.42.0040
0.000386
4804.42.0050
0.000386
4804.49.0000
0.000386
4804.51.0000
0.000386
4804.52.0010
0.000386
4804.52.0020
0.000386
4804.52.0030
0.000386
4804.52.0040
0.000386
4804.52.0050
0.000386
4804.59.0000
0.000386
4805.11.0000
0.000386
4805.12.1000
0.000386
4805.12.2000
0.000386
4805.19.1000
0.000386
4805.19.2000
0.000386
4805.24.5000
0.000386
4805.24.7000
0.000386
4805.24.9000
0.000386
4805.25.0000
0.000386
4805.91.1010
0.000386
4805.91.9000
0.000386
4805.92.4010
0.000386
4805.92.4030
0.000386
4805.93.4010
0.000386
4805.93.4030
0.000386
4805.93.4050
0.000386
4805.93.4060
0.000386
4807.00.9100
0.000386
4807.00.9400
0.000386
4810.13.1120
0.000386
4810.13.1140
0.000386
4810.13.1900
0.000386
4810.13.2010
0.000386
4810.13.2090
0.000386
4810.13.5000
0.000386
4810.13.6000
0.000386
4810.13.7020
0.000386
4810.13.7040
0.000386
4810.14.1120
0.000386
4810.14.1140
0.000386
4810.14.1900
0.000386
4810.14.2010
0.000386
4810.14.2090
0.000386
4810.14.5000
0.000386
4810.14.6000
0.000386
4810.14.7020
0.000386
4810.14.7040
0.000386
4810.19.1100
0.000386
4810.19.1900
0.000386
4810.19.2010
0.000386
4810.19.2090
0.000386
4810.22.1000
0.000386
4810.22.5044
0.000386
4810.22.5080
0.000386
4810.22.6000
0.000386
4810.22.7020
0.000386
4810.22.7040
0.000386
4810.29.1025
0.000386
4810.29.1035
0.000386
4810.29.5000
0.000386
4810.29.6000
0.000386
4810.29.7020
0.000386
4810.29.7025
0.000386
4810.29.7035
0.000386
4810.31.1020
0.000386
4810.31.1040
0.000386
4810.31.3000
0.000386
4810.31.6500
0.000386
4810.32.1020
0.000386
4810.32.1040
0.000386
4810.32.1060
0.000386
4810.32.3000
0.000386
4810.32.6500
0.000386
4810.39.1200
0.000386
4810.39.1400
0.000386
4810.39.3000
0.000386
4810.39.6500
0.000386
4810.92.1225
0.000386
4810.92.1235
0.000386
4810.92.6525
0.000386
4810.92.6535
0.000386
4810.99.1050
0.000386
4810.99.6500
0.000386
4811.51.2010
0.000386
4811.51.2020
0.000386
4811.51.2030
0.000386
4811.59.4020
0.000386
4811.90.8030
0.000386
(f) If Customs does not collect an assessment from an importer, the importer is responsible for paying the assessment directly to the Board within 30 calendar days after the end of the quarter in which the paper and paper-based packaging was imported.
(g) When a manufacturer or importer fails to pay the assessment within 60 calendar days of the date it is due, the Board may impose a late payment charge and interest. The late payment charge and rate of interest shall be prescribed in regulations issued by the Secretary. All late assessments shall be subject to the specified late payment charge and interest. Persons failing to remit total assessments due in a timely manner may also be subject to actions under federal debt collection procedures.
(h) The Board may accept advance payment of assessments from any manufacturer or importer that will be credited toward any amount for which that person may become liable. The Board may not pay interest on any advance payment.
(i) If the Board is not in place by the date the first assessments are to be collected, the Secretary shall receive assessments and shall pay such assessments and any interest earned to the Board when it is formed.
[79 FR 3706, Jan. 22, 2014, as amended at 88 FR 14485, Mar. 9, 2023]
§ 1222.53
Exemption from assessment.
(a)
Minimum quantity exemption.
(1) Manufacturers that manufacture less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging in a marketing year are exempt from paying assessments. Such manufacturers must apply to the Board, on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption prior to the start of the marketing year. This is an annual exemption and manufacturers must reapply each year. Such manufacturers shall certify that they will manufacture less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the marketing year for which the exemption is claimed. Upon receipt of an application for exemption, the Board shall determine whether an exemption may be granted. The Board may request past manufacturing data to support the exemption request. The Board will issue, if deemed appropriate, a certificate of exemption to the eligible manufacturer. It is the responsibility of the manufacturer to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.
(2) Importers that import into the United States less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging in a marketing year are exempt from paying assessments. This is an annual exemption and importers must qualify each year.
(i) Importers that imported less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the prior marketing year shall automatically be considered exempt during the upcoming marketing year. Customs data will be reviewed to verify applicable importers.
(ii) Importers that imported more than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the prior marketing year, but believe and can document that they will import less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the upcoming marketing year, may apply to the Board, on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption prior to the start of the fiscal year. Such importers shall certify that they will import less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the marketing year for which the exemption is claimed. Upon receipt of an application for exemption, the Board shall determine whether an exemption may be granted. The Board may request past import data and
other documentation to support the exemption request. The Board will issue, if deemed appropriate, a certificate of exemption to the eligible importer. It is the responsibility of the importer to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.
(iii) The Board shall refund such importers considered exempt their assessments as collected by Customs no later than 60 calendar days after receipt of such assessments by the Board. The Board will stop refund of assessments to such importers who during the marketing year import more than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper based packaging. These importers will be notified accordingly. No interest shall be paid on the assessments collected by Customs or the Board.
(3) Manufacturers that did not apply to the Board for an exemption and that manufactured less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the marketing year shall automatically receive a refund from the Board for the applicable assessments within 30 calendar days after the end of the marketing year. Board staff shall determine the assessments paid and refund the amount due to the manufacturer accordingly.
(4) Importers that did not apply to the Board for an exemption, imported more than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the prior marketing year, and that imported less than 100,000 short tons of paper and paper-based packaging during the marketing year shall automatically receive a refund from the Board for the applicable assessments within 30 calendar days after the end of the marketing year.
(5) If an entity is a manufacturer and an importer, such entity's combined quantity of paper and paper-based packaging manufactured and imported during a marketing year shall count towards the 100,000 short ton-exemption.
(6) Manufacturers and importers that received an exemption certificate or an automatic exemption from the Board but manufactured or imported 100,000 short tons or more of paper and paper-based packaging during the marketing year shall pay the Board the applicable assessments owed on the quantity manufactured or imported within 30 calendar days after the end of the marketing year and submit any necessary reports to the Board pursuant to § 1222.70.
(7) The Board may develop additional procedures to administer this exemption as appropriate. Such procedures shall be implemented through rulemaking by the Secretary.
(b)
Organic.
(1) A manufacturer who operates under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic handling system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:
(i) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) are eligible for exemption;
(ii) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products of a manufacturer regardless of whether the agricultural commodity subject to the exemption is manufactured by a person that also manufactures conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;
(iii) The manufacturer maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522) (OFPA) and the NOP regulations issued under OFPA (7 CFR part 205); and
(iv) Any manufacturer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(2) To apply for exemption under this section, an eligible manufacturer shall submit a request to the Board on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time during the year initially, and annually thereafter on or before the start of the fiscal year, as long as the manufacturer continues to be eligible for the exemption.
(3) A manufacturer request for exemption shall include the following:
(i) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;
(ii) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid certificate of organic operation issued under the OFPA and the NOP;
(iii) Certification that the applicant manufactures organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;
(iv) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent under the OFPA and the NOP;
(v) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and
(vi) Such other information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.
(4) If a manufacturer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant an assessment exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the manufacturer within 30 calendar days. If the application is disapproved, the Board will notify the applicant of the reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe.
(5) An importer who imports paper and paper-based packaging that is eligible to be labeled as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP, or certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under a U.S. equivalency arrangement established under the NOP, may be exempt from the payment of assessments. Such importer may submit documentation to the Board and request an exemption from assessment on certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” paper and paper-based packaging on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time initially, and annually thereafter on or before the beginning of the fiscal year, as long as the importer continues to be eligible for the exemption. This documentation shall include the same information required of a manufacturer in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. If the importer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant the exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the importer within the applicable timeframe. Any importer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any imported agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(6) If Customs collects the assessment on exempt product under paragraph (b)(5) of this section that is identified as “organic” by a number in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule, the Board must reimburse the exempt importer the assessments paid upon receipt of such assessments from Customs. For all other exempt organic product for which Customs collects the assessment, the importer may apply to the Board for a reimbursement of assessments paid, and the importer must submit satisfactory proof to the Board that the importer paid the assessment on exempt organic product.
(7) The exemption will apply immediately following the issuance of a Certificate of Exemption.
[79 FR 3706, Jan. 22, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 82032, Dec. 31, 2015]

# Promotion, Research and Information
§ 1222.60
Programs, plans and projects.
(a) The Board shall develop and submit to the Secretary for approval programs, plans and projects authorized by this subpart. Such programs, plans and projects shall provide for promotion, research, information and other activities including consumer and industry information and advertising.
(b) No program, plan or project shall be implemented prior to its approval by the Secretary. Once a program, plan or project is so approved, the Board shall take appropriate steps to implement it.
(c) The Board must evaluate each program, plan and project authorized under this subpart to ensure that it contributes to an effective and coordinated program of research, promotion and information. The Board must submit the evaluations to the Secretary. If the Board finds that a program, plan or project does not contribute to an effective program of promotion, research, or information, then the Board shall terminate such program, plan or project.
§ 1222.61
Independent evaluation.
At least once every five years, the Board shall authorize and fund from funds otherwise available to the Board, an independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the Order and the programs conducted by the Board pursuant to the Act. The Board shall submit to the Secretary, and make available to the public, the results of each periodic independent evaluation conducted under this section.
§ 1222.62
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, inventions, product formulations, and publications.
Any patents, copyrights, trademarks, inventions, product formulations, and publications developed through the use of funds received by the Board under this subpart shall be the property of the U.S. Government, as represented by the Board, and shall along with any rents, royalties, residual payments, or other income from the rental, sales, leasing, franchising, or other uses of such patents, copyrights, trademarks, inventions, product formulations, or publications, inure to the benefit of the Board, shall be considered income subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board, and may be licensed subject to approval by the Secretary. Upon termination of this subpart, § 1222.83 shall apply to determine disposition of all such property.

# Reports, Books, and Records
§ 1222.70
Reports.
(a) Manufacturers and importers will be required to provide periodically to the Board such information as the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may require. Such information may include, but not be limited to:
(1) For manufacturers:
(i) The name, address and telephone number of the manufacturer; and
(ii) The quantity of paper and paper-based packaging manufactured by type.
(2) For importers:
(i) The name, address and telephone number of the importer;
(ii) The quantity of paper and paper-based packaging imported by type; and
(iii) The country of export.
(b) For manufacturers, such information shall be reported to the Board no later than the 30th calendar day of the month following the end of the quarter in which the paper and paper-based packaging was manufactured and shall accompany the collected payment of assessments as specified in § 1222.52. First quarter data (January-March) shall be reported to the Board no later than the 30th calendar day of April; second quarter data (April-June) shall be reported no later than the 30th calendar day of July; third quarter data (July-September) shall be reported no later than the 30th calendar day of October; and fourth quarter data (October-December) shall be reported no later than the 30th calendar day of January of the following marketing year.
(c) For importers who pay their assessments directly to the Board, such information shall accompany the payment of collected assessments within 30 calendar days after the end of the quarter in which the paper and paper-based packaging was imported specified in § 1222.52.
§ 1222.71
Books and records.
Each manufacturer and importer shall maintain any books and records necessary to carry out the provisions of this subpart and regulations issued thereunder, including such records as are necessary to verify any required reports. Such books and records must be made available during normal business hours for inspection by the Board's or Secretary's employees or agents. Manufacturers and importers must maintain the books and records for two years beyond the fiscal year to which they apply.
§ 1222.72
Confidential treatment.
All information obtained from books, records, or reports under the Act, this subpart and the regulations issued thereunder shall be kept confidential by all persons, including all employees and former employees of the Board, all officers and employees and former officers and employees of contracting and subcontracting agencies or agreeing parties having access to such information. Such information shall not be
available to Board members or manufacturers and importers. Only those persons having a specific need for such information solely to effectively administer the provisions of this subpart shall have access to such information. Only such information so obtained as the Secretary deems relevant shall be disclosed by them, and then only in a judicial proceeding or administrative hearing brought at the direction, or at the request, of the Secretary, or to which the Secretary or any officer of the United States is a party, and involving this subpart. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit:
(a) The issuance of general statements based upon the reports of the number of persons subject to this subpart or statistical data collected therefrom, which statements do not identify the information furnished by any person; and
(b) The publication, by direction of the Secretary, of the name of any person who has been adjudged to have violated this part, together with a statement of the particular provisions of this part violated by such person.

# Miscellaneous
§ 1222.80
Right of the Secretary.
All fiscal matters, programs, plans or projects, contracts, rules or regulations, reports, or other substantive actions proposed and prepared by the Board shall be submitted to the Secretary for approval.
§ 1222.81
Referenda.
(a)
Initial referendum.
The Order shall not become effective unless the Order is approved by a majority of manufacturers and importers voting in the referendum who also represent a majority of the volume of paper and paper-based packaging represented in the referendum and who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the manufacturing or importation of paper and paper-based packaging. A single entity who domestically manufactures and imports paper and paper-based packaging may cast one vote in the referendum.
(b)
Subsequent referenda.
The Secretary shall conduct subsequent referenda:
(1) For the purpose of ascertaining whether manufacturers and importers favor the amendment, continuation, suspension, or termination of the Order;
(2) Not later than seven years after this Order becomes effective and every seven years thereafter, to determine whether manufacturers and importers favor the continuation of the Order. The Order shall continue if it is favored by a majority of manufacturers and importers voting in the referendum who also represent a majority of the volume of paper and paper-based packaging represented in the referendum and who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the manufacturing or importation of paper and paper-based packaging;
(3) At the request of the Board established in this Order;
(4) At the request of 10 percent or more of the number of persons eligible to vote in a referendum as set forth under the Order; or
(5) At any time as determined by the Secretary.
§ 1222.82
Suspension or termination.
(a) The Secretary shall suspend or terminate this part or subpart or a provision thereof, if the Secretary finds that this part or subpart or a provision thereof obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the purposes of the Act, or if the Secretary determines that this subpart or a provision thereof is not favored by persons voting in a referendum conducted pursuant to the Act.
(b) The Secretary shall suspend or terminate this subpart at the end of the fiscal year whenever the Secretary determines that its suspension or termination is favored by a majority of manufacturers and importers voting in the referendum who also represent a majority of the volume represented in the referendum who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the manufacturing or importation of paper and paper-based packaging.
(c) If, as a result of a referendum the Secretary determines that this subpart is not approved, the Secretary shall:
(1) Not later than one hundred and eighty (180) calendar days after making the determination, suspend or terminate, as the case may be, the collection of assessments under this subpart.
(2) As soon as practical, suspend or terminate, as the case may be, activities under this subpart in an orderly manner.
§ 1222.83
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon termination of this subpart, the Board shall recommend to the Secretary up to five of its members to serve as trustees for the purpose of liquidating the Board's affairs. Such persons, upon designation by the Secretary, shall become trustees of all of the funds and property then in the possession or under control of the Board, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered, or any other existing claim at the time of such termination.
(b) The said trustees shall:
(1) Continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary;
(2) Carry out the obligations of the Board under any contracts or agreements entered into pursuant to the Order;
(3) From time to time account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Board and trustees, to such person or person as the Secretary directs; and
(4) Upon request of the Secretary execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such persons title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims vested in the Board or the trustees pursuant to the Order.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered pursuant to the Order shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the Board and upon the trustees.
(d) Any residual funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be turned over to the Secretary to be disposed of, to the extent practical, to one or more paper and paper-based packaging organizations in the United States whose mission is generic promotion, research, and information programs.
§ 1222.84
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any regulation issued pursuant thereto, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or any regulation issued thereunder;
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or any regulation issued thereunder; or
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the United States, or of the Secretary or of any other persons, with respect to any such violation.
§ 1222.85
Personal liability.
No member or employee of the Board shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member or employee, except for acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct.
§ 1222.86
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid or the applicability of it to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart, or the applicability thereof to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
§ 1222.87
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed from time to time by the Board or any interested person affected by the provisions of the Act, including the Secretary.
§ 1222.88
OMB control number.
The control numbers assigned to the information collection requirements by the Office of Management and Budget
pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35, are OMB control number 0505-0001 (Board nominee background statement) and OMB control number 0581-0093.
[84 FR 31462, July 2, 2019]

# Subpart B—Referendum Procedures
§ 1222.100
General.
Referenda to determine whether eligible domestic manufacturers and importers favor the issuance, continuance, amendment, suspension, or termination of the Paper and Paper-Based Packaging Promotion, Research and Information Order shall be conducted in accordance with this subpart.
§ 1222.101
Definitions.
For the purposes of this subpart:
(a)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, with power to delegate, or any officer or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.
(b)
Converted products
means products made from paper and paper-based packaging.
(c)
Customs or CBP
means the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, an agency of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
(d)
Department
or
USDA
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
(e)
Eligible domestic manufacturer or producer
means any person who is currently a domestic manufacturer or producer and who manufactured 100,000 short tons or more of paper and paper-based packaging during the representative period.
(f)
Eligible importer
means any person who is currently an importer and who imported 100,000 short tons or more of paper and paper-based packaging into the United States during the representative period as a principal or as an agent, broker, or consignee of any person who manufactured paper and paper-based packaging outside of the United States for sale in the United States, and who is listed as the importer of record for such paper and paper-based packaging. Importation occurs when paper and paper-based packaging manufactured outside of the United States is released from custody by Customs and introduced into the stream of commerce in the United States. Included are persons who hold title to foreign-manufactured paper and paper-based packaging immediately upon release by Customs, as well as any persons who act on behalf of others, as agents or brokers, to secure the release of paper and paper-based packaging from Customs when such paper and paper-based packaging is entered or withdrawn for use in the United States.
(g)
Kraft process
means a process that transforms wood into a high quality strong pulp for making paper and paper-based packaging.
(h)
Linerboard
means a grade of containerboard that is used as facing material in the manufacture of corrugated or solid fiber shipping boxes.
(i)
Manufacture or produce
means the process of transforming pulp into paper and paper-based packaging.
(j)
Order
means the Paper and Paper-Based Packaging Promotion, Research and Information Order.
(k)
Paper and paper-based packaging
means:
(1) Printing, writing and related paper, which is coated or uncoated paper that is subsequently converted into products used for printing, writing and other communication purposes, such as file folders, envelopes, catalogues, magazines and brochures. For purposes of this Order, printing, writing and related paper includes thermal paper but does not include carbonless paper;
(2) Kraft packaging paper, which is coarse unbleached, semi-bleached or fully bleached grades of paper that are subsequently converted into products such as grocery bags, multiwall sacks, waxed paper and other products;
(3) Containerboard, which is all forms of linerboard and medium that is used
to manufacture corrugated boxes, shipping containers and related products; and
(4) Paperboard, which is solid bleached kraft board, recycled board and unbleached kraft board that is subsequently converted into a wide variety of end uses, including folding boxes, food and beverage packaging, tubes, cans, and drums, and other miscellaneous products. Paperboard does not include construction-related products such as gypsum wallboard facings and panel board.
(5) For purposes of this Order, paper and paper-based packaging does not include tissue paper, newsprint or converted products.
(l)
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity. For the purpose of this definition, the term “partnership” includes, but is not limited to:
(1) A husband and a wife who have title to, or leasehold interest in, a paper and paper-based packaging manufacturing entity as tenants in common, joint tenants, tenants by the entirety, or, under community property laws, as community property; and
(2) So called “joint ventures” wherein one or more parties to an agreement, informal or otherwise, contributed land, facilities, capital, labor, management, equipment, or other services, or any variation of such contributions by two or more parties, so that it results in the manufacturing or importation of paper and paper-based packaging and the authority to transfer title to the paper and paper-based packaging so manufactured or imported.
(m)
Referendum agent
or
agent
means the individual or individuals designated by the Secretary to conduct the referendum.
(n)
Representative period
means the period designated by the Department.
(o)
Short ton or ton
means a measure of weight equal to 2,000 pounds.
(p)
United States
means collectively the 50 states of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
§ 1222.102
Voting.
(a) Each eligible domestic manufacturer and importer of paper and paper-based packaging shall be entitled to cast only one ballot in the referendum. However, each domestic manufacturer in a landlord/tenant relationship or a divided ownership arrangement involving totally independent entities cooperating only to manufacture paper and paper-based manufacturing, in which more than one of the parties is a domestic manufacturer or importer, shall be entitled to cast one ballot in the referendum covering only such domestic manufacturer or importer's share of ownership.
(b) Proxy voting is not authorized, but an officer or employee of an eligible corporate manufacturer or importer, or an administrator, executor, or trustee of an eligible entity may cast a ballot on behalf of such entity. Any individual so voting in a referendum shall certify that such individual is an officer or employee of the eligible entity, or an administrator, executive, or trustee of an eligible entity and that such individual has the authority to take such action. Upon request of the referendum agent, the individual shall submit adequate evidence of such authority.
(c) A single entity who manufactures and imports paper and paper-based manufacturing may cast one vote in the referendum.
(d) All ballots are to be cast by mail or other means, as instructed by the Department.
§ 1222.103
Instructions.
The referendum agent shall conduct the referendum, in the manner provided in this subpart, under the supervision of the Administrator. The Administrator may prescribe additional instructions, consistent with the provisions of this subpart, to govern the procedure to be followed by the referendum agent. Such agent shall:
(a) Determine the period during which ballots may be cast;
(b) Provide ballots and related material to be used in the referendum. The ballot shall provide for recording essential information, including that needed for ascertaining whether the
person voting, or on whose behalf the vote is cast, is an eligible voter;
(c) Give reasonable public notice of the referendum:
(1) By using available media or public information sources, without incurring advertising expense, to publicize the dates, places, method of voting, eligibility requirements, and other pertinent information. Such sources of publicity may include, but are not limited to, print and radio; and
(2) By such other means as the agent may deem advisable.
(d) Mail to eligible domestic manufacturers and importers whose names and addresses are known to the referendum agent, the instructions on voting, a ballot, and a summary of the terms and conditions of the proposed Order. No person who claims to be eligible to vote shall be refused a ballot;
(e) At the end of the voting period, collect, open, number, and review the ballots and tabulate the results in the presence of an agent of a third party authorized to monitor the referendum process;
(f) Prepare a report on the referendum; and
(g) Announce the results to the public.
§ 1222.104
Subagents.
The referendum agent may appoint any individual or individuals necessary or desirable to assist the agent in performing such agent's functions of this subpart. Each individual so appointed may be authorized by the agent to perform any or all of the functions which, in the absence of such appointment, shall be performed by the agent.
§ 1222.105
Ballots.
The referendum agent and subagents shall accept all ballots cast. However, if an agent or subagent deems that a ballot should be challenged for any reason, the agent or subagent shall endorse above their signature, on the ballot, a statement to the effect that such ballot was challenged, by whom challenged, the reasons therefore, the results of any investigations made with respect thereto, and the disposition thereof. Ballots invalid under this subpart shall not be counted.
§ 1222.106
Referendum report.
Except as otherwise directed, the referendum agent shall prepare and submit to the Administrator a report on the results of the referendum, the manner in which it was conducted, the extent and kind of public notice given, and other information pertinent to the analysis of the referendum and its results.
§ 1222.107
Confidential information.
The ballots and other information or reports that reveal, or tend to reveal, the vote of any person covered under the Order and the voter list shall be strictly confidential and shall not be disclosed.
§ 1222.108
OMB control number.
The control number assigned to the information collection requirement in this subpart by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. is OMB control number 0581-0093.
[84 FR 31462, July 2, 2019]

# Subpart C—Provisions Implementing the Paper and Paper-Based Packaging Promotion, Research and Information Order

# Source:
80 FR 80209, Dec. 24, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1222.520
Late payment and interest charges for past due assessments.
(a) A late payment charge shall be imposed on any manufacturer or importer who fails to make timely remittance to the Board of the total assessments for which such manufacturer or importer is liable. The late payment shall be imposed on any assessments not received within 60 calendar days of the date they are due. This one-time late payment charge shall be 10 percent of the assessments due before interest charges have accrued.
(b) In addition to the late payment charge, 1
1/2
percent per month interest on the outstanding balance, including any late payment charge and accrued interest, will be added to any accounts
for which payment has not been received by the Board within 60 calendar days after the assessments are due. Such interest will continue to accrue monthly until the outstanding balance is paid to the Board.
Pt. 1223

# PART 1223—PECAN PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION ORDER

# Subpart A—Pecan Promotion, Research, and Information Order

# Definitions
Sec.
1223.1
Act.
1223.2
American Pecan Council.
1223.3
American Pecan Promotion Board.
1223.4
Conflict of interest.
1223.5
Customs or CBP.
1223.6
Department or USDA.
1223.7
First handler.
1223.8
Fiscal period.
1223.9
Importer.
1223.10
Information.
1223.11
Inshell pecans.
1223.12
Market or marketing.
1223.13
Order.
1223.14
Part and subpart.
1223.15
Pecans.
1223.16
Person.
1223.17
Producer.
1223.18
Programs, plans, and projects.
1223.19
Promotion.
1223.20
Research.
1223.21
Secretary.
1223.22
Shelled pecans.
1223.23
Suspend.
1223.24
Terminate.
1223.25
United States.

# American Pecan Promotion Board
1223.40
Establishment and membership.
1223.41
Nominations and appointments.
1223.42
Term of office.
1223.43
Vacancies.
1223.44
Procedure.
1223.45
Compensation and reimbursement.
1223.46
Powers and duties.
1223.47
Prohibited activities.

# Expenses and Assessments
1223.50
Budget and expenses.
1223.51
Financial statements.
1223.52
Assessments.
1223.53
Exemption procedures.
1223.54
Refund escrow accounts.

# Promotion, Research, and Information
1223.55
Programs, plans, and projects.
1223.56
Independent evaluation.
1223.57
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, and product formulations.

# Reports, Books, and Records
1223.60
Reports.
1223.61
Books and records.
1223.62
Confidential treatment.

# Miscellaneous
1223.70
Right of the Secretary.
1223.71
Referenda.
1223.72
Suspension and termination.
1223.73
Proceedings after termination.
1223.74
Effect of termination or amendment.
1223.75
Personal liability.
1223.76
Separability.
1223.77
Amendments.
1223.78
OMB control numbers.

# Subpart B—Referendum Procedures
1223.100
General.
1223.101
Definitions.
1223.102
Voting.
1223.103
Instructions.
1223.104
Subagents.
1223.105
Ballots.
1223.106
Referendum report.
1223.107
Confidential information.

# Subpart C—Administrative Provisions
1223.520
Late payment and interest charges for past due assessments.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7411-7425; 7 U.S.C. 7401.

# Source:
86 FR 2898, Jan. 13, 2021, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Pecan Promotion, Research, and Information Order

# Definitions
§ 1223.1
Act.
Act
means the Commodity Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7411-7425), and any amendments thereto.
§ 1223.2
American Pecan Council.
American Pecan Council
or
APC
means that governing body of the Federal Marketing Order established pursuant to 7 CFR part 986 unless otherwise noted.
§ 1223.3
American Pecan Promotion Board.
American Pecan Promotion Board
or the
Board
means the administrative body established pursuant to § 1223.40.
§ 1223.4
Conflict of interest.
Conflict of interest
means a situation in which a member or employee of the Board has a direct or indirect financial interest in a person who performs a service for, or enters into a contract with, the Board for anything of economic value.
§ 1223.5
Customs or CDP.
Customs
or
CBP
means Customs and Border Protection, an agency of the United States Department of Homeland Security.
§ 1223.6
Department or USDA.
Department
or
USDA
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1223.7
First handler.
First handler
means any person who receives, shells, cracks, accumulates, warehouses, roasts, packs, sells, consigns, transports, exports, or ships (except as a common or contract carrier of pecans owned by another person), or in any other way puts inshell or shelled pecans in the stream of commerce. The term first handler includes a producer who handles or markets pecans of the producer's own production.
§ 1223.8
Fiscal period.
Fiscal period
means October 1 to September 30, or such other period as recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
§ 1223.9
Importer.
Importer
means any person who imports pecans into the United States as a principal or as an agent, broker, or consignee of any person who produces or handles pecans outside of the United States for sale in the United States, and who is listed in the import records as the importer of record for such pecans.
§ 1223.10
Information.
Information
means information and programs that are designed to increase efficiency in processing and to develop new markets, marketing strategies, increase market efficiency, and activities that are designed to enhance the image of pecans on a national or international basis. These include:
(a)
Consumer information,
which means any action taken to provide information to, and broaden the understanding of, the general public regarding the consumption, use, nutritional attributes, and care of pecans; and
(b)
Industry information,
which means information and programs that will lead to the development of new markets, new marketing strategies, or increased efficiency for the pecan industry, and activities to enhance the image of the pecan industry.
§ 1223.11
Inshell pecans.
Inshell pecans
are nuts whose kernel is maintained inside the shell.
§ 1223.12
Market or marketing.
(a)
Marketing
means the sale or other disposition of pecans in any channel of commerce.
(b)
To market
means to sell or otherwise dispose of pecans in interstate, foreign, or intrastate commerce.
§ 1223.13
Order.
Order
means an order issued by the Secretary under section 514 of the Act that provides for a program of generic promotion, research, and information regarding agricultural commodities authorized under the Act.
§ 1223.14
Part and subpart.
This
part
is comprised of all rules, regulations, and supplemental orders issued pursuant to the Act and the Order. The Pecan Promotion, Research, and Information Order comprises
subpart A
of this part.
§ 1223.15
Pecans.
Pecans
means and includes any and all varieties or subvarieties, inshell or shelled, of
Carya illinoinensis
grown or imported into the United States.
§ 1223.16
Person.
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity.
§ 1223.17
Producer.
Producer
is synonymous with grower and means any person engaged in the production and sale of pecans in the United States who owns, or who shares in the ownership and risk of loss of such pecans.
§ 1223.18
Programs, plans, and projects.
Programs, plans, and projects
mean those research, promotion, and information programs, plans, or projects established pursuant to this subpart.
§ 1223.19
Promotion.
Promotion
means any action taken to present a favorable image of pecans to the general public and the food industry for the purpose of improving the competitive position of pecans both in the United States and abroad and stimulating the sale of pecans. This includes paid advertising and public relations.
§ 1223.20
Research.
Research
means any type of test, study, or analysis designed to advance the image, desirability, use, marketability, production, product development, or quality of pecans, including research relating to nutritional value, cost of production, new product development, varietal development, nutritional value, health research, and marketing of pecans.
§ 1223.21
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1223.22
Shelled pecans.
Shelled pecans
are pecans whose shells have been removed leaving only edible kernels, kernel pieces or pecan meal. One pound of shelled pecans is the equivalent of two pounds inshell pecans.
§ 1223.23
Suspend.
Suspend
means to issue a rule under section 553 of title 5, U.S.C., to temporarily prevent the operation of an order or part thereof during a particular period of time specified in the rule.
§ 1223.24
Terminate.
Terminate
means to issue a rule under section 553 of title 5, U.S.C., to cancel permanently the operation of an order or part thereof beginning on a date certain specified in the rule.
§ 1223.25
United States.
United States
means collectively the 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.

# American Pecan Promotion Board
§ 1223.40
Establishment and membership.
(a)
Establishment of the American Pecan Promotion Board.
There is hereby established an American Pecan Promotion Board, called the Board in this part, comprised of seventeen (17) members, appointed by the Secretary from nominations as follows:
(1) Ten (10) producer members: Three (3) each from the Eastern Region and Central Region and four (4) from the Western Region as follows:
(i) Eastern Region shall mean the States of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina plus any states in the United States, the majority of whose land mass is in the Eastern Time Zone, plus any U.S. territories in the Atlantic Ocean;
(ii) Central Region shall mean the States of Arkansas, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Oklahoma, Texas plus any states in the United States, the majority of whose land mass is in the Central Time Zone; and
(iii) Western Region shall mean the States of Arizona, California, New Mexico plus any states in the United States, the majority of whose land mass is in the Mountain or Pacific Time Zones, plus Alaska and Hawaii and any U.S. territories in the Pacific Ocean.
(2) Seven (7) importers.
(b)
Adjustment of membership.
At least once every five years, the Board will review the geographical distribution of United States production of pecans and
the quantity or value of imports. The review will be conducted through an audit of state crop production and Customs figures and Board assessment records. If warranted, the Board will recommend to the Secretary that the membership on the Board be altered to reflect any changes in the geographical distribution of domestic pecan production and the quantity or value of imports. If the level of imports fluctuates versus domestic pecan production, importer members may be added to or reduced from the Board.
(c)
Board's ability to serve the diversity of the industry.
When making recommendations for appointments, the industry should take into account the diversity of the population served and the knowledge, skills, and abilities of the members to serve a diverse population, size of the operations, methods of production and distribution, and other distinguishing factors to ensure that the recommendations of the Board take into account the diverse interest of persons responsible for paying assessments, and others in the marketing chain, if appropriate.
§ 1223.41
Nominations and appointments.
(a) Initial nominations for producers will be submitted to the Secretary by the American Pecan Council (APC), or the Department if appropriate. Before considering any nominations, the APC shall publicize the nomination process, using trade press or other means it deems appropriate, to reach out to all known producers for the U.S. market. The APC may use regional caucuses, mail or other methods to elicit potential nominees. The APC shall submit the nominations to the Secretary and recommend two nominees for each Board position specified in paragraph (a)(1) of § 1223.40. The Department will conduct initial nominations for the importer members. The Secretary shall appoint the members of the Board.
(b) Subsequent nominations shall be conducted as follows:
(1) Nomination of producer members will be conducted by the Board. The Board staff will seek nominations for each vacant producer seat from each region from producers who have paid their assessments to the Board in the most recent fiscal period and who produced more than 50,000 pounds of inshell pecans (25,000 pounds of shelled pecans) on average for four fiscal periods (the fiscal period for which nominations are being conducted and the previous three fiscal periods). Producers who produce pecans in more than one region may seek nomination only in the region in which they produce the majority of their pecans. Nominations will be submitted to the Board office and placed on a ballot that will be sent to producers in each region for a vote. Producers may only vote in the region in which they produce the majority of their pecans. The votes shall be tabulated for each region with the nominee receiving the highest number of votes at the top of the list in descending order by vote. Two candidates for each position shall be submitted to the Secretary; and
(2) Nomination of importer members will be conducted by the Board. All qualified national organizations representing importer interests will have the opportunity to nominate members to serve on the Board. If the Secretary determines that there are no qualified national organizations representing importer interests, individual importers who have paid assessments to the Board in the most recent fiscal period and imported more than 50,000 pounds of inshell pecans (25,000 pounds of shelled pecans) on average for four fiscal periods (the fiscal period for which nominations are being conducted and the previous three fiscal periods) may submit nominations. The names of importer nominees shall be placed on a ballot and mailed to importers for a vote. The votes shall be tabulated with the nominee receiving the highest number of votes at the top of the list in descending order by vote. Two candidates for each importer Board position shall be submitted to the Secretary. To be certified by the Secretary as a qualified national organization representing importer interests, an organization must meet the following criteria, as evidenced by a report submitted by the organization to the Secretary:
(i) The organization's voting membership must be comprised primarily of importers of pecans;
(ii) The organization has a history of stability and permanency and has been in existence for more than one year;
(iii) The organization must derive a portion of its operating funds from importers;
(iv) The organization must demonstrate it is willing and able to further the Act and Order's purposes; and
(v) To be certified by the Secretary as a qualified national organization representing importer interests, an organization must agree to take reasonable steps to publicize to non-members the availability of open Board importer positions.
(c) Producer and importer nominees may provide the Board a short background statement outlining their qualifications to serve on the Board.
(d) Nominees must be in compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart.
(e) The Board must submit nominations to the Secretary at least six months before the new Board term begins. The Secretary shall appoint the members of the Board.
(f) No two members shall be employed by a single corporation, company, partnership, or any other legal entity.
(g) The Board may recommend to the Secretary modifications to its nomination procedures as it deems appropriate. Any such modifications shall be implemented through rulemaking by the Secretary.
§ 1223.42
Term of office.
(a) With the exception of the initial Board, each Board member will serve a three-year term or until the Secretary selects his or her successor. Each term of office shall begin on October 1 and end on September 30. No member may serve more than two consecutive terms, excluding any term of office less than three years.
(b) For the initial board, the terms of Board members shall be staggered for two, three, and four years. Determination of which of the initial members shall serve a term of two, three, or four years shall be determined at random. Those members serving an initial term of two, three, or four years may serve one successive three-year term.
§ 1223.43
Vacancies.
(a) In the event that any member of the Board ceases to work for or be affiliated with the category of members from which the member was appointed to the Board, such position shall automatically become vacant.
(b) If a member of the Board consistently refuses to perform the duties of a member of the Board, or if a member of the Board engages in acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct, the Board may recommend to the Secretary that the member be removed from office. If the Secretary finds the recommendation of the Board shows adequate cause, the Secretary shall remove such member from office.
(c) Without recommendation of the Board, a member may be removed by the Secretary upon showing of adequate cause, including the continued failure by a member to submit reports or remit assessments required under this part, if the Secretary determines that such member's continued service would be detrimental to the achievement of the purposes of the Act.
(d) Should the position of a member become vacant, successors for the unexpired terms of such member shall be appointed in the manner specified in §§ 1223.40 and 1223.41, except that said nomination and replacement shall not be required if said unexpired terms are less than six months.
§ 1223.44
Procedure.
(a) At a Board meeting, it will be considered a quorum when a majority of members are present.
(b) At the start of each fiscal period, the Board will select a chairperson and vice chairperson who will conduct meetings and appoint committee membership throughout that period.
(c) All Board and committee members will receive a minimum of 10 days advance notice of all Board and committee meetings, unless an emergency meeting is declared by the Chairperson.
(d) Each member of the Board will be entitled to one vote on any matter put to the Board, and the motion will carry if supported by one vote more than 50 percent of the total votes represented by the Board members present.
(e) It will be considered a quorum at a committee meeting when at least one
more than half of those assigned to the committee are present. Committees may also consist of individuals other than Board members and such individuals may vote in committee meetings. These committee members shall be appointed by the Chairperson and shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses, as approved by the Board.
(f) In lieu of voting at a properly convened meeting and, when in the opinion of the Chairperson of the Board such action is considered necessary, the Board may take action if supported by one vote more than 50 percent of the members by mail, telephone, electronic mail, facsimile, or any other means of communication, and all telephone votes shall be confirmed promptly in writing. In that event, all members and the Secretary must be notified, and all members must be provided the opportunity to vote. Any action so taken shall have the same force and effect as though such action had been taken at a properly convened meeting of the Board. All votes shall be recorded in Board minutes.
(g) There shall be no voting by proxy.
(h) The Chairperson shall be a voting member.
(i) The organization of the Board and the procedures for the conducting of meetings of the Board shall be in accordance with its bylaws, which shall be established by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
§ 1223.45
Compensation and reimbursement.
The members of the Board when acting as members, shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses, as approved by the Board, incurred by them in the performance of their duties as Board members.
§ 1223.46
Powers and duties.
The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
(a) To administer this subpart in accordance with its terms and conditions and to collect assessments;
(b) To develop and recommend to the Secretary for approval such bylaws as may be necessary for the functioning of the Board, and such rules as may be necessary to administer this subpart, including activities authorized to be carried out under this subpart;
(c) To meet, organize, and select from among the members of the Board a chairperson, other officers, committees, and subcommittees, as the Board determines to be appropriate;
(d) To employ persons, other than the Board members, or to enter into contracts, other than with Board members, as the Board considers necessary to assist the Board in carrying out its duties and to determine the compensation and specify the duties of such persons, or to determine the contractual terms of such parties;
(e) To develop programs and projects, and enter into contracts or agreements, which must be approved by the Secretary before becoming effective, for the development and carrying out of programs or projects of research, information, or promotion, and the payment of costs thereof with funds collected pursuant to this subpart. Each contract or agreement shall provide that any person who enters into a contract or agreement with the Board shall develop and submit to the Board a proposed activity; keep accurate records of all of its transactions relating to the contract or agreement; account for funds received and expended in connection with the contract or agreement; make periodic reports to the Board of activities conducted under the contract or agreement; and make such other reports available as the Board or the Secretary considers relevant. Any contract or agreement shall provide that:
(1) The contractor or agreeing party shall develop and submit to the Board a program, plan, or project together with a budget or budgets that shall show the estimated cost to be incurred for such program, plan, or project;
(2) The contractor or agreeing party shall keep accurate records of all its transactions and make periodic reports to the Board of activities conducted, submit accounting for funds received and expended, and make such other reports as the Secretary or the Board may require;
(3) The Secretary may audit the records of the contracting or agreeing party periodically; and
(4) Any subcontractor who enters into a contract with a Board contractor and who receives or otherwise uses funds allocated by the Board shall be subject to the same provisions as the contractor;
(f) To prepare and submit for approval of the Secretary fiscal period budgets in accordance with § 1223.50;
(g) To invest assessments collected under this part in accordance with § 1223.50;
(h) To maintain such records and books and prepare and submit such reports and records from time to time to the Secretary as the Secretary may prescribe; to make appropriate accounting with respect to the receipt and disbursement of all funds entrusted to it; and to keep records that accurately reflect the actions and transactions of the Board;
(i) To cause its books to be audited by a competent auditor at the end of each fiscal period and at such other times as the Secretary may request, and to submit a report of the audit directly to the Secretary;
(j) To give the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the Board as is given to members in order that the Secretary's representative(s) may attend such meetings, and to keep and report minutes of each meeting of the Board to the Secretary;
(k) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any producer, first handler, or importer;
(l) To furnish to the Secretary any information or records that the Secretary may request;
(m) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of this subpart;
(n) To recommend to the Secretary such amendments to this subpart as the Board considers appropriate; and
(o) To work to achieve an effective, continuous, and coordinated program of promotion, research, consumer information, evaluation, and industry information designed to strengthen the pecan industry's position in the marketplace; maintain and expand existing markets and uses for pecans; and to carry out programs, plans, and projects designed to provide maximum benefits to the pecan industry.
§ 1223.47
Prohibited activities.
The Board may not engage in, and shall prohibit the employees and agents of the Board from engaging in:
(a) Any action that would be a conflict of interest; and
(b) Using funds collected by the Board under this subpart to undertake any action for the purpose of influencing legislation or governmental action or policy, by local, state, national, and foreign governments, other than recommending to the Secretary amendments to this subpart.
(c) No program, plan, or project including advertising shall be false or misleading or disparaging to another agricultural commodity. Pecans of all origins shall be treated equally.

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 1223.50
Budget and expenses.
(a) At least 60 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal period, and as may be necessary thereafter, the Board shall prepare and submit to the Secretary a budget for the fiscal period covering its anticipated expenses and disbursements in administering this subpart. Each such budget shall include:
(1) A statement of objectives and strategy for each program, plan, or project;
(2) A summary of anticipated revenue, with comparative data for at least one preceding year (except for the initial budget);
(3) A summary of proposed expenditures for each program, plan, or project; and
(4) Staff and administrative expense breakdowns, with comparative data for at least one preceding year (except for the initial budget).
(b) Each budget shall provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures and to provide for a reserve as set forth in this subpart.
(c) Subject to this section, any amendment or addition to an approved budget must be approved by the Secretary, including shifting funds from one program, plan, or project to another. Shifts of funds which do not cause an increase in the Board's approved budget and which are consistent
with governing bylaws need not have prior approval by the Secretary.
(d) The Board is authorized to incur such expenses, including provision for a reasonable reserve, as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Board for its maintenance and functioning, and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. Such expenses shall be paid from funds received by the Board.
(e) With approval of the Secretary, the Board may borrow money for the payment of administrative expenses, subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board. Any funds borrowed by the Board shall be expended only for startup costs and capital outlays and are limited to the first year of operation of the Board.
(f) The Board may accept voluntary contributions, but these shall only be used to pay expenses incurred in the conduct of programs, plans, and projects. Such contributions shall be free from any encumbrance by the donor and the Board shall retain complete control of their use.
(g) The Board may also receive funds provided through the Department's Foreign Agricultural Service or from other sources, for authorized activities.
(h) The Board shall reimburse the Secretary for all expenses incurred by the Secretary in the implementation, administration, and supervision of this subpart, including all referendum costs in connection with this subpart.
(i) For fiscal periods beginning three (3) or more years after the date of the establishment of the Board, the Board may not expend for administration, maintenance, and functioning of the Board in any fiscal period an amount that exceeds 15 percent of the assessments and other income received by the Board for that fiscal period. Reimbursements to the Secretary required under paragraph (h) of this section are excluded from this limitation on spending.
(j) The Board may establish an operating monetary reserve and may carry over to subsequent fiscal periods excess funds in any reserve so established:
Provided
that the funds in the reserve do not exceed the last two fiscal periods' budget of expenses. Subject to approval by the Secretary, such reserve funds may be used to defray any expenses authorized under this part.
(k) Pending disbursement of assessments and all other revenue under a budget approved by the Secretary, the Board may invest assessments and all other revenues collected under this part in:
(1) Obligations of the United States or any agency of the United States;
(2) General obligations of any State or any political subdivision of a State;
(3) Interest bearing accounts or certificates of deposit of financial institutions that are members of the Federal Reserve System;
(4) Obligations fully guaranteed as to principal interest by the United States; or
(5) Other investments as authorized by the Secretary.
§ 1223.51
Financial statements.
(a) The Board shall prepare and submit financial statements to the Secretary on a monthly or quarterly basis or at any other time as requested by the Secretary. Each such financial statement shall include, but not be limited to, a balance sheet, income statement, and expense budget. The expense budget shall show expenditures during the time period covered by the report, year-to-date expenditures, and the unexpended budget.
(b) Each financial statement shall be submitted to the Secretary within 30 days after the end of the time period to which it applies.
(c) The Board shall submit annually to the Secretary an annual financial statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal period to which it applies.
§ 1223.52
Assessments.
(a) The funds to cover the Board's expenses shall be paid from assessments on producers and importers, other income of the Board, and other funds available to the Board including those collected pursuant to § 1223.57 and subject to the limitations contained in § 1223.57.
(b) Each producer shall pay an assessment per pound of pecans produced in
the United States. The collection of assessments on pecans produced in the United States will be the responsibility of the first handler receiving the pecans from producers. In the case of the producer acting as its own first handler, the producer will be required to collect and remit its individual assessments.
(1) First handlers may remit assessments to a third-party collection agent under this subpart.
(2) First handlers may also remit assessments directly to the Board.
(c) Such assessments shall be levied at $0.02 per pound on all inshell pecans and $0.04 per pound on all shelled pecans. The assessment rate may be reviewed and modified with the approval of the Secretary. A change in the assessment rate is subject to rulemaking by the Secretary.
(d) All assessment payments and reports will be submitted to the office of the Board. All assessment payments for a fiscal period are to be received no later than the 10th of the month following the end of the previous month. A late payment charge shall be imposed on any producer and importer who fails to remit to the Board, the total amount for which any such producer and importer is liable on or before the due date established by the Board on forms approved by the Secretary. In addition to the late payment charge, an interest charge shall be imposed on the outstanding amount for which the producer and importer is liable. The rate of interest shall be prescribed in regulations issued by the Secretary.
(e) Each importer of pecans shall pay an assessment to the Board on pecans imported for marketing in the United States, through Customs.
(1) The assessment rate for imported pecans shall be the same or equivalent to the rate for pecans produced in the United States.
(2) The import assessment shall be uniformly applied to imported pecans that are identified by the number 0802.90.10.00 and 0802.90.15.00 in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) of the United States or any other numbers used to identify pecans in that schedule.
(3) In the event that any HTS number is subject to assessment is changed and such change is merely a replacement of a previous number and has no impact on the description of pecans, assessment will continue to be collected based on the new numbers.
(4) The assessment due on imported pecans shall be paid when they enter, or are withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption in the United States.
(5) If Customs does not collect an assessment from an importer, the importer is responsible for paying the assessment directly to the Board no later than the 10th of the month following the month the assessed pecans were imported into the United States.
(f) Persons failing to remit total assessments due in a timely manner may also be subject to actions under Federal debt collection procedures.
(g) The Board may authorize other organizations to collect assessments on its behalf with the approval of the Secretary.
§ 1223.53
Exemption procedures.
(a)
De minimis.
An exemption from payment of assessments as provided in § 1223.52, shall be provided to producers that domestically produce and importers that import less than 50,000 pounds of inshell pecans (25,000 pounds of shelled pecans) on average for four fiscal periods (the fiscal period for which the exemption is claimed and the previous three fiscal periods) as follows:
(1) Any producer who desires to claim an exemption from assessments shall file an application on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption for each fiscal period claiming an exemption. Such producer shall certify that it will domestically produce less than 50,000 pounds of inshell pecans (25,000 pounds of shelled pecans) on average for four fiscal periods (the fiscal period for which the exemption is claimed and the previous three fiscal periods). It is the responsibility of the producer to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.
(2) Any importer who desires to claim an exemption from assessments shall file an application on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption for each fiscal period claiming
an exemption. Such importer shall certify that it will import less than 50,000 pounds of inshell pecans (25,000 pounds of shelled pecans) on average for four fiscal periods (the fiscal period for which the exemption is claimed and the previous three fiscal periods). It is the responsibility of the importer to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.
(3) On receipt of an exemption application, the Board shall determine whether an exemption may be granted for that fiscal period. The Board will then issue, if deemed appropriate, a certificate of exemption to the producer or importer which is eligible to receive one covering that fiscal period. The Board may request persons applying for the exemption to provide supporting documentation, such as past sales receipts or import data.
(4) The Board, with the Secretary's approval, may require persons receiving an exemption from assessments to provide to the Board reports on the disposition of exempt pecans and, in the case of importers, proof of payment of assessments.
(5) The exemption will apply immediately following the issuance of the certificate of exemption.
(6) Producers and importers who received an exemption certificate from the Board but domestically produced or imported more than 50,000 pounds of inshell pecans (25,000 shelled of pecans) on average for four fiscal periods (the fiscal period for which the exemption is claimed and the previous three fiscal periods) during the fiscal period shall pay the Board the applicable assessments owed and submit any necessary reports to the Board pursuant to § 1223.60.
(b)
Assessment refunds.
Importers and producers who are exempt from assessment shall be eligible for a refund of assessments collected, either by Customs or a first handler. Requests for such assessment refunds must be submitted to the Board within 90 days of the last day in the fiscal period when assessments were collected on such producer's or importer's pecans. No interest will be paid on such assessments. The Board shall refund such assessments no later than 60 calendar days after receipt by the Board of information justifying the exemption from assessment.
(c)
Organic.
(1) A producer who domestically produces pecans under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic production system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:
(i) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) are eligible for exemption;
(ii) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products of a producer regardless of whether the agricultural commodity subject to the exemption is produced by a person that also produces conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;
(iii) The producer maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522) (OFPA) and the NOP regulations issued under OFPA (7 CFR part 205); and
(iv) Any producer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(2) To apply for exemption under this section, an eligible producer shall submit a request to the Board on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time during the fiscal period initially, and annually thereafter on or before the start of the fiscal period, for as long as the producer continues to be eligible for the exemption.
(3) A producer request for exemption shall include the following:
(i) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;
(ii) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid certificate of organic operation issued under the OFPA and the NOP;
(iii) Certification that the applicant produces organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;
(iv) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent;
(v) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and
(vi) Such other information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.
(4) If a producer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant an assessment exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the producer within 30 days. If the application is disapproved, the Board will notify the applicant of the reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe.
(5) An importer who imports pecans that are eligible to be labeled as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP, or certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under a U.S. equivalency arrangement established under the NOP, may be exempt from the payment of assessments. Such importer may submit documentation to the Board and request an exemption from assessment on certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” pecans on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time initially, and annually thereafter on or before the beginning of the fiscal period, as long as the importer continues to be eligible for the exemption. This documentation shall include the same information required of a producer in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. If the importer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant the exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the importer within the applicable timeframe. Any importer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any imported agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(6) If Customs collects the assessment on exempt product under paragraph (c)(5) of this section that is identified as “organic” by a number in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule, the Board must reimburse the exempt importer the assessments paid upon receipt of such assessments from Customs. For all other exempt organic product for which Customs collects the assessment, the importer may apply to the Board for a reimbursement of assessments paid, and the importer must submit satisfactory proof to the Board that the importer paid the assessment on exempt organic product.
(7) The exemption will apply immediately following the issuance of the Certificate of Exemption.
§ 1223.54
Refund escrow accounts.
(a) The Board shall establish an interest bearing escrow account with a financial institution that is a member of the Federal Reserve System and will deposit into such account an amount equal to 10 percent of the assessments collected during the period beginning on the effective date of the Order and ending on the date the Secretary announces the results of the required referendum.
(b) If the Order is not approved by the required referendum, the Board shall promptly pay refunds of assessments to all producers and importers that have paid assessments during the period beginning on the effective date of the Order and ending on the date the Secretary announces the results of the required referendum in the manner specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) If the amount deposited in the escrow account is less than the amount of all refunds that producers and importers subject to this subpart have a right to receive, the Board shall prorate the amount deposited in such account among all producers and importers who desire a refund of assessments paid no later than 90 days after the required referendum results are announced by the Secretary.
(d) Any producer or importer requesting a refund shall submit an application on the prescribed form to the Board within 60 days from the date the results of the required referendum are announced by the Secretary. The producer and importer shall also submit documentation to substantiate that assessments were paid. Any such demand shall be made by such producer or importer in accordance with the provisions of this subpart and in a manner consistent with the regulations in this part.
(e) If the Order is approved by the required referendum conducted under § 1223.71 then:
(1) The escrow account shall be closed; and,
(2) The funds shall be available to the Board for disbursement under § 1223.50.

# Promotion, Research, and Information
§ 1223.55
Programs, plans, and projects.
(a) The Board shall receive and evaluate, or on its own initiative develop, and submit to the Secretary for approval any program, plan, or project authorized under this subpart. Such programs, plans, or projects shall provide for:
(1) The establishment, issuance, effectuation, and administration of appropriate programs for promotion, research, and information, including producer and consumer information, with respect to pecans; and
(2) The establishment and conduct of research with respect to the use, nutritional value, sale, distribution, and marketing of pecans, and the creation of new products thereof, to the end that the marketing and use of pecans may be encouraged, expanded, improved, or made more acceptable and to advance the image, desirability, or quality of pecans.
(b) No program, plan, or project shall be implemented prior to its approval by the Secretary. Once a program, plan, or project is so approved, the Board shall take appropriate steps to implement it.
(c) Each program, plan, or project implemented under this subpart shall be reviewed or evaluated periodically by the Board to ensure that it contributes to an effective program of promotion, research, or information. If it is found by the Board that any such program, plan, or project does not contribute to an effective program of promotion, research, or information, then the Board shall terminate such program, plan, or project.
§ 1223.56
Independent evaluation.
The Board shall, not less often than every five years, authorize and fund, from funds otherwise available to the Board, an independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the Order and other programs conducted by the Board pursuant to the Act. The Board shall submit to the Secretary, and make available to the public, the results of each periodic independent evaluation conducted under this section.
§ 1223.57
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, and product formulations.
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, and product formulations developed through the use of funds received by the Board under this subpart shall be the property of the U.S. Government as represented by the Board and shall, along with any rents, royalties, residual payments, or other income from the rental, sales, leasing, franchising, or other uses of such patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, or product formulations, inure to the benefit of the Board; shall be considered income subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board; and may be licensed subject to approval by the Secretary. Upon termination of this subpart, § 1223.73 shall apply to determine disposition of all such property.

# Reports, Books, and Records
§ 1223.60
Reports.
(a) Each first handler, producer, or importer subject to this subpart shall be required to provide to the Board periodically such information as required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, which may include but not be limited to the following:
(1) First handler must report or producer acting as its own first handler:
(i) Number of pounds handled;
(ii) Number of pounds on which an assessment was collected;
(iii) Name, address and other contact information from whom the first handler has collected the assessments on each pound handled; and
(iv) Date collection was made on each pound handled.
(2) Unless provided by Customs, importer must report:
(i) Number of pounds imported;
(ii) Number of pounds on which an assessment was paid;
(iii) Name, address, and other contact information of the importer; and
(iv) Date assessment was paid on each pound imported.
(b) These reports shall accompany the payment of the collected assessments.
§ 1223.61
Books and records.
Each producer, first handler, and importer subject to this subpart shall maintain and make available for inspection by the Secretary such books and records as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this part, including such records as are necessary to verify any reports required. Such records shall be retained for at least 3 years beyond the fiscal period of their applicability.
§ 1223.62
Confidential treatment.
All information obtained from books, records, or reports under the Act and this part shall be kept confidential by all persons, including all employees and former employees of the Board, all officers and employees and former officers and employees of contracting and subcontracting agencies or agreeing parties having access to such information. Such information shall not be available to Board members, producers, importers, or first handlers. Only those persons having a specific need for such information to effectively administer the provisions of this subpart shall have access to such information. Only such information so obtained as the Secretary deems relevant shall be disclosed by them, and then only in a judicial proceeding or administrative hearing brought at the direction, or on the request, of the Secretary, or to which the Secretary or any officer of the United States is a party and involving this subpart. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit:
(a) The issuance of general statements based upon the reports of the number of persons subject to this subpart or statistical data collected therefrom, which statements will not identify the information furnished by any person; and
(b) The publication, by direction of the Secretary, of the name of any person who has been adjudged to have violated this subpart, together with a statement of the particular provisions of this subpart violated by such person.

# Miscellaneous
§ 1223.70
Right of the Secretary.
All fiscal matters, programs, plans, or projects, rules or regulations, reports, or other substantive actions proposed and prepared by the Board shall be submitted to the Secretary for approval.
§ 1223.71
Referenda.
(a)
Required referendum.
For the purpose of ascertaining whether the persons subject to this subpart favor the continuation, suspension, amendment, or termination of this subpart, the Secretary shall conduct a referendum among persons subject to assessments under § 1223.52 who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have engaged in the production or importation of pecans:
(1) The required referendum shall be conducted not later than 3 years after assessments first begin under the Order; and
(2) The Order will be approved in a referendum if a majority of producers and importers vote for approval in the referendum.
(b)
Subsequent referenda.
The Secretary shall conduct subsequent referenda:
(1) For the purpose of ascertaining whether producers and importers favor the continuation, suspension, or termination of the Order;
(2) Every seven years the Secretary shall hold a referendum to determine whether producers and importers of pecans favor the continuation of the Order. The Order shall continue if it is favored by a majority of producers and importers voting for approval in the referendum who have been engaged in the production or importation of pecans;
(3) At the request of the Board established in this subpart;
(4) At the request of 10 percent or more of the number of persons eligible to vote in a referendum as set forth under the Order; or
(5) At any time as determined by the Secretary.
§ 1223.72
Suspension and termination.
(a) The Secretary shall suspend or terminate this part or subpart or a provision thereof if the Secretary finds that this part or subpart or a provision thereof obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the purposes of the Act, or if the Secretary determines that this part or subpart or a provision thereof is not favored by persons voting in a referendum conducted pursuant to the Act.
(b) The Secretary shall suspend or terminate this subpart at the end of the fiscal period whenever the Secretary determines that its suspension or termination is approved or favored by a majority of producers and importers voting for approval who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production or importation of pecans.
(c) If, as a result of a referendum the Secretary determines that this subpart is not approved, the Secretary shall:
(1) Not later than 180 days after making the determination, suspend or terminate, as the case may be, collection of assessments under this subpart; and
(2) As soon as practical, suspend or terminate, as the case may be, activities under this subpart in an orderly manner.
§ 1223.73
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of this subpart, the Board shall recommend not more than three of its members to the Secretary to serve as trustees for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Board. Such persons, upon designation by the Secretary, shall become trustees of all of the funds and property then in the possession or under control of the Board, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered, or any other claim existing at the time of such termination.
(b) The said trustees shall:
(1) Continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary;
(2) Carry out the obligations of the Board under any contracts or agreements entered into pursuant to this subpart;
(3) From time to time account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Board and the trustees, to such person or persons as the Secretary may direct; and
(4) Upon request of the Secretary execute such assignments or other instruments necessary and appropriate to vest in such person's title and right to all funds, property, and claims vested in the Board or the trustees pursuant to this subpart.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered pursuant to this subpart shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the Board and upon the trustees.
(d) Any residual funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be turned over to the Secretary to be disposed of, to the extent practical, to the pecan producer organizations in the interest of continuing pecan promotion, research, and information programs.
§ 1223.74
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this part, or the issuance of any amendment to this part, shall not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen, or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this part; or
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this part; or
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the United States, or of the Secretary or of any other persons, with respect to any such violation.
§ 1223.75
Personal liability.
No member or employee of the Board shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member or employee, except for acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct.
§ 1223.76
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid or the applicability thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart or the applicability thereof to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
§ 1223.77
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed from time to time by the Board or by any interested person affected by the provisions of the Act, including the Secretary.
§ 1223.78
OMB control numbers.
The control number assigned to the information collection requirements by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35, is OMB control number 0581-NEW, except for the Board nominee background statement form which is assigned OMB control number 0505-0001.

# Subpart B—Referendum Procedures
§ 1223.100
General.
Referenda to determine whether eligible pecan producers and importers favor the issuance, amendment, suspension, or termination of the Pecan Promotion, Research, and Information Order shall be conducted in accordance with this subpart.
§ 1223.101
Definitions.
(a)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, with power to redelegate, or any officer or employees of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.
(b)
Eligible importer
means any person who, during the representative period, was subject to the Order and required to pay assessments on pecans imported into the United States.
(c)
Eligible producer
means any person who, during the representative period, was subject to the Order and required to pay assessments on pecans produced in the United States.
(d)
Order
means subpart A of this part, the Pecan Promotion, Research, and Information Order.
(e)
Pecans
means and includes any and all varieties or subvarieties, inshell and shelled, of
Carya illinoinensis
grown or imported into the United States.
(f)
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity. For the purpose of this paragraph (f), the term “partnership” includes, but is not limited to:
(1) A husband and a wife who have title to, or leasehold interest in, a pecan farm as tenants in common, joint tenants, tenants by the entirety, or, under community property laws, as community property; and
(2) So-called “joint ventures” wherein one or more parties to an agreement, informal or otherwise, contributed land and others contributed capital, labor, management, or other services, or any variation of such contributions by two or more parties.
(g)
Referendum agent
or
agent
means the individual or individuals designated by the Secretary to conduct the referendum.
(h)
Representative period
means the period designated by the Secretary.
(i)
United States
means collectively the 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
§ 1223.102
Voting.
(a) Each person who is an eligible producer or an eligible importer, as defined in this subpart, at the time of the referendum and during the representative period, shall be entitled to cast only one ballot in the referendum. However, each producer in a landlord-tenant relationship or a divided ownership arrangement involving totally independent entities cooperating only to produce pecans, in which more than one of the parties is a producer, shall be entitled to cast one ballot in the referendum covering only such producer's share of the ownership.
(b) Proxy voting is not authorized, but an officer or employee of a corporate producer or importer, or an administrator, executor, or trustee or an eligible entity may cast a ballot on behalf of such person. Any individual so voting in a referendum shall certify that such individual is an officer or employee of the eligible entity, or an administrator, executive, or trustee of an eligible entity and that such individual has the authority to take such action. Upon request of the referendum agent, the individual shall submit adequate evidence of such authority.
(c) All ballots are to be cast by mail, overnight delivery, electronic mail, facsimile, or by other means as instructed by the Secretary.
§ 1223.103
Instructions.
The referendum agent shall conduct the referendum, in the manner provided in this section, under the supervision of the Administrator. The Administrator may prescribe additional instructions, not inconsistent with the provisions in this section, to govern the procedure to be followed by the referendum agent. Such agent shall:
(a) Determine the period during which ballots may be cast.
(b) Provide ballots and related material to be used in the referendum. The ballot shall provide for recording essential information, including that needed for ascertaining whether the person voting, or on whose behalf the vote is cast, is an eligible voter.
(c) Give reasonable public notice of the referendum:
(1) By utilizing available media or public information sources, without incurring advertising expense, to publicize the dates, places, method of voting, eligibility requirements, and other pertinent information. Such sources of publicity may include, but are not limited to, print and radio; and
(2) By such other means as the agent may deem advisable.
(d) Mail to eligible producers and eligible importers whose names and addresses are known to the referendum agent, the instructions on voting, a ballot, and a summary of the terms and conditions of the proposed Order. No person who claims to be eligible to vote shall be refused a ballot.
(e) At the end of the voting period, collect, open, number, and review the ballots and tabulate the results in the presence of an agent of a third party authorized to monitor the referendum process.
(f) Prepare a report on the referendum.
(g) Announce the results to the public.
§ 1223.104
Subagents.
The referendum agent may appoint any individual or individuals necessary or desirable to assist the agent in performing the referendum agent's functions listed in this subpart. Each individual so appointed may be authorized by the agent to perform any or all of the functions which, in the absence of such appointment, shall be performed by the agent.
§ 1223.105
Ballots.
The referendum agent and subagents shall accept all ballots cast. However, if the agent or subagent deems that a ballot should be challenged for any reason, the agent or subagent shall endorse above their signature, on the ballot, a statement to the effect that such ballot was challenged, by whom challenged, the reasons therefore, the results of any investigations made with respect thereto, and the disposition thereof. Ballots invalid under this subpart shall not be counted.
§ 1223.106
Referendum report.
Except as otherwise directed, the referendum agent shall prepare and submit to the Administrator a report on the results of the referendum, the manner in which it was conducted, the extent and kind of public notice given, and other information pertinent to the analysis of the referendum and its results.
§ 1223.107
Confidential information.
The ballots and other information or reports that reveal, or tend to reveal, the vote of any person covered under the Act and the voting list shall be held confidential and shall not be disclosed.

# Subpart C—Administrative Provisions
§ 1223.520
Late payment and interest charges for past due assessments.
(a) A late payment charge will be imposed on any producer, first handler or importer who fails to make timely remittance to the Board of the total assessments for which they are liable. The late payment will be imposed on any assessments not received within 30 calendar days of the date when assessments are due. This one-time late payment charge will be 5 percent of the assessments due before interest charges have accrued.
(b) In addition to the late payment charge, 1 percent per month interest on the outstanding balance, including any late payment and accrued interest, will be added to any accounts for which payment has not been received within 30 calendar days of the date when assessments are due. Interest will continue to accrue monthly until the outstanding balance is paid to the Board.
Pt. 1230

# PART 1230—PORK PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND CONSUMER INFORMATION

# Subpart A—Pork Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order

# Definitions
Sec.
1230.1
Act.
1230.2
Department.
1230.3
Secretary.
1230.4
Board.
1230.5
Consumer information.
1230.6
Council.
1230.7
Customs Service.
1230.8
Delegate Body.
1230.9
Fiscal period.
1230.10
Imported.
1230.11
Imported pork and pork products.
1230.12
Importer.
1230.13
Market.
1230.14
Market value.
1230.15
Part and subpart.
1230.16
Person.
1230.17
Plans and projects.
1230.18
Porcine animal.
1230.19
Pork.
1230.20
Pork product.
1230.21
Producer.
1230.22
Promotion.
1230.23
Research.
1230.24
State.
1230.25
State association.
1230.26
State where produced.

# National Pork Producers Delegate Body
1230.30
Establishment and membership.
1230.31
Nomination and appointment of producer members.
1230.32
Conduct of election.
1230.33
Appointment of importer members.
1230.34
Term of office.
1230.35
Vacancies.
1230.36
Procedure.
1230.37
Officers.
1230.38
Compensation and reimbursement.
1230.39
Powers and duties of the Delegate Body.

# National Pork Board
1230.50
Establishment and membership.
1230.51
Term of office.
1230.52
Nominations.
1230.53
Nominee's agreement to serve.
1230.54
Appointment.
1230.55
Vacancies.
1230.56
Procedure.
1230.57
Compensation and reimbursement.
1230.58
Powers and duties of the Board.

# Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information
1230.60
Promotion, research, and consumer information.

# Expenses and Assessments
1230.70
Expenses.
1230.71
Assessments.
1230.72
Distribution of assessments.
1230.73
Uses of distributed assessments.
1230.74
Prohibited use of distributed assessments.
1230.75
Adjustment of accounts.
1230.76
Charges.
1230.77
[Reserved]

# Reports, Books, and Records
1230.80
Reports.
1230.81
Books and records.
1230.82
Confidential treatment.

# Miscellaneous
1230.85
Proceedings after termination.
1230.86
Effect of termination or amendment.
1230.87
Personal liability.
1230.88
Patents, copyrights, inventions, and publications.
1230.89
Amendments.
1230.90
Separability.
1230.91
Paperwork Reduction Act assigned number.

# Subpart B—Rules and Regulations

# Definitions
1230.100
Terms defined.
1230.102
Exemption.

# Assessments
1230.110
Assessments on imported pork and pork products.
1230.111
Remittance of assessments on domestic porcine animals.
1230.112
Rate of assessment.
1230.113
Collection and remittance of assessments for the sale of feeder pigs and market hogs.
1230.115
Submission of annual financial statements.

# Miscellaneous
1230.120
OBM control number assigned pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act.
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Procedures for Nominations and Elections of Pork Producers and Nominations of Importers for Appointment to the Initial National Pork Producers Delegate Body
1230.501-1230.512
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Procedures for the Conduct of Referendum

# Definitions
1230.601
Act.
1230.602
Administrator, AMS.
1230.603
Administrator, FSA.
1230.604
Department.
1230.605
Farm Service Agency.
1230.606
Farm Service Agency County Committee.
1230.607
Farm Service Agency County Executive Director.
1230.608
Imported porcine animals, pork, and pork products.
1230.609
Importer.
1230.610
Order.
1230.611
Porcine animal.
1230.612
Person.
1230.613
Pork.
1230.614
Pork product.
1230.615
Producer.
1230.616
Public notice.
1230.617
Referendum.
1230.618
Representative period.
1230.619
Secretary.
1230.620
State.
1230.621
Voting period.

# Referendum
1230.622
General.
1230.623
Supervision of referendum.
1230.624
Eligibility.
1230.625
Time and place of registration and voting.
1230.626
Facilities for registering and voting.
1230.627
Registration form and ballot.
1230.628
Registration and voting procedures for producers.
1230.629
Registration and voting procedures for importers.
1230.630
List of registered voters.
1230.631
Challenge of votes.
1230.632
Receiving ballots.
1230.633
Canvassing ballots.
1230.634
FSA county office report.
1230.635
FSA State office report.
1230.636
Results of the referendum.
1230.637
Disposition of ballots and records.
1230.638
Instructions and forms.
1230.639
Additional absentee voter challenge period.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 4801-4819 and 7 U.S.C. 7401.

# Subpart A—Pork Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order

# Source:
51 FR 31903, Sept. 5, 1986, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1230.1
Act.
Act
means the Pork Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 4801-4819) and any amendments thereto.
§ 1230.2
Department.
Department
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
§ 1230.3
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or any other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1230.4
Board.
Board
means the National Pork Board established pursuant to § 1230.50.
§ 1230.5
Consumer information.
Consumer information
means an activity intended to broaden the understanding of the sound nutritional attributes of pork and pork products, including the role of pork and pork products in a balanced, healthy diet.
§ 1230.6
Council.
Council
means the National Pork Producers Council, a nonprofit corporation of the type described in section 501(c)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 and incorporated in the State of Iowa.
§ 1230.7
Customs Service.
Customs Service
means the United States Customs Service of the United States Department of Treasury.
§ 1230.8
Delegate Body.
Delegate Body
means the National Pork Producers Delegate Body established pursuant to § 1230.30.
§ 1230.9
Fiscal period.
Fiscal period
means the 12-month period ending on December 31 or such other consecutive 12-month period as the Secretary or Board may determine.
§ 1230.10
Imported.
Imported
means entered, or withdrawn from a warehouse for consumption, in the customs territory of the United States.
§ 1230.11
Imported pork and pork products.
Imported pork and pork products
means products which are imported into the United States which the Secretary determines contain a substantial amount of pork, including those products which have been assigned one or more of the following numbers in Schedule 1 of the Tariff Schedules of the United States Annotated (1985): 106.4020; 106.4040; 106.8000; 106.8500; 107.1000; 107.1500; 107.3020; 107.3040; 107.3060; 107.3515; 107.3525; 107.3540; and 107.3560.
§ 1230.12
Importer.
Importer
means a person who imports porcine animals, pork, or pork products into the United States.
§ 1230.13
Market.
Market
means to sell, slaughter for sale, or otherwise dispose of a porcine animal in commerce.
§ 1230.14
Market value.
Market value
means, with respect to porcine animals which are sold, the price at which they are sold. With respect to porcine animals slaughtered for the sale by the producer, the term means the most recent annual seven-market average for barrows and gilts, as published by the Department. With respect to imported porcine animals, the term means the declared value. With respect to imported pork and pork products, the term means an amount which represents the value of the live porcine animals from which the pork or pork products were derived, based upon the most recent annual seven-market average for barrows and gilts, as published by the Department.
§ 1230.15
Part and subpart.
Part
means the Pork Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order and all rules, regulations, and supplemental orders issued thereunder, and the aforesaid order shall be a “subpart of such part.
§ 1230.16
Person.
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, organization, cooperative, or other entity.
§ 1230.17
Plans and projects.
Plans and projects
means promotion, research, and consumer information plans, studies, or projects.
§ 1230.18
Porcine animal.
Porcine animal
means a swine, that is raised as (a) a feeder pig, that is, a young pig sold to another person to be finished for slaughtering over a period of more than 1 month; (b) for breeding purposes as seed stock and included in the breeding herd; and (c) a market hog, slaughtered by the producer or sold to be slaughtered, usually within 1 month of such transfer.
§ 1230.19
Pork.
Pork
means the flesh of a porcine animal.
§ 1230.20
Pork product.
Pork product
means an edible product produced or processed in whole or in part from pork.
§ 1230.21
Producer.
Producer
means a person who produces porcine animals in the United States for sale in commerce.
§ 1230.22
Promotion.
Promotion
means any action, including but not limited to paid advertising and retail or food service merchandising, taken to present a favorable image for porcine animals, pork, or pork products to the public, or to educate producers with the intent of improving the competitive position and stimulating sales of porcine animals, pork, or pork products.
§ 1230.23
Research.
Research
means any action designed to advance, expand, or improve the image, desirability, nutritional value, usage, marketability, production, or quality of porcine animals, pork, or pork products, including the dissemination of the results of such research.
§ 1230.24
State.
State
means each of the 50 States.
§ 1230.25
State association.
State association
means the single organization of producers in a State that is organized under the laws of that State and is recognized by the chief executive officer of such State as representing such State's producers. If no such organization exists in a State as of January 1, 1986, the Secretary may recognize an organization that represents not fewer than 50 producers who market annually an aggregate of not less than 10 percent of the pounds of porcine animals marketed in such State. The Secretary may cease to recognize a State association and instead recognize another organization of producers in a State as that State's association if the Secretary determines either that a majority of the members of the existing State association are not producers or that a majority of the members of the other organization seeking recognition are producers and that such organization better represents the economic interests of producers.
§ 1230.26
State where produced.
State where produced
means with respect to a porcine animal marketed as a feeder pig or as breeding stock, the State in which that porcine animal was born, and with respect to a porcine animal that is marketed as a market hog, the State in which that porcine animal was fed for market.

# National Pork Producers Delegate Body
§ 1230.30
Establishment and membership.
(a) There is hereby established a National Pork Producers Delegate Body which shall consist of producers and importers appointed by the Secretary.
(b)(1) At least two producer members shall be allocated to each State, but any State that has more than 300 but less than 601 shares shall receive three producer members; each State with more than 600 but less than 1,001 shares shall receive four producer members and each State with more than 1,000 shares shall receive an additional member in excess of four for each 300 additional shares in excess of 1,000 shares, rounded to the nearest 300.
(2) [Reserved]
(3) In each fiscal period, shares shall be assigned to each State on the basis of one share for each $1,000 (rounded to the nearest $1,000) of the net amount of assessments attributable to such State.
(c)(1) The number of importer members to be appointed shall be determined by allocating three such members for the first 1,000 shares. Importers shall receive an additional member in excess of three for each 300 shares in excess of 1,000 shares, rounded to the nearest 300.
(2) [Reserved]
(3) In each fiscal period, shares shall be assigned to importers on the basis of one share for each $1,000 (rounded to the nearest $1,000) of the net amount of assessments attributable to importers.
[51 FR 31903, Sept. 5, 1986, as amended at 60 FR 58501, Nov. 28, 1995]
§ 1230.31
Nomination and appointment of producer members.
(a) [Reserved]
(b) Delegate Body nominations for appointment as producer members shall be submitted to the Secretary in the number requested by the Secretary by each State association either after an election conducted in accordance with § 1230.32 and by nominating the producers who receive the highest number of votes in such State; or pursuant to a selection process that is approved by the Secretary, is given public-notice at least one week in advance by publication in a newspaper or newspapers of general circulation in such State and in pork production and agriculture trade publications, and provides complete and equal access to every producer who has paid all assessments due under this subpart and who has not demanded any refund of an assessment paid pursuant to this subpart in the period since the selection of the previous Delegate Body;
(c) The Secretary shall appoint the producer members of each Delegate Body from the nominations submitted in accordance with this section, except that if a State association does not submit nominations in the required manner or number, or if a State has no State association, the Secretary shall select producer members from that State after consultation with representatives of the pork industry in that State.
[51 FR 31903, Sept. 5, 1986, as amended at 60 FR 58501, Nov. 28, 1995]
§ 1230.32
Conduct of election.
If a State association selects nominees for appointment to the Delegate Body through an election, it shall be conducted in the following manner:
(a) Elections shall be administered by the Board and the Board shall determine the timing of any elections.
(b) Producers who are residents of that State may be named as candidates for election to be nominees for appointment to the Delegate Body:
(1) By a nominating committee of producers in that State appointed by the Board; or
(2) The number of pork producers in a State shall be determined by the Department based on the latest available Department information, which tabulates by State the number of farming operations with porcine animals.
(c) To be eligible to vote in an election to nominate producer members from a State, a person must:
(1) Be a producer who is a resident of that State;
(2) Have paid all assessments due pursuant to this subpart; and
(3) Not have demanded any refund of an assessment paid pursuant to this subpart in the period since the selection of the previous Delegate Body.
(d) The Board shall cause notices of any election to be published at least one week prior to the election in a newspaper or newspapers of general circulation in that State, and in pork production and agricultural trade publications. The notices shall set forth the period of time and places for voting and such other information as the Board considers necessary.
(e) The identity of any person who voted and the manner in which any person voted shall be kept confidential.
[51 FR 31903, Sept. 5, 1986, as amended at 53 FR 30245, Aug. 11, 1988]
§ 1230.33
Appointment of importer members.
The Secretary shall appoint the importer members of each Delegate Body after consultation with importers.
§ 1230.34
Term of office.
(a) The members of the Delegate Body shall serve for terms of one year, except that the members of the initial Delegate Body shall serve only until the completion of the nomination and appointment process of the succeeding Delegate Body.
(b) Each member of the Delegate Body shall serve until that member's term expires, or a successor is appointed, whichever occurs later.
§ 1230.35
Vacancies.
To fill any vacancy occasioned by the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any member of the Delegate Body, the Secretary shall appoint a successor for the unexpired term of such member from nominations made either by the appropriate
State association or by importers, depending upon whether the vacancy is a producer or importer vacancy.
§ 1230.36
Procedure.
(a) A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum at a properly convened meeting of the Delegate Body, but only if that majority is also entitled to cast a majority of the shares (including fractions thereof). Any action of the Delegate Body, including any motion or nomination presented to it for a vote, shall require a majority vote, that is, the concurring votes of a majority of the shares cast on that action. The Delegate Body shall give timely notice of its meetings. The Delegate Body shall give the Secretary the same notice of its meetings as it gives to its members in order that the Secretary or a representative of the Secretary may attend meetings.
(b) The number of votes that may be cast by a producer member if present at a meeting shall be equal to the number of shares attributable to the State of such member divided by the number of producer members from such State. The number of votes that may be cast by an importer member if present at a meeting shall be equal to the number of shares allocated to importers divided by the number of importer members.
§ 1230.37
Officers.
The Delegate Body shall elect its Chairperson by a majority vote at the first annual meeting, but at each annual meeting after the first, the President of the Board shall serve as the Delegate Body's Chairperson.
§ 1230.38
Compensation and reimbursement.
The members of the Delegate Body shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed by the Board for actual transportation expenses incurred by them in exercising their powers and duties under this subpart. Such expenses shall be paid from funds received by the Board pursuant to § 1230.72.
§ 1230.39
Powers and duties of the Delegate Body.
The Delegate Body shall have the following powers and duties:
(a) To meet annually;
(b) To recommend the rate of assessment prescribed by the initial order and any increase in such rate;
(c) To determine the percentage of the net assessments attributable to porcine animals produced in a State that each State association shall receive; and
(d) To nominate not less than 23 persons, including producers from a minimum of 12 States or importers, for appointment to the initial Board and not less than one and one-half persons (rounded up to the nearest person) for each vacancy on the Board that requires nominations thereafter. Each nomination shall be by a majority vote of the Delegate Body voting in person in accordance with § 1230.36.

# National Pork Board
§ 1230.50
Establishment and membership.
There is hereby established a National Pork Board of 15 members consisting of producers representing at least 12 States or importers appointed by the Secretary from nominations submitted pursuant to § 1230.39(d). The Board shall be deemed to be constituted once the Secretary makes the appointments to the Board.
§ 1230.51
Term of office.
(a) The members of the Board shall serve for terms of three years, except that the members appointed to the initial Board shall be designated for, and shall serve terms as follows: One-third of such members shall serve for one year terms; One-third shall serve for two year terms; and the remaining One-third shall serve for three year terms.
(b) Each member of the Board shall serve until the member's term expires, or until a successor is appointed, unless the member is removed pursuant to § 1230.55(b).
(c) No member shall serve more than two consecutive terms provided that those members serving an initial term
of one year are eligible to serve two additional consecutive terms, but in no event, more than seven years in total.
(d) The first year of the terms of the initial Board shall begin immediately on appointment by the Secretary and continue until July 1, 1988. In subsequent years, the term of office shall begin on July 1.
§ 1230.52
Nominations.
Nominations for members of the Board shall be made by the Delegate Body in accordance with § 1230.39(d).
§ 1230.53
Nominee's agreement to serve.
Any person nominated to serve on the Board shall file with the Secretary at the time of the nomination a written agreement to:
(a) Serve on the Board if appointed;
(b) Disclose any relationship with the Council or a State association or any organization that has a contract with the Board and thereafter disclose, at any time while serving on the Board, any relationship with any organization that applies to the Board for a contract; and
(c) Withdraw from participation in deliberations, decisionmaking, or voting on matters concerning any entity referred to in paragraph (b) of this section, if an officer or member of the executive committee of such entity.
§ 1230.54
Appointment.
From the nominations submitted pursuant to § 1230.39(d), the Secretary shall appoint 15 producers or importers as members of the Board, but in no event shall the Secretary appoint producer members representing fewer than 12 States.
§ 1230.55
Vacancies.
(a) To fill any vacancy occasioned by the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any member of the Board, the Secretary shall appoint a successor for the unexpired term of such member from the most recent list of nominations made by the Delegate Body.
(b) If a member of the Board fails or refuses to perform the duties of a member of the Board, or if a member of the Board engages in acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct, the Board may recommend to the Secretary that that member be removed from office. If the Secretary finds that the recommendation of the Board demonstrates adequate cause, the Secretary shall remove such member from office. A person appointed under this part or any employee of the Board may be removed by the Secretary if the Secretary determines that the person's continued service would be detrimental to the purposes of the Act.
§ 1230.56
Procedure.
(a) A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum at a properly convened meeting of the Board. Any action of the Board shall require the concurring votes of at least a majority of those present and voting. The Board shall give timely notice of its meetings. The Board shall give the Secretary the same notice of its meetings, including the meetings of its committees, as it gives to its members in order that the Secretary, or a representative of the Secretary, may attend the meetings.
(b) The Board may take action upon the concurring votes of a majority of its members by mail, telephone, telegraph or by other means of communication when, in the opinion of the President of the Board, such action must be taken before a meeting can be called. Action taken by this emergency procedure is valid only if all members are notified and provided the opportunity to vote and any telephone vote is confirmed promptly in writing and recorded in the Board minutes. Any action so taken shall have the same force and effect as though such action had been taken at a properly convened meeting of the Board.
§ 1230.57
Compensation and reimbursement.
The members of the Board shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred by them in the exercise of their powers and the performance of their duties under this subpart. Such expenses shall be paid from funds received by the Board pursuant to § 1230.72.
§ 1230.58
Powers and duties of the Board.
The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
(a) To meet not less than annually, and to organize and elect from among its members, by majority vote, a President and such other officers as may be necessary;
(b) To receive and evaluate, or, on its own initiative, develop, and budget for proposals for plans and projects and to submit such plans and projects to the Secretary for approval;
(c) To administer directly or through contract the provisions of this subpart in accordance with its terms and provisions;
(d) To develop and submit to the Secretary for the Secretary's approval, plans and projects conducted either by the Board or others;
(e) To prepare and submit to the Secretary for the Secretary's approval, which is required for the following to be implemented:
(1) Budgets on a fiscal period basis of its anticipated expenses and disbursements in the administration of this subpart, including the projected cost of plans and projects to be conducted by the Board directly or by way of contract or agreement; and
(2) The budget, plans, or projects for which State associations are to receive funds under § 1230.72, including a general description of the proposed plan and project contemplated therein;
(f) With the approval of the Secretary, to enter into contracts or agreements with any person for the development and conduct of activities authorized under this subpart and for the payment of the cost thereof with funds collected through assessments pursuant to § 1230.71. Any such contract or agreement shall provide that:
(1) The contracting party shall develop and submit to the Board a plan or project together with a budget or budgets which shall show the estimated cost to be incurred for such plan or project;
(2) Any such plan or project shall become effective upon approval of the Secretary; and
(3) The contracting party shall keep accurate records of all of its relevant transactions and make periodic reports to the Board of relevant activities conducted and an accounting for funds received and expended, and such other reports as the Secretary or the Board may require. The Secretary or employees of the Board may audit periodically the records of the contracting party;
(g) To appoint or employ staff persons as it may deem necessary, to define the duties and determine the compensation of each, to protect the handling of Board funds through fidelity bonds, and to conduct routine business.
(h) To disseminate information to or communicate with producers or State associations through programs or by direct contact utilizing the public postage system or other systems;
(i) To select committees and subcommittees of Board members and to adopt such rules and by laws for the conduct of its business as it may deem advisable;
(j) To utilize advisory committees of persons other than Board members to assist in the development of plans or projects and pay the reasonable expenses and fees of the members of such committees;
(k) To prescribe rules and regulations necessary to effectuate the terms and provisions of this subpart;
(l) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this subpart;
(m) With the approval of the Secretary, to invest, pending disbursement pursuant to a plan or project, funds collected through assessments authorized under § 1230.71 in, and only in, an obligation of the United States, a general obligation of any State or any political subdivision thereof, an interest-bearing account or certificate of deposit of a bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System, or an obligation fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States.
(n) To maintain such books and records, which shall be available to the Secretary for inspection and audit, and prepare and submit such reports as the Secretary may prescribe from time to time, and to make appropriate accounting with respect to the receipt and disbursement of all funds entrusted to it;
(o) To prepare and make public and available to producers and importers at least annually, a report of its activities
carried out and an accounting of funds received and expended;
(p) To have an audit of its financial statements conducted by a certified public accountant in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards at the end of each fiscal period and at such other times as the Secretary may request, and to submit a copy of each such audit report to the Secretary;
(q) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of the provisions of this subpart;
(r) To submit to the Secretary such information pursuant to this subpart as the Secretary may request; and
(s) To carry out an effective and coordinated program of promotion, research, and consumer information designed to strengthen the position of the pork industry in the marketplace and maintain, develop, and expand markets for pork and pork products.
[51 FR 31903, Sept. 5, 1986, as amended at 53 FR 30245, Aug. 11, 1988]

# Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information
§ 1230.60
Promotion, research, and consumer information.
(a) The Board shall receive and evaluate, or, on its own initiative, develop, and submit to the Secretary for approval, any plans and projects. Such plans and projects shall provide for:
(1) The establishment, issuance, effectuation, and administration of appropriate plans and projects for promotion, research, and consumer information with respect to pork and pork products designed to strengthen the position of the pork industry in the marketplace and to maintain, develop, and expand domestic and foreign markets for pork and pork products;
(2) The establishment and conduct of research and studies with respect to the sale, distribution, marketing, and utilization of pork and pork products and the creation of new products thereof, to the end that marketing and utilization of pork and pork products may be encouraged, expanded, improved, or made more acceptable.
(b) Each plan and project shall be periodically reviewed or evaluated by the Board to ensure that the plan and project contributes to an effective and coordinated program of promotion, research, and consumer information. If it is found by the Board that any such plan and project does not further the purposes of the Act, the Board shall terminate such plan and project.
(c) No plan or project shall make a false or misleading claim on behalf of pork or a pork product or a false or misleading statement with respect to an attribute or use of a competing product.
(d) No plan or project shall undertake to advertise or promote pork or pork products by private brand or trade name unless such advertisement or promotion is specifically approved by the Board, with the concurrence of the Secretary.

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 1230.70
Expenses.
(a) The Board is authorized to incur such expenses (including provision for a reasonable reserve that would permit an effective promotion, research, and consumer information program to continue in years when the amount of assessments may be reduced) as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Board for its administration, maintenance, and functioning and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this subpart, including financing plans and projects. Such expenses shall be paid from assessments collected pursuant to § 1230.71 and other funds available to the Board, including donations.
(b) The Board shall reimburse the Secretary, from assessments collected pursuant to § 1230.71, for reasonable administrative expenses incurred by the Department with respect to this subpart after January 1, 1986, including any expenses reasonably incurred for the conduct of elections of nominees for appointment to the initial Delegate Body and for the conduct of referenda.
§ 1230.71
Assessments.
(a)(1) Each producer producing in the United States a porcine animal raised as a feeder pig that is sold shall pay an assessment on that animal, unless such producer demonstrates to the Board by
appropriate documentation that an assessment was previously paid on that animal as a feeder pig.
(2) Each producer producing in the United States a porcine animal raised for slaughter that is sold shall pay an assessment on that animal, unless such producer demonstrates to the Board by appropriate documentation that an assessment was previously paid on that animal as a market hog.
(3) Each producer producing in the United States a porcine animal raised for slaughter that such producer slaughters for sale shall pay an assessment on that animal unless such producer demonstrates to the Board by appropriate documentation that an assessment was previously paid on that animal as a market hog.
(4) Each producer producing in the United States a porcine animal raised for breeding stock that is sold shall pay an assessment on that animal, unless such producer demonstrates to the Board by appropriate documentation that an assessment was previously paid by a person on that animal as breeding stock.
(5) Each importer importing a porcine animal, pork, or pork product into the United States shall pay an assessment on that porcine animal, pork, or pork product, unless such importer demonstrates to the Board by appropriate documentation that an assessment was previously paid for that porcine animal, pork, or pork product.
(b)(1) Each purchaser of a porcine animal raised by a producer as a feeder pig or market hog shall collect an assessment on such porcine animal if an assessment is due pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, and shall remit that assessment to the Board. For the purposes of collection and remittance of assessments, any person engaged as a commission merchant, auction market, or livestock market in the business of receiving such porcine animals for sale on commission for or on behalf of a producer shall be deemed to be a purchaser.
(2) Assessments on porcine animals raised as breeding stock which are sold by a commission merchant, auction, market, or livestock market in the business of receiving such porcine animals for sale on commission for or on behalf of a producer shall be collected and remitted by the commission merchant, auction market, or livestock market selling such porcine animals.
(3) Each producer of porcine animals slaughtered for sale by the producer or sold directly to a consumer in connection with a custom slaughter operation shall remit an assessment to the Board if an assessment is due pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(4) Assessments on domestic porcine animals shall be remitted in the form of a negotiable instrument made payable to the “National Pork Board,” which, together with the reports required by § 1230.80, shall be sent to the address designated by the Board.
(5) Each importer of a porcine animal, pork, or pork product shall remit an assessment to the Customs Service at the time such porcine animal, pork, or pork product is imported or in such manner as may be established by regulations prescribed by the Board and approved by the Secretary, if an assessment is due pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The initial rate of assessment shall be 0.25 percent of market value.
(d) The rate of assessment may, upon the recommendation of the Delegate Body, be increased by regulations prescribed by the Board and approved by the Secretary by no more than 0.1 percent of such market value per fiscal period to a total of not more than 0.5 percent of market value.
(e) Assessments on imported pork and pork products shall be expressed in an amount per pound for each type of pork or pork product subject to assessment, which shall be established by regulations prescribed by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
[51 FR 31903, Sept. 5, 1986; 51 FR 36383, Oct. 10, 1986; 53 FR 1910, Jan. 25, 1988; 53 FR 30245, Aug. 11, 1988; 56 FR 6, Jan. 2, 1991]
§ 1230.72
Distribution of assessments.
Assessments remitted to the Board shall be distributed as follows:
(a) Each State association shall receive on a monthly basis, a percentage determined by the Delegate Body or 16.5 percent, whichever is higher, of the net assessments attributable to that State. The net assessments attributable to a State is the total amount of
assessments received from producers in a State.
(b) A State association which was conducting a pork promotion program in the period from July 1, 1984 to June 30, 1985, shall receive additional amounts at such times as the Board may determine, so that the total amount received on an annual basis would be equal to the amount that would have been collected in such State pursuant to the pork promotion program in existence in such State from July 1, 1984, to June 30, 1985, had the porcine animals subject to assessment, been produced from July 1, 1984, to June 30, 1985, and been subject to the rates of assessment then in effect from such State to the Council and other national entities involved in pork promotion, research, and consumer information. This paragraph shall apply to a State association only if the annual amount determined under this paragraph would be greater than the annual amount determined under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The Council shall receive on a monthly basis 35 percent of the net assessments until after the referendum is conducted, and 25 percent thereafter and until 12 months after the referendum.
[51 FR 31903, Sept. 5, 1986, as amended at 60 FR 58501, Nov. 28, 1995]
§ 1230.73
Uses of distributed assessments.
(a) Each State association shall use its distribution of assessments pursuant to § 1230.72, as well as any proceeds from the investment of such funds pending their use, for financing plans and projects and the administrative expenses incurred in connection therewith, including the cost of administering nominations and elections of producer members of the Delegate Body.
(b) The Council shall use its distribution of assessments pursuant to § 1230.72, as well as any proceeds from the investment of such funds pending their use, for financing plans and projects and the Council's administrative expenses.
(c) The Board shall use its distribution of assessments pursuant to § 1230.72, as well as any proceeds from the investment of such funds pending their use, for:
(1) Financing plans and projects;
(2) The Board's expenses for the Board's administration, maintenance, and functioning as authorized by the Secretary;
(3) Accumulation of a reserve not to exceed one fiscal period's budget to permit continuation of an effective promotion, research, and consumer information program in years when assessment amounts may be reduced; and
(4) The Secretary's administrative costs in carrying out this part.
§ 1230.74
Prohibited use of distributed assessments.
(a) No funds collected under this subpart shall in any manner be used for the purpose of influencing legislation as that term is defined in section 4911 (d) and (e)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, or for the purpose of influencing governmental policy or action except in recommending to the Secretary amendments to this part.
(b) Organizations receiving distributions of assessments from the Board shall furnish the Board with annual financial statements audited by a certified public accountant of all funds distributed to such organizations pursuant to this subpart and any other reports as may be required by the Secretary or the Board in order to verify the use of such funds.
[51 FR 31903, Sept. 5, 1986, as amended at 53 FR 30245, Aug. 11, 1988; 60 FR 33683, June 29, 1995]
§ 1230.75
Adjustment of accounts.
Whenever the Board or the Department determines, through an audit of a person's reports, records, books or accounts or through some other means that additional money is due the Board or that money is due such person from the Board, such person shall be notified of the amount due. Any amount due the Board shall be remitted to the Board by the next date for remitting assessments as provided in § 1230.71(b)(3). Any overpayment to the Board shall be credited to the account of the person remitting the overpayment and shall be applied against amounts due in succeeding months except that the Board shall make prompt
payment when an overpayment cannot be adjusted by a credit.
§ 1230.76
Charges.
Any assessment not paid when due shall be increased 1.5 percent each month beginning with the day following the date such assessment was due. Any remaining amount due, which shall include any unpaid charges previously made pursuant to this section, shall be increased at the same rate on the corresponding day of each month thereafter until paid. For the purpose of this section, any assessment that was determined at a date later than prescribed by this subpart because of a person's failure to submit a report to the Board when due shall be considered to have been payable by the date it would have been due if the report had been filed when due. The timeliness of a payment to the Board shall be based on the applicable postmark date or the date actually received by the Board, whichever is earlier.
§ 1230.77
[Reserved]

# Reports, Books, and Records
§ 1230.80
Reports.
Each person responsible for collecting or remitting any assessment under § 1230.71(b) shall report at the time for remitting assessments to the Board the following information:
(a) The quantity and market value of the porcine animals subject to assessment;
(b) The amount of assessment collected;
(c) The month the assessment was collected;
(d) The State where the porcine animals were produced; and
(e) Such other information as may be required by regulations prescribed by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
§ 1230.81
Books and records.
Each person who is subject to this subpart shall maintain and, during normal business hours, make available for inspection by employees of the Board and the Secretary such books and records as are necessary to carry out the provision of this subpart, including such records as are necessary to verify any required reports. Such records shall be retained for at least two years beyond the fiscal period of their applicability.
§ 1230.82
Confidential treatment.
All information obtained from the books, records or reports required to be maintained under §§ 1230.80 and 1230.81 of this subpart shall be kept confidential by all persons, including employees and agents and former employees and agents of the Board, all officers and employees and all former officers and employees of the Department, and by all officers and all employees and all former officers and employees of contracting parties having access to such information, and shall not be available to Board members. Only those persons having a specific need for such information in order to effectively implement, administer, or enforce the provisions of this subpart shall have access to such information. In addition, only such information so furnished or acquired shall be disclosed as the Secretary deems relevant and then only in a suit or administrative hearing brought at the direction, or upon the request, of the Secretary or to which the Secretary or any officer of the United States is a party, and involving this subpart. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit:
(a) The issuance of general statements based upon the reports of a number of persons subject to this subpart or of statistical data collected therefrom, which statements or data do not identify the information furnished by any person; or
(b) The publication, by direction of the Secretary, of the name of any person who has been adjudged to have violated this subpart, together with a statement of the particular provisions of this subpart violated by such person.

# Miscellaneous
§ 1230.85
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of this subpart, the Board shall recommend not more than five of its members to the Secretary to serve as trustees for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the
Board. Such persons, upon designation by the Secretary, shall become trustees of all the funds and property owned, in the possession of, or under the control of, the Board, including unpaid claims or property not delivered or any other claim existing at the time of such termination.
(b) The said trustees shall:
(1) Continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary;
(2) Carry out the obligations of the Board under any contract or agreement;
(3) From time to time account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand together with all books and records of the Board and of the trustees, to such persons as the Secretary may direct; and
(4) Upon the request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such persons full title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims vested in the Board or the trustees pursuant to this subpart.
(c) Any residual funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be turned over to the Secretary to be used, to the extent practicable, in the interest of continuing one or more of the plans and projects authorized pursuant to this subpart.
§ 1230.86
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any regulation issued pursuant hereto, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may hereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or any regulation issued thereunder;
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or any regulation issued thereunder; or
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the United States, the Secretary, or any person with respect to any such violation.
§ 1230.87
Personal liability.
No member or employee of the Board shall be held personally liable, either individually or jointly, in any way whatsoever to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts of either commission or omission, as such member or employee, except for acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct.
§ 1230.88
Patents, copyrights, inventions, and publications.
Any patents, copyrights, trademarks, inventions, or publications developed through the use of funds collected under the provisions of this subpart shall be the property of the United States Government as represented by the Board, and shall, along with any rents, royalties, residual payments, or other income from the rental, sale, leasing, franchising, or other uses of such patents, copyrights, inventions, or publications inure to the benefit of the Board as income and be subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board. Upon termination of this subpart, § 1230.85 shall apply to determine disposition of all such property.
§ 1230.89
Amendments.
The Secretary may from time to time amend provisions of this part. Any interested person or organization affected by the provisions of the Act may propose amendments to the Secretary.
§ 1230.90
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid or the applicability thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart or the applicability thereof to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
§ 1230.91
Paperwork Reduction Act assigned number.
The information collection and recordkeeping requirements contained in this subpart have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. Chapter and have been assigned OMB Control Number 0851-0151.

# Subpart B—Rules and Regulations

# Source:
53 FR 1911, Jan. 25, 1988, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1230.100
Terms defined.
As used throughout this subpart, unless the context otherwise requires, terms shall have the same meaning as the definition of such terms in Subpart A of this part.
§ 1230.102
Exemption.
(a) A producer who operates under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic production system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:
(1) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) are eligible for exemption;
(2) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products of a producer regardless of whether the agricultural commodity subject to the exemption is produced by a person that also produces conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;
(3) The producer maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522) (OFPA) and the NOP regulations issued under OFPA (7 CFR part 205); and
(4) Any producer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(b) To apply for exemption under this section, a producer shall submit a request to the Board on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time during the year initially, and annually thereafter on or before January 1, for as long as the producer continues to be eligible for the exemption.
(c) A producer request for exemption shall include the following:
(1) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;
(2) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid certificate of organic operation issued under the OFPA and the NOP;
(3) Certification that the applicant produces organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;
(4) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent under the OFPA and the NOP;
(5) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and
(6) Such other information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.
(d) If a producer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant an assessment exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the producer within 30 days. If the application is disapproved, the Board will notify the applicant of the reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe.
(e) The producer shall provide a copy of the Certificate of Exemption to each person responsible for collecting and remitting the assessment to the Board.
(f) The person responsible for collecting and remitting the assessment to the Board shall maintain records showing the exempt producer's name and address and the exemption number assigned by the Board.
(g) An importer who imports products that are eligible to be labeled as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP, or certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under a U.S. equivalency arrangement established under the NOP, may be exempt from the payment of assessments on those products. Such importer may submit documentation to the Board and request an exemption from assessment on certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” porcine animals or pork and pork products on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time initially, and annually thereafter on or before January 1, as
long as the importer continues to be eligible for the exemption. This documentation shall include the same information required of producers in paragraph (c) of this section. If the importer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant the exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the importer. The Board will also issue the importer an alphanumeric number valid for 1 year from the date of issue. This alphanumeric number should be entered by the importer on the Customs entry documentation. Any line item entry of “organic” or “100 percent organic” porcine animals or pork and pork products bearing this alphanumeric number assigned by the Board will not be subject to assessments. Any importer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any imported agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(h) The exemption will apply immediately following the issuance of the Certificate of Exemption.
(i) An importer who is exempt from payment of assessments under paragraph (g) of this section shall be eligible for reimbursement of assessments collected by Customs on certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” porcine animals or pork and pork products and may apply to the Secretary for a reimbursement. The importer would be required to submit satisfactory proof to the Secretary that the importer paid the assessment on exempt organic products.
[70 FR 2760, Jan. 14, 2005, as amended at 80 FR 82023, Dec. 31, 2015]

# Assessments
§ 1230.110
Assessments on imported pork and pork products.
(a) The following Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) categories of imported live porcine animals are subject to assessment at the rate specified.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
a
)
Live porcine animals
Article description
Assessment
0103.10.0000
Purebred breeding animals
0.35 percent Customs Entered Value.
0103.91.00
Other: Weighing less than 50 kg each
0103.91.0010
Weighing less than 7 kg each
0.35 percent Customs Entered Value.
0103.91.0020
Weighing 7 kg or more but less than 23 kg each
0.35 percent Customs Entered Value.
0103.91.0030
Weighing 23 kg or more but less than 50 kg each
0.35 percent Customs Entered Value.
0103.92.00
Weighing 50 kg or more each
0103.92.0010
Imported for immediate slaughter
0.35 percent Customs Entered Value.
0103.92.0090
Other
0.35 percent Customs Entered Value.
(b) The following HTS categories of imported pork and pork products are subject to assessment at the rates specified.
Table 2 to Paragraph (
b
)
Pork and pork products
Article description
Assessment
Cents/lb
Cents/kg
0203
Meat of swine, fresh, chilled, or frozen: Fresh or chilled:
0203.11.0000
Carcasses and half-carcasses
0.15
0.390920
0203.12.1010
Processed hams and cuts thereof, with bone in
0.15
0.390920
0203.12.1020
Processed shoulders and cuts thereof, with bone in
0.15
0.390920
0203.12.9010
Other hams and cuts thereof, with bone in
0.15
0.390920
0203.12.9020
Other shoulders and cuts thereof, with bone in
0.15
0.390920
0203.19.2010
Processed spare ribs
0.18
0.457058
0203.19.2090
Processed other
0.18
0.457058
0203.19.4010
Bellies
0.15
0.390920
0203.19.4090
Other
0.15
0.390920
0203.21.0000
Frozen carcasses and half-carcasses
0.15
0.390920
0203.22.1000
Frozen-processed hams, shoulders, and cuts thereof, with bone in
0.15
0.390920
0203.22.9000
Frozen-other hams, shoulders, and cuts thereof, with bone in
0.15
0.390920
0203.29.2000
Frozen processed other
0.18
0.457058
0203.29.4000
Frozen other:
0.15
0.390920
0206
Edible offal of bovine animals, swine, sheep, goats, horses, asses, mules or hinnies, fresh, chilled, or frozen:
0206.30.0000
Of swine, fresh or chilled
0.15
0.390920
0206.41.0000
Of swine, frozen: Livers
0.15
0.390920
0206.49.0000
Of swine, frozen: Other:
0.15
0.390920
0210
Meat and edible meat offal, salted, in brine, dried or smoked; edible flours and meals of meat or meat offal:
0210.11.0010
Meat of swine: Hams and cuts thereof, with bone in
0.15
0.390920
0210.11.0020
Meat of swine: Shoulders and cuts thereof, with bone in
0.15
0.390920
0210.12.0020
Meat of swine: Bellies (streaky) and cuts thereof, Bacon
0.15
0.390920
0210.12.0040
Meat of swine: Bellies (streaky) and cuts thereof, Other
0.15
0.390920
0210.19.0010
Meat of swine: Canadian style bacon
0.18
0.457058
0210.19.0090
Meat of Swine: Other
0.18
0.457058
1601
Sausages and similar products, of meat, meat offal or blood; food preparations based on these products:
1601.00.2010
Pork canned
0.23
0.567288
1601.00.2090
Pork other
0.23
0.567288
1602
Other prepared or preserved meat, meat offal or blood:
1602.41.2020
Of swine: Boned and cooked and packed in airtight containers holding less than 1 kg
0.25
0.611380
1602.41.2040
Of swine: Other boned and cooked and packed in airtight containers
0.25
0.611380
1602.41.9000
Of swine: Other
0.15
0.390920
1602.42.2020
Of swine: Shoulders and cuts thereof: Boned and cooked and packed in airtight containers holding less than 1 kg
0.25
0.611380
1602.42.2040
Of swine: Shoulders and cuts thereof: Other boned and cooked and packed in airtight containers
0.25
0.611380
1602.42.4000
Of swine: Other shoulders and cuts thereof
0.15
0.390920
1602.49.2000
Of swine: Other, including mixtures: Not containing cereals or vegetables: Boned and cooked and packed in air-tight containers
0.23
0.567288
1602.49.4000
Of swine: Other, including mixtures: Not containing cereals or vegetables: Other
0.18
0.457058
1602.49.9000
Of swine: Other, including mixtures: Other
0.18
0.457058
[87 FR 66538, Nov. 4, 2022]
§ 1230.111
Remittance of assessments on domestic porcine animals.
Assessments on domestic porcine animals shall be remitted to the National Pork Board pursuant to § 1230.71(b) in accordance with the following remittance schedule.
(a) Monthly assessments totaling $25 or more shall be remitted to the Board by the 15th day of the month following the month in which the porcine animals were marketed or by the 15th day following the end of a Board-approved, consecutive 4-week period in which the porcine animals were marketed.
(b) Assessments totaling less than $25 during each month of a quarter in which the porcine animals were marketed may be accumulated and remitted by the 15th day of the month following the end of a quarter. The quarters shall be: January through March; April through June; July through September; October through December.
(c) Assessments totaling $25 or more during any month of a quarter must be remitted by the 15th day of the month following the month of the quarter in which the assessments totaled $25 or more, together with any unremitted assessments from the previous month(s) of the quarter, if applicable.
(d) Assessments collected during any calendar quarter and not previously remitted as described in paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section must be remitted by the 15th day of the month following the end of the quarter regardless of the amount.
[56 FR 6, Jan. 2, 1991]
§ 1230.112
Rate of assessment.
In accordance with § 1230.71(d), the rate of assessment shall be 0.35 percent of market value.
[87 FR 66539, Nov. 4, 2022]
§ 1230.113
Collection and remittance of assessments for the sale of feeder pigs and market hogs.
Pursuant to the provisions of § 1230.71, purchasers of feeder pigs or market hogs shall collect assessments from producers if an assessment is due and shall remit those assessments to the Board. Failure of the purchaser to collect such assessment from a producer shall not relieve the producer of the obligation to pay the assessment. If the purchaser fails to collect the assessment when an assessment is due pursuant to § 1230.71, the producer (seller) shall remit the total amount of assessments due to the Board as set forth in § 1230.111.
[65 FR 7283, Feb. 14, 2000]
§ 1230.115
Submission of annual financial statements.
State Pork Producer Associations, as defined in § 1230.25, that receive distributions of assessments pursuant to § 1230.72 and that receive less than $30,000 in assessments annually, may satisfy the requirements of § 1230.74(b) by providing to the Board unaudited annual financial statements prepared by State association staff members or individuals who prepare annual financial statements, provided that two members of the State association attest to and certify such financial statements. Notwithstanding any provisions of the Order to the contrary, State associations that receive less than $30,000 in distributed assessments annually and submit unaudited annual financial statements to the Board shall be required to submit an annual financial statement audited by a certified public accountant at least once every 5 years, or more frequently if deemed necessary by the Board or the Secretary. The Board may elect to conduct its own audit of the annual financial statements of State Pork Producer Associations that receive less than $2,000 in distributed assessments annually, every 5 years in lieu of the required financial statements.
[60 FR 33683, June 29, 1995]

# Miscellaneous
§ 1230.120
OMB control number assigned pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act.
The information collection and recordkeeping requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35 and have been assigned OMB control number 0851-0151.
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Procedures for Nominations and Elections of Pork Producers and Nominations of Importers for Appointment to the Initial National Pork Producers Delegate Body
§§ 1230.501-1230.512
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Procedures for the Conduct of Referendum

# Source:
65 FR 43508, July 13, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1230.601
Act.
The term
Act
means the Pork Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 4801-4819) and any amendments thereto.
§ 1230.602
Administrator, AMS.
The term
Administrator, AMS,
means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom there has heretofore been delegated or may hereafter be delegated the authority to act in the Administrator's stead.
§ 1230.603
Administrator, FSA.
The term
Administrator, FSA,
means the Administrator, of the Farm Service Agency, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom there has heretofore been delegated or may hereafter be delegated the authority to act in the Administrator's stead.
§ 1230.604
Department.
The term
Department
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
§ 1230.605
Farm Service Agency.
The term
Farm Service Agency
also referred to as “FSA” means the Farm Service Agency of the Department.
§ 1230.606
Farm Service Agency County Committee.
The term
Farm Service Agency County Committee,
also referred to as the
FSA County Committee
or
COC,
means the group of persons within a county elected to act as the Farm Service Agency County Committee.
§ 1230.607
Farm Service Agency County Executive Director.
The term
Farm Service Agency County Executive Director
also referred to as the
CED,
means the person employed by the FSA County Committee to execute the policies of the FSA County Committee and be responsible for the day-to-day operations of the FSA county office or the person acting in such capacity.
§ 1230.608
Imported porcine animals, pork, and pork products.
The term
Imported porcine animals, pork, and pork products
means those animals, pork, or pork products that are imported into the United States and subject to assessment under the harmonized tariff schedule numbers identified in § 1230.110 of the regulations.
§ 1230.609
Importer.
The term
Importer
means a person who imports porcine animals, pork, or pork products into the United States.
§ 1230.610
Order.
The term
Order
means the Pork Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order.
§ 1230.611
Porcine animal.
The term
Porcine animal
means a swine, that is raised:
(a) As a feeder pig, that is, a young pig sold to another person to be finished over a period of more than 1 month for slaughtering;
(b) For breeding purposes as seedstock and included in the breeding herd; and
(c) As a market hog, slaughtered by the producer or sold to be slaughtered, usually within 1 month of such transfer.
§ 1230.612
Person.
The term
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity.
§ 1230.613
Pork.
The term
Pork
means the flesh of a porcine animal.
§ 1230.614
Pork product.
The term
Pork product
means an edible product processed in whole or in part from pork.
§ 1230.615
Producer.
The term
Producer
means a person who produces porcine animals in the United States for sale in commerce.
§ 1230.616
Public notice.
The term
Public notice
means information regarding a referendum that would be provided by the Secretary, such as press releases, newspapers, electronic media, FSA county newsletters, and the like. Such notice would contain the referendum date and location, registration and voting requirements, rules regarding absentee voting, and other pertinent information.
§ 1230.617
Referendum.
The term
Referendum
means any referendum to be conducted by the Secretary pursuant to the Act whereby persons who have been producers and
importers during a representative period would be given the opportunity to vote to determine whether producers and importers favor continuation of the Order.
§ 1230.618
Representative period.
The term
Representative period
means the 12-consecutive months prior to the first day of absentee and importer voting in the referendum. The representative period for this referendum is August 18, 1999, through August 17, 2000.
§ 1230.619
Secretary.
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or any other officer or employee of the Department to whom there has been delegated or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1230.620
State.
The term
State
means each of the 50 States.
§ 1230.621
Voting period.
The term
Voting period
means the 3-consecutive business day period for in-person voting.

# Referendum
§ 1230.622
General.
(a) A referendum to determine whether eligible pork producers and importers favor continuation of the Pork Checkoff Program will be conducted in accordance with this subpart.
(b) The Pork Checkoff Program will be terminated only if a majority of producers and importers voting in the referendum favor such termination.
(c) The referendum will be conducted at the county FSA offices for producers and at FSA headquarters office in Washington, DC, for importers.
§ 1230.623
Supervision of referendum.
The Administrator, AMS, will be responsible for conducting the referendum in accordance with this subpart.
§ 1230.624
Eligibility.
(a) Eligible producers and importers. Persons eligible to register and vote in the referendum include:
(1) Individual Producers. Each individual that owns and sells at least one hog or pig during the representative period and does so in his or her own name is entitled to cast one ballot.
(2) Producers who are a corporation or other entity. Each corporation or other entity that owns and sells at least one hog or pig during the representative period is entitled to cast one ballot. A group of individuals, such as members of a family, a partnership, owners of community property, or a corporation engaged in the production of hogs and pigs will be entitled to only one vote; provided, however, that any member of a group may register to vote as a producer if he or she sells at least one hog or pig in his or her own name.
(3) Importers. Each importer who imports hogs, pigs, pork, or pork products during the representative period is entitled to cast one ballot. A group of individuals, such as members of a family, a partnership, or a corporation engaged in the importation of hogs, pigs, pork, or pork products will be entitled to only one vote; provided, however, that any member of a group may register to vote as an importer if he or she imports hogs, pigs, pork, or pork products in his or her own name.
(b) Proxy registration and voting. Proxy registration and voting is not authorized, except that an officer or employee of a corporate producer or importer, or any guardian, administrator, executor, or trustee of a producer's or importer's estate, or an authorized representative of any eligible producer or importer (other than an individual producer or importer), such as a corporation or partnership, may register and cast a ballot on behalf of that entity. Any individual who registers to vote in the referendum on behalf of any eligible producer or importer corporation or other entity must certify that he or she is authorized to take such action.
§ 1230.625
Time and place of registration and voting.
(a) Producers. The referendum shall be held for 3-consecutive days on September 19, 20, 21, 2000. Eligible producers shall register and vote on-site following the procedures in 1230.628.
Producers shall register and vote during the normal business hours of each county FSA office or request absentee ballots from the county FSA offices by mail, telephone, or facsimile, or pick up an absentee ballot in-person. The absentee voting period shall be from August 18, 2000, through September 21, 2000.
(b) Importers. Importer voting shall take place during the same time period provided producers for in-person and absentee voting in the referendum. The referendum shall be conducted by mail ballot by the FSA headquarters office in Washington, DC, between August 18, 2000, through September 21, 2000.
§ 1230.626
Facilities for registering and voting.
(a) Producers. Each county FSA office shall provide:
(1) Adequate facilities and space to permit producers of hogs and pigs to register and to mark their ballots in secret;
(2) A sealed box or other designated receptacle for registration forms and ballots that is kept under observation during office hours and secured at all times; and
(3) Copies of the Order for review.
(b) Absentee ballots. Each FSA county office shall provide each producer an absentee ballot package upon request. Producers can pick up an absentee ballot in-person or request it by telephone, mail, or facsimile. The FSA county office will provide absentee ballots by mail for all requests received by telephone, mail, or facsimile. The FSA county office shall record date of receipt of the “Pork Referendum” envelope containing the completed absentee ballot on the Absentee Voter Request List and place it unopened in a secure ballot box.
(c) Importers. The FSA headquarters office in Washington, DC, will:
(1) Mail ballot packages to eligible importers upon request;
(2) Have a sealed box or other designated receptacle for registration forms and ballots that is kept under observation during office hours and secured at all times; and
(3) Mail copies of the Order to importers if requested by mail, telephone, or facsimile. Importers can also pickup a ballot in-person.
§ 1230.627
Registration form and ballot.
(a)
Producers.
(1) A ballot (Form LS-72) and combined registration and certification form (Form LS-72-2) will be used for voting in-person. The information required on the registration form includes name, address, and telephone number. Form LS-72-2 also contains the certification statement referenced in § 1230.628. The ballot will require producers to check a “yes” or “no.”
(2) A combined registration and voting form (Form LS-73) will be used for absentee voting. The information required on this combined registration and voting form includes name, address, and telephone number. Form LS-73 also contains the certification statement referenced in § 1230.628. The ballot will require producers to check “yes” or “no.”
(b)
Importers.
A combined registration and ballot form (Form LS-76) will be used for importer voting. The information required on this combined registration and ballot form includes name, address, and telephone number. Form LS-76 also contains the certification statement referenced in § 1230.629. The ballot will require importers to check “yes” or “no.”
§ 1230.628
Registration and voting procedures for producers.
(a)
Registering and voting in-person.
(1) Each eligible producer who wants to vote whether as an individual or as a representative of a corporation or other entity shall register during the 3-day in-person voting period at the county FSA office where FSA maintains and processes the individual producer's or corporation's or other entities' administrative farm records. A producer voting as an individual or as a representative of a corporation or other entity not participating in FSA programs, shall register and vote in the county FSA office serving the county where the individual producer or corporation or other entity owns hogs or pigs. An individual or an authorized representative of a corporation or other entity who owns hogs or pigs in more than one county shall register
and vote in the FSA county office where the individual or corporation or other entity does most of their business. Producers shall be required to record on the In-Person Voter Registration List (Form LS-75) their name and address, and if applicable, the name and address of the corporation or other entity they represent before they can receive a registration form and ballot. To register, producers shall complete the in-person registration and certification form (Form LS-72-2) and certify that:
(i) They or the corporation or other entity they represent were producers during the specified representative period; and
(ii) The person voting on behalf of a corporation or other entity referred to in § 1230.612 is authorized to do so.
(2) Each eligible producer who has not voted by means of an absentee ballot may cast a ballot in-person at the location and time set forth in § 1230.625 and on September 19, 20, 21, 2000. Eligible producers who record their names and addresses and, if applicable, the name and address of the corporation or other entity they are authorized to represent on the In-Person Voter Registration List (Form LS-75) will receive a combined registration and certification form printed on an envelope (Form LS-72-2) and a ballot (Form LS-72). Producers will enter the information requested on the combined registration and certification form/envelope (Form LS-72-2) as indicated above. Producers will then mark their ballots to indicate “yes” or “no.” Producers will place their completed ballots in an envelope marked “Pork Ballot” (Form LS-72-1), seal and place it in the completed and signed registration form/envelope marked “Pork Referendum” (Form LS-72-2), seal that envelope and personally place it in a box marked “Ballot Box” or other designated receptacle. Voting will be conducted on-site under the supervision of the county FSA County Executive Director (CED).
(b)
Absentee voting.
(1) Eligible producers who are unable to vote in-person may request an absentee voting package consisting of a combined registration and absentee ballot form (Form LS-73) and two envelopes—one marked “Pork Ballot” (Form LS-72-1) and the other marked “Pork Referendum” (Form LS-73-1) by mail, telephone, facsimile, or by picking up one in-person from the county FSA office where FSA maintains and processes the producer's administrative farm records.
(2) If a producer, whether requesting an absentee ballot as an individual or as an authorized representative of a corporation or other entity that does not participate in FSA programs, and therefore does not have administrative records at a county FSA office, he or she may request an absentee voting package by telephone, mail, facsimile, or pick it up in-person from the county FSA office serving the county where the individual or corporation or other entity owns hogs or pigs. An individual or authorized representative of a corporation or other entity, who owns hogs or pigs in more than one county can request an absentee ballot from the county FSA office where the producer or corporation or other entity does most of their business.
(3) An absentee voting package will be mailed to producers by the FSA CED to the address provided by the prospective voter. Only one absentee registration form and absentee ballot will be provided to each eligible producer. The absentee ballots and registration forms may be requested during August 1, 2000, through September 18, 2000.
(4) The county FSA office will enter on the Absentee Voter Request List (Form LS-74) the name and address of the individual or corporation or other entity requesting an absentee ballot and the date the forms were requested.
(5) To register, eligible producers shall complete and sign the combined registration and certification form and absentee ballot (Form LS-73) and certify that:
(i) They or the corporation or other entity they represent were producers during the specified representative period;
(ii) If voting on behalf of a corporation or other entity referred to in § 1230.612, they are authorized to do so.
(6) A producer, after completing the absentee voter registration form and marking the ballot, shall remove the
ballot portion of the combined registration and absentee ballot form (Form LS-73) and seal the completed ballot in a separate envelope marked “Pork Ballot” (Form LS-72-1) and place the sealed “Pork Ballot” envelope in the mailing envelope marked “Pork Referendum” (Form LS-73-1) along with the signed registration form. Producers are required to print their name and address on the mailing envelope marked “Pork Referendum” (Form LS-73-1), and mail or hand deliver it to the county FSA office from which the producer or corporation or other entity obtained the absentee voting package. Absentee ballots returned in-person must be received by close of business on the last day of the in-person voting period, which is September 21, 2000. Ballots received after that date will be counted as invalid ballots.
(7) Absentee ballots returned by mail have to be postmarked with a date not later than the last day of the in-person voting period, which is September 21, 2000, and be received in the county FSA office by the close of business on the 5th business day after the last day of the in-person voting period, which is September 28, 2000. Absentee ballots received after that date will be counted as invalid ballots. Upon receiving the “Pork Referendum” envelope (Form LS-73-1) containing the registration form and ballot, the county FSA CED will record the date the “Pork Referendum” envelope (Form LS-73-1) containing the absentee ballot was received in the FSA county office on the Absentee Voter Request List (Form LS-74) opposite the name of the producer voting absentee. The county FSA CED will place it, unopened, in a secure ballot box.
§ 1230.629
Registration and voting procedures for importers.
(a) Individual importers, corporations, or other entities can obtain the registration and certification forms, ballots, and envelopes by mail from the following address: USDA, FSA, Operations Review and Analysis Staff, Attention: William A. Brown, P.O. Box 44366, Washington, DC 20026-4366. Importers may pick up the voting materials in-person at USDA, FSA, Operations Review and Analysis Staff, Room 2741, South Agriculture Building, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC. Importers may also request voting materials by facsimile or telephone. The facsimile number is 202/690-3354. The telephone number is 202/720-6833.
(b) When requesting a ballot, eligible importers will be required to submit a U.S. Customs Service Form 7501 showing that they paid the pork assessment during the representative period.
(c) Upon receipt of a request and U.S. Customs Service Form 7501, the voting materials will be mailed to importers by the FSA headquarters office in Washington, DC, to the address provided by the importer or importer corporation or other entity. Only one mail ballot and registration form will be provided to each eligible importer. The forms must be requested during August 1, 2000, through September 21, 2000.
(d) The FSA headquarters office in Washington, DC, will enter on the Importer Ballot Request List (Form LS-77) the name and address of the importer requesting a ballot and the date of the request.
(e) To register, eligible importers will complete and sign the combined registration form and ballot (Form LS-76) and certify that:
(1) To the best of their knowledge and belief the information provided on the form is true and accurate;
(2) If voting on behalf of an importer corporation or other entity referred to in § 1230.612, they are authorized to do so.
(f) Eligible importers, after completing the combined ballot and registration form, will remove the ballot portion of the combined registration and ballot form (Form LS-76) and seal the completed ballot in a separate envelope marked “Pork Ballot” (Form LS-72-1) and place the sealed “Pork Ballot” envelope in the mailing envelope marked “Pork Referendum” (Form LS-73-1) along with the signed registration form. Importers, corporations, or other entities must legibly print their name and address on the mailing envelope marked “Pork Referendum” (Form LS-73-1), and mail the envelope to the FSA headquarters office at the following address: USDA, FSA, Operations Review and Analysis
Staff, Attention: William A. Brown, Post Office Box 44366, Washington, DC 20026-4366. Importers may hand deliver the “Pork Referendum” envelope to USDA, FSA, Operations Review and Analysis Staff, Room 2741, South Agriculture Building, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC.
(g) The “Pork Referendum” envelope (Form LS-73-1) containing the registration form and ballot has to be postmarked with a date not later than the last day of the in-person voting period, which is September 21, 2000, and be received in the FSA headquarters office by the close of business on the 5th business day after the date of the last day of the in-person voting period, which is September 28, 2000. If delivered in-person, it has to reach headquarters office not later than the last day of the in-person voting period. Ballots received after that date will be counted as invalid ballots. Upon receiving the “Pork Referendum” envelope (Form LS-73-1) containing the registration form and ballot, an FSA employee will record the date the “Pork Referendum” envelope containing the completed ballot was received in the FSA headquarters office in Washington, DC, on the Importer Ballot Request List (Form LS-77) directly opposite the voting importer's name. The FSA employee will place the “Pork Referendum” envelope, unopened, in a secure ballot box.
§ 1230.630
List of registered voters.
(a)
Producers.
The In-Person Voter Registration List (Form LS-75) and the Absentee Voter Request List (Form LS-74) will be available for inspection during the 3 days of the voting period and during the 7 business days following the date of the last day of the voting period at the county FSA office. The lists will be posted during regular office hours in a conspicuous public location at the FSA county office. The Absentee and In-Person Voter Registration Lists will be updated and posted daily. The complete In-Person Voter Request List (Form LS-75) will be posted in the FSA county office on the 1st business day after the date of the last day of the voting period. The complete Absentee Voter Request List (Form LS-74) will be posted in the FSA county office on the 6th business day after the date of the last day of the voting period.
(b)
Importers.
The Importer Ballot Request List (Form LS-77) will be maintained by the FSA headquarters office in Washington, DC, and not posted.
§ 1230.631
Challenge of votes.
(a)
Challenge period.
During the dates of the 3-consecutive day voting period and the 7 business days following the voting period, the ballots of producers may be challenged at the FSA county office.
(b)
Who can challenge.
Any person can challenge a producer's vote. Any person who wants to challenge shall do so in writing and shall include the full name of the individual or corporation or other entity being challenged. Each challenge of a producer vote must be made on a separate sheet of paper and each challenge must be signed by the challenger. The identity of the challenger will be kept confidential except as the Secretary may direct or as otherwise required by law.
(c)
Who can be challenged.
Any producer having cast an in-person ballot or an absentee ballot whose name is posted on the In-Person Voter Registration List (Form LS-75) or the Absentee Voter Request List (Form LS-74) can be challenged. There is no challenge process for importers.
(d)
Notification of challenges.
The FSA County Committee or its representative, acting on behalf the Administrator, AMS, will notify challenged producers as soon as practicable, but no later than 12 business days after the date of the last day of the in-person voting period. FSA will notify all challenged persons that documentation such as sales documents, tax records, or other similar documents proving that the person owned and sold hogs or pigs during the representative period must be submitted or his or her vote will not be counted. The documentation must be provided to the FSA county offices within 5 business days of notification and not later than 17 business days after the date of the last day of the voting period.
(e)
Determination of challenges.
The FSA County Committee or its representative, acting on behalf of the Administrator, AMS, will make a determination concerning the challenge based on documentation provided by the producer and will notify challenged producers as soon as practicable, but no later than 22 business days after the date of the last day of the in-person voting period of its decision.
(f)
Challenged ballot.
A challenge to a ballot shall be deemed to have been resolved if the determination of the FSA County Committee or its representative, acting on behalf of the Administrator, AMS, is not appealed within the time allowed for appeal or there has been a determination by the Administrator, AMS, after an appeal.
(g)
Appeal.
A person declared to be ineligible to register and vote by the FSA County Committee or its representative, acting on behalf of the Administrator, AMS, can file an appeal at the FSA county office within 5 business days after the date of receipt of the letter of notification of ineligibility, but not later than November 2, 2000. The FSA county office shall send a producer's appeal by facsimile to the Administrator, AMS, on the date it is filed at the FSA county office or as soon as practical thereafter.
(h) An appeal will be determined by the Administrator, AMS, as soon as practical, but in all cases not later than the 45th business day after the date of the last day of the voting period. The Administrator, AMS, shall send her decision on a producer's appeal to the FSA county office where the producer was initially challenged. The FSA county office shall notify the challenged producer of the Administrator's, AMS, determination on his or her appeal. The Administrator's, AMS, determination on an appeal shall be final.
[65 FR 43508, July 13, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 62579, Oct. 19, 2000]
§ 1230.632
Receiving ballots.
(a)
Producers.
A ballot shall be considered to be received on time if:
(1) It was cast in-person in the county FSA office prior to the close of business on the date of the last day of the in-person voting period; or
(2) It was cast as an absentee ballot, having a postmarked date not later than the last day of the in-person voting period and was received in the county FSA office not later than the close of business, 5 business days after the last day of the in-person voting period.
(b)
Importers.
A ballot shall be considered to be received on time if it had a postmarked date not later than the date of the last day of the in-person voting period and was received in the FSA headquarters office in Washington, DC, not later than the close of business, 5 business days after the last day of the in-person voting period.
§ 1230.633
Canvassing ballots.
(a)
Producers.
(1) Counting the ballots. Under the supervision of FSA CED, acting on behalf of the Administrator, AMS, the in-person registration and certification form envelopes (Form LS-72-2) and the absentee “Pork Referendum” envelopes (Form LS-73-1) containing the “Pork Ballot” envelopes for producer voters will be checked against the In-Person Voter Registration List (Form LS-75) and the Absentee Voter Request List (Form LS-74), respectively, to determine properly registered voters. The ballots of producers voting in-person whose names are not on the In-Person Voter Registration List (Form LS-75), will be declared invalid. Likewise, the ballots of producers voting absentee whose names are not on the Absentee Voter Request List (Form LS-74) will be declared invalid. All ballots of challenged producer voters declared ineligible and invalid ballots will be kept separate from the other ballots and the envelopes containing these ballots will not be opened. The valid ballots will be counted on November 29, 2000, during regular business hours on the 46th business day after the last day of the in-person voting period. FSA county office employees will remove the sealed “Pork Ballot” envelopes (Form LS-72-1) from the registration form envelopes and “Pork Referendum” envelopes (absentee voting) envelopes of all eligible producer voters and all challenged producer voters determined to be eligible.
After removing all “Pork Ballot” envelopes, FSA county employees will shuffle the sealed “Pork Ballot” envelopes or otherwise mix them up so that ballots cannot be matched with producers' names. After shuffling the “Pork Ballot” envelopes, FSA county employees will open them and count the ballots. The ballots will be counted as follows:
(i) Number of eligible producers casting valid ballots;
(ii) Number of producers favoring continuation of the Pork Checkoff Program;
(iii) Number of producers favoring termination of the Pork Checkoff Program;
(iv) Number of challenged producer ballots deemed ineligible;
(v) Number of invalid ballots; and
(vi) Number of spoiled ballots.
(2)
Invalid ballots.
Ballots will be declared invalid if a producer voting in-person has failed to print his or her name and address on the In-Person Voter Registration List (Form LS-75) or if an absentee voter's name and address is not recorded on the Absentee Voter Request List (Form LS-74), or the registration form or ballot was incomplete or incorrectly completed.
(3)
Spoiled ballots.
Ballots will be considered spoiled if they are mutilated or marked in such a way that it cannot be determined whether the voter is voting “yes” or “no.” Spoiled ballots shall not be considered as approving or disapproving the Pork Checkoff Program, or as a ballot cast in the referendum.
(4)
Confidentiality.
All ballots shall be confidential and the contents of the ballots not divulged except as the Secretary may direct. The public may witness the opening of the ballot box and the counting of the votes but may not interfere with the process.
(b)
Importers
—(1)
Counting the ballots.
FSA headquarters personnel, acting on behalf of the Administrator, AMS, will check the registration forms and ballots for all importer voters against the Importer Ballot Request List (Form LS-77) to determine properly registered voters. The ballots of importers voting whose names are not recorded on the Importer Ballot Request List (Form LS-77), will be declared invalid. All ballots of importer voters declared invalid will be kept separate from the other ballots and the envelopes containing these ballots will not be opened. The valid ballots will be counted on November 29, 2000, during regular office hours on the 46th business day after the date of the last day of the in-person voting period. FSA headquarter office employees will remove the sealed “Pork Ballot” envelope (Form LS-72-1) from the “Pork Referendum” envelopes (Form LS-73-1) of all eligible importer voters. After removing all “Pork Ballot” envelopes, FSA headquarter employees will shuffle the sealed “Pork Ballot” envelopes or otherwise mix them up so that ballots cannot be matched with importers' names. After shuffling the “Pork Ballot” envelopes, FSA headquarters employees will open the envelopes and count the ballots. The ballots will be counted as follows:
(i) Number of eligible importers casting valid ballots;
(ii) Number of importers favoring continuation of the Pork Checkoff Program;
(iii) Number of importers favoring termination of the Pork Checkoff Program;
(iv) Number of importer ballots deemed invalid; and
(v) Number of spoiled ballots.
(2)
Invalid ballots.
Ballots will be declared invalid if an importer voter's name was not recorded on the Importer Ballot Request List (Form LS-77), or the registration form or ballot was incomplete or incorrectly completed.
(3)
Spoiled ballots.
Ballots will be considered spoiled if they were mutilated or marked in such a way that it cannot be determined whether the voter is voting “yes” or “no.” Spoiled ballots shall not be considered as a ballot cast in the referendum.
(4)
Confidentiality.
All ballots shall be confidential and the contents of the ballots not divulged except as the Secretary may direct. The public can witness the opening of the ballot box and the counting of the votes but can not interfere with the process.
§ 1230.634
FSA county office report.
The FSA county office will notify the FSA State office of the results of the referendum. Each FSA county office will transmit the results of the referendum in its county to the FSA
State office. Such report will include the information listed in § 1230.633. The results of the referendum in each county will be made available to the public, after the results of the referendum are announced by the Secretary. A copy of the report of results will be posted for 30 days in the FSA county office in a conspicuous place accessible to the public and a copy will be kept on file in the FSA county office for a period of at least 12 months after the referendum.
§ 1230.635
FSA State office report.
Each FSA State office will transmit to the Administrator, FSA, a written summary of the results of the referendum received from all FSA county offices within the State. The summary shall include the information on the referendum results contained in the reports from all county offices within each State and be certified by the FSA State Executive Director. The FSA State office will maintain a copy of the summary where it will be available for public inspection for a period of not less than 12 months.
§ 1230.636
Results of the referendum.
(a) The Administrator, FSA, will submit the combined results of the FSA State offices' results of the producers' vote and the FSA headquarters office results of the importers' vote to the Administrator, AMS. The Administrator, AMS, will prepare and submit to the Secretary a report of the results of the referendum. The results of the referendum will be announced by the Department in an official press release and published in the
Federal Register.
State reports on producer balloting, FSA headquarters office report on importer balloting, and related papers will be available for public inspection in the office of the Marketing Programs Branch, Livestock and Seed Program, AMS, USDA, Room 2627, South Agriculture Building, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC.
(b) If the Secretary deems it necessary, the report of producer voting results in any State or county or the report of importer voting results shall be reexamined and checked by such persons as may be designated by the Secretary.
§ 1230.637
Disposition of ballots and records.
(a)
Producer ballots and records.
Each FSA CED will place in sealed containers marked with the identification of the referendum, the voter registration list, absentee voter request list, voted ballots, challenged registration forms/envelopes, challenged absentee voter registration forms, challenged ballots found to be ineligible, invalid ballots, spoiled ballots, and county summaries. Such records will be placed under lock in a safe place under the custody of the FSA CED for a period of not less than 12 months after the referendum. If no notice to the contrary is received from the Administrator, FSA, by the end of such time, the records shall be destroyed.
(b)
Importer ballots and records.
The FSA headquarters office in Washington, DC, will deliver the importers' U.S. Customs Service Form 7501s, the voter registration list, voted ballots, invalid ballots, spoiled ballots, and national summaries and records to the Marketing Programs Branch, Livestock and Seed Program, AMS, USDA, Room 2627, South Agriculture Building, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC. A Marketing Programs Branch employee will place the ballots and records in sealed containers marked with the identification of the referendum. Such ballots and records will be placed under lock in a safe place under the custody of the Marketing Programs Branch for a period of not less than 12 months after the referendum. If no notice to the contrary is received from the Administrator, AMS, by the end of such time, the records shall be destroyed.
§ 1230.638
Instructions and forms.
The Administrator, AMS, is authorized to prescribe additional instructions and forms not inconsistent with the provisions of this subpart to govern the conduct of the referendum.
§ 1230.639
Additional absentee voter challenge period.
(a)
Absentee Voter Request List.
The Absentee Voter Request List (Form LS-74) will be available for inspection during an additional challenge period of five business days (October 23, 2000-
October 27, 2000) at county FSA offices. The Absentee Voter Request List will be posted daily during regular office hours in a conspicuous public location at FSA county offices during the additional challenge period.
(b)
Who can challenge.
Any person can challenge a producer's vote during the period provided in paragraph (a) of this section. Any person who wants to challenge shall do so in writing and shall include the full name of the individual or corporation or other entity being challenged. Each challenge of a producer vote must be made on a separate sheet of paper and each challenge must be signed by the challenger. The identity of the challenger will be kept confidential except as the Secretary may direct or as otherwise required by law.
(c)
Who can be challenged.
Any person whose name is on the Absentee Voter Request List who was not subject to challenge during the September 19, 2000, through October 2, 2000, challenge period may be challenged. Those producers whose names were listed on the Absentee Voter Request List and who were subject to challenge because the Absentee Voter Request List indicated they had returned their ballot are not subject to challenge during this additional 5-day period.
(d)
Notification of challenges.
The FSA County Committee or its representative, acting on behalf of the Administrator, AMS, will notify challenged producers as soon as practicable, but no later than the 2nd business day (October 31, 2000) after the last day of the additional challenge period. FSA county offices will notify all challenged persons that documentation such as sales documents, tax records, or other similar documents proving that the person owned and sold hogs or pigs during the representative period must be submitted or his or her vote will not be counted. The documentation must be provided to FSA county offices not later than November 7, 2000.
(e)
Determination of challenges.
The FSA County Committee or its representative, acting on behalf of the Administrator, AMS, will make a determination concerning the challenge based on documentation provided by the producer and will notify challenged producers as soon as practicable but no later than November 9, 2000.
(f)
Challenged ballot.
A challenge to a ballot shall be deemed to have been resolved if the determination of the FSA County Committee or its representative, acting on behalf of the Administrator, AMS, is not appealed within the time allowed for appeal or there has been a determination by the Administrator, AMS, after an appeal.
(g)
Appeal.
A person declared to be ineligible to register and vote by the FSA County Committee or its representative, acting on behalf of the Administrator, AMS, can file an appeal at the FSA county office not later than November 17, 2000. The FSA county office shall send a producer's appeal by facsimile to the Administrator, AMS, on the date it is filed at the FSA office or as soon as practical thereafter.
(h)
Determination of appeals.
An appeal will be determined by the Administrator, AMS, as soon as practical, but in all cases not later than the 45th business day (November 28, 2000) after the date of the last day of the voting period. The Administrator, AMS, shall send her decision on a producer's appeal to the FSA county office where the producer was initially challenged. The FSA county office shall notify the challenged producer of the Administrator's, AMS, determination on his or her appeal. The Administrator's, AMS, determination on an appeal shall be final.
[65 FR 62579, Oct. 19, 2000]
Pt. 1240

# PART 1240—NATURAL GRASS SOD PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION ORDER
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Referendum Procedures
Sec.
1240.80
General.
1240.81
Definitions.
1240.83
Voting.
1240.84
Instructions.
1240.85
Subagents.
1240.86
Ballots.
1240.87
Referendum report.
1240.88
Confidential information.
1240.89
OMB control number.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7401, 7411-7425.

# Source:
89 FR 99063, Dec. 10, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Referendum Procedures
§ 1240.80
General.
Referenda to determine whether eligible natural grass sod producers favor the issuance, continuance, amendment, suspension, or termination of the Natural Grass Sod Promotion, Research and Information Order shall be conducted in accordance with this subpart.
§ 1240.81
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth in this section:
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, or any officer or employee of USDA to whom there has been delegated or may be delegated the authority to act in the Administrator's stead.
Referenda
refers, collectively, to the initial referendum and any subsequent referenda.
Referendum
refers, individually, to the initial referendum or a subsequent referendum.
Referendum agent or agent
means the individual or individuals designated by the Secretary to conduct the referendum.
§ 1240.83
Voting.
(a) Each eligible natural grass sod producer that has sold natural grass sod products in the United States during the representative period is eligible to vote in the initial referendum or subsequent referenda and shall be entitled to cast only one ballot in any referenda.
(b) Proxy voting is not authorized, but an officer or employee of an eligible natural grass sod producer, or an administrator, executor, or trustee of an eligible natural grass sod producer may cast a ballot on behalf of such entity. Any individual so voting in a referendum shall certify that such individual is an officer or employee of the eligible natural grass sod producer, or an administrator, executive, or trustee of the eligible natural grass sod producer and that such individual has the authority to take such action. Upon request of the referendum agent, the individual shall submit adequate evidence of such authority.
(c) All ballots are to be cast by mail, electronic mail, electronic voting through a smartphone application or website, sending ballots to a central location by mail ballot or through electronic mail, or by any other means set forth by the Department.
§ 1240.84
Instructions.
The referendum agent shall conduct the referendum, in the manner provided in this subpart, under the supervision of the Administrator. The Administrator may prescribe additional instructions, consistent with the provisions of this subpart, to govern the procedure to be followed by the referendum agent. Such agent shall:
(a) Determine the time period during which ballots may be cast;
(b) Provide ballots and related material to be used in the referendum. The ballot shall provide for recording essential information, including that needed for ascertaining whether the person voting, or on whose behalf the vote is cast, is an eligible natural grass sod producer;
(c) Give reasonable public notice of the referendum, not less than 30 days before the referendum is to be conducted:
(1) By using available media or public information sources, without incurring advertising expense, to publicize the dates, places, method of voting, eligibility requirements, and other pertinent information. Such sources of publicity may include, but are not limited to, print, radio, email communications, and social media; and
(2) By such other means as the agent may deem advisable.
(d) Distribute to eligible natural grass sod producers whose names and contact information are known to the referendum agent, the instructions on voting, a ballot, and a summary of the terms and conditions of the proposed Natural Grass Sod Promotion, Research, and Information Order or the continuance of the Natural Grass Sod Promotion, Research, and Information Order, as the case may be. No person who claims to be an eligible natural
grass sod producer shall be refused a ballot;
(e) At the end of the voting period, collect, open, number, and review the ballots and tabulate the results in the presence of an agent of a third party authorized to monitor the referendum process;
(f) Prepare a report on the referendum; and
(g) Announce the results to the public.
§ 1240.85
Subagents.
The referendum agent may appoint any individual or individuals necessary or desirable to assist the agent in performing such agent's functions under this subpart. Each individual so appointed may be authorized by the agent to perform any or all of the functions which, in the absence of such appointment, shall be performed by the agent.
§ 1240.86
Ballots.
The referendum agent and subagents shall accept all ballots cast. However, if an agent or subagent deems that a ballot should be challenged for any reason, the agent or subagent shall endorse above their signature, on the ballot, a statement to the effect that such ballot was challenged, by whom challenged, the reasons therefore, the results of any investigations made with respect thereto, and the disposition thereof. Ballots deemed invalid under this subpart shall not be counted.
§ 1240.87
Referendum report.
Except as otherwise directed, the referendum agent shall prepare and submit to the Administrator a report on the results of the referendum, the manner in which it was conducted, the extent and kind of public notice given, and other information pertinent to the analysis of the referendum and its results.
§ 1240.88
Confidential information.
The ballots and other information or reports that reveal, or tend to reveal, the vote of any natural grass sod producer and the voter list shall be strictly confidential and shall not be disclosed.
§ 1240.89
OMB control number.
The control number assigned to the information collection requirement in this subpart by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. chapter 35, is OMB control number 0581-.0348.
Pt. 1250

# PART 1250—EGG RESEARCH AND PROMOTION

# Subpart—Referendum Procedures
Sec.
1250.200
Referenda.
1250.201
Definitions.
1250.202
Voting.
1250.203
Instructions.
1250.204
Subagents.
1250.205
Ballots.
1250.206
Referendum report.
1250.207
Confidential information.

# Subpart—Egg Research and Promotion Order

# Definitions
1250.301
Secretary.
1250.302
Act.
1250.303
Fiscal period.
1250.304
Egg Board or Board.
1250.305
Egg producer or producer.
1250.306
Commercial eggs or eggs.
1250.307
Person.
1250.308
United States.
1250.309
Handler.
1250.310
Promotion.
1250.311
Research.
1250.312
Marketing.
1250.313
Eligible organization.
1250.314
Plans and projects.
1250.315
Part and subpart.
1250.316
Representative of a producer.

# Egg Board
1250.326
Establishment and membership.
1250.327
Term of office.
1250.328
Nominations.
1250.329
Selection.
1250.330
Acceptance.
1250.331
Vacancies.
1250.332
Alternate members.
1250.333
Procedure.
1250.334
Compensation and reimbursement.
1250.335
Powers of the Board.
1250.336
Duties.

# Research, Education, and Promotion
1250.341
Research, education, and promotion.

# Expenses and Assessments
1250.346
Expenses.
1250.347
Assessments.
1250.348
Exemptions.
1250.349
Collecting handlers and collection.
1250.350
[Reserved]
1250.351
Influencing governmental action.

# Reports, Books, and Records
1250.352
Reports.
1250.353
Books and records.
1250.354
Confidential treatment.

# Certification of Organizations
1250.356
Certification of organizations.

# Miscellaneous
1250.357
Suspension and termination.
1250.358
Proceedings after termination.
1250.359
Effect of termination or amendment.
1250.360
[Reserved]
1250.361
Right of the Secretary.
1250.362
Amendments.
1250.363
Separability.

# Subpart—Rules and Regulations

# Definitions
1250.500
Terms defined.

# OMB Control Numbers Assigned Pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act
1250.501
OMB control numbers assigned pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act.

# General
1250.505
Communications.
1250.506
Policy and objective.
1250.507
Contracts.
1250.508
Procedure.
1250.509
USDA costs.
1250.510
Determination of Board membership.

# Assessments, Collections, and Remittances
1250.514
Levy of assessments.
1250.515
Reporting period and payment.
1250.516
Collecting handlers and collection.
1250.517
Remittance to Egg Board.
1250.518
Receipts for payment of assessments.
1250.519
Late-payment charge.

# Registration, Certification, and Reports
1250.528
Registration of collecting handlers.
1250.529
Reports.
1250.530
Certification of exempt producers.

# Records
1250.535
Retention of records.
1250.536
Availability of records.
1250.537
Confidentiality.

# Patents, Copyrights, Trademarks, and Information
1250.542
Patents, Copyrights, Inventions, Trademarks, Information, Publications, and Product Formulations.

# Personal Liability
1250.547
Personal liability.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2701-2718 and 7 U.S.C. 7401.

# Subpart—Referendum Procedures

# Source:
75 FR 55256, Sept. 10, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1250.200
Referenda.
Referenda for the purpose of ascertaining whether the issuance by the Secretary of Agriculture of an Egg Research and Promotion Order, or the continuance, termination, or suspension of such an order, is approved or favored by producers shall, unless supplemented or modified by the Secretary, be conducted in accordance with this subpart.
§ 1250.201
Definitions.
(a)
Act
means the Egg Research and Consumer Information Act and as it may be amended (Pub. L. 93-428, 7 U.S.C. 2701
et seq.
).
(b)
Administrator
means the administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, with power to redelegate, or any other officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.
(c)
Egg producer or producer
means any person who either is an egg farmer who acquires and owns laying hens, chicks, and/or started pullets for the purpose of and is engaged in the production of commercial eggs; or is a person who supplied or supplies laying hens, chicks, and/or started pullets to an egg farmer for the purpose of producing commercial eggs pursuant to an oral or written contractual agreement for the production of commercial eggs. Such person is deemed to be the owner of such laying hens unless it is established in writing, to the satisfaction of the Secretary or the Egg Board, that actual ownership of the laying hens is in some other party to the contract. In
the event the party to an oral contract who supplied or supplies the laying hens cannot be readily identified by the Secretary or the Egg Board, the person who has immediate possession and control over the laying hens at the egg production facility shall be deemed to be the owner of such hens unless written notice is provided to the Secretary or the Egg Board, signed by the parties to said oral contract, clearly stating that the eggs are being produced under a contractual agreement and identifying the party (or parties) under said contract who is the owner of the hens.
(d)
Order
means the order or any amendment thereto promulgated pursuant to the act with respect to which the Secretary has directed that a referendum be conducted.
(e)
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other entity.
(f)
Referendum agent
means the individual or individuals designated by the Secretary to conduct the referendum.
(g)
Representative period
means the period designated by the Secretary pursuant to section 9 of the Act (7 U.S.C. 2708).
(h)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture or any other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom there has heretofore been delegated, or to whom there may be hereafter delegated, the authority to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1250.202
Voting.
(a) Each person who is a producer, as defined in this subpart, at the time of the referendum, who was engaged in the production of commercial eggs during the representative period, and who is not exempt from the provisions of the order as provided for in § 1250.348 thereof, shall be entitled to only one vote in the referendum.
(b) Proxy voting is not authorized, but an officer or employee of a corporate producer, or an administrator, executor, or trustee of a producing estate, or an authorized representative of any other entity may cast a ballot on behalf of such producer or estate. Any individual so voting in a referendum shall certify that such individual is an officer or employee of the corporate producer, or an administrator, executor, or trustee of the producing estate, or an authorized representative of such other entity, and that such individual has the authority to take such action. Upon request of the referendum agent, the individual shall submit adequate evidence of his authority.
(c) Each producer shall be entitled to cast only one ballot in the referendum.
§ 1250.203
Instructions.
The referendum agent shall conduct the referendum, in the manner herein provided, under supervision of the Administrator. The Administrator may prescribe additional instructions, not inconsistent with the provisions hereof, to govern the procedure to be followed by the referendum agent. Such agent shall:
(a) Determine the time of commencement and termination of the period of the referendum, and the time when all ballots must be received by the referendum agent.
(b) Determine whether ballots may be cast by mail, at polling places, at meetings of producers, or by any combination of the foregoing.
(c) Provide ballots and related material to be used in the referendum. Ballot material shall provide for recording essential information for ascertaining whether the person voting or on whose behalf the vote is cast, is an eligible voter, and the total volume of commercial eggs produced during a representative period.
(d) Give reasonable advance notice of the referendum:
(1) By utilizing available media or public information sources, without incurring advertising expense, to publicize the dates, places, method of voting, eligibility requirements, and other pertinent information. Such sources of publicity may include, but are not limited to, print and radio; and
(2) By such other means as the agent may deem advisable.
(e) Make available to producers instructions on voting, appropriate registration, ballot, and certification forms, and, except in the case of a referendum on the termination or continuance of an order, a summary of the
terms and conditions of the order: Provided, that no person who claims to be qualified to vote shall be refused a ballot.
(f) If the ballots are to be cast by mail, cause all the material specified in paragraph (e) of this section to be mailed to each eligible producer whose name and address are known to the Secretary or the referendum agent.
(g) If the ballots are to be cast at polling places or meetings, determine the necessary number of polling or meeting places, designate them, announce the time of each meeting or the hours during which each polling place will be open, provide the material specified in paragraph (e) of this section, and provide for appropriate custody of ballot forms and delivery to the referendum agent of ballots cast.
(h) At the conclusion of the referendum, canvass the ballots, tabulate the results, and except as otherwise directed, report the outcome to the Administrator and promptly thereafter submit the following:
(1) All ballots received by the agent and appointees, together with a certificate to the effect that the ballots listed are all of the ballots cast and received by the agent and appointees during the referendum period;
(2) A tabulation of all challenged ballots deemed to be invalid; and
(3) A report of the referendum including a detailed statement explaining the method used in giving publicity to the referendum and showing other information pertinent to the manner in which the referendum was conducted.
§ 1250.204
Subagents.
The referendum agent may appoint any person or persons deemed necessary or desirable to assist the agent in performing such agent's functions of this subpart. Each individual so appointed may be authorized by the agent to perform, in accordance with the requirements herein set forth, any or all of the following functions (which, in the absence of such appointment, shall be performed by said agent):
(a) Give public notice of the referendum in the manner specified herein;
(b) Preside at a meeting where ballots are to be cast or as poll officer at a polling place;
(c) See the ballots and the aforesaid texts are distributed to producers and receive any ballots which are cast; and
(d) Record the name and address of each person casting a ballot with said subagent and inquire, as deemed appropriate, into the eligibility of such persons to vote in the referendum.
§ 1250.205
Ballots.
The referendum agent and subagents shall accept all ballots cast; but should they, or any of them, deem that a ballot should be challenged for any reason, the agent or subagent shall endorse above their signature, on the ballot, a statement to the effect that such ballot was challenged, by whom challenged, the reasons therefore, and the results of any investigations made with respect thereto, and the disposition thereof. Invalid ballots shall not be counted.
§ 1250.206
Referendum report.
Except as otherwise directed, the Administrator shall prepare and submit to the Secretary a report on the results of the referendum, the manner in which it was conducted, the extent and kind of public notice given, and other information pertinent to analysis of the referendum and its results.
§ 1250.207
Confidential information.
The ballots cast or the manner in which any person voted and all information furnished to, compiled by, or in the possession of the referendum agent shall be regarded as confidential. The ballots and other information or reports that reveal, or tend to reveal, the vote of any person covered under the Order and the voter list shall be strictly confidential and shall not be disclosed.

# Subpart—Egg Research and Promotion Order

# Source:
40 FR 59190, Dec. 22, 1975, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1250.301
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture or any other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom there has heretofore been delegated, or to whom there may hereafter be delegated, the authority to act in his stead.
§ 1250.302
Act.
Act
means the Egg Research and Consumer Information Act and as it may be amended (Pub. L. 93-428).
§ 1250.303
Fiscal period.
Fiscal period
means the calendar year unless the Egg Board, with the approval of the Secretary, selects some other budgetary period.
§ 1250.304
Egg Board or Board.
Egg Board
or
Board
or other designatory term adopted by such Board, with the approval of the Secretary, means the administrative body established pursuant to § 1250.326.
§ 1250.305
Egg producer or producer.
Egg producer
or
producer
means any person who either:
(a) Is an egg farmer who acquires and owns laying hens, chicks, and/or started pullets for the purpose of and is engaged in the production of commercial eggs; or
(b) Is a person who supplied or supplies laying hens, chicks, and/or started pullets to an egg farmer for the purpose of producing commercial eggs pursuant to an oral or written contractual argeement for the production of commercial eggs. Such person is deemed to be the owner of such laying hens unless it is established in writing, to the satisfaction of the Secretary or the Egg Board, that actual ownership of the laying hens is in some other party to the contract. In the event the party to an oral contract who supplied or supplies the laying hens cannot be readily identified by the Secretary or the Egg Board, the person who has immediate possession and control over the laying hens at the egg production facility shall be deemed to be the owner of such hens unless written notice is provided to the Secretary or the Egg Board, signed by the parties to said oral contract, clearly stating that the eggs are being produced under a contractual agreement and identifying the party (or parties) under said contract who is the owner of the hens.
§ 1250.306
Commercial eggs or eggs.
Commercial eggs
or
eggs
means eggs from domesticated chickens which are sold for human consumption either in shell egg form or for further processing into egg products.
§ 1250.307
Person.
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other entity.
§ 1250.308
United States.
United States
means the 48 contiguous States of the United States of America and the District of Columbia.
§ 1250.309
Handler.
Handler
means any person who receives or otherwise acquires eggs from an egg producer, and processes, prepares for marketing, or markets, such eggs, including eggs of his own production.
§ 1250.310
Promotion.
Promotion
means any action, including paid advertising, to advance the image or desirability of eggs, egg products, spent fowl, or products of spent fowl.
§ 1250.311
Research.
Research
means any type of research to advance the image, desirability, marketability, production, or quality of eggs, egg products, spent fowl, or products of spent fowl, or the evaluation of such research.
§ 1250.312
Marketing.
Marketing
means the sale or other disposition of commercial eggs, egg products, spent fowl, or products of spent fowl in any channel of commerce.
§ 1250.313
Eligible organization.
Eligible organization
means any organization, association, or cooperative which represents egg producers of any
egg producing area of the United States certified by the Secretary pursuant to § 1250.356.
§ 1250.314
Plans and projects.
Plans
and
projects
means those research, consumer and producer education, advertising, marketing, product development, and promotion plans, studies, or projects pursuant to § 1250.341.
§ 1250.315
Part and subpart.
Part
means the Egg Research and Promotion Order and all rules, regulations, and supplemental order issued pursuant to the act and the order. “Subpart” refers to the aforesaid order or any other portion or segment of this part.
§ 1250.316
Representative of a producer.
Representative of a producer
means the owner, officer, or an employee of a producer who has been duly authorized to act in the place and stead of the producer.

# Egg Board
§ 1250.326
Establishment and membership.
There is hereby established an Egg Board, hereinafter called the “Board,” composed of 18 egg producers or representatives of egg producers, and 18 specific alternates, all appointed by the Secretary from nominations submitted by eligible organizations, associations, or cooperatives, or by other producers pursuant to § 1250.328.
§ 1250.327
Term of office.
The members of the Board, and their alternates, shall serve for terms of 2 years, except initial appointments shall be, proportionately, for terms of 2 and 3 years. Each member and alternate member shall continue to serve until his successor is appointed by the Secretary and has qualified. No member shall serve for more than three consecutive terms.
§ 1250.328
Nominations.
All nominations authorized under § 1250.326 shall be made in the following manner:
(a) Within 30 days of the approval of this order by referendum, nominations shall be submitted to the Secretary for each geographic area as specified in paragraph (d) of this section by eligible organizations, associations, or cooperatives certified pursuant to § 1250.356, or, if the Secretary determines that a substantial number of egg producers are not members of, or their interests are not represented by, any such eligible organization, association, or cooperative, then from nominations made by such egg producers in the manner authorized by the Secretary;
(b) After the establishment of the initial Board, the nominations for subsequent Board members and alternates shall be submitted to the Secretary not less than 60 days prior to the expiration of the terms of the members and alternates previously appointed to the Board;
(c) Where there is more than one eligible organization, association, or cooperative within each geographic area, as defined by the Secretary, they may caucus for the purpose of jointly nominating two qualified persons for each member and for each alternate member to be appointed. If joint agreement is not reached with respect to any such nominations, or if no caucus is held within a defined geographic area, each eligible organization, association, or cooperative may submit to the Secretary two nominations for each appointment to be made;
(d) The number of members of the initial Board, and their alternates, who shall be appointed from each area are: Area 1-3, Area 2-4, Area 3-2, Area 4-2, Area 5-4, and Area 6-3, for a total of 18 members from all areas. Changes to the Board as provided in paragraph (e) of this section shall be accomplished by determining the percentage of United States egg production in each area times 18 (total Board membership) and rounding to the nearest whole number; and
(e) After the establishment of the initial Board, the area grouping of the 48 contiguous States of the United States, including the area distribution of the 18 members of the Board and their alternates, shall be reviewed at any time not to exceed 5 years by the Board, or by a person or agency designated by
the Board to perform such review, and the results shall be reported to the Secretary along with any recommendations by the Board regarding whether the delineation of the areas and the area distribution of the Board should continue without any change, or whether changes should be made in either the areas or the number of Board members to be appointed from each area, providing that each area shall be represented by not less than one Board member and any action recommended shall be subject to the approval of the Secretary.
[40 FR 59190, Dec. 22, 1975, as amended at 60 FR 66861, Dec. 27, 1995]
§ 1250.329
Selection.
From the nominations made pursuant to § 1250.328, the Secretary shall appoint the members of the Board, and an alternate for each such member, on the basis of representations provided for in § 1250.326, § 1250.327, and § 1250.328.
§ 1250.330
Acceptance.
Any person appointed by the Secretary as a member, or as an alternate member, of the Board shall qualify by filing a written acceptance with the Secretary within a period of time prescribed by the Secretary.
§ 1250.331
Vacancies.
To fill any vacancy occasioned by the failure to qualify of any person appointed as a member, or as an alternate member, of the Board, or in the event of the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any member or alternate member of the Board, a successor for the unexpired term of such member or alternate member of the Board shall be nominated, qualified, and appointed in the manner specified in § 1250.326, § 1250.328(b), § 1250.329, and § 1250.330, except that replacement of a Board member, or alternate, with an unexpired term of less than 6 months is not necessary.
§ 1250.332
Alternate members.
An alternate member of the Board, during the absence of the member for whom he is the alternate, shall act in the place and stead of such member and perform such other duties as assigned. In the event of the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of a member, his alternate shall act for him until a successor for such member is appointed and qualified.
§ 1250.333
Procedure.
(a) A majority of the members, including alternates acting for members of the Board, shall constitute a quorum, and any action of the Board shall require the concurring votes of at least a majority of those present and voting. At assembled meetings, all votes shall be cast in person.
(b) For routine and noncontroversial matters which do not require deliberation and exchange of views, and in matters of an emergency nature when there is not enough time to call an assembled meeting of the Board, the Board may also take action upon the concurring votes of a majority of its members by mail, telephone, or telegraph, but any such action by telephone shall be confirmed promptly in writing.
§ 1250.334
Compensation and reimbursement.
The members of the Board, and alternates when acting as members, shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for necessary and reasonable expenses, as approved by the Board, incurred by them in the performance of their duties under this subpart.
§ 1250.335
Powers of the Board.
The Board shall have the following powers:
(a) To administer the provisions of this subpart in accordance with its terms and provisions;
(b) To make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of this subpart;
(c) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of this subpart; and
(d) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this subpart.
§ 1250.336
Duties.
The Board shall have the following duties:
(a) To meet and organize and to select from among its members a chairman and such other officers as may be necessary, to select committees and subcommittees of Board members, to adopt such rules for the conduct of its business as it may deem advisable, and it may establish advisory committees of persons other than Board members;
(b) To appoint or employ such persons as it may deem necessary and to define the duties and determine the compensation of each;
(c) To prepare and submit to the Secretary for his approval budgets on a fiscal-period basis of its anticipated expenses and disbursements in the administration of this subpart, including probable cost of plans and projects as estimated in the budget or budgets submitted to it by prospective contractors, with the Board's recommendations with respect thereto. In preparing a budget for each of the 1994 and subsequent fiscal years, the Board shall, to the maximum extent practicable, allocate a proportion of funds for research projects comparable to the proportion of funds allocated for research projects in the Board's fiscal year 1993 budget.
(d) With the approval of the Secretary, to enter into contracts or agreements with persons, including, but not limited to, State, regional, or national agencies or State, regional, or national egg organizations which administer research, education, or promotion programs, advertising agencies, public relations firms, public or private research organizations, advertising and promotion media, and egg producer organizations, for the development and submission to it of plans and projects authorized by § 1250.341 and for the carrying out of such plans or projects when approved by the Secretary, and for the payment of the cost thereof with funds collected pursuant to § 1250.347. Any such contracts or agreements shall provide that such contractors shall develop and submit to the Board a plan or project together with a budget or budgets which shall show estimated costs to be incurred for such plan or project, and that any such plan or project shall become effective upon approval by the Secretary. Any such contract or agreement shall also provide that the contractor shall keep accurate records of all of its transactions and make periodic reports to the Board of activities carried out and an accounting for funds received and expended, and such other reports as the Secretary may require;
(e) To review and submit to the Secretary any plans or projects which have been developed and submitted to it by the prospective contractor, together with its recommendations with respect to the approval thereof by the Secretary;
(f) To maintain such books and records and prepare and submit such reports from time to time to the Secretary as he may prescribe, and to make appropriate accounting with respect to the receipt and disbursement of all funds entrusted to it;
(g)-(h) [Reserved]
(i) To prepare and make public, at least annually, a report of activities carried out and an accounting for funds received and expended;
(j) To cause its books to be audited by a certified public accountant at least once each fiscal period and at such other times as the Secretary may request, and submit a copy of each such audit to the Secretary;
(k) To give the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the Board as is given to members in order that he or his representative may attend such meetings;
(l) To act as an intermediary between the Secretary and any producer or handler; and
(m) To submit to the Secretary such information pursuant to this subpart as he may request.
[40 FR 59190, Dec. 22, 1975, as amended at 54 FR 99, Jan. 4, 1989, and 54 FR 11493, Mar. 21, 1989; 54 FR 12310, Mar. 24, 1989; 59 FR 38876, Aug. 1, 1994; 60 FR 66861, Dec. 27, 1995]

# Research, Education, and Promotion
§ 1250.341
Research, education, and promotion.
The Board shall develop and submit to the Secretary for approval any programs or projects authorized in this section. Such programs or projects shall provide for:
(a) The establishment, issuance, effectuation, and administration of appropriate programs or projects for advertising, sales promotion, and consumer education with respect to the use of eggs, egg products, spent fowl, and products of spent fowl:
Provided, however,
That any such program or project shall be directed towards increasing the general demand for eggs, egg products, spent fowl, or products of spent fowl;
(b) The establishment and carrying on of research, marketing, and development projects and studies with respect to sale, distribution, marketing, utilization, or production of eggs, egg products, spent fowl, and products of spent fowl, and the creation of new products thereof in accordance with section 7(b) of the act, to the end that the marketing and utilization of eggs, egg products, spent fowl, and products of spent fowl may be encouraged, expanded, improved, or made more acceptable, and the data collected by such activities may be disseminated;
(c) The development and expansion of foreign markets and uses for eggs, egg products, spent fowl, and products of spent fowl;
(d) Each program or project authorized under paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section shall be periodically reviewed or evaluated by the Board to insure that each such program or project contributes to a coordinated national program of research, education, and promotion contributing to the maintenance of markets and for the development of new markets for and of new products from eggs, egg products, spent fowl, and products of spent fowl. If it is found by the Board that any such program or project does not further the national purpose of the act, then the Board shall terminate such program or project; and
(e) No advertising or promotion programs shall use false or unwarranted claims or make any reference to private brand names of eggs, egg products, spent fowl, and products of spent fowl or use unfair or deceptive acts or practices with respect to quality, value, or use of any competing product.

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 1250.346
Expenses.
The Board is authorized to incur such expenses as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Board for its maintenance and functioning and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. The total costs incurred by the Board for a fiscal period in collecting producer assessments and having an administrative staff shall not exceed an amount of the projected total assessments to be collected by the Board for such fiscal period that the Secretary determines to be reasonable. The funds to cover such expenses shall be paid from assessments received pursuant to § 1250.347.
[40 FR 59190, Dec. 22, 1975, as amended at 54 FR 100, Jan. 4, 1989, and 54 FR 11493, Mar. 21, 1989]
§ 1250.347
Assessments.
Each handler designated in § 1250.349 and pursuant to regulations issued by the Board shall collect from each producer, except for those producers specifically exempted in § 1250.348, and shall pay to the Board at such times and in such manner as prescribed by regulations issued by the Board an assessment at a rate not to exceed 10 cents per 30-dozen case of eggs, or the equivalent thereof, for such expenses and expenditures, including provisions for a reasonable reserve and those administrative costs incurred by the Department of Agriculture after this subpart is effective, as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Board and the Secretary under this subpart, except that no more than one such assessment shall be made on any case of eggs.
[59 FR 64560, Dec. 15, 1994]
§ 1250.348
Exemptions.
The following shall be exempt from the specific provisions of the Act:
(a) Any egg producer whose aggregate number of laying hens at any time during a 3-consecutive-month period
immediately prior to the date assessments are due and payable has not exceeded 75,000 laying hens. The aggregate number of laying hens owned by a trust or similar entity shall be considered ownership by the beneficiaries of the trust or other entity. Ownership of laying hens by an egg producer also shall include the following:
(1) In cases in which the producer is an individual, laying hens owned by such producer or members of such producer's family that are effectively under the control of such producer, as determined by the Secretary;
(2) In cases in which the producer is a general partnership or similar entity, laying hens owned by the entity and all partners or equity participants in the entity; and
(3) In cases in which the producer holds 50 percent or more of the stock or other beneficial interest in a corporation, joint stock company, association, cooperative, limited partnership, or other similar entity, laying hens owned by the entity. Stock or other beneficial interest in an entity that is held by the following shall be considered as held by the producer:
(i) Members of the producer's family described in paragraph (a)(1);
(ii) A general partnership or similar entity in which the producer is a partner or equity participant;
(iii) The partners or equity participants in an entity of the type described in (a)(3)(ii); or
(iv) A corporation, joint stock company, association, cooperative, limited partnership, or other similar entity in which the producer holds 50 percent or more of the stock or other beneficial interests.
(b) Any egg producer owning a flock of breeding hens whose production of eggs is primarily utilized for the hatching of baby chicks.
(c) In order to qualify for exemption from the provisions of the Act under this section, producers claiming such exemption must comply with § 1250.530 regarding certification of exempt producers and other such regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary as a condition to exemption from the provisions of the Act under this section.
[55 FR 6973, Feb. 28, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 38876, Aug. 1, 1994]
§ 1250.349
Collecting handlers and collection.
(a) Handlers responsible for collecting the assessment specified in § 1250.347 shall be any one of the following:
(1) The first person to whom eggs are sold, consigned, or delivered by producers and who grades, cartons, breaks, or otherwise performs a function of a handler under § 1250.309,
(2) A producer who grades, cartons, breaks, or otherwise performs a function of a handler under § 1250.309 for eggs of his own production, or
(3) Such other persons as designated by the Board under rules and regulations issued pursuant to this subpart.
(b) Handlers shall collect and remit to the Egg Board all assessments collected in the manner and in the time specified by the Board pursuant to rules and regulations issued by the Board.
(c) Handlers shall maintain such records as the Egg Board may prescribe pursuant to rules and regulations issued by the Board.
(d) The Board with the approval of the Secretary may authorize other organizations or agencies to collect assessments in its behalf.
[40 FR 59190, Dec. 22, 1975. Redesignated at 55 FR 6973, Feb. 28, 1990]
§ 1250.350
[Reserved]
§ 1250.351
Influencing governmental action.
No funds collected by the Board under this subpart shall in any manner be used for the purpose of influencing governmental policy or action except to recommend to the Secretary amendments to this subpart.
[40 FR 59190, Dec. 22, 1975. Redesignated at 55 FR 6973, Feb. 28, 1990]

# Reports, Books, and Records
§ 1250.352
Reports.
Each handler subject to this subpart and other persons subject to section 7(c) of the act may be required to report to the Board periodically such information as is required by regulations and will effectuate the purposes of the act, which information may include but not be limited to the following:
(a) Number of cases of eggs handled;
(b) Number of cases of eggs on which an assessment was collected;
(c) Name and address of person from whom any assessment was collected; and
(d) Date collection of assessment was made on each case of eggs handled.
[40 FR 59190, Dec. 22, 1975. Redesignated at 55 FR 6973, Feb. 28, 1990]
§ 1250.353
Books and records.
Each handler subject to this subpart and persons subject to section 7(c) of the act shall maintain and make available for inspection by the Board or the Secretary such books and records as are necessary to carry out the provisions of the subpart and the regulations issued hereunder, including such records as are necessary to verify any reports required. Such records shall be retained for at least 2 years beyond the fiscal period of their applicability.
[40 FR 59190, Dec. 22, 1975. Redesignated at 55 FR 6973, Feb. 28, 1990]
§ 1250.354
Confidential treatment.
(a) All information obtained from such books, records, or reports shall be kept confidential by all officers and employees of the Department of Agriculture and the Board, and only such information so furnished or acquired as the Secretary deems relevant shall be disclosed by them, and then only in a suit or administrative hearing brought at the direction, or upon the request of the Secretary, or to which the Secretary or any officer of the United States is a party and involving this subpart. Nothing in this paragraph shall be deemed to prohibit (1) the issuance of general statements based upon the reports of the number of persons subject to this subpart or statistical data collected therefrom, which statements do not identify the information furnished by any person, (2) the publication, by direction of the Secretary, of general statements relating to refunds made by the Egg Board during any specific period of time, or (3) the publication, by direction of the Secretary, of the name of any person violating this subpart together with a statement of the particular provisions of this subpart violated by such person.
(b) All information with respect to refunds, except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, made to individual producers shall be kept confidential by all officers and employees of the Department of Agriculture and the Board.
[40 FR 59190, Dec. 22, 1975. Redesignated at 55 FR 6973, Feb. 28, 1990]

# Certification of Organizations
§ 1250.356
Certification of organizations.
Any organization may request the Secretary for certification of eligibility to participate in nominating members and alternate members on the Board to represent the geographic area in which the organization represents egg producers. Such eligibility shall be based in addition to other available information upon a factual report submitted by the organization which shall contain information deemed relevant and specified by the Secretary for the making of such determination, including, but not limited to, the following:
(a) Geographic territory covered by the organization's active membership;
(b) Nature and size of the organization's active membership, proportion of total of such active membership accounted for by producers of commercial eggs, a chart showing the egg production by State in which the organization has members, and the volume of commercial eggs produced by the organization's active membership in such State(s);
(c) The extent to which the commercial egg producer membership of such organization is represented in setting the organization's policies;
(d) Evidence of stability and permanency of the organization;
(e) Sources from which the organization's operating funds are derived;
(f) Functions of the organization; and
(g) The organization's ability and willingness to further the aims and objectives of the act.
The primary consideration in determining the eligibility of an organization shall be whether its egg producer membership consists of a substantial number of egg producers who produce a substantial volume of the applicable geographic area's commercial eggs to
reasonably warrant its participation in the nomination of members for the Board or to request the issuance of an order. The Secretary shall certify any organization which he finds to be eligible under this section and his determination as to eligibility shall be final.

# Miscellaneous
§ 1250.357
Suspension and termination.
(a) The Secretary shall, whenever he finds that this subpart or any provision thereof obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act, terminate or suspend the operation of this subpart or such provision.
(b) The Secretary may conduct a referendum at any time, and shall hold a referendum on request of 10 percent or more of the number of egg producers voting in the referendum approving this subpart, to determine whether egg producers favor the termination or suspension of this subpart, and the Secretary shall suspend or terminate such subpart at the end of 6 months after he determines that suspension or termination of the subpart is approved or favored by a majority of the egg producers voting in such referendum who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production of commercial eggs, and who produced more than 50 percent of the volume of eggs produced by the egg producers voting in the referendum.
§ 1250.358
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of this subpart the Board shall recommend not more than six of its members to the Secretary to serve as trustees for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Board. Such persons, upon designation by the Secretary, shall become trustees of all the funds and property then in the possession or under control of the Board, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered or any other claim existing at the time of such termination.
(b) The said trustees shall: (1) Continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary, (2) carry out the obligations of the Board under any contracts or agreements entered into by it pursuant to § 1250.336, (3) from time to time account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Board and of the trustees, to such person as the Secretary may direct, and (4) upon the request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such person full title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims vested in the Board or the trustees pursuant to this subpart.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered pursuant to this subpart shall be subject to the same obligation imposed upon the Board and upon the trustees.
(d) Any residual funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be turned over to the Secretary to be disposed of, to the extent practicable, in the interest of continuing one or more of the research or promotion programs hitherto authorized.
§ 1250.359
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any regulation issued pursuant hereto, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have risen or which may hereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or any regulation issued thereunder;
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or any regulation issued hereunder; or
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the United States, or of the Secretary, or of any person, with respect to any such violation.
§ 1250.360
[Reserved]
§ 1250.361
Right of the Secretary.
All fiscal matters, programs or projects, rules or regulations, reports, or other substantive action proposed
and prepared by the Board shall be submitted to the Secretary for his approval.
§ 1250.362
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed, from time to time, by the Board, or by an organization certified pursuant to section 16 of the act, or by any interested person affected by the provisions of the act, including the Secretary.
§ 1250.363
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid or the applicability thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart of the applicability thereof to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

# Subpart—Rules and Regulations

# Source:
41 FR 22925, June 8, 1976, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1250.500
Terms defined.
Unless otherwise defined in this subpart, definitions of terms used in this subpart shall be those definitions of terms defined in the Egg Research and Consumer Information Act, hereinafter called the Act, and the Egg Research and Promotion Order, hereinafter called the Order.
(a)
Act.
“Act” means the Egg Research and Consumer Information Act as it may be amended (Pub. L. 93-428).
(b)
Secretary.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture or any other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom there has heretofore been delegated, or to whom there may hereafter be delegated, the authority to act in his stead.
(c)
Egg Board or Board.
“Egg Board” or “Board” or other designatory term adopted by such Board, with the approval of the Secretary, means the administrative body established pursuant to § 1250.326.
(d)
Fiscal period.
“Fiscal period” means the calendar year unless the Egg Board, with the approval of the Secretary, selects some other budgetary period.
(e)
Egg producer or producer.
“Egg producer” or “producer” means any person who either:
(1) Is an egg farmer who acquires and owns laying hens, chicks, and/or started pullets for the purpose of and is engaged in the production of commercial eggs; or
(2) Is a person who supplied or supplies laying hens, chicks, and/or started pullets to an egg farmer for the purpose of producing commercial eggs pursuant to an oral or written contractual agreement for the production of commercial eggs. Such person is deemed to be the owner of such laying hens unless it is established in writing, to the satisfaction of the Secretary or the Egg Board, that actual ownership of the laying hens is in some other party to the contract. In the event the party to an oral contract who supplied or supplies the laying hens cannot be readily identified by the Secretary or the Egg Board, the person who has immediate possession and control over the laying hens at the egg production facility shall be deemed to be the owner of such hens unless written notice is provided to the Secretary or the Egg Board, signed by the parties to said oral contract, clearly stating that the eggs are being produced under a contractual agreement and identifying the party (or parties) under said contract who is the owner of the hens.
(f)
Commercial eggs or eggs.
“Commercial eggs” or “eggs” means eggs from domesticated chickens which are sold for human consumption either in shell egg form or for further processing into egg products.
(g)
Person.
“Person” means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other entity.
(h)
Handle.
“Handle” means to grade, carton, process, transport, purchase, or in any way place eggs or cause eggs to be placed in the current of commerce. Such term shall not include the washing, the packing in cases, or the delivery by the producer of his own nest run eggs.
(i)
Handler.
“Handler” means any person who receives or otherwise acquires eggs from an egg producer, and
processes, prepares for marketing, or markets such eggs, including eggs of his own production.
(j)
Egg products.
“Egg products” means products produced, in whole or in part, from eggs.
(k)
Cooperating agency.
“Cooperating agency” means any person with which the Egg Board has entered into an agreement pursuant to § 1250.517(c).
(l)
Case.
“Case” means the standard shipping package containing 30-dozen eggs or the equivalent thereof.
(m)
Plans and projects.
“Plans” and “projects” mean those research, consumer and producer education, advertising, marketing, product development, and promotion plans, studies, or projects pursuant to § 1250.341.
(n)
Representative of a producer.
“Representative of a producer” means the owner, officer, or an employee of a producer who has been duly authorized to act in the place and stead of the producer.
(o)
Hen or laying hen.
“Hen” or “laying hen” means a domesticated female chicken 20 weeks of age or over, raised primarily for the production of commercial eggs.
(p)
Hatching eggs.
“Hatching eggs” means eggs intended for use by hatcheries for the production of baby chicks.
(q)
United States.
“United States” means the 48 contiguous States of the United States of America and the District of Columbia.
(r)
Promotion.
“Promotion” means any action, including paid advertising, to advance the image or desirability of eggs, egg products, spent fowl, or products of spent fowl.
(s)
Research.
“Research” means any type of research to advance the image, desirability, marketability, production, or quality of eggs, egg products, spent fowl, or products of spent fowl, or the evaluation of such research.
(t)
Consumer education.
“Consumer education” means any action to advance the image or desirability of eggs, egg products, spent fowl, or products of spent fowl.
(u)
Marketing.
“Marketing” means the sale or other disposition of commercial eggs, egg products, spent fowl, or products of spent fowl, in any channel of commerce.
(v)
Commerce.
“Commerce” means interstate, foreign, or intrastate commerce.
(w)
Spent fowl.
“Spent fowl” means hens which have been in production of commercial eggs and have been removed from such production for slaughter.
(x)
Products of spent fowl.
“Products of spent fowl” means commercial products produced from spent fowl.
(y)
Started pullet.
“Started pullet” means a hen less than 20 weeks of age.
(z)
Shell egg packer.
“Shell egg packer” means any person grading eggs into their various qualities.
(aa)
Egg breaker.
“Egg breaker” means any person subject to the Egg Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 1031
et seq.
) engaged in the breaking of shell eggs or otherwise involved in preparing shell eggs for use as egg products.
(bb)
Nest run eggs.
“Nest run eggs” means eggs which are packed as they come from the production facilities without having been sized and/or candled with the exception that some checks, dirties, or obvious undergrades may have been removed and provided further that the eggs may have been washed.

# OMB Control Numbers Assigned Pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act
§ 1250.501
OMB control numbers assigned pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act.
(a)
Purpose.
This section collects and displays the control numbers assigned to information collection requirements by the Office of Management and Budget contained in 7 CFR part 1250 pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96-511.
(b)
Display.
7 CFR section where identified and described
Current OMB control number
Sec.:
1250.523
0581-0098
1250.528
0581-0098
1250.529
0581-0098
1250.530
0581-0098
1250.535
0581-0098
(Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627) and Egg Research and Consumer Information Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2701-2718))
[48 FR 56566, Dec. 22, 1983]

# General
§ 1250.505
Communications.
Communications in connection with the Order shall be addressed to the Egg Board at its business address.
§ 1250.506
Policy and objective.
(a) It shall be the policy of the Egg Board to carry out an effective and continuous coordinated program of research, consumer and producer education, advertising, and promotion designed to strengthen the egg industry's position in the marketplace, and maintain and expand domestic and foreign markets and uses for eggs, egg products, spent fowl, and products of spent fowl of the United States.
(b) It shall be the objective of the Egg Board to carry out programs and projects which will provide maximum benefit to the egg industry and no undue preference shall be given to any of the various industry segments.
§ 1250.507
Contracts.
The Egg Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may enter into contracts with persons for the development and submission to it of plans or projects authorized by the Order and for carrying out of such plans or projects. Contractors shall agree to comply with the provisions of the Order, this subpart, and applicable provisions of the U.S. Code relative to contracting with the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Subcontractors who enter into contracts or agreements with a primary contractor and who receive or otherwise utilize funds allocated by the Egg Board shall be subject to the provisions of this subpart.
§ 1250.508
Procedure.
The organization of the Egg Board and the procedure for conducting meetings of the Board shall be in accordance with the By-Laws of the Board.
§ 1250.509
USDA costs.
Pursuant to § 1250.347 of the Order, the Board shall pay those administrative costs incurred by the U.S. Department of Agriculture for the conduct of its duties under the Order as determined periodically by the Secretary. Payment shall be due promptly after the billing for such costs.
§ 1250.510
Determination of Board Membership.
(a) Pursuant to § 1250.328 (d) and (e), the 48 contiguous States of the United States shall be grouped into three geographic areas, as follows: Area 1 (East)—Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia, the District of Columbia, Alabama, Georgia, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Texas; Area 2 (Central)—Arkansas, Oklahoma, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Missouri, Ohio, Tennessee, and Wisconsin; Area 3 (West)—Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming.
(b) Board representation among the three geographic areas is apportioned to reflect the percentages of United States egg production in each area times 18 (total Board membership). The distribution of members of the Board is: Area 1-6, Area 2-6, and Area 3-6. Each member will have an alternate appointed from the same area.
[85 FR 62945, Oct. 6, 2020]

# Assessments, Collections, and Remittances
§ 1250.514
Levy of assessments.
An assessment rate of 10 cents per case of commercial eggs is levied on each case of commercial eggs handled for the account of each producer. Each case of commercial eggs shall be subject to assessment only once. Producers meeting the requirements of
§ 1250.348 are exempt from the provisions of the Act including this section.
[55 FR 6974, Feb. 28, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 64560, Dec. 15, 1994]
§ 1250.515
Reporting period and payment.
(a) For the purpose of the payment of assessments, either a calendar month or a 4-week accounting period shall be considered the reporting period; however, other accounting periods may be used when approved by the Board on an individual basis. Each collecting handler shall register his reporting period with the Board. All changes in reporting periods shall be requested in writing and subject to approval by the Board.
(b) Each producer shall pay the required assessment on his commercial eggs pursuant to § 1250.514 to the collecting handler designated in § 1250.516 on or before the date of final settlement between the producer and the collecting handler for the eggs received by the collecting handler during each reporting period.
§ 1250.516
Collecting handlers and collection.
(a) Handlers responsible for collecting the assessments shall be any of the following:
(1) The first person to whom eggs are sold, consigned, or delivered by producers and who grades, cartons, or breaks such eggs. Such shell egg breaker or egg packer must collect and remit to the Board the assessments on all eggs handled except eggs for which there is a certification of exemption or eggs for which there is a statement indicating that an assessment has already been paid;
(2) A person who buys or receives nest run eggs from a producer and who does not grade, carton, or break such eggs. Such person shall collect the assessment from the producer and remit to the Egg Board on all such eggs, except for which there is a certification of exemption or eggs for which there is a statement indicating that an assessment has already been paid;
(3) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, a producer who grades, cartons, or breaks eggs of his own production shall be responsible for remitting the assessment to the Board on all eggs produced. This would include the eggs which he grades, cartons, or breaks as well as the nest run eggs which are graded, cartoned, or broken by another handler. Such a producer who remits the assessment on nest run eggs to the Board shall provide the handler specified in paragraph (a) (1) or (2) of this section with a written statement that the assessment has already been paid on the nest run eggs; or
(4) Upon approval of the Board, any person who handles eggs for a producer under a written contract that includes express provisions that said handler will remit the assessment on such eggs to the Board shall be the collecting handler notwithstanding the fact that the producer may have graded, cartoned, or otherwise processed the eggs.
Following are some examples to aid in identification of collecting handlers:
(i) Producer sells, assigns, consigns, or otherwise delivers nest run eggs of his own production to a shell egg packer or breaker for preparation for market—the shell egg packer or breaker is the collecting handler and is responsible for remitting to the Egg Board;
(ii) Producer grades, cartons, breaks, or otherwise prepares for marketing a portion of the eggs of his own production and delivers the remaining portion of his nest run eggs to a shell egg packer or breaker—the producer is the collecting handler and shall remit the assessment on his total production to the Board;
(iii) Producer sells all or a portion of his eggs in nest run form to a handler who is not a shell egg packer or breaker—the handler is responsible for collecting the assessment and remitting it to the Egg Board except for eggs covered by a statement indicating that an assessment has already been paid;
(iv) A shell egg packer or breaker who buys or receives nest run eggs from a handler who is not a shell egg packer or breaker—the handler is the collecting handler and shall remit such assessment to the Board;
(v) A shell egg packer or egg breaker buys nest run or graded eggs including undergrade eggs from another shell egg packer or egg breaker—the first shell
egg packer or breaker is the collecting handler and shall remit such assessments to the Board.
(b) In the event of a producer's death, bankruptcy, receivership, or incapacity to act, the representative of the producer or his estate, or the person acting on behalf of creditors, shall be considered the producer of the eggs for the purpose of this subpart.
(c) The collecting handler may collect the assessment directly from the producer or deduct the assessment from the proceeds due or paid to the producer on whose eggs the assessment is made.
[41 FR 22925, June 8, 1976, as amended at 42 FR 60724, Nov. 29, 1977]
§ 1250.517
Remittance to Egg Board.
(a) The collecting handler responsible for remittance of assessments to the Board is not relieved of this obligation as a result of his failure to collect payment of the assessment from the egg producer(s).
(b) Each collecting handler required to remit the assessments on the eggs handled during each reporting period, specified in § 1250.515(a), shall remit the assessments directly to the Egg Board by check, draft, or money order payable to the Egg Board on or before the 15th day after the end of said reporting period together with a report pursuant to § 1250.529. The assessment for each reporting period shall be calculated on the basis of the gross volume of eggs subject to assessment received by the collecting handler during each reporting period.
(c) Remittance through cooperating agency.
(1) In any State or specified geographic area the Egg Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may designate by agreement a cooperating agency to collect the assessments in its behalf. Every collecting handler within such a State or geographic area shall remit the assessments for each reporting period, specified in § 1250.515(a), to the designated cooperating agency by check, draft, or money order payable to said cooperating agency on or before the 15th day after the end of said reporting period together with a report pursuant to § 1250.529.
(2) On or before the 20th day after the end of each reporting period, each designated cooperating agency shall remit to the Egg Board the total amount of all assessments received from collecting handlers for said reporting period together with all collecting handler reports. In addition, each designated cooperating agency shall submit to the Egg Board such information as is required by the designation agreement with the Egg Board.
§ 1250.518
Receipts for payment of assessments.
(a) Each collecting handler shall give each producer whose eggs are subject to assessment a receipt for the commercial eggs handled by said collecting handler showing payment of the assessment. This receipt may be on a separate receipt form or included as part of the invoice or settlement sheet for the eggs, but in either event shall contain the following information:
(1) Name, address, and identification number of the collecting handler;
(2) Name and address of the producer who paid the assessment;
(3) Number of cases of eggs on which assessment was paid and the total amount of the assessment; and
(4) Date on which assessment was paid by producer.
(b) All eggs sold, consigned, or delivered from a collecting handler to another handler, excluding cartoned eggs and loose graded eggs sold to the bakeries, restaurants, and institutions, shall be accompanied with the collecting handler's written statement that the assessment on the lot of eggs covered by the invoice has been paid or that lot of eggs or portion thereof is exempt from assessment under provisions of § 1250.514.
§ 1250.519
Late-payment charge.
Any unpaid assessments due to the Board pursuant to § 1250.347 shall be increased by a late-payment charge of 1.5 percent each month beginning with the day following the date such assessments are 30 days past due. Any remaining amount due, which shall include any unpaid charges previously made pursuant to this section, shall be
increased at the same rate on the corresponding day of each month thereafter until paid. Assessments that are not paid when due because of a person's failure to submit a handler report to the Board as required shall accrue late-payment charges from the time such assessments should have been remitted. The timeliness of a payment to the Board shall be based on the applicable postmark date or the date payment is actually received by the Board, whichever is earlier.
[58 FR 34697, June 29, 1993]

# Registration, Certification and Reports
§ 1250.528
Registration of collecting handlers.
All collecting handlers shall, prior to August 1, 1976, register with the Egg Board by filing a registration statement. Registered collecting handlers will receive an identification number which must appear on all required reports and official communications with the Egg Board. New businesses subject to this subpart beginning after August 1, 1976, shall register with the Egg Board within 30 days following the beginning of operations. The statement of registration shall include:
(a) Name and complete address of the collecting handler;
(b) Name of individual(s) responsible for filing reports with the Egg Board; and
(c) Type of reporting period desired.
§ 1250.529
Reports.
(a)
Collecting handler reports.
(1) Each collecting handler shall make reports on forms made available or approved by the Egg Board. Each collecting handler shall prepare a separate report form each reporting period. Each report shall be mailed to the Egg Board within 15 days after the close of the reporting period and shall contain the following information:
(i) Date of report;
(ii) Reporting period covered by the report;
(iii) Name and address of collecting handler and identification number;
(iv) Total number of cases of eggs handled, total number of cases of eggs subject to collection of assessment, total number of cases of eggs exempt under § 1250.514 from collection of assessment, total number of cases of imported eggs handled, and total number of cases of eggs received from another handler and on which an assessment was already collected;
(v) The names and addresses of producers subject to assessment supplying eggs to the handlers and number of cases of eggs received from each producer;
(vi) Total amount of assessment due for eggs handled during the reporting period and remitted with the report; and
(vii) Such other information as may be required by the Board.
(2) Collecting handler reports shall be filed each reporting period following registration until such time as the Egg Board is notified in writing that the collecting handler has ceased to do business. During reporting periods in which the collecting handler does not handle any eggs, his report form shall state “No Eggs Handled.”
(b) The Egg Board may require all persons subject to section 7(c) of the Act to make reports as needed for the enforcement and administration of the Order and as approved by the Secretary.
§ 1250.530
Certification of exempt producers.
(a)
Number of laying hens.
Egg producers not subject to the provisions of the Act pursuant to § 1250.348 shall file with all handlers to whom they sell eggs a statement certifying their exemption from the provisions of the Act in accordance with the criterion of § 1250.348. Certification shall be made on forms approved and provided by the Egg Board to collecting handlers for use by exempt producers. The certification form shall be filed with each handler on or before January 1 of each year as long as the producer continues to do business with the handler. A copy of the certificate of exemption shall be forwarded to the Egg Board by the handler within 30 days of receipt. The certification shall list the following: the name and address of the producer, the basis for producer exemption according to the requirements of § 1250.348, and the signature of the producer.
(b)
Organic Production.
(1) A producer who operates under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic production system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:
(i) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) are eligible for exemption;
(ii) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products of a producer regardless of whether the agricultural commodity subject to the exemption is produced by a person that also produces conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;
(iii) The producer maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522)(OFPA) and the NOP regulations issued under OFPA (7 CFR part 205); and
(iv) Any producer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(2) To apply for exemption under this section, a producer shall submit a request to the Board on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time during the year initially, and annually thereafter on or before January 1, for as long the producer continues to be eligible for the exemption.
(3) A producer request for exemption shall include the following:
(i) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;
(ii) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid certificate of organic operation issued under the OFPA and the NOP;
(iii) Certification that the applicant produces organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;
(iv) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent under the OFPA and the NOP;
(v) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and
(vi) Such other information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.
(4) If a producer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant an assessment exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the producer within 30 days. If the application is disapproved, the Board will notify the applicant of the reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe.
(5) The producer shall provide a copy of the Certificate of Exemption to each handler to whom the producer sells eggs. The handler shall maintain records showing the exempt producer's name and address and the exemption number assigned by the Board.
(6) The exemption will apply at the first reporting period following the issuance of the Certificate of Exemption.
(c) If the exempt producer no longer qualifies for an exemption as specified in § 1250.348 or 1250.530(b), that producer shall notify, within 10 days, all handlers with whom the producer has filed a Certificate of Exemption.
[70 FR 2761, Jan. 14, 2005, as amended at 80 FR 82034, Dec. 31, 2015]

# Records
§ 1250.535
Retention of records.
(a) Each person required to make reports pursuant to this subpart shall maintain and retain for at least 2 years beyond the fiscal period of their applicability:
(1) One copy of each report submitted to the Egg Board;
(2) Records of all exempt producers including certification of exemption as necessary to verify the address of each exempt producer; and
(3) Such other records as are necessary to verify reports submitted to the Egg Board.
(b) Egg producers subject to § 1250.514 shall maintain and retain for at least 2 years beyond the period of their applicability:
(1) Receipts, or copies thereof, for payment of assessments; and
(2) Such records as are necessary to verify monthly levels of egg production.
§ 1250.536
Availability of records.
Each handler and egg producer subject to this subpart and all persons subject to section 7(c) of the Act shall make available for inspection and copying by authorized employees of the Egg Board and/or the Secretary during regular business hours, such information as is appropriate and necessary to verify compliance with this subpart.
§ 1250.537
Confidentiality.
All information obtained by officers and employees of the Department of Agriculture, the Egg Board, or any person under contract by the Egg Board or otherwise acting on behalf of the Egg Board from the books, records, and reports of persons subject to this subpart, and all information with respect to refunds of assessments made to individual producers, shall be kept confidential in the manner and to the extent provided in § 1250.353 of the Order.

# Patents, Copyrights, Trademarks, and Information
§ 1250.542
Patents, Copyrights, Inventions, Trademarks, Information, Publications, and Product Formulations.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any patents, copyrights, inventions, trademarks, information, publications, or product formulations developed through the use of funds collected by the Board under the provisions of this subpart shall be the property of the U.S. Government, as represented by the Board, and shall, along with any rents, royalties, residual payments, or other income from the rental, sales, leasing, franchising, or other uses of such patents, copyrights, inventions, trademarks, information, publications, or product formulations, inure to the benefit of the Board; shall be considered income subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board; and may be licensed subject to approval by the Secretary. Upon termination of this subpart, § 1250.358 shall apply to determine disposition of all such property.
(b) Should patents, copyrights, inventions, trademarks, information, publications, or product formulations be developed through the use of funds collected by the Board under this subpart and funds contributed by another organization or person, the ownership and related rights to such patents, copyrights, inventions, trademarks, information, publications, or product formulations shall be determined by an agreement between the Board and the party contributing funds towards the development of such patents, copyrights, inventions, trademarks, information, publications, or product formulations in a manner consistent with paragraph (a) of this section.
[81 FR 90186, Dec. 14, 2016]

# Personal Liability
§ 1250.547
Personal liability.
No member, alternate member, employee, or agent of the Board in the performance of his duties with the Board shall be held personally responsible either individually or jointly with others, in anyway whatsoever, to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, by such member, alternate member, employee, or agent, except for acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct.
Pt. 1260

# PART 1260—BEEF PROMOTION AND RESEARCH

# Subpart A—Beef Promotion and Research Order

# Definitions
Sec.
1260.101
Department.
1260.102
Secretary.
1260.103
Board.
1260.104
Committee.
1260.105
Person.
1260.106
Collecting person.
1260.107
State.
1260.108
United States.
1260.109
Unit.
1260.110
[Reserved]
1260.111
Fiscal year.
1260.112
Federation.
1260.113
Established national nonprofit industry-governed organizations.
1260.114
Eligible organization.
1260.115
Qualified State beef council.
1260.116
Producer.
1260.117
Importer.
1260.118
Cattle.
1260.119
Beef.
1260.120
Beef products.
1260.121
Imported beef or beef products.
1260.122
Promotion.
1260.123
Research.
1260.124
Consumer information.
1260.125
Industry information.
1260.126
Plans and projects.
1260.127
Marketing.
1260.128
Act.
1260.129
Customs Service.
1260.130
Part and subpart.

# Cattlemen's Beef Promotion and Research Board
1260.141
Membership of Board.
1260.142
Term of office.
1260.143
Nominations.
1260.144
Nominee's agreement to serve.
1260.145
Appointment.
1260.146
Vacancies.
1260.147
Procedure.
1260.148
Compensation and reimbursement.
1260.149
Powers of the Board.
1260.150
Duties of the Board.
1260.151
Expenses.

# Beef Promotion Operating Committee
1260.161
Establishment and membership.
1260.162
Term of office.
1260.163
Vacancies.
1260.164
Procedure.
1260.165
Compensation and reimbursement.
1260.166
Officers of the Committee.
1260.167
Powers of the Committee.
1260.168
Duties of the Committee.
1260.169
Promotion, research, consumer information and industry information.

# Assessments
1260.172
Assessments.
1260.173-1260.174
[Reserved]
1260.175
Late-payment charge.
1260.176
Adjustment of accounts.
1260.181
Qualified State Beef Councils.

# Reports, Books and Records
1260.201
Reports.
1260.202
Books and records.
1260.203
Confidential treatment.

# Miscellaneous
1260.211
Proceedings after termination.
1260.212
Effect of termination or amendment.
1260.213
Removal.
1260.214
Personal liability.
1260.215
Patents, copyrights, inventions and publications.
1260.216
Amendments.
1260.217
Separability.

# Subpart B—Rules and Regulations
1260.301
Terms defined.
1260.302
Organic exemption.
1260.310
Domestic assessments.
1260.311
Collecting persons for purposes of collection of assessments.
1260.312
Remittance to the Cattlemen's Board or Qualified State Beef Council.
1260.313
Document evidencing payment of assessments.
1260.314
Certification of non-producer status for certain transactions.
1260.315
Qualified State Beef Councils.
1260.316
Paperwork Reduction Act assigned number.
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Beef Promotion and Research: Certification and Nomination Procedures for the Cattlemen's Beef Promotion and Research Board
1260.500
General.
1260.510
Definitions.
1260.520
Responsibility for administration of regulations.
1260.530
Certification of eligibility.
1260.540
Application for certification.
1260.550
Verification of information.
1260.560
Review of certification.
1260.570
Notification of certification and the listing of certified organizations.
1260.580-1260.600
[Reserved]
1260.610
Acceptance of appointment.
1260.620
Confidential treatment of information.
1260.630
Paperwork Reduction Act assigned number.
1260.640
Application for Certification Form.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2901-2911 and 7 U.S.C. 7401.

# Subpart A—Beef Promotion and Research Order

# Source:
51 FR 26138, July 18, 1986, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1260.101
Department.
Department
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
§ 1260.102
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or any other officer or employee of the Department to whom there has heretofore
been delegated, or to whom there may hereafter be delegated, the authority to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1260.103
Board.
Board
means the Cattlemen's Beef Promotion and Research Board established pursuant to the Act and this subpart.
§ 1260.104
Committee.
Committee
means the Beef Promotion Operating Committee established pursuant to the Act and this subpart.
§ 1260.105
Person.
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other entity.
§ 1260.106
Collecting person.
Collecting person
means the person making payment to a producer for cattle, or any other person who is responsible for collecting and remitting an assessment pursuant to the Act, the order and regulations prescribed by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
§ 1260.107
State.
State
means each of the 50 States.
§ 1260.108
United States.
United States
means the 50 States and the District of Columbia.
§ 1260.109
Unit.
Unit
means each State, group of States or class designation which is represented on the Board.
§ 1260.110
[Reserved]
§ 1260.111
Fiscal year.
Fiscal year
means the calendar year or such other annual period as the Board may determine.
§ 1260.112
Federation.
Federation
means the Beef Industry Council of the National Live Stock and Meat Board, or any successor organization to the Beef Industry Council, which includes as its State affiliates the qualified State beef councils.
§ 1260.113
Established national nonprofit industry-governed organizations.
Established national nonprofit industry-governed organizations
means organizations which:
(a) Are nonprofit organizations pursuant to sections 501(c) (3), (5) or (6) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c) (3), (5) and (6));
(b) Are governed by a board of directors representing the cattle or beef industry on a national basis; and
(c) Have been active and ongoing for at least two years.
[51 FR 26138, July 18, 1986, as amended at 77 FR 52599, Aug. 30, 2012]
§ 1260.114
Eligible organization.
Eligible organization
means any organization which has been certified by the Secretary pursuant to the Act and this part as being eligible to submit nominations for membership on the Board.
§ 1260.115
Qualified State beef council.
Qualified State beef council
means a beef promotion entity that is authorized by State statute or a beef promotion entity organized and operating within a State that receives voluntary assessments or contributions; conducts beef promotion, research, and consumer and industry information programs; and that is certified by the Board pursuant to this subpart as the beef promotion entity in such State.
§ 1260.116
Producer.
Producer
means any person who owns or acquires ownership of cattle; provided, however, that a person shall not be considered a producer within the meaning of this subpart if (a) the person's only share in the proceeds of a sale of cattle or beef is a sales commission, handling fee, or other service fee; or (b) the person (1) acquired ownership of cattle to facilitate the transfer of ownership of such cattle from the seller to a third party, (2) resold such cattle no later than ten (10) days from the date on which the person acquired ownership, and (3) certified, as required by regulations prescribed by the Board and approved by the Secretary, that
the requirements of this provision have been satisfied.
§ 1260.117
Importer.
Importer
means any person who imports cattle, beef, or beef products from outside the United States.
§ 1260.118
Cattle.
Cattle
means live domesticated bovine animals regardless of age.
§ 1260.119
Beef.
Beef
means flesh of cattle.
§ 1260.120
Beef products.
Beef products
means edible products produced in whole or in part from beef, exclusive of milk and products made therefrom.
§ 1260.121
Imported beef or beef products
Imported beef or beef products
means products which are imported into the United States which the Secretary determines contain a substantial amount of beef including those products which have been assigned one or more numbers in the Tariff Schedule of the United States.
[82 FR 24456, May 30, 2017]
§ 1260.122
Promotion.
Promotion
means any action, including paid advertising, to advance the image and desirability of beef and beef products with the express intent of improving the competitive position and stimulating sales of beef and beef products in the marketplace.
§ 1260.123
Research.
Research
means studies relative to the effectiveness of market development and promotion efforts, studies relating to the nutritional value of beef and beef products, other related food science research, and new product development.
§ 1260.124
Consumer information.
Consumer information
means nutritional data and other information that will assist consumers and other persons in making evaluations and decisions regarding the purchasing, preparing, and use of beef and beef products.
§ 1260.125
Industry information.
Industry information
means information and programs that will lead to the development of new markets, marketing strategies, increased efficiency, and activities to enhance the image of the cattle industry.
§ 1260.126
Plans and projects.
Plans and projects
means promotion, research, consumer information and industry information plans, studies or projects conducted pursuant to this subpart.
§ 1260.127
Marketing.
Marketing
means the sale or other disposition in commerce of cattle, beef or beef products.
§ 1260.128
Act.
Act
means the Beef Promotion and Research Act of 1985, Title XVI, Subtitle A of the Food Security Act of 1985, Pub. L. 99-198 and any amendments thereto.
§ 1260.129
Customs Service.
Customs Service
means the United States Customs and Border Protection of the United States Department of Homeland Security.
[79 FR 46963, Aug. 12, 2014]
§ 1260.130
Part and subpart.
Part
means the Beef Promotion and Research Order and all rules and regulations issued pursuant to the Act and the order, and the order itself shall be a “subpart” of such part.

# Cattlemen's Beef Promotion and Research Board
§ 1260.141
Membership of Board.
(a) Beginning with the 2023 Board nominations and the associated appointments effective early in the year 2024, the United States shall be divided into 38 geographical units and 1 unit representing importers, for a total of 39 units. The number of Board members from each unit shall be as follows:
Table 1 to Paragraph (
a
)—Cattle and Calves
1
State/unit
(1,000 head)
Directors
1. Alabama
1,285
1
2. Arizona
967
1
3. Arkansas
1,733
2
4. Colorado
2,700
3
5. Florida
1,670
2
6. Georgia
1,077
1
7. Idaho
2,507
3
8. Illinois
1,047
1
9. Indiana
833
1
10. Iowa
3,800
4
11. Kansas
6,483
6
12. Kentucky
2,073
2
13. Louisiana
777
1
14. Michigan
1,137
1
15. Minnesota
2,203
2
16. Mississippi
917
1
17. Missouri
4,217
4
18. Montana
2,383
2
19. Nebraska
6,800
7
20. New Mexico
1,373
1
21. New York
1,433
1
22. North Carolina
798
1
23. North Dakota
1,893
2
24. Ohio
1,283
1
25. Oklahoma
5,217
5
26. Oregon
1,260
1
27. Pennsylvania
1,430
1
28. South Dakota
3,900
4
29. Tennessee
1,783
2
30. Texas
12,900
13
31. Utah
803
1
32. Virginia
1,410
1
33. Wisconsin
3,467
3
34. Wyoming
1,290
1
35. Northwest Unit:
Alaska
17
Hawaii
142
Washington
1,157
Total
1,316
36. Northeast Unit:
Connecticut
48
Delaware
13
Maine
77
Maryland
174
Massachusetts
36
New Hampshire
32
New Jersey
26
Rhode Island
4
Vermont
248
Total
658
1
37. Mid-Atlantic Unit:
South Carolina
327
West Virginia
380
Total
707
1
38. Southwest Unit:
California
5,167
Nevada
465
Total
5,632
6
39. Importers Unit
2
7,466
7
1
2020, 2021, and 2022 average of January 1 cattle inventory data.
2
2019, 2020, and 2021 average of annual import data.
(b) The Board shall be composed of cattle producers and importers appointed by the Secretary from nominations submitted pursuant to the Act
and regulations of this part. A producer may only be nominated to represent the unit in which that producer is a resident.
(c) At least every three (3) years, and not more than every two (2) years, the Board shall review the geographic distribution of cattle inventories throughout the United States and the volume of imported cattle, beef, and beef products and, if warranted, shall reapportion units and/or modify the number of Board members from units in order to best reflect the geographic distribution of cattle production volume in the United States and the volume of imported cattle, beef, or beef products into the United States.
(d) The Board may recommend to the Secretary a modification in the number of cattle per unit necessary for representation on the Board.
(e) The following formula will be used to determine the number of Board members who shall serve on the Board for each unit:
(1) Each geographic unit or State that includes a total cattle inventory equal to or greater than five hundred thousand (500,000) head of cattle shall be entitled to one representative on the Board;
(2) States which do not have total cattle inventories equal to or greater than five hundred thousand (500,000) head of cattle shall be grouped, to the extent practicable, into geographically contiguous units each of which have a combined total inventory of not less than 500,000 head of cattle and such unit(s) shall be entitled to at least one representative on the Board;
(3) Importers shall be represented by a single unit, with the number of Board members representing such unit based upon a conversion of the total volume of imported cattle, beef or beef products into live animal equivalencies;
(4) Each unit shall be entitled to representation by an additional Board member for each one million (1,000,000) head of cattle within the unit which exceeds the initial five hundred thousand (500,000) head of cattle within the unit qualifying such unit for representation.
(f) In determining the volume of cattle within the units, the Board and the Secretary shall utilize the information received by the Board pursuant to §§ 1260.201 and 1260.202 industry data and data published by the Department.
[51 FR 26138, July 18, 1986, as amended at 55 FR 20445, May 17, 1990; 58 FR 12999, Mar. 9, 1993; 60 FR 62020, Dec. 4, 1995; 64 FR 3815, Jan. 26, 1999; 67 FR 11412, Mar. 14, 2002; 70 FR 7005, Feb. 10, 2005; 73 FR 60098, Oct. 10, 2008; 76 FR 42014, July 19, 2011; 79 FR 46963, Aug. 12, 2014; 82 FR 27612, June 16, 2017; 85 FR 39463, July 1, 2020; 88 FR 76100, Nov. 6, 2023]
§ 1260.142
Term of office.
(a) The members of the Board shall serve for terms of three (3) years, except that the members appointed to the initial Board shall serve, proportionately, for terms of 1, 2, and 3 years. To the extent practicable, the terms of Board members from the same unit shall be staggered for the initial Board.
(b) Each member shall continue to serve until a successor is appointed by the Secretary.
(c) No member shall serve more than two consecutive 3-year terms in such capacity.
§ 1260.143
Nominations.
All nominations authorized under this section shall be made in the following manner:
(a) Nominations shall be obtained by the Secretary from eligible organizations. An eligible organization shall only submit nominations for positions on the Board representing units in which such eligible organization can establish that it is certified as an eligible organization to submit nominations for that unit. If the Secretary determines that a unit is not represented by an eligible organization, then the Secretary may solicit nominations from organizations, and producers residing in that unit.
(b) Nominations for representation of the importer unit may be submitted by—
(1) Organizations which represent importers of cattle, beef or beef products, as determined by the Secretary, or
(2) Individual importers of cattle, beef or beef products. Individual importers submitting nominations for representation of the importer unit must establish to the satisfaction of
the Secretary that the persons submitting the nominations are importers of cattle, beef or beef products.
(c) After the establishment of the initial Board, the Department shall announce when a vacancy does or will exist. Nominations for subsequent Board members shall be submitted to the Secretary not less than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the terms of the members whose terms are expiring, in the manner as described in this section. In the case of vacancies due to reasons other than the expiration of a term of office, successor Board members shall be appointed pursuant to § 1260.146.
(d) Where there is more than one eligible organization representing producers in a unit, they may caucus and jointly nominate two qualified persons for each position representing that unit on the Board for which a member is to be appointed. If joint agreement is not reached with respect to any such nominations, or if no caucus is held, each eligible organization may submit to the Secretary two nominees for each appointment to be made to represent that unit.
§ 1260.144
Nominee's agreement to serve.
Any producer or importer nominated to serve on the Board shall file with the Secretary at the time of the nomination a written agreement to:
(a) Serve on the Board if appointed; and
(b) Disclose any relationship with any beef promotion entity or with any organization that has or is being considered for a contractual relationship with the Board.
§ 1260.145
Appointment.
(a) From the nominations made pursuant to § 1260.143, the Secretary shall appoint the members of the Board on the basis of representation provided for in § 1260.141.
(b) Producers or importers serving on the Federation Board of Directors shall not be eligible for appointment to serve on the Board for a concurrent term.
§ 1260.146
Vacancies.
To fill any vacancy occasioned by the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any member of the Board, the Secretary shall request that nominations for a successor for the vacancy be submitted by the eligible organization(s) representing producers or importers of the unit represented by the vacancy. If no eligible organization(s) represents producers or importers in such unit, then the Secretary shall determine the manner in which nominations for the vacancy are submitted.
§ 1260.147
Procedure.
(a) At a properly convened meeting of the Board, a majority of the members shall constitute a quorum, and any action of the Board at such a meeting shall require the concurring votes of at least a majority of those present at such meeting. The Board shall establish rules concerning timely notice of meetings.
(b) When in the opinion of the chairperson of the Board emergency action is considered necessary, and in lieu of a properly convened meeting, the Board may take action upon the concurring votes of a majority of its members by mail, telephone, or telegraph, but any such action by telephone shall be confirmed promptly in writing. In the event that such action is taken, all members must be notified and provided the opportunity to vote. Any action so taken shall have the same force as though such action had been taken at a regular or special meeting of the Board.
§ 1260.148
Compensation and reimbursement.
The members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for necessary and reasonable expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties under this subpart.
§ 1260.149
Powers of the Board.
The Board shall have the following powers:
(a) To administer the provisions of this subpart in accordance with its terms and provisions;
(b) To make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of this subpart;
(c) To receive or initiate, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of the provisions of this subpart;
(d) To adopt such rules for the conduct of its business as it may deem advisable;
(e) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this subpart; and
(f) With the approval of the Secretary, to invest, pending disbursement pursuant to a plan or project, funds collected through assessments authorized under § 1260.172, in, and only in, obligations of the United States or any agency thereof, in general obligations of any State or any political subdivision thereof, in any interest-bearing account or certificate of deposit of a bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System, or in obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States.
§ 1260.150
Duties of the Board.
The Board shall have the following duties:
(a) To meet not less than annually, and to organize and select from among its members a chairperson, a vice-chairperson and a treasurer and such other officers as may be necessary;
(b) To elect from its members an Executive Committee of no more than 11 and no less than 9 members, whose membership shall, to the extent practicable, reflect the geographic distribution of cattle numbers or their equivalent. The vice-chairperson of the Board shall serve as chairperson of the Executive Committee and the chairperson and the treasurer of the Board shall serve as members of the Executive Committee;
(c) To delegate to the Executive Committee the authority to administer the terms and provisions of this subpart under the direction of the Board and within the policies determined by the Board;
(d) To elect from its members 10 representatives to the Beef Promotion Operating Committee which shall be composed of 10 members from the Board and 10 members elected by the Federation;
(e) To utilize the resources, personnel, and facilities of established national nonprofit industry-governed organizations;
(f) To review and, if approved, submit to the Secretary for approval, budgets prepared by the Beef Promotion Operating Committee on a fiscal period basis of the Committee's anticipated expenses and disbursements in the administration of the Committee's responsibilities, including probable costs of promotion, research, and consumer information and industry information plans or projects, and also including a general description of the proposed promotion, research, consumer information and industry information programs contemplated therein;
(g) To prepare and submit to the Secretary for approval budgets on a fiscal period basis of the Board's overall anticipated expenses and disbursements, including the Committee's anticipated expenses and disbursements, in the administration of this subpart;
(h) To maintain such books and records, which shall be available to the Secretary for inspection and audit, and to prepare and submit such reports from time to time to the Secretary, as the Secretary may prescribe, and to make appropriate accounting with respect to the receipt and disbursement of all funds entrusted to it;
(i)-(j) [Reserved]
(k) To prepare and make public, at least annually, a report of its activities carried out and an accounting for funds received and expended;
(l) To cause its books to be audited by a certified public accountant at least once each fiscal period and at such other times as the Secretary may request, and submit a copy of each such audit to the Secretary;
(m) To give the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the Board as is given to members in order that the Secretary, or his representative may attend such meetings;
(n) To review applications submitted by State beef promotion organizations pursuant to § 1260.181 and to make determinations with regard to such applications;
(o) To submit to the Secretary such information pursuant to this subpart as may be requested; and
(p) To encourage the coordination of programs of promotion, research, consumer information and industry information designed to strengthen the beef industry's position in the marketplace and to maintain and expand domestic and foreign markets and uses for beef and beef products.
[51 FR 26138, July 18, 1986, as amended at 60 FR 58502, Nov. 28, 1995]
§ 1260.151
Expenses.
(a) The Board is authorized to incur such expenses (including provision for a reasonable reserve), as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the board for its maintenance and functioning and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with this subpart. Administrative expenses incurred by the board shall not exceed 5 percent of the projected revenue of that fiscal period. Expenses authorized in this paragraph shall be paid from assessments collected pursuant to § 1260.172.
(b) The Board shall reimburse the Secretary, from assessments collected pursuant to § 1260.172, for administrative costs incurred by the Department to carry out its responsibilities pursuant to this subpart after the effective date of this subpart.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) Expenditures for the maintenance and expansion of foreign markets for beef and beef products shall be limited to an amount equal to or less than the total amount of assessments paid pursuant to § 1260.172(a).
[51 FR 26138, July 18, 1986, as amended at 53 FR 52631, Dec. 29, 1988 and 54 FR 15918, Apr. 20, 1989; 60 FR 58502, Nov. 28, 1995]

# Beef Promotion Operating Committee
§ 1260.161
Establishment and membership.
(a) There is hereby established a Beef Promotion Operating Committee of 20 members. The Committee shall be composed of 10 Board members elected by the Board and 10 producers elected by the Federation.
(b) Board representation on the Committee shall consist of the chairperson, vice-chairperson and treasurer of the Board, and seven representatives of the Board who will be duly elected by the Board to serve on the Committee. The seven representatives to the Committee elected by the Board shall, to the extent practical, reflect the geographic and unit distribution of cattle numbers, or the equivalent thereof.
(c) Federation representation on the Committee shall consist of the Federation chairperson, vice-chairperson, and eight duly elected producer representatives of the Federation Board of Directors who are members or ex officio members of the Board of Directors of a qualified State beef council. The eight representatives of the Federation elected to serve on the Committee shall, to the extent practical, reflect the geographic distribution of cattle numbers. The Federation shall submit to the Secretary the names of the representatives elected by the Federation to serve on the Committee and the manner in which such election was held and that such representatives are producers and are members or ex officio members of the Board of Directors of a qualified State beef council on the Federation Board of Directors. The prospective Federation representatives shall file with the Secretary a written agreement to serve on the Committee and to disclose any relationship with any beef promotion entity or with any organization that has or is being considered for a contractual relationship with the Board or the Committee. When the Secretary is satisfied that the above conditions are met, the Secretary shall certify such representatives as eligible to serve on the Committee.
§ 1260.162
Term of office.
(a) The members of the Committee shall serve for a term of 1 year.
(b) No member shall serve more than six consecutive terms.
§ 1260.163
Vacancies.
To fill any vacancy occasioned by the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any member of the Committee, the Board or the Federation, depending upon which organization is represented by the vacancy, shall submit the name of a successor for the position in the manner utilized to elect representatives pursuant to § 1260.161 (b) and (c) of this section.
§ 1260.164
Procedure.
(a) Attendance of at least 15 members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum at a properly convened meeting of the Committee. Any action of the Committee shall require the concurring votes of at least two-thirds of the members present. The Committee shall establish rules concerning timely notice of meetings.
(b) When in the opinion of the chairperson of the Committee emergency action must be taken before a meeting can be called, the Committee may take action upon the concurring votes of no less than two-thirds of its members by mail, telephone, or telegraph. Action taken by this emergency procedure is valid only if all members are notified and provided the opportunity to vote and any telephone vote is confirmed promptly in writing. Any action so taken shall have the same force and effect as though such action had been taken at a properly convened meeting of the Committee.
§ 1260.165
Compensation and reimbursement.
The members of the Committee shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for necessary and reasonable expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties under this subpart.
§ 1260.166
Officers of the Committee.
The following persons shall serve as officers of the Committee:
(a) The chairperson of the Board shall be chairperson of the Committee.
(b) The chairperson of the Federation shall be vice-chairperson of the Committee.
(c) The treasurer of the Board shall be treasurer of the Committee.
(d) The Committee shall elect or appoint such other officers as it may deem necessary.
§ 1260.167
Powers of the Committee.
The Committee shall have the following powers:
(a) To receive and evaluate, or on its own initiative, develop and budget for plans or projects to promote the use of beef and beef products as well as projects for research, consumer information and industry information and to make recommendations to the Secretary regarding such proposals;
(b) To select committees and subcommittees of Committee members, and to adopt such rules for the conduct of its business as it may deem advisable;
(c) To establish committees of persons other than Committee members to advise the Committee and pay the necessary and reasonable expenses and fees of the members of such committees.
§ 1260.168
Duties of the Committee.
The Committee shall have the following duties:
(a) To meet and to organize;
(b) To contract with established national nonprofit industry-governed organizations to implement programs of promotion, research, consumer information and industry information;
(c) To disseminate information to Board members;
(d) To prepare and submit to the Board for approval budgets on a fiscal-period basis of its anticipated expenses and disbursements in the administration of its responsibilities, including probable costs of promotion, research, consumer information and industry information plans or projects, and also including a general description of the proposed promotion, research, consumer information and industry information programs contemplated therein;
(e) To develop and submit to the Secretary for approval promotion, research, consumer information and industry information plans or projects;
(f) With the approval of the Secretary to enter into contracts or agreements with established national nonprofit industry-governed organizations for the implementation and conduct of activities authorized under §§ 1260.167 and 1260.169 and for the payment of the cost of such activities with funds collected through assessments pursuant to § 1260.172. Any such contract or agreement shall provide that:
(1) The contractors shall develop and submit to the Committee a budget or budgets which shall show the estimated cost to be incurred for such activity or project;
(2) Any such plan or project shall become effective upon approval of the Secretary; and
(3) The contracting party shall keep accurate records of all of its transactions and make periodic reports to the Committee or Board of activities conducted and an accounting for funds received and expended, and such other reports as the Secretary, the Committee or the Board may require. The Secretary or agents of the Committee or the Board may audit periodically the records of the contracting party;
(g) To prepare and make public, at least annually, a report of its activities carried out and an accounting for funds received and expended;
(h) To give the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the Committee and its subcommittees and advisory committees in order that the Secretary, or his representative, may attend such meetings;
(i) To submit to the Board and to the Secretary such information pursuant to this subpart as may be requested; and
(j) To encourage the coordination of programs of promotion, research, consumer information and industry information designed to strengthen the cattle industry's position in the marketplace and to maintain and expand domestic and foreign markets and uses for beef and beef products.
§ 1260.169
Promotion, research, consumer information and industry information.
The Committee shall receive and evaluate, or on its own initiative, develop and submit to the Secretary for approval any plans and projects for promotion, research, consumer information and industry information authorized by this subpart. Such plans and projects shall provide for:
(a) The establishment, issuance, effectuation, and administration of appropriate plans or projects for promotion, research, consumer information and industry information, with respect to beef and beef products designed to strengthen the beef industry's position in the marketplace and to maintain and expand domestic and foreign markets and uses for beef and beef products;
(b) The establishment and conduct of research and studies with respect to the sale, distribution, marketing, and utilization of beef and beef products and the creation of new products thereof, to the end that marketing and utilization of beef and beef products may be encouraged, expanded, improved or made more acceptable in the United States and foreign markets;
(c) Each plan or project authorized under paragraph (a) and (b) of this section shall be periodically reviewed or evaluated by the Committee to ensure that each such plan or project contributes to an effective program of promotion, research, consumer information and industry information. If it is found by the Committee that any such plan or project does not further the purposes of the Act, then the Committee shall terminate such plan or project;
(d) In carrying out any plan or project of promotion or advertising implemented by the Committee, no reference to a brand or trade name of any beef product shall be made without the approval of the Board and the Secretary. No such plans or projects shall make use of any unfair or deceptive acts or practices, including unfair or deceptive acts or practices with respect to the quality, value or use of any competing product; and
(e) No funds collected by the Board under this subpart shall in any manner be used for the purpose of influencing governmental policy or action, except to recommend to the Secretary amendments to this part.

# Assessments
§ 1260.172
Assessments.
(a)
Domestic assessments.
(1) Except as prescribed by regulations approved by the Secretary, each person making payment to a producer for cattle purchased from such producer shall be a collecting person and shall collect an assessment from the producer, and each producer shall pay such assessment to the collecting person, at the rate of one dollar ($1) per head of cattle purchased and such collecting person shall remit the assessment to the Board or to a qualified State beef council pursuant to § 1260.172(a)(5).
(2) Any producer marketing cattle of that producer's own production in the form of beef or beef products to consumers, either directly or through retail or wholesale outlets, or for export purposes, shall remit to a qualified State beef council or to the Board an assessment on such cattle at the rate of one dollar ($1) per head of cattle or the equivalent thereof.
(3) In determining the assessment due from each producer pursuant to § 1260.172(a), a producer who is contributing to a qualified State beef council(s) shall receive a credit from the Board for contributions to such Council, but not to exceed 50 cents per head of cattle assessed.
(4) In order for a producer described in § 1260.172(a) to receive the credit authorized in § 1260.172(a)(3), the qualified State beef council or the collecting person must establish to the satisfaction of the Board that the producer has contributed to a qualified State beef council.
(5) Each person responsible for the remittance of the assessment pursuant to § 1260.172 (a) (1) and (2) shall remit the assessment to the qualified State beef council in the State from which the cattle originated prior to sale, or if there is no qualified State beef council within such State, the assessment shall be remitted directly to the Board. However, the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may authorize qualified State beef councils to propose modifications to the foregoing “State of origin” rule to ensure effective coordination of assessment collections between qualified State beef councils. Qualified State beef councils and the Board shall coordinate assessment collection procedures to ensure that producers selling or marketing cattle in interstate commerce are required to pay only one assessment per individual sale of cattle. For the purpose of this subpart, “State of origin” rule means the State where the cattle were located at time of sale, or the State in which the cattle were located prior to sale if such cattle were transported interstate for the sole purpose of sale. Assessments shall be remitted not later than the 15th day of the month following the month in which the cattle were purchased or marketed.
(6) If a State law or regulation promulgated pursuant to State law requires the payment and collection of a mandatory, nonrefundable assessment of more fifty (50) cents per head on the sale and purchase of cattle, or the equivalent thereof for beef and beef products as described in § 1260.172 (a)(1) and (2) for use by a qualified State beef council to fund activities similar to those described in § 1260.169, and such State law or regulation authorizes the issuance of a credit of that amount of the assessment which exceeds fifty (50) cents to producers who waive any right to the refund of the assessment credited by the State due pursuant to this subpart, then any producer subject to such State law or regulation who pays only the amount due pursuant to such State law or regulation and this subpart, including any credits issued, shall thereby waive that producer's right to receipt from the Board of a refund of such assessment for that portion of such refund for which the producer received credit pursuant to such State law or regulation.
(7) A producer may request a redirection of assessments from a Qualified State Beef Council to the Board in accordance with § 1260.181(b)(8) or (9) by submitting a redirection request on the appropriate form postmarked by the 15th day of the month following the month in which the cattle were sold. Requests may not be retroactive. Requests to redirect assessments must be submitted by the producers who paid the assessments.
(b)
Importer assessments.
(1) Importers of cattle, beef, and beef products into the United States shall pay an assessment to the Board through the U.S. Customs Service, or in such other manner as may be established by regulations approved by the Secretary.
(2) The assessment rates for imported cattle, beef, beef products, are as follows:
Imported Live Cattle
HTS No.
Assessment
rate per head
0102.10.0010
$1.00
0102.10.0020
1.00
0102.10.0030
1.00
0102.10.0050
1.00
0102.90.2011
1.00
0102.90.2012
1.00
0102.90.4024
1.00
0102.90.4028
1.00
0102.90.4034
1.00
0102.90.4038
1.00
0102.90.4054
1.00
0102.90.4058
1.00
0102.90.4062
1.00
0102.90.4064
1.00
0102.90.4066
1.00
0102.90.4068
1.00
0102.90.4072
1.00
0102.90.4074
1.00
0102.90.4082
1.00
0102.90.4084
1.00
Table 2 to Paragraph (
b
)(
2
)—Imported Beef and Beef Products
HTS code
Assessment
rate per kg
0201.10.0510
.01431558
0201.10.0590
.00379102
0201.10.1010
.01431558
0201.10.1090
.00379102
0201.10.5010
.01431558
0201.10.5090
.00511787
0201.20.0200
.00530743
0201.20.0400
.00511787
0201.20.0600
.00379102
0201.20.1000
.00530743
0201.20.3000
.00511787
0201.20.5015
.01431558
0201.20.5025
.00379102
0201.20.5035
.00379102
0201.20.5045
.00379102
0201.20.5055
.00379102
0201.20.5065
.00379102
0201.20.5075
.00379102
0201.20.5085
.00379102
0201.20.8090
.00379102
0201.30.0200
.00530743
0201.30.0400
.00511787
0201.30.0600
.00379102
0201.30.1000
.00530743
0201.30.3000
.00511787
0201.30.5015
.02090075
0201.30.5025
.00511787
0201.30.5035
.00511787
0201.30.5045
.00511787
0201.30.5055
.00511787
0201.30.5065
.00511787
0201.30.5075
.00511787
0201.30.5085
.00511787
0201.30.8090
.00511787
0202.10.0510
.01431558
0202.10.0590
.00379102
0202.10.1010
.01431558
0202.10.1090
.00370102
0202.10.5010
.01431558
0202.10.5090
.00379102
0202.20.0200
.00530743
0202.20.0400
.00511787
0202.20.0600
.00379102
0202.20.1000
.00530743
0202.20.3000
.00511787
0202.20.5025
.00379102
0202.20.5035
.00379102
0202.20.5045
.00379102
0202.20.5055
.00379102
0202.20.5065
.00379102
0202.20.5075
.00379102
0202.20.5085
.00379102
0202.20.8000
.00379102
0202.30.0200
.00530743
0202.30.0400
.00511787
0202.30.0600
.00527837
0202.30.1000
.00530743
0202.30.3000
.00511787
0202.30.5015
.02090075
0202.30.5025
.00511787
0202.30.5035
.00511787
0202.30.5045
.00511787
0202.30.5055
.00511787
0202.30.5065
.00511787
0202.30.5075
.00511787
0202.30.5085
.00511787
0202.30.8000
.00379102
0206.10.0000
.00379102
0206.21.0000
.00379102
0206.22.0000
.00379102
0206.29.0000
.00379102
0210.20.0000
.00615701
1601.00.4010
.00473877
1601.00.4090
.00473877
1601.00.6020
.00473877
1602.50.0500
.00771610
1602.50.0720
.00663428
1602.50.0740
.00663428
1602.50.0800
.00663428
1602.50.2120
.00701388
1602.50.2140
.00701388
1602.50.6000
.00720293
(3) The Board may prescribe by regulation, with the approval of the Secretary, an increase or decrease in the level of assessments for imported beef and beef products based upon revised determinations of live animal equivalencies.
(4) The assessments due upon imported cattle, beef and beef products shall be remitted to the Customs Service upon importation of the cattle, beef or beef products into the United States, or in such other manner as may be provided by regulations prescribed by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
(c) The collection of assessments pursuant to § 1260.172 (a) and (b) shall begin with respect to cattle purchased or cattle, beef, and beef products imported on and after the effective date of this section and shall continue until terminated by the Secretary.
(d) Money remitted pursuant to this subpart shall be in the form of a negotiable instrument made payable as appropriate to the qualified State beef
council or the “Cattlemen's Beef Promotion and Research Board.” Such remittances and the reports specified in § 1260.201 shall be mailed to the location designated by the Board.
[51 FR 26138, July 18, 1986, as amended at 53 FR 52631, Dec. 29, 1988 and 54 FR 15918, Apr. 20, 1989; 54 FR 28019, July 5, 1989; 71 FR 47076, Aug. 16, 2006; 82 FR 24457, May 30, 2017; 84 FR 20771, May 13, 2019; 85 FR 826, Jan. 8, 2020; 85 FR 4191, Jan. 24, 2020]
§§ 1260.173-1260.174
[Reserved]
§ 1260.175
Late-payment charge.
Any unpaid assessments due to the Board pursuant to § 1260.172 shall be increased 2.0 percent each month beginning with the day following the date such assessments were due. Any remaining amount due, which shall include any unpaid charges previously made pursuant to this section, shall be increased at the same rate on the corresponding day of each month thereafter until paid. For the purposes of this section, any assessment that was determined at a date later than prescribed by this subpart because of a person's failure to submit a report to the Board when due shall be considered to have been payable by the date it would have been due if the report had been filed when due. The timeliness of a payment to the Board shall be based on the applicable postmark date or the date actually received by the qualified State beef council or Board, whichever is earlier.
§ 1260.176
Adjustment of accounts.
Whenever the Board or the Department determines that money is due the Board or that money is due any person from the Board, such person shall be notified of the amount due. The person shall then remit any amount due the Board by the next date for remitting assessments as provided in § 1260.172. Overpayments shall be credited to the account of the person remitting the overpayment and shall be applied against amounts due in succeeding months except that the Board shall make prompt payment when an overpayment cannot be adjusted by a credit.
§ 1260.181
Qualified State Beef Councils.
(a) Any beef promotion entity that is authorized by State statute or is organized and operating within a State, that receives assessments or contributions from producers and conducts beef promotion, research, consumer information and/or industry information programs may apply for certification of qualification so that producers may receive credit pursuant to § 1260.172(a)(3) for contributions to such organization. The Board shall review such applications for certification and shall make a determination as to certification of such applicant.
(b) In order for the State beef council to be certified by the Board as a qualified State beef council, the council must:
(1) Conduct activities as defined in § 1260.169 that are intended to strengthen the beef industry's position in the marketplace;
(2) Submit to the Board a report describing the manner in which assessments are collected and the procedure utilized to ensure that assessments due are paid;
(3) Certify to the Board that such council will collect assessments paid on cattle originating from the State or unit within which the council operates and shall establish procedures for ensuring compliance with this subpart with regard to the payment of such assessments;
(4) Certify to the Board that such organization shall remit to the Board assessments paid and remitted to the council, minus authorized credits issued to producers pursuant to § 1260.172(a)(3), by the 15th day of the month following the month in which the assessment was remitted to the Qualified State Beef Council unless the Board determines a different date for remittance of assessments.
(5) [Reserved]
(6) Certify to the Board that the council will furnish the Board with an annual report by a certified public accountant of all funds remitted to such council pursuant to this subpart and any other reports and information the Board or Secretary may request; and
(7) Not use council funds collected pursuant to this subpart for the purpose of influencing governmental policy or action, or to fund plans or projects which make use of any unfair or deceptive acts or practices including unfair or deceptive acts or practices with respect to the quality, value or use of any competing product.
(8) Certify to the Board, if the Council is authorized or permitted to pay refunds of contributions to the Council, that any requests from producers for such refunds by the producers will be honored by redirecting to the Board that portion of such refunds equal to the amount of credit received by the producer for contributions pursuant to § 1260.172(a)(3).
(9) Certify to the Board that, if the Council is in a State in which State law does not require collection of the $1-per-head assessment set forth in the Act (the federal assessment) by the Council, or if the Council is in a State in which State statutes do not require producers to contribute a portion of the $1-per-head federal assessment to the Council, the Council will provide an opportunity for producers to choose to direct the full $1-per-head federal assessment to the Board.
[51 FR 26138, July 18, 1986, as amended at 60 FR 58502, Nov. 28, 1995; 84 FR 20771, May 13, 2019]

# Reports, Books and Records
§ 1260.201
Reports.
Each importer, person marketing cattle, beef or beef products of that person's own production directly to consumers, and each collecting person making payment to producers and responsible for the collection of the assessment under § 1260.172 shall report to the Board periodically information required by regulations prescribed by the Board and approved by the Secretary. Such information may include but is not limited to the following:
(a) The number of cattle purchased, initially transferred or which, in any other manner, is subject to the collection of assessment, and the dates of such transaction;
(b) The number of cattle imported; or the equivalent thereof of beef or beef products;
(c) The amount of assessment remitted;
(d) The basis, if necessary, to show why the remittance is less than the number of head of cattle multiplied by one dollar; and,
(e) The date any assessment was paid.

# Effective Date Note:
At 51 FR 26138, July 18, 1986, § 1260.201 was added. This section contains information collection and recordkeeping requirements and will not become effective until approval has been given by the Office of Management and Budget.
§ 1260.202
Books and records.
Each person subject to this subpart shall maintain and make available for inspection by the Secretary the records required by regulations prescribed by the Board and approved by the Secretary that are necessary to carry out the provisions of this subpart, including records necessary to verify any required reports. Such records shall be maintained for the period of time prescribed by the regulations issued hereunder.
[51 FR 26138, July 18, 1986; 51 FR 26686, July 25, 1986]

# Effective Date Note:
At 51 FR 26138, July 18, 1986, § 1260.202 was added. This section contains information collection and recordkeeping requirements and will not become effective until approval has been given by the Office of Management and Budget.
§ 1260.203
Confidential treatment.
All information obtained from such books, records or reports required under the Act and this subpart shall be kept confidential by all persons, including employees and agents and former employees and agents of the Board, all officers and employees and all former officers and employees of the Department, and by all officers and employees and all former officers and employees of contracting organizations having access to such information, and shall not be available to Board members or any other producers or importers. Only those persons having a specific need for such information in order to effectively administer the provisions of this subpart shall have access to this information. In addition, only such information so furnished or acquired as the Secretary deems relevant shall be
disclosed by them, and then only in a suit or administrative hearing brought at the direction, or upon the request, of the Secretary, or to which the Secretary or any officer of the United States is a party, and involving this subpart. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit:
(a) The issuance of general statements based upon the reports of the number of persons subject to this subpart or statistical data collected therefrom, which statements do not identify the information furnished by any person; and
(b) The publication, by direction of the Secretary, of the name of any person who has been adjudged to have violated this subpart, together with a statement of the particular provisions of the subpart violated by such person.
[51 FR 26138, July 18, 1986; 51 FR 26686, July 25, 1986]

# Miscellaneous
§ 1260.211
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of this subpart the Board shall recommend not more than 11 of its members to the Secretary to serve as trustees for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Board. Such persons, upon designation by the Secretary, shall become trustees of all the funds and property owned, in the possession of or under the control of the Board, including unpaid claims or property not delivered or any other claim existing at the time of such termination.
(b) The said trustees shall:
(1) Continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary;
(2) Carry out the obligations of the Board under any contract or agreements entered into by it pursuant to §§ 1260.150 and 1260.168.
(3) From time to time account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Board and of the trustees, to such persons as the Secretary may direct; and
(4) Upon the request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such persons full title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims vested in the Board or the trustees pursuant to this subpart.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered pursuant to this subpart shall be subject to the same obligation imposed upon the Board and upon the trustees.
(d) Any residual funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be turned over to the Secretary to be used, to the extent practicable, in the interest of continuing one or more of the promotion, research, consumer information or industry information plans or projects authorized pursuant to this subpart.
[51 FR 26138, July 18, 1986; 51 FR 26686, July 25, 1986]
§ 1260.212
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any regulation issued pursuant thereto, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may hereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or any regulation issued thereunder;
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or any regulation issued thereunder; or,
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the United States, or of the Secretary, or of any person, with respect to any such violation.
§ 1260.213
Removal.
If any person appointed under this part fails or refuses to perform his or her duties properly or engages in acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct, the Board or Committee may recommend to the Secretary that that person be removed from office. If the Secretary finds that the recommendation demonstrates adequate cause, the Secretary shall remove the person from office. A person appointed or certified under this part or any employee of the Board or Committee may be removed by the Secretary if the Secretary determines that the person's continued
service would be detrimental to the purposes of the Act.
§ 1260.214
Personal liability.
No member, employee or agent of the Board or the Committee, including employees or agents of a qualified State beef council acting on behalf of the Board, shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly, in any way whatsoever, to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes or other acts of either commission or omission, or such member or employee, except for acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct.
§ 1260.215
Patents, copyrights, inventions and publications.
(a) Any patents, copyrights, inventions or publications developed through the use of funds collected by the Board under the provisions of this subpart shall be the property of the U.S. Government as represented by the Board, and shall, along with any rents, royalties, residual payments, or other income from the rental, sale, leasing, franchising, or other uses of such patents, copyrights, inventions, or publications, ensure to the benefit of the Board. Upon termination of this subpart, § 1260.211 shall apply to determine disposition of all such property.
(b) Should patents, copyrights, inventions or publications be developed through the use of funds collected by the Board under this subpart and funds contributed by another organization or person, ownership and related rights to such patents, copyrights, inventions or publications shall be determined by agreement between the Board and the party contributing funds towards the development of such patent, copyright, invention or publication in a manner consistent with paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 1260.216
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed, from time to time, by the Board, or by any organization or association certified pursuant to the Act and this part, or by any interested person affected by the provisions of the Act, including the Secretary.
§ 1260.217
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid or the applicability thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart or the applicability thereof of other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

# Subpart B—Rules and Regulations

# Source:
53 FR 5754, Feb. 26, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1260.301
Terms defined.
As used throughout this subpart, unless the context otherwise requires, terms shall have the same meaning as the definition of such terms as appears in subpart A of this part.
§ 1260.302
Organic exemption.
(a) A producer who operates under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic production system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:
(1) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) are eligible for exemption;
(2) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products of a producer regardless of whether the agricultural commodity subject to the exemption is produced by a person that also produces conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;
(3) The producer maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522) (OFPA) and the NOP regulations issued under OFPA (7 CFR part 205); and
(4) Any producer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(b) To apply for exemption under this section, a producer shall submit a request to the Board or QSBC on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time during the year initially, and annually thereafter on or before January 1, for as long as the producer continues to be eligible for the exemption.
(c) A producer request for exemption shall include the following:
(1) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;
(2) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid certificate of organic operation issued under the OFPA and the NOP;
(3) Certification that the applicant produces organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;
(4) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent under the OFPA and the NOP;
(5) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and
(6) Such other information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.
(d) If a producer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board or QSBC will grant an assessment exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the producer within 30 days. If the application is disapproved, the Board or QSBC will notify the applicant of the reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe.
(e) The producer shall provide a copy of the Certificate of Exemption to each person responsible for collecting and remitting the assessment.
(f) The person responsible for collecting and remitting the assessment shall maintain records showing the exempt producer's name and address and the exemption number assigned by the Board or QSBC.
(g) An importer who imports products that are eligible to be labeled as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP, or certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under a U.S. equivalency arrangement established under the NOP, may be exempt from the payment of assessments on those products. Such importer may submit documentation to the Board and request an exemption from assessment on certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” cattle or beef and beef products on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time initially, and annually thereafter on or before January 1, as long as the importer continues to be eligible for the exemption. This documentation shall include the same information required of producers in paragraph (c) of this section. If the importer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant the exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the importer. The Board will also issue the importer an alphanumeric number valid for 1 year from the date of issue. This alphanumeric number should be entered by the importer on the Customs entry documentation. Any line item entry of “organic” or “100 percent organic” cattle or beef and beef products bearing this alphanumeric number assigned by the Board will not be subject to assessments. Any importer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any imported agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(h) The exemption will apply immediately following the issuance of the Certificate of Exemption.
(i) An importer who is exempt from payment of assessments under paragraph (g) of this section shall be eligible for reimbursement of assessments collected by Customs on certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” cattle or beef and beef products and may apply to the Secretary for a reimbursement. The importer would be required to submit satisfactory proof to the Secretary that the importer paid the assessment on exempt organic products.
[70 FR 2762, Jan. 14, 2005, as amended at 80 FR 82034, Dec. 31, 2015]
§ 1260.310
Domestic assessments.
(a) A $1.00 per head assessment on cattle sold shall be paid by the producer of the cattle in the manner designated in § 1260.311.
(b) If more than one producer shares the proceeds received for the cattle sold, each such producer is obligated to pay that portion of the assessments which are equivalent to the producer's proportionate share of the proceeds.
(c) Failure of the collecting person to collect the assessment on each head of cattle sold as designated in § 1260.311 shall not relieve the producer of his obligation to pay the assessment to the appropriate qualified State beef council or the Cattlemen's Board as required in § 1260.312.
§ 1260.311
Collecting persons for purposes of collection of assessments.
Collecting persons for purposes of collecting and remitting the $1.00 per head assessment shall be:
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c), and (f) of this section, each person making payment to a producer for cattle purchased in the United States shall collect from the producer an assessment at the rate of $1-per-head of cattle purchased and shall be responsible for remitting assessments to the QSBC or the Board as provided in § 1260.312. The collecting person shall collect the assessment at the time the collecting person makes payment or any credit to the producer's account for the cattle purchased. The person paying the producer shall give the producer a receipt indicating payment of the assessment.
(b) Any producer marketing cattle of that producer's own production in the form of beef or beef products to consumers, either directly or through retail or wholesale outlets, shall be responsible for remitting to the qualified State beef council or the Cattlemen's Board pursuant to § 1260.312, an assessment on such cattle at the rate of $1.00 per head of cattle or the equivalent thereof. The obligation to remit the assessment shall attach upon slaughter of the cattle, and the producer responsible for remitting the assessment shall remit the assessment in the manner provided in § 1260.312. For the purposes of this subpart, a producer marketing cattle of the producer's own production in the form of beef or beef products shall be considered a collecting person.
(c) In the States listed in the following chart there exists a requirement that cattle be brand inspected by State authorized inspectors prior to sale. In addition, when cattle are sold in the sales transactions listed below in those States, these State authorized inspectors are authorized to, and shall, except as provided for in paragraph (f) of this section, collect assessments due as a result of the sale of cattle. In those transactions in which inspectors are responsible for collecting assessments, the person paying the producer shall not be responsible for the collection and remittance of such assessments. The following chart identifies the party responsible for collecting and remitting assessments in these States:
State
Sales
through
auction
market
Sales to a
slaughter/
packer
Sales to a
feedlot
Sales to
an order
buyer/dealer
Country
sales
1
Arizona
CP
CP
CP
B
B
California
CP
CP
B
B-CP
B
Colorado
CP
B
B
B
B
Idaho
B
B
B
B
B
Montana
CP
B
B
B
B
Nebraska
CP
CP
B-CP
B-CP
B-CP
Nevada
B
B
B
B
B
Oregon
CP
B-CP
B
B
B
New Mexico
CP
B-CP
B-CP
B-CP
B-CP
Utah
CP
B-CP
B
B
B
Washington
CP
CP
B
B-CP
B
Wyoming
CP
B
B
B
B
Key:
B—Brand inspector has responsibility to collect and remit assessments due.
CP—The person paying the producer shall be the collecting person and has responsibility to collect and remit the assessments due.
B-CP—Brand inspector has responsibility to collect; however, when there has not been a physical brand inspection the person paying the producer shall be the collecting person and has the responsibility to collect and remit assessments due.
1
For the purpose of this subpart, the term “country sales” shall include any sales not conducted at an auction or livestock market and which is not a sale to a slaughter/packer, feedlot, or order buyer or dealer.
(d) For cattle delivered on futures contracts, the commission firm or the market agency representing the seller in the delivery of cattle shall be the collecting person.
(e) In a case where a producer sells cattle as part of a custom slaughter operation, the producer shall be the collecting person in the same manner as if the cattle were slaughtered for sale.
(f)(1) In lieu of each person making a payment to a producer for cattle purchased in the United States, producers are provided the option in accordance with this paragraph (f) to remit the assessment to the QSBC in the State in which the producer resides. A producer who transports, prior to sale, cattle of that producer's own production to another State, may elect to make a directed payment of the $1-per-head assessment in advance to the QSBC in the State in which the producer resides, provided that the producer fulfills the following requirements:
(i) Transports the cattle under retained ownership to a feedlot or similar location, and the cattle remain at such location, prior to sale, for a period not less than 30 days; and
(ii) The producer, either before or at the time of transport, signs a Certification of Producer Directed Payment of Cattle Assessments form indicating that the assessment has been paid in advance, and remits the assessment to the appropriate QSBC. A copy of the certification form indicating the payment of the assessment shall be sent by the producer with the assessment when remitted to the QSBC. The producer also shall send a copy of the certification form to the feedlot operator at the time the cattle are delivered. A copy of the certification form also shall be given to the purchaser of the cattle by the feedlot operator at the time of sale.
(2) The certification form will include the following information:
(i) Producer's Name.
(ii) Producer's social security number or Tax I.D. number.
(iii) Producer's address (street address or P.O. Box, city, State, and zip code).
(iv) Signature of Producer.
(v) Producer's State of residence.
(vi) Number of cattle shipped to out of State feedyard under retained ownership.
(vii) Date cattle shipped.
(viii) State where cattle will be on feed.
(ix) Name of feedyard.
(x) Address of feedyard.
(3) Cattle of a producer's own production shall be those cattle which meet all of the following requirements:
(i) The cattle shall be offspring of a producer's own cow herd;
(ii) The cattle shall have been continuously and exclusively under the producer's ownership; and
(iii) The cattle are transported to a feedlot with such producer continuously owning the cattle through the entire feeding phase.
(4) For those cattle for which the assessment has been producer directed and paid in advance pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the purchaser of the cattle shall not be required to collect and remit the assessment, but shall maintain on file a copy of the Certification of Producer Directed Payment of Cattle Assessments form completed and signed by the producer who originally transported the cattle under retained ownership.
(5) For those cattle for which the assessment has been producer directed and paid in advance pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section, copies of the completed Certification of Producer Directed Payment of Cattle Assessments form shall be maintained on file by the producer, the QSBC or the Board, the feedlot operator, and the purchaser of the cattle for 3 years.
(6) Producers shall not receive credit of the assessment required to be paid pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section for those cattle lost because of death.
[53 FR 5754, Feb. 26, 1988, as amended at 67 FR 61766, Oct. 2, 2002]
§ 1260.312
Remittance to the Cattlemen's Board or Qualified State Beef Council.
Each person responsible for the collection and remittance of assessments shall transmit assessments and a report of assessments to the qualified State beef council of the State in which such person resides or if there is
no qualified State beef council in such State, then to the Cattlemen's Board as follows:
(a)
Reports.
Each collecting person shall make reports on forms made available or approved by the Cattlemen's Board. Each collecting person shall prepare a separate report for each reporting period. Each report shall be mailed to the qualified State beef council of the State in which the collecting person resides, or its designee, or if there exists no qualified State beef council in such State, to the Cattlemen's Board. Each report shall contain the following information:
(1) The number of cattle purchased, initially transferred or which, in any other manner, is subject to the collection of assessment, and the dates of such transactions;
(2) The amount of assessment remitted;
(3) The basis, if necessary, to show why the remittance is less than the number of head of cattle multiplied by one dollar; and
(4) The date any assessment was paid.
(b)
Reporting periods.
Each calendar month shall be a reporting period and the period shall end at the close of business on the last business day of the month.
(c)
Remittances.
The remitting person shall remit all assessments to the Qualified State Beef Council or its designee, or, if there is no Qualified State Beef Council, to the Cattlemen's Board at an address designated by the Board, with the report required in paragraph (a) of this section not later than the 15th day of the month following the month in which the cattle were purchased or marketed. All remittances sent to a Qualified State Beef Council or the Cattlemen's Board by the remitting persons shall be by check or money order payable to the order of the Qualified State Beef Council or the Cattlemen's Board. All remittances shall be received subject to collection and payment at par.
[53 FR 5754, Feb. 26, 1988, as amended at 79 FR 46936, Aug. 12, 2014; 84 FR 20771, May 13, 2019]
§ 1260.313
Document evidencing payment of assessments.
Each collecting person responsible for remitting an assessment to a qualified State beef council or the Board, other than a producer slaughtering cattle of the producer's own production for sale, is required to give the producer from whom the collecting person collected an assessment written evidence of payment of the Beef Promotion and Research Assessments. Such written evidence serving as a receipt shall contain the following information:
(a) Name and address of the collecting person.
(b) Name of producer who paid assessment.
(c) Number of head of cattle sold.
(d) Total assessments paid by the producer.
(e) Date.
§ 1260.314
Certification of non-producer status for certain transactions.
(a) The assessment levied on each head of cattle sold shall not apply to cattle owned by a person:
(1) If the person certifies that the person's only share in the proceeds of a sale of cattle, beef, or beef products is a sales commission, handling fee or other service fee; or
(2) If the person:
(i) Certifies that the person acquired ownership of cattle to facilitate the transfer of ownership of such cattle from the seller to a third party,
(ii) Establishes that such cattle were resold not later than 10 days from the date on which the person acquired ownership; and
(iii) Certifies that the assessment levied upon the person from whom the person purchased the cattle, if an assessment was due, has been collected and has been remitted, or will be remitted in a timely fashion.
(b) Each person seeking non-producer status pursuant to § 1260.116 shall provide the collecting person, on a form approved by the Board and the Secretary, with a Statement of Certification of Non-Producer Status at the time the collecting person makes payment to the seller of cattle, in lieu of the assessment that would otherwise
be due, except as provided for in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(c) When the seller of cattle is not physically present during a sales transaction in which the seller claims non-producer status, such seller shall deliver to the collecting person an original Statement of Certification of Non-Producer Status within 10 business days of the date the collecting person makes payment to the seller of the cattle.
(d) If the collecting person is a brand inspector, as provided for in § 1260.311, the seller of cattle claiming non-producer status shall provide to the brand inspector at the time the physical brand inspection is completed, in lieu of the assessment that would otherwise be due, either: a Statement of Certification of Non-Producer Status or a valid brand inspection certificate which shows collection of the assessment by a brand inspector in a transaction which took place not more than 10 days prior to the sale of the cattle.
(e) A copy of the Statement of Certification of Non-Producer Status shall be forwarded, upon request, by the collecting person to the qualified State beef council or the Cattlemen's Board.
[53 FR 5754, Feb. 26, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 26784, May 15, 2001]
§ 1260.315
Qualified State Beef Councils.
The following State beef promotion entities have been certified by the Board as Qualified State Beef Councils:
(a) Alabama Cattlemen's Association.
(b) Arizona Beef Council.
(c) Arkansas Beef Council.
(d) California Beef Council.
(e) Colorado Beef Council Authority.
(f) Delaware Beef Advisory Board.
(g) Florida Beef Council, Inc.
(h) Georgia Beef Board, Inc.
(i) Hawaii Beef Industry Council.
(j) Idaho Beef Council.
(k) Illinois Beef Association, Inc.
(l) Indiana Beef Council, Inc.
(m) Iowa Beef Cattle Producers Association/dba/Iowa Beef Industry Council.
(n) Kansas Beef Council.
(o) Kentucky Cattlemen's Association, Inc.
(p) Louisiana Beef Industry Council.
(q) Michigan Beef Industry Commission.
(r) Minnesota Beef Council.
(s) Mississippi Beef Council.
(t) Missouri Beef Industry Council, Inc.
(u) Montana Beef Council.
(v) Nebraska Beef Council.
(w) Nevada Beef Council.
(x) New Jersey Beef Industry Council.
(y) New Mexico Beef Council.
(z) New York Beef Industry Council.
(aa) North Carolina Cattlemen's Beef Council.
(bb) North Dakota Beef Commission.
(cc) Ohio Beef Council.
(dd) Oklahoma Beef Council.
(ee) Oregon Beef Council.
(ff) Pennsylvania Beef Council.
(gg) South Carolina Beef Council.
(hh) South Dakota Beef Industry Council.
(ii) Tennessee Beef Industry Council.
(jj) Texas Beef Council.
(kk) Utah Beef Council.
(ll) Vermont Beef Industry Council.
(mm) Virginia Beef Industry Council.
(nn) Washington State Beef Commission.
(oo) West Virginia Beef Council, Inc.
(pp) Wisconsin Beef Council, Inc.
(qq) Wyoming Beef Council.
[84 FR 20771, May 13, 2019, as amended at 88 FR 76102, Nov. 6, 2023]
§ 1260.316
Paperwork Reduction Act assigned number.
The information collection and recordkeeping requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35 and have been assigned OMB control number 0581-0093.
[79 FR 46964, Aug. 12, 2014]
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Beef Promotion and Research: Certification and Nomination Procedures for the Cattlemen's Beef Promotion and Research Board

# Source:
51 FR 11559, Apr. 4, 1986, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 51 FR 26138, July 18, 1986, and further redesignated at 51 FR 35197, Oct. 1, 1986. Redesignated also at 53 FR 9858, Mar. 28, 1988.
§ 1260.500
General.
State organizations or associations shall be certified by the Secretary as provided for in the Beef Promotion and Research Act of 1985 to be eligible to make nominations of cattle producers to the Board. Additionally, where there is no eligible organization or association in a State, the Secretary may provide for nominations in the manner prescribed in this subpart. Organizations or associations determined by the Secretary to represent importers of cattle, beef, and beef products may submit nominations for membership on the Board in a manner prescribed by the Secretary in this subpart. The number of nominees required for each allotted position will be determined by the Secretary.
§ 1260.510
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Act
means the Beef Promotion and Research Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 2901-2918).
Beef
means the flesh of cattle.
Beef products
means edible products produced in whole or in part from beef, exclusive of milk and milk products produced therefrom.
Board
means the Cattlemen's Beef Promotion and Research Board established under section 5(1) of the Act.
Cattle
means live, domesticated bovine animals regardless of age.
Department
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
Importer
means a person who imports cattle, beef, or beef products from outside the United States.
Livestock and Seed Division
means the Livestock and Seed Division of the Department's Agricultural Marketing Service.
Producer
means a person who owns or acquires ownership of cattle, except that a person shall not be considered to be a producer if the person's only share in the proceeds of a sale of cattle or beef is a sales commission, handling fee, or other service fee.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
State
means each of the 50 States.
Unit
means a State or combination of States which has a total inventory of not less than 500,000 head of cattle; or importers.
§ 1260.520
Responsibility for administration of regulations.
The Livestock and Seed Division shall have the responsibility for administering the provisions of this subpart.
§ 1260.530
Certification of eligibility.
(a)
State organizations or associations: Requirements for certification.
(1) To be eligible for certification to nominate producer members to the Board, State organizations or associations must meet all of the following criteria:
(i) Total paid membership must be comprised of at least a majority of cattle producers or represent at least a majority of cattle producers in a State or unit.
(ii) Membership must represent a substantial number of producers who produce a substantial number of cattle in such State or unit.
(iii) There must be a history of stability and permanency.
(iv) There must be a primary or overriding purpose of promoting the economic welfare of cattle producers.
(2) Written evidence of compliance with the certification criteria shall be contained in a factual report submitted to the Secretary by all applicant State organizations or associations.
(3) The primary consideration in determining the eligibility of a State organization or association shall be based on the criteria set forth in this section. However, the Secretary may consider any additional information that the Secretary deems relevant and appropriate.
(4) The Secretary shall certify any State organization or association which he determines complies with the criteria in this section, and his eligibility determination shall be final.
(b)
Organizations or associations representing importers.
The determination by the Secretary as to the eligibility of importer organizations or associations to nominate members to the Board shall be based on applications containing the following information:
(1) The number and type of members represented (
i.e.
, beef, or cattle importers, etc.).
(2) Annual import volume in pounds of beef and beef products and/or the number of head of cattle.
(3) The stability and permanency of the importer organization or association.
(4) The number of years in existence.
(5) The names of the countries of origin for cattle, beef, or beef products imported.
The Secretary may also consider additional information that the Secretary deems relevant and appropriate. The Secretary's determination as to eligibility shall be final.
§ 1260.540
Application for certification.
(a)
State organizations or associations.
Any State organization or association which meets the eligibility criteria specified in § 1260.530(a) for certification is entitled to apply to the Secretary for such certification of eligibility to nominate producers for appointment to the Board. To apply, such organization or association must submit a completed “Application for Certification of Organization or Association,” Form LS-25, contained in § 1260.640. It may be reproduced or additional copies may be obtained from the Livestock and Seed Division; Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA; 14th and Independence Avenue, SW., Room 2610-S; Washington, DC 20250. (Telephone: 202/447-2650.)
(b)
Importer organizations or associations.
Any organization or association whose members import cattle, beef, or beef products into the United States may apply to the Secretary for determination of eligibility to nominate importers under the Act. Applications shall be in writing and shall contain the information required by § 1260.530. Interested organizations or associations may contact the Livestock and Seed Division; Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA; 14th and Independence Avenue, SW., Room 2610-S; Washington, DC 20250; (Telephone: 202/447-2650) for information concerning application procedures.
§ 1260.550
Verification of information.
The Secretary may require verification of the information to determine eligibility for certification to make nominations under the Act.
§ 1260.560
Review of certification.
The Secretary may terminate or suspend certification or eligibility of any organization or association if it ceases to comply with the certification or eligibility criteria set forth in this subpart. The Secretary may require any information deemed necessary to ascertain whether the organization or association may remain certified or eligible to make nominations.
§ 1260.570
Notification of certification and the listing of certified organizations.
Organizations and associations shall be notified in writing as to whether they are eligible to nominate producer members to the Board. A copy of the certification or eligibility determination shall be furnished to certified or eligible organizations and associations. Copies shall also be maintained on file in the Livestock and Seed Division office, where they will be available for inspection.
§§ 1260.580-1260.600
[Reserved]
§ 1260.610
Acceptance of appointment.
Producers and importers nominated to the Board must signify in writing their intent to serve if appointed.
§ 1260.620
Confidential treatment of information.
All documents and information submitted to or obtained by the Department shall be kept confidential by all employees of the Department, except that the Secretary may issue general statements based upon the information collected from a number of different sources. These general statements will not identify any information as having been furnished by any one source.
§ 1260.630
Paperwork Reduction Act assigned number.
The OMB has approved the information collection request contained in this subpart under the provisions of 44
U.S.C. Chapter 35, and OMB Control Number 0581-152 has been assigned.
§ 1260.640
Application for Certification Form.
The following official form, “Application for Certification of Association or Organization,” must be completed and submitted to the Department by eligible State organizations or associations seeking certification by the Secretary. This form may be reproduced.
EC04SE91.000
Pt. 1270

# PART 1270—WOOL AND MOHAIR ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION [RESERVED] [NOTE]
Pt. 1280

# PART 1280—LAMB PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION ORDER

# Subpart A—Lamb Promotion, Research, and Information Order

# Definitions
Sec.
1280.101
Definitions.
1280.102—1280.129
[Reserved]

# Lamb Promotion, Research, and Information Board
1280.201
Establishment and membership.
1280.202
Nominations.
1280.203
Nominee's agreement to serve.
1280.204
Appointment.
1280.205
Vacancies.
1280.206
Certification of organizations.
1280.207
Term of office.
1280.208
Compensation.
1280.209
Removal.
1280.210
Powers and duties of the board.
1280.211
Prohibited activities.

# Expenses
1280.212
Budget and expenses.
1280.213
Investment of funds.

# Assessments
1280.217
Lamb purchases.
1280.218
Exporter.
1280.219
First handlers.
1280.220
Collections.
1280.221
Prohibition on use of funds.

# Reports, Books, and Records
1280.222
Books and records of board.
1280.223
Reports.
1280.224
Periodic evaluation.
1280.225
Books and records of persons.
1280.226
Use of information.
1280.227
Confidentiality.

# Miscellaneous
1280.228
Right of the Secretary.
1280.229
Personal liability.
1280.230
Separability.
1280.231
Patents, copyrights, inventions, product formulations, and publications.
1280.232
Amendments.
1280.233
Referenda.
1280.234
Suspension or termination.
1280.235
Proceedings after termination.
1280.236
Effect of termination or amendment.
1280.237
Rules and regulations.
1280.238
OMB Control numbers.
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Rules and Regulations
1280.401
Terms defined.
1280.402
Assessments.
1280.404
Reporting.
1280.405
Books and records.
1280.406
Exemption.
Subpart D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Procedures To Request a Referendum
1280.601
Terms defined.
1280.602
Administrator, AMS.
1280.603
Administrator, FSA.
1280.604
Eligibility.
1280.605
Farm Service Agency.
1280.606
Farm Service Agency County Committee.
1280.607
Farm Service Agency County Executive Director.
1280.608
Farm Service Agency State Committee.
1280.609
Farm Service Agency State Executive Director.
1280.610
Public Notice.
1280.611
Representative period.
1280.612
Volume of production.
1280.613
Voting period.

# Procedures
1280.620
General.
1280.621
Supervision of the process for conducting a referendum.
1280.622
Eligibility.
1280.623
Time and place of the referendum.
1280.624
Facilities.
1280.625
Certifications and referendum ballot form.
1280.626
Certification and voting procedures.
1280.627
Canvassing voting ballots.
1280.628
Counting ballots.
1280.629
FSA county office report.
1280.630
FSA State office report.
1280.631
Results of the referendum.
1280.632
Disposition of records.
1280.633
Instructions and forms.
1280.634
Confidentiality.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7411-7425 and 7 U.S.C. 7401.

# Source:
67 FR 17857, Apr. 11, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Lamb Promotion, Research, and Information Order

# Definitions
§ 1280.101
Definitions.
Act
means the Commodity Promotion, Research, and Information Act
of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7411-7425; Public Law 104- 127; 110 Stat. 1029, as amended), or any amendments thereto.
Board
means the Lamb Promotion, Research, and Information Board established pursuant to § 1280.201.
Certified organization
means any organization which has been certified by the Secretary pursuant to this part as being eligible to submit nominations for membership on the Board.
Conflict of interest
means a situation in which a member or employee of a Board has a direct or indirect financial interest in a person that performs a service for, or enters into a contract with, a Board for anything of economic value.
Department
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
Exporter
means any person who exports domestic live lambs from the United States.
Feeder
means any person who acquires ownership of lambs and feeds such lambs in the U.S. until they reach slaughter weight.
First handler
means the packer or other person who buys or takes possession of lambs from a producer or feeder for slaughter, including custom slaughter. If a producer or feeder markets lamb products directly to consumers, the producer or feeder shall be considered a first handler with respect to such lambs produced by the producer or feeder.
Fiscal period and marketing year
mean the 12-month period ending on December 31 or such other consecutive 12-month period as shall be recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
Information
means information and programs that are designed to increase efficiency in producing lambs, to maintain and expand existing markets, and to develop new markets, marketing strategies, increased market efficiency, and activities that are designed to enhance the image of lamb and lamb products on a national or international basis. These include:
(1) Consumer information, which means any action taken to provide information to, and broaden the understanding of, the general public regarding the consumption, use, and nutritional attributes of lamb and lamb products; and
(2) Industry information, which means information and programs that will lead to the development of new markets, new marketing strategies, or increased efficiency for the lamb industry, and activities to enhance the image of lamb.
Lamb
means ovine animals of any age, including ewes and rams.
Lamb products
means products produced in whole or in part from lamb, including pelts, and excluding wool and wool products.
Market agency
means commission merchant, auction market, or livestock market in the business of receiving lambs or lamb products for sale or purchase on commission for or on behalf of a producer, feeder, seedstock producer, or first handler.
Order
means an Order issued by the Secretary under § 514 of the Act that provides for a program of generic promotion, research, and information regarding agricultural commodities authorized under the Act.
Part
means the Lamb Promotion, Research, and Information Order and all rules and regulations issued pursuant to the Act and the Order. The Order shall be a subpart of the Part.
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity.
Producer
means any person who owns and produces lambs in the United States for sale.
Producer information
means activities designed to provide producers, feeders, and first handlers with information relating to production or marketing efficiencies, development of new markets, program activities, or other information that would facilitate an increase in the demand for lamb or lamb products.
Promotion
means any action, including paid advertising and the dissemination of culinary and nutritional information and public relations with emphasis on new marketing strategies, to present a favorable image of U.S. lamb products to the public for the purpose of improving the competitive position of U.S. lamb and lamb products in the marketplace and to stimulate sales.
Referendum
means a referendum to be conducted by the Secretary pursuant to the Act whereby producers, feeders, first handlers, and exporters shall be given the opportunity to vote to determine whether the continuance of this subpart is favored by a majority of eligible persons voting and a majority of volume voting.
Research
means any type of test, study, or analysis designed to advance the image, desirability, use, marketability, production, product development, or quality of lamb or lamb products.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or any other officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
Seedstock producer
means any lamb producer in the U.S. who engages in the production and sale of breeding replacement lambs or semen or embryos.
State
means each of the 50 States and the District of Columbia.
Suspend
means to issue a rule under § 553 of title 5 U.S.C., to temporarily prevent the operation of an Order or part thereof during a particular period of time specified in the rule.
Terminate
means to issue a rule under § 553 of title 5 U.S.C., to cancel permanently the operation of an Order or part thereof beginning on a date certain specified in the rule.
Unit
means each State, group of States, or class designation (producers, feeders, first handlers, or seedstock producers) that is represented on the Board.
United States
means collectively the 50 States and the District of Columbia.
Wool
means fiber from the fleece of a lamb.
Wool products
mean products produced, in whole or in part, from wool and products containing wool fiber, excluding pelts.
[86 FR 72514, Dec. 22, 2021]
§§ 1280.102-1280.129
[Reserved]

# Lamb Promotion, Research, and Information Board
§ 1280.201
Establishment and membership.
(a) There is hereby established a Lamb Promotion, Research and Information Board of 13 members. Members of the Board shall be appointed by the Secretary from nominations submitted in accordance with this subpart. The seats shall be apportioned as follows:
(1)
Producers.
There shall be six producer representatives on the Board appointed by the Secretary from nominations submitted pursuant to this subpart. For purposes of nominating and appointing producers to the Board, the United States as defined within this subpart shall be divided into two regions. Each region must be represented by at least two producers. The Secretary will appoint the remaining two producers to ensure that the criteria specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section are met. Region 1 shall include the geographic area east of the Mississippi River, which includes the following States: Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, New York, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, District of Columbia, Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois and Wisconsin. Region 2 shall consist of all States west of the Mississippi River, which includes the following states: Minnesota, Iowa, Missouri, Arkansas, Louisiana, Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, Utah, Idaho, Washington, Oregon, Nevada, California, Hawaii and Alaska. With regard to appointments to the Board, the Secretary shall ensure that the representation for producers on the Board shall meet the following criteria:
(i) Two producers appointed to the Board shall own annually 100 or less head of lambs;
(ii) One producer shall own annually between 101 and 500 head of lambs; and
(iii) Three producers shall own more than 500 head of lambs annually.
(2)
Feeders.
There shall be three feeder representatives on the Board appointed by the Secretary from nominations submitted pursuant to this subpart. The Secretary will appoint two feeder representatives to ensure that the criteria in paragraphs (a)(2)(i), (ii) and (iii) of this section are met. The third feeder representative will be appointed by the Secretary and will not be chosen or bound by size requirements.
(i) At least one of the feeders appointed to the Board shall feed less than 5,000 head of lambs annually.
(ii) At least one of the feeders appointed to the Board shall feed 5,000 or more head of lambs annually.
(iii) The Secretary shall ensure that the feeders appointed to the Board are not all located in one geographic region as established for producers pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(3)
First handlers.
There shall be three first handler representatives appointed to the Board by the Secretary from nominations submitted pursuant to this subpart.
(4)
Seedstock producers.
There shall be one seedstock producer appointed to the Board by the Secretary from nominations submitted pursuant to this subpart.
(b) In soliciting nominations for the Board, the Secretary will request those nominating to identify specific categories in which nominees will qualify.
(c)
Adjustment of membership.
At least once every 5 years, the Board will review the geographical distribution of the United States production of lambs. The review will be conducted using the National Agricultural Statistics Service inventory figures and the Board's annual assessment receipts. If warranted, the Board will recommend to the Secretary that the membership on the Board be adjusted to reflect changes in geographical distribution of domestic lamb production.
§ 1280.202
Nominations.
All nominations authorized under this section shall be made in the following manner:
(a) Nominations shall be obtained by the Secretary from eligible organizations certified under § 1280.206. Certified eligible organizations representing producers, feeders, first handlers, or seedstock producers shall submit to the Secretary at least two nominees for each seat on the Board. If the Secretary determines that a unit is not represented by a certified eligible organization, then the Secretary may solicit nominations from other organizations or other persons residing in the unit.
(b) After the establishment of the initial Board, the Department shall announce when a vacancy does or will exist. Nomination for subsequent Board members shall be submitted to the Secretary not less than 60 days prior to the expiration of the terms of the members whose terms are expiring, in the manner as described in this section. In the case of vacancies due to reasons other than the expiration of a term of office, successor Board members shall be appointed pursuant to § 1280.205.
(c) When there is more than one certified eligible organization representing the unit or when the Secretary solicits nominations from organizations and persons residing in that unit, they may caucus and jointly nominate, two qualified persons for each position representing that unit on the Board for which a member is to be appointed. If joint agreement is not reached with respect to any such nominations, or if no caucus is held, each eligible organization may submit to the Secretary two nominees for each appointment to be made to represent that unit.
§ 1280.203
Nominee's agreement to serve.
Any producer, feeder, first handler, or seedstock producer nominated to serve on the Board shall file with the Secretary at the time of the nomination a written agreement to:
(a) Serve on the Board if appointed;
(b) Disclose any relationship with any lamb promotion entity or with any organization that has or is being considered for a contractual relationship with the Board; and
(c) Withdraw from participation in deliberations, decision-making, or voting on matters that concern the relationship disclosed under paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 1280.204
Appointment.
From the nominations made pursuant to § 1280.202, the Secretary shall appoint the members of the Board on the basis of representation provided in § 1280.201.
§ 1280.205
Vacancies.
To fill any vacancy occasioned by the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any member of the Board, the Secretary shall appoint a successor from the most recent list of nominations for the position or the Secretary shall request nominations for a successor pursuant to § 1280.202 and such successor shall be appointed pursuant to § 1280.204.
§ 1280.206
Certification of organizations.
(a)
In General.
The eligibility of State, regional, or national organizations to represent producers, seedstock producers, feeders, and first handlers and to participate in the making of nominations under this subpart shall be certified by the Secretary. The Secretary shall certify any organization that the Secretary determines meets the eligibility criteria established under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. An eligibility determination by the Secretary shall be final.
(b)
Basis for Certification.
Certification shall be based upon, in addition to other available information, a factual report submitted by the organization that shall contain information considered relevant and specified by the Secretary, including:
(1) The geographic territory covered by the active membership of the organization;
(2) The nature and size of the active membership of the organization, including the number of active producers, seedstock producers, feeders, or first handlers represented by the organization;
(3) Evidence of stability and permanency of the organization;
(4) Sources from which the operating funds of the organization are derived;
(5) The functions of the organization; and
(6) The ability and willingness of the organization to further the purpose and objectives of the Act.
(c)
Primary Considerations.
The primary considerations in determining the eligibility of an organization under this paragraph shall be whether:
(1) The membership of the organization consists primarily of producers, seedstock producers, feeders, or first handlers who market or handle a substantial quantity of lamb or lamb products; and
(2) A primary purpose of the organization is in the production or marketing of lamb or lamb products.
§ 1280.207
Term of office.
(a) The members of the Board shall serve for a term of 3 years, except that the members appointed to the initial Board shall serve proportionately for terms of 1-year, 2-years, and 3-years.
(b) No member may serve more than two consecutive 3-year terms.
(c) Each member shall continue to serve until a successor is appointed by the Secretary and has accepted the position.
§ 1280.208
Compensation.
Board members shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for their reasonable expenses incurred in performing their duties as members of the Board.
§ 1280.209
Removal.
If the Secretary determines that any person appointed under this part fails or refuses to perform his or her duties properly or engages in acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct, the Secretary shall remove the person from office. A person appointed under this part or any employee of the Board may be removed by the Secretary if the Secretary determines that the person's continued service would be detrimental to the purposes of the Act.
§ 1280.210
Powers and duties of the Board.
The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
(a) To administer this subpart in accordance with its terms and provisions;
(b) To develop and recommend to the Secretary for approval such bylaws as may be necessary to administer the Order, including activities authorized to be carried out under the Order;
(c) To meet not less than annually, organize, and select from among the members of the Board a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary/Treasurer, other officers, and committees and subcommittees, as the Board determines to be appropriate;
(d) To prepare and submit for the approval of the Secretary, fiscal year budgets in accordance with § 1280.212.
(e) To employ persons, other than the members, as the Board considers necessary to assist the Board in carrying out its duties, and to determine the compensation and specify the duties of the persons;
(f) To develop and submit plans and projects to the Secretary for the Secretary's approval, and to enter into contracts or agreements, which must be approved by the Secretary before becoming effective, for the development and carrying out of programs or projects of research, information (including producer information), or promotion, and the payment of costs thereof with funds collected pursuant to this subpart. Each contract or agreement shall provide that any person who enters into a contract or agreement with the Board shall develop and submit to the Board a proposed activity; keep accurate records of all of its transactions relating to the contract or agreement; account for funds received and expended in connection with the contract or agreement; make periodic reports to the Board of activities conducted under the contract or agreement; and make such other reports available as the Board or the Secretary considers relevant. Any contract or agreement shall provide that:
(1) The contractor or agreeing party shall develop and submit to the Board a program, plan, or project together with a budget or budgets that shall show the estimated cost to be incurred for such program, plan, or project;
(2) The contractor or agreeing party shall keep accurate records of all its transactions and make periodic reports to the Board of activities conducted, submit accounting for funds received and expended, and make such other reports as the Secretary or the Board may require;
(3) The Secretary may audit the records of the contracting or agreeing party periodically; and,
(4) Any subcontractor who enters into a contract with a Board contractor and who receives or otherwise uses funds allocated by the Board shall be subject to the same provisions as the contractor.
(g) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of the Order;
(h) To recommend to the Secretary such amendments to the Order as the Board considers appropriate;
(i) To maintain such records and books and prepare and submit such reports and records from time to time to the Secretary as the Secretary may prescribe; to make appropriate accounting with respect to the receipt and disbursement of all funds entrusted to it; and to keep records that accurately reflect the actions and transactions of the Board;
(j) To cause its books to be audited by a competent auditor at the end of each fiscal year and at such other times as the Secretary may request, and to submit a report of the audit directly to the Secretary;
(k) To give the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the Board as is given to members in order that the Secretary's representative(s) may attend such meetings, and to keep and report minutes of each meeting of the Board to the Secretary;
(l) To furnish to the Secretary any information or records that the Secretary may request;
(m) To work to achieve an effective, continuous, and coordinated program of promotion, research, and information (including producer information), designed to strengthen the lamb industry's position in the marketplace; maintain and expand existing markets and uses for lamb and lamb products; and to carry out programs, plans, and projects designed to provide maximum benefits to the lamb industry;
(n) To provide not less than annually a report to producers, feeders and first
handlers, accounting for the funds expended by the Board, and describing programs implemented under the Act; and to make such report available to the public upon request;
(o) To invest funds in accordance with § 1280.213.
§ 1280.211
Prohibited activities.
The Board may not engage in, and shall prohibit the employees and agents of the lamb industry from engaging in:
(a) Any action that would be a conflict of interest;
(b) Using funds collected under the Order to undertake any action for the purpose of influencing legislation or governmental action or policy, other than recommending to the Secretary amendments to the Order; and
(c) Any advertising, including promotion, research, and information activities authorized to be carried out under the order, that may be false or disparaging to another agricultural commodity.

# Expenses
§ 1280.212
Budget and expenses.
(a) The Board shall prepare and submit to the Secretary a budget for the fiscal year covering its anticipated expenses and disbursements in administering, this subpart. The budget shall be submitted before the beginning of each fiscal year, and as frequently as may be necessary thereafter.
(b) Subject to this section, any amendment or addition to an approved budget must be approved by the Secretary, including shifting funds from one program, plan, or project to another.
(c) The Board is authorized to incur such expenses, including provision for a reasonable reserve, as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Board for its maintenance and functioning, and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. Such expenses shall be paid from funds received by the Board.
(d) With approval of the Secretary, the Board may borrow money for the payment of administrative expenses, subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board. Any funds borrowed by the Board shall be expended only for startup costs and capital outlays and are limited to the first year of operation of the Board.
(e) The Board may accept voluntary contributions, but these shall only be used to pay expenses incurred in the conduct of programs, plans, and projects. Such contributions shall be free from any encumbrance by the donor and the Board shall retain complete control of their use.
(f) The Board shall reimburse the Secretary for all expenses incurred by the Secretary in the implementation, administration, and supervision of the Order, including all referendum costs in connection with the Order.
(g) The Board may not expend for administration, maintenance, and functioning of the Board in any fiscal year an amount that exceeds 10 percent of the assessments and other income received by the Board for that fiscal year, except for the initial fiscal year. Reimbursements to the Secretary required under paragraph (f) of this section are excluded from this limitation on spending.
§ 1280.213
Investment of funds.
The Board may invest, pending disbursement, funds it receives under this subpart, only in obligations of the United States or any agency thereof, in general obligations of any State or any political subdivision thereof, in any interest-bearing account or certificate of deposit of a financial institution that is a member of the Federal Reserve System, or in obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States. Income from any such investment may be used for any purpose for which the invested funds may be used.

# Assessments
§ 1280.217
Lamb purchases.
(a) Except as prescribed by regulations approved by the Secretary, each first handler or exporter making payment to a producer, seedstock producer, or feeder for lambs purchased
from such producer, seedstock producer, or feeder shall collect an assessment from the producer, seedstock producer, or feeder. Each producer, seedstock producer, or feeder shall pay such assessment to the first handler or exporter, at the rate of seven-tenths of a cent ($.007) per pound of live lambs sold. The rate of assessment may be raised or lowered no more than twenty-hundredths of a cent ($0.002) in any one year. The Board may recommend any change in the assessment rate to the Department. Prior to a change in the assessment rate, the Department will provide notice by publishing in the
Federal Register
any proposed changes with interested parties allowed to provide comment.
(b) Except as otherwise specified in this subpart, a person shall not be considered a producer, seedstock producer, or feeder within the meaning of this subpart if;
(1) The person's only share in the proceeds of a sale of lambs is a sales commission, handling fee, or other service fee; or
(2) The person:
(i) Acquired ownership of the lambs to facilitate the transfer of ownership of such lambs from the seller to a third party,
(ii) Resold such lambs no later than 10 days from the date on which the person acquired ownership, and
(iii) Certified, as required by regulations recommended by the Board and prescribed by the Secretary, that the requirements of this provision have been satisfied.
(c) Each person processing or causing to be processed lambs or lamb products of that person's own production and marketing such lambs or lamb products, shall pay an assessment on such lambs or lamb products on the live weight of the lamb at the time of slaughter at the rate established in subparagraph (a) of this section. In addition, pursuant to § 1280.108, such an individual is considered a first handler and is required by § 1280.219 to pay an additional assessment of $0.42 per head. As the first handler, the individual must remit the total amount of assessments to the Board.
(d) A market agency shall collect an assessment from the producer, seedstock producer, feeder, or first handler and remit the collected assessment to the Board. Any person who pays more than one assessment on the same lamb may be eligible for a refund by submitting a request on a form provided by the Board.
(e) The collection of assessments pursuant to § 1280.217, § 1280.218, and § 1280.219 shall begin with respect to lambs purchased, or lambs or lamb products marketed on or after the effective date established by the Secretary and shall continue until terminated or suspended by the Secretary.
(f) Payment remitted pursuant to this subpart shall be in the form of a negotiable instrument made payable to the Board. Such remittances and the reports specified in § 1280.223 and § 1280.225 shall be mailed to the location designated by the Board.
[67 FR 17857, Apr. 11, 2002, as amended at 78 FR 28123, May 14, 2013; 86 FR 72515, Dec. 22, 2021]
§ 1280.218
Exporter.
Each person exporting live lambs or lamb products, including an exporter directly exporting his or her own lambs or lamb products, shall remit to the Board an assessment at the rate established in § 1280.217(a) by the 15th day of the month following the month in which the live lambs were purchased for slaughter and export or live export.
[86 FR 72515, Dec. 22, 2021]
§ 1280.219
First handlers.
Each first handler, in addition to remitting the assessment collected pursuant to § 1280.217, shall pay an assessment equal to forty-two cents ($0.42) per head of lambs purchased by the first handler for slaughter or slaughtered by such first handler pursuant to a custom slaughter arrangement. The rates of assessment for first handlers shall be increased or decreased proportionately if the assessment paid by producers, seedstock producers, and feeders is increased or decreased. Such assessment shall be remitted with the assessments collected pursuant to § 1280.217.
[78 FR 28123, May 14, 2013]
§ 1280.220
Collections.
(a) Each first handler, market agency, and exporter responsible for the collection of assessments under this subpart shall remit assessments to the Board by the 15th day of the month following the month in which the lambs were purchased for slaughter or export.
(b) If a first handler marketed lambs or lamb products directly to consumers, assessments shall be remitted to the Board by the 15th day of the month following the month in which the lambs or lamb products were marketed, as required by regulations recommended by the Board and prescribed by the Secretary, has provided otherwise.
(c)
Late payment charges.
Any unpaid assessments due to the Board pursuant to § 1280.217 shall be increased 2 percent each month beginning with the day following the date such assessments were due. Any remaining amount due, which shall include any unpaid charges previously made pursuant to this paragraph, shall be increased at the same rate on the corresponding day of each month thereafter until paid. For the purposes of this paragraph, any assessment determined at a date later than the date prescribed by this subpart, because of a person's failure to timely submit a report to the Board, shall be considered to have been payable by the date it would have been due if the report had been timely filed. The timeliness of a payment to the Board shall be based on the applicable postmark date or the date actually received by the Board, whichever is earlier.
(d) Persons failing to remit total assessments due in a timely manner may also be subject to actions under Federal debt collection procedures.
[67 FR 17857, Apr. 11, 2002, as amended at 86 FR 72515, Dec. 22, 2021]
§ 1280.221
Prohibition on use of funds.
No funds collected by the Board under this subpart shall be used to undertake any action for the purpose of influencing legislation or governmental action or policy, other than recommending to the Secretary amendments to this subpart. A plan or project conducted pursuant to this title shall not make false or misleading claims on behalf of lamb or lamb products or disparage a competing product.

# Reports, Books, and Records
§ 1280.222
Books and Records of Board.
The Board shall:
(a) Maintain such books and records, which shall be made available to the Secretary for inspection and audit, as the Secretary may prescribe,
(b) Prepare and submit to the Secretary, from time to time, such reports as the Secretary may prescribe, and
(c) Account for the receipt and disbursement of all funds entrusted to it. The Board shall cause its books and records to be audited by an independent auditor at the end of each fiscal year, and a report of such audit to be submitted to the Secretary.
§ 1280.223
Reports.
Each first handler required to remit assessments to the Board for live lambs pursuant to § 1280.217, each first handler marketing lamb products of that person's own production, and each exporter of lambs, shall report to the Board information pursuant to regulations recommended by the Board and prescribed by the Secretary. Such information may include but is not limited to the following:
(a) The number of lambs purchased, initially transferred or which, in any other manner, is subject to the collection of assessment, the total weight in pounds, and the dates of such transactions;
(b) The number of lambs exported; the total weight in pounds of lambs exported;
(c) The amount of assessment remitted;
(d) The basis; if necessary, to show why the remittance is less than the total weight in pounds of lamb multiplied by the assessment rate;
(e) The date any assessment was paid.
§ 1280.224
Periodic evaluation.
Pursuant to the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7401), the Board shall, not less often than every 5 years, authorize and fund, from funds otherwise available to
the Board, an independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the Order and other programs conducted by the Board. The Board shall submit to the Secretary, and make available to the public, the results of each periodic independent evaluation conducted under this paragraph.
§ 1280.225
Books and records of persons.
(a) Each first handler, exporter of lambs, and market agency shall maintain and make available for inspection such books and records as may be required by regulations recommended by the Board and prescribed by the Secretary, including records necessary to verify any required reports. Such records shall be maintained for at least 2 years beyond the fiscal period of their applicability.
(b) Document evidencing payment of assessments. Each person, including first handlers, exporters and market agencies, responsible for collecting an assessment paid pursuant to this subpart is required to give the person from whom the assessment was collected, written evidence of payment of the assessments paid pursuant to this subpart. Such written evidence serving as a receipt shall include, but not be limited to, the following information:
(1) Name and address of the person collecting the assessment.
(2) Name of person who paid assessment.
(3) Number of head of lamb sold.
(4) Total weight in pounds of lamb sold.
(5) Total assessments paid by the producer, seedstock producer, or feeder.
(6) Date of sale.
(7) Such other information as the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may require.
§ 1280.226
Use of information.
Information from records or reports required pursuant to this subpart shall be made available to the Secretary as is appropriate to the administration or enforcement of the Act, subpart or any regulation issued under the Act. In addition, the Secretary may authorize the use, under this part, of information regarding person paying producers, seedstock producers, feeders, first handlers, or exporters that is accumulated under laws or regulations other than the Act or regulations issued under the Act.
§ 1280.227
Confidentiality.
All information obtained from books, records, or reports under the Act, this subpart, and the regulations issued thereunder shall be kept confidential by all persons, including all employees and former employees of the Board, all officers and employees and former officers and employees of contracting and subcontracting agencies or agreeing parties having access to such information. Such information shall not be available to Board members, producers, seedstock producers, feeders, exporters, or first handlers. Only those persons having a specific need for such information to effectively administer the provisions of this subpart shall have access to such information. Only such information so obtained as the Secretary deems relevant shall be disclosed by them, and then only in a judicial proceeding or administrative hearing brought at the direction, or on the request, of the Secretary, or to which the Secretary or any officer of the United States is a party. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit:
(a) The issuance of general statements based upon the reports of the number of persons subject to this subpart or statistical data collected therefrom, which statements do not identify the information furnished by any person; and
(b) The publication, by direction of the Secretary, of the name of any person violating this subpart, together with a statement of the particular provisions of this subpart violated by such person.

# Miscellaneous
§ 1280.228
Right of the Secretary.
All fiscal matters, programs, plans, or projects, rules or regulations, reports, or other substantive actions proposed and prepared by the Board shall be submitted to the Secretary for approval.
§ 1280.229
Personal liability.
No member or employee of the Board shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly, in any way whatsoever to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member or employee, except for acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct.
§ 1280.230
Separability.
If any provision of the subpart is declared invalid or the applicability thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart, or the applicability thereof to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
§ 1280.231
Patents, copyrights, inventions, product formulations, and publications.
(a) Any patents, copyrights, inventions or publications developed through the use of funds collected by the Board under the provisions of this subpart shall be the property of the U.S. Government as represented by the Board, and shall, along with any rents, royalties, residual payments, or other income from the rental, sale leasing, franchising, or other uses of such patents, copyrights, inventions, or publication, inure to the benefit of the Board. Upon termination of this subpart, § 1280.235 shall apply to determine the disposition of all such property.
(b) Should patents, copyrights, inventions or publications be developed through the use of funds collected by the Board under this subpart and funds contributed by another organization or person, ownership and related rights to such patents, copyrights, inventions or publications shall be determined by agreement between the Board and the party contributing funds towards the development of such patent, copyright, invention or publication in a manner consistent with paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 1280.232
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed, from time to time, by the Board or by any interested persons affected by the provisions of the Act, including the Secretary.
§ 1280.233
Referenda.
(a)
Required referendum.
For the purpose of ascertaining whether the persons subject to this part favor the continuation, suspension, or termination of this part, the Secretary shall conduct a referendum among persons subject to assessments under § 1280.217, § 1280.218, and § 1280.219 who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have engaged in the production, feeding, handling, or slaughter of lamb; or the exportation of lamb.
(1)
Time for referendum.
The referendum shall be conducted not later than 3 years after assessments first begin under this part.
(2)
Approval of part.
This part may be approved in a referendum by a majority of those persons voting for approval who also represent a majority of the volume of lamb produced, fed, slaughtered, handled, and exported.
(b)
Subsequent referenda.
The Secretary shall conduct a subsequent referendum:
(1) Not later than 7 years after assessments first begin under this part;
(2) At the request of the Board established pursuant to § 1280.201; or
(3) At the request of 10 percent or more of the lamb producers, seedstock producers, feeders, first handlers, and exporters eligible to vote to determine if the persons favor the continuation, suspension, or termination of this part.
(c)
Other referenda.
The Secretary may conduct a referendum at any time to determine whether the continuation, suspension or termination of this part or a provision of this part is favored by lamb producers, seedstock producers, feeders, first handlers, and exporters eligible to vote.
(d)
Costs of referenda.
The Board shall reimburse the Secretary for any expenses incurred by the Secretary to conduct referenda.
(e)
Manner of conducting referenda.
A referendum conducted under this section with respect to this part shall be conducted in the manner determined by the Secretary to be appropriate.
(1)
Voting.
Eligible voters may vote by mail ballot in the referendum or in
person if so prescribed by the Secretary.
(2)
Notice.
Not later than 30 days before a referendum is conducted under this section with respect to this part, the Secretary shall notify the eligible voters, in such manner as determined by the Secretary, of the period during which voting in the referendum will occur. The notice shall explain any registration and voting procedures established under this part.
§ 1280.234
Suspension or termination.
(a) The Secretary shall suspend or terminate this part or subpart or a provision thereof if the Secretary finds that this part, subpart or a provision thereof obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the purposes of the Act,
(b) If, as a result of a referendum the Secretary determines that this subpart is not approved, the Secretary shall:
(1) Not later than 180 days after making the determination, suspend or terminate, as the case may be, collection of assessments under this subpart; and
(2) As soon as practical, suspend or terminate, as the case may be, activities under this subpart in an orderly manner.
§ 1280.235
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of this subpart, the Board shall recommend to the Secretary not more than five of its members to serve as trustees for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Board. Such persons, upon designation by the Secretary, shall become trustees of all funds and property owned, in possession of or under control of the Board, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered or any other claim existing at the time of such termination.
(b) The said trustees shall:
(1) Continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary;
(2) Carry out the obligations of the Board under any contracts or agreements entered into pursuant to this subpart;
(3) From time to time account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Board and of the trustees, to such person as the Secretary may direct; and
(4) Upon the direction of the Secretary execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such person full title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims vested in the Board or the same obligations as imposed upon the Board and the trustees.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered pursuant to this subpart shall be subject to the same obligations as imposed upon the Board and the trustees.
(d) Any residual funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be returned to the persons who contributed such funds, or paid assessments, or if not practicable, shall be turned over to the Department to be utilized, to the extent practicable, in the interest of continuing one or more of the lamb research or information programs hitherto authorized.
§ 1280.236
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or any regulation issued thereunder, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty obligation or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or any such rule or regulation issued thereunder;
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or of this subpart or of any rule or regulation issued thereunder; or
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the United States, the Secretary or of any person, with respect to any such violation.
§ 1280.237
Rules and Regulations.
The Secretary may prescribe such rules and regulations as may be necessary to effectively carry out the provisions of this subpart.
§ 1280.238
OMB Control Numbers.
The control number for the information requirements assigned by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35 is 0581-0198, except that the OMB control number for the nominee background form is 0505-0001.
Subparts B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Rules and Regulations

# Source:
67 FR 39253, June 7, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1280.401
Terms defined.
As used throughout this subpart, unless the context otherwise requires, terms shall have the same meaning as the definition of such terms in subpart A of this part.
§ 1280.402
Assessments.
(a)
Sharing proceeds of sale.
If more than one producer, feeder, or seedstock producer shares the proceeds received for the lamb or lamb products sold, each such producer, feeder, or seedstock producer is obligated to pay that portion of the assessments that is equivalent to that producer's, feeder's, or seedstock producer's proportionate share of the proceeds.
(b)
Market agency.
A market agency will be required to collect an assessment from the producer, feeder, seedstock producer, or first handler and remit the collected assessment to the Board.
(c)
Failure to collect.
Failure of a person to collect the assessment on lambs purchased from a producer, feeder, or seedstock producer shall not relieve the producer, feeder, or seedstock producer of their obligation to pay the assessment and to remit the assessment to the Secretary.
(d)
Death, bankruptcy, receivership or incapacity to act.
In the event of a producer's, feeder's, seedstock producer's, or exporter's death, bankruptcy, receivership or incapacity to act, the representative of such producer's, feeder's, seedstock producer's, or exporter's estate, the person acting on behalf of creditors or other person acting in such person's stead, shall be considered the producer, feeder, or seedstock producer and shall be required to pay an assessment or collect an assessment.
(e)
Remittance of assessments.
(1) Assessments shall be remitted to the Lamb Promotion, Research, and Information Program, c/o the Secretary at USDA, 23029 Network Place, Chicago, Illinois 60673-1230, with a “Monthly Remittance Report” form not later than the 15th day of the following month in which lambs or lamb products were purchased for slaughter or export, or marketed.
(2) In cases where a producer or feeder sells lambs as part of a custom slaughter operation, the producer or feeder shall be responsible for remitting the assessments pursuant to § 1280.219.
(3) Each person processing or causing to be processed lamb or lamb products of that person's own production and marketing such lamb or lamb products shall be responsible for remitting the assessments pursuant to § 1280.217(c).
(4) Late payment charges. Any unpaid assessments due to the Board pursuant to § 1280.217 shall be increased 2 percent each month beginning with the day following the date such assessments were due. Any remaining amount due, which shall include any unpaid charges previously made pursuant to this paragraph, shall be increased at the same rate on the corresponding day of each month thereafter until paid. Any assessment received at a date later than the date prescribed by this part, because of a persons failure to submit a timely report to the Secretary, shall be considered to have been payable by the date it would have been due if the report had been filed in a timely manner. The timeliness of a payment to the Secretary shall be based on the applicable postmark date or the date actually received by the Secretary, whichever is earlier.
(5) Weekends and holidays. If the 15th day of the month falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a federally recognized holiday then the required reports and assessment will be due the next business day in order to avoid late payment charges.
(f)
Non-producer status for certain transactions.
(1) Each person seeking non-producer status pursuant to § 1280.217 shall provide the person remitting the assessment a Statement of Certification of Non-Producer Status form (LS-78).
(2) A copy of the Statement of Certification of Non-Producer Status shall be forwarded by the person collecting the assessment to the Secretary.
[67 FR 39253, June 7, 2002, as amended at 86 FR 72516, Dec. 22, 2021]
§ 1280.404
Reporting.
(a) Each first handler required to submit assessments for live lambs pursuant to § 1280.217, each first handler marketing lamb products of that person's own production, and each exporter of lambs, shall report to the Secretary the following information on form LS-81.
(1) The number of lambs purchased, initially transferred or which, in any other manner, is subject to the collection of assessment, the total weight in pounds, and the dates of such transactions;
(2) The number of lambs exported and the total weight in pounds of lambs exported;
(3) The amount of assessment remitted;
(4) The basis; if necessary, to show why the remittance is less than the total weight in pounds of lamb multiplied by the assessment rate; and
(5) The date any assessment was paid.
(b)
Reporting periods.
For reports required pursuant to § 1280.223, each calendar month shall be a reporting period.
§ 1280.405
Books and records.
(a) Each first handler, exporter of lambs, and market agency shall maintain and, during normal business hours, make available for inspection by representatives of the Secretary, such books and records as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this part, including such books and records as are necessary to verify any required reports.
(b)
Documents evidencing payments of assessments.
Each person, including first handlers, exporters, and market agencies, responsible for collecting an assessment paid pursuant to this part is required to give the person from whom the assessment was collected, written evidence of payment of the assessments paid. Such written evidence serving as a receipt shall include the following information:
(1) Name and address of the person collecting the assessment.
(2) Name of person who paid assessment.
(3) Number of head of lambs sold.
(4) Total weight in pounds of lamb sold.
(5) Total assessments paid by the producer, seedstock producer, or feeder.
(6) Date of sale.
(7) Such other information as the Secretary may require.
§ 1280.406
Exemption.
(a) A producer, seed stock producer, feeder, handler, or exporter who operates under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic production or handling system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:
(1) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) are eligible for exemption;
(2) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products of a producer, handler, or exporter regardless of whether the agricultural commodity subject to the exemption is produced, handled, or exported by a person that also produces, handles, or exports conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;
(3) The producer, handler, or exporter maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522) (OFPA) and the NOP regulations issued under OFPA (7 CFR part 205); and
(4) Any person so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(b) To apply for exemption under this section, the person shall submit a request to the Board on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time during the year initially, and annually thereafter on or before January 1, for as long as the producer continues to be eligible for the exemption.
(c) The request for exemption shall include the following:
(1) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;
(2) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid certificate of organic operation issued under the OFPA and the NOP;
(3) Certification that the applicant produces, handles, or exports organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;
(4) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent under the OFPA and the NOP;
(5) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and
(6) Such other information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.
(d) If a person complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant an assessment exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the applicant within 30 days. If the application is disapproved, the Board will notify the applicant of the reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe.
(e) An exempt producer shall provide a copy of the Certificate of Exemption to each person to whom the producer sells ovine animals or lamb and lamb products. The Certificate of Exemption must accompany the ovine animals through the production chain to the person responsible for remitting the assessment to the Board.
(f) The person shall maintain records showing the exempt producer's name and address and the exemption number assigned by the Board.
(g) The exemption will apply at the first reporting period following the issuance of the exemption.
[70 FR 2762, Jan. 14, 2005, as amended at 80 FR 82035, Dec. 31, 2015]
Subpart D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Procedures To Request a Referendum

# Definitions

# Source:
69 FR 77572, Dec. 27, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1280.601
Terms defined.
As used throughout this subpart, unless the context otherwise requires, terms shall have the same meaning as the definition of such terms in subpart A of this part.
§ 1280.602
Administrator, AMS.
Administrator, AMS
, means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, or any officer or employee of USDA to whom there has been delegated or may be delegated the authority to act in the Administrator's stead.
§ 1280.603
Administrator, FSA.
Administrator, FSA
, means the Administrator, of the Farm Service Agency, or any officer or employee of USDA to whom there has been delegated or may be delegated the authority to act in the Administrator's stead.
§ 1280.604
Eligibility.
Eligibility
is defined as any person subject to the assessment who during the representative period determined by the Secretary have engaged in the production, feeding, or slaughtering of lambs. Such persons are eligible to participate in the referendum. Those persons whose only share in the proceeds of a sale of lambs is a sales commission, handling fee or other service fee or the person acquired ownership of the lambs to facilitate the transfer of ownership of such lambs from the seller to a third party and resold such lambs no later than 10 days from the date on which the person acquired ownership are not considered are producers,
seedstock producers, or feeders and not subject to the assessment. Such persons will not be eligible to participate in the referendum.
§ 1280.605
Farm Service Agency.
Farm Service Agency
also referred to as “FSA” means the Farm Service Agency of USDA.
§ 1280.606
Farm Service Agency County Committee.
Farm Service Agency County Committee
, also referred to as “FSA County Committee or COC,” means the group of persons within a county who are elected to act as the Farm Service Agency County Committee.
§ 1280.607
Farm Service Agency County Executive Director.
Farm Service Agency County Executive Director
, also referred to as “CED,” means the person employed by the FSA County Committee to execute the policies of the FSA County Committee and to be responsible for the day-to-day operation of the FSA county office, or the person acting in such capacity.
§ 1280.608
Farm Service Agency State Committee.
Farm Service Agency State Committee
, also referred to as “FSA State Committee,” means the group of persons within a State who are appointed by the Secretary to act as the Farm Service Agency State Committee.
§ 1280.609
Farm Service Agency State Executive Director.
Farm Service Agency State Executive Director
, Farm Service Agency State Executive Director, also referred to as “SED,” means the person within a State who is appointed by the Secretary to be responsible for the day-to-day operation of the FSA State Office, or the person acting in such capacity.
§ 1280.610
Public notice.
Public notice
means not later than 30-days before the referendum is conducted, the Secretary shall notify the eligible voters in such manner as determined by the Secretary, of the voting period during which voting in the referendum will occur. The notice shall explain any registration and voting procedures established under § 518 of the Act.
§ 1280.611
Representative period.
Representative period
means the period designated by the Secretary pursuant to § 518 of the Act.
§ 1280.612
Volume of production.
(a) For producers and seedstock producers, the term
volume of production
means the total number of live domestic lambs owned and produced during the most recent calendar year.
(b) For feeders,
volume of production
means the total number of lambs owned and fed during the most recent calendar year.
(c) For first handlers,
volume of production
means the total number of lambs slaughtered during the most recent calendar year.
§ 1280.613
Voting period.
The term
voting period
means a 4-week period to be announced by the Secretary for voting the referendum.

# Procedures
§ 1280.620
General.
A referendum to determine whether eligible persons favor the continuance of this part shall be carried out in accordance with this subpart.
(a) The referendum will be conducted at county FSA offices.
(b) The Secretary shall determine if at least a majority of those persons voting for approval who also represent a majority of the volume of lambs owned and produced; owned and fed; or slaughtered, favor the continuance of this part.
§ 1280.621
Supervision of the process for conducting a referendum.
The Administrator, AMS, shall be responsible for supervising the process of permitting persons to vote in a referendum in accordance with this subpart.
§ 1280.622
Eligibility.
(a) Any person subject to the assessment who during the representative period determined by the Secretary has engaged in the production, feeding, or
slaughtering of lambs is eligible to participate in the referendum. Those persons whose only share in the proceeds of a sale of lambs is a sales commission, handling fee or other service fee or the person acquired ownership of the lambs to facilitate the transfer of ownership of such lambs from the seller to a third party and resold such lambs no later than 10 days from the date on which the person acquired ownership are not considered are producers, seedstock producers, or feeders and not subject to the assessment. Such persons will not be eligible to participate in the referendum.
(b)
Proxy Registration.
(1) Proxy registration is not authorized, except that an officer or employee of a corporate producer, feeder, seedstock producer, or first handler, or any guardian, administrator, executor, or trustee of a person's estate, or an authorized representative of any eligible producer, feeder, seedstock producer, or first handler entity (other than an individual person), such as a corporation or partnership, may vote on behalf of that entity. Further, an individual cannot vote on behalf of another individual (
i.e.
, spouse, sharecrop lease, etc.).
(2) Any individual, who votes on behalf of any producer, feeder, seedstock producer, or first handler entity, shall certify that he or she is authorized by such entity to take such action. Upon request of the county FSA office, the person voting may be required to submit adequate evidence of such authority.
(c)
Joint and group interest.
A group of individuals, such as members of a family, joint tenants, tenants in common, a partnership, owners of community property, or a corporation who engaged in the production, feeding, or slaughtering of lambs during the representative period as a producer, feeder, seedstock producer, or first handler entity shall be entitled to cast only one vote; provided, however, that any individual member of a group who is an eligible person separate from the group may vote separately.
§ 1280.623
Time and place of the referendum.
(a) The opportunity to vote in the referendum shall be provided during a 4-week period beginning and ending on a date determined by the Secretary. Eligible persons shall have the opportunity to vote following the procedures established in this subpart during the normal business hours of each county FSA office.
(b) Persons can determine the location of county FSA offices by contacting the nearest county FSA office, the State FSA office, or through an online search of FSA's Web site at
http://www.fsa.usda.gov/pas/default.asp.
(c) Each eligible person shall cast a ballot in the county FSA office where FSA maintains the person's administrative farm records. For eligible persons not participating in FSA programs, the opportunity to vote will be provided at the county FSA office serving the county where the person owns or rents land. A person engaged in the production, feeding, slaughtering, of lambs in more than one county will vote in the county FSA office where the person does most of his or her business.
§ 1280.624
Facilities.
Each county FSA office will provide:
(a) a voting place that is well known and readily accessible to persons in the county and that is equipped and arranged so that each person can complete and submit their ballot in secret without coercion, duress, or interference of any sort whatsoever, and
(b) a holding container of sufficient size so arranged that no ballot or supporting documentation can be read or removed without breaking seals on the container.
§ 1280.625
Certification and referendum form ballot form.
Form LS-86 shall be used to vote in the referendum and certify eligibility. Eligible persons will be required to complete a ballot in its entirety, vote “yes” or “no” to continue the program, enter the number of lambs (volume of production) owned and produced; owned and fed; or slaughtered during a representative period and provide documentation such as a sales receipt or remittance form showing that the person voting was engaged in the production, feeding, or slaughtering of lambs during the representative period.
The person or authorized representative shall sign the ballot certifying that they or the entity they represent were engaged in the production, feeding, or slaughtering of lambs during the representative period and that the volume of production voted is true and accurate.
§ 1280.626
Certification and voting procedures.
(a) Each eligible person shall be provided the opportunity to cast a ballot during the voting period announced by the Secretary.
(1) Each eligible person shall be required to complete form LS-86 in its entirety, sign it, and provide evidence that they were engaged in the production, feeding, or slaughtering of lambs during the representative period. The person must legibly place his or her name and, if applicable, the entity represented, address, county, and telephone number. The person shall sign and certify on form LS-86 that:
(i) The person was engaged in the production, feeding, or slaughtering of lambs during the representative period;
(ii) The person voting on behalf of a corporation or other entity is authorized to do so;
(iii) The person has cast only one vote; and
(iv) The volume of production listed on the ballot is true and accurate.
(2) Only a completed and signed form LS-86 accompanied by supporting documentation showing that the person was engaged in the production, feeding, or slaughter of lambs during the representative period shall be considered a valid vote.
(b) To vote, eligible persons may obtain form LS-86 in-person, by mail, or by facsimile from county FSA offices or through the Internet during the voting period. A completed and signed form LS-86 and supporting documentation, such as a sales receipt or remittance form, must be returned to the appropriate county FSA office where FSA maintains and processes the person's administrative farm records. For a person not participating in FSA programs, the opportunity to vote in a referendum will be provided at the county FSA office serving the county where the person owns or rents land. A person engaged in the production, feeding, or slaughtering of lambs in more than one county will vote in the county FSA office where the person does most of his or her business. Forms obtained via the Internet will be located at
www.ams.usda.gov/lsmarketingprograms.
(c) A completed and signed form LS-86 and the supporting documentation may be returned in-person, by mail, or facsimile to the appropriate county FSA office. Form LS-86 and supporting documentation returned in-person or by facsimile, must be received in the appropriate county FSA office prior to the close of the work day on the final day of the voting period to be considered a valid ballot. Form LS-86 and the accompanying documentation returned by mail must be postmarked no later than midnight of the final day of the voting period and must be received in the county FSA office on the 5th business day following the final day of the voting period.
(d) Persons who obtain form LS-86 in-person at the appropriate FSA county office may complete and return it the same day along with the supporting documentation.
[69 FR 77572, Dec. 27, 2004, as amended at 73 FR 76194, Dec. 16, 2008]
§ 1280.627
Canvassing voting ballots.
(a) Canvassing of form LS-86 shall take place at the county FSA offices on the 6th business day following the final day of the voting period. Such canvassing, acting on behalf of the Administrator, AMS, shall be in the presence of at least two members of the county committee. If two or more of the counties have been combined and are served by one county office, the canvassing of the requests shall be conducted by at least one member of the county committee from each county served by the county office. The FSA State committee or the State Executive Director, if authorized by the State Committee, may designate the County Executive Director (CED) and a county or State FSA office employee to canvass the ballots and report the results instead of two members of the county committee when it is determined that the number of eligible voters is so limited that having two members of the county committee present
for this function is impractical, and designate the CED and/or another county or State FSA office employee to canvass requests in any emergency situation precluding at least two members of the county committee from being present to carry out the functions required in this section.
(b) Form LS-86 should be canvassed as follows:
(1)
Number of valid ballots.
A person has been declared eligible by FSA to vote by completing form LS-86 in its entirety, signing it, voting volume of production, and providing supporting documentation that shows the person who cast the ballot during the voting period was engaged in the production, feeding, or slaughtering of lambs during the representative period. Such ballot will be considered a valid ballot.
(2)
Number of ineligible ballots.
If FSA cannot determine that a person is eligible based on the submitted documentation or if the person fails to submit the required supporting documentation, the person shall be determined to be ineligible. FSA shall notify ineligible persons in writing as soon as practicable but no later than the 8th business day following the final day of the voting period.
(c)
Appeal.
A person declared to be ineligible by FSA can appeal such decision and provide additional documentation to the FSA county office within 5 business days after the postmark date of the letter of notification of ineligibility. FSA will then make a final decision on the person's eligibility and notify the person of the decision.
(d)
Invalid ballots.
An invalid ballot includes, but is not limited to the following:
(1) Form LS-86 is not signed or all required information has not been provided;
(2) Form LS-86 and supporting documentation returned in-person or by facsimile was not received by close of business on the last business day of the voting period;
(3) Form LS-86 and supporting documentation returned by mail was not postmarked by midnight of the final day of the voting period;
(4) Form LS-86 and supporting documentation returned by mail was not received in the county FSA office by the 5th business day following the final day of the voting period;
(5) Form LS-86 or supporting documentation is mutilated or marked in such a way that any required information on the form is illegible; or
(6) Form LS-86 and supporting documentation not returned to the appropriate county FSA office.
§ 1280.628
Counting ballots.
(a) Form LS-86 shall be counted by county FSA offices on the same day as the ballots are canvassed if there are no ineligibility determinations to resolve. For those county FSA offices that do have ineligibility determinations, the requests shall be counted no later than the 14th business day following the final day of the voting period.
(b) Ballots shall be counted as follows:
(1) Number of valid ballots cast;
(2) Number of persons favoring the Order;
(3) Number of persons not favoring the Order;
(4) Volume of production voted favoring the continuation of the Order;
(5) Volume of production voted not favoring the continuation of the Order; and
(6) Number of invalid ballots.
§ 1280.629
FSA county office report.
The county FSA office report shall be certified as accurate and complete by the CED or designee, acting on behalf of the Administrator, AMS, as soon as may be reasonably possible, but in no event shall submit no later than 18th business day following the final day of the specified period. Each county FSA office shall transmit the results in its county to the FSA State office. The results in each county may be made available to the public upon notification by the Administrator, FSA, that the final results have been released by the Secretary. A copy of the report shall be posted for 30 calendar days following the date of notification by the Administrator, FSA, in the county FSA office in a conspicuous place accessible to the public. One copy shall be kept on file in the county FSA office for a period of at least 12 months after
notification by FSA that the final results have been released by the Secretary.
§ 1280.630
FSA State office report.
Each FSA State office shall transmit to the Administrator, FSA, as soon as possible, but in no event later than the 20th business day following the final day of the voting period, a report summarizing the data contained in each of the reports from the county FSA offices. One copy of the State summary shall be filed for a period of not less than 12 months after the results have been released and available for public inspection after the results have been released.
§ 1280.631
Results of the referendum.
(a) The Administrator, FSA, shall submit to the Administrator, AMS, the reports from all State FSA offices. The Administrator, AMS, shall tabulate the results of the ballots. USDA will issue an official press release announcing the results of referendum and publish the same results in the
Federal Register.
In addition, USDA will post the official results at the following Web site:
http://www.ams.usda.gov/LSMarketingPrograms
or such other Web site as announced by the Administrator of AMS. Subsequently, State reports and related papers shall be available for public inspection upon request during normal business hours in the Marketing Programs Branch; Livestock and Seed Program, AMS, USDA, Room 2628-S; STOP 0251; 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC.
(b) If the Secretary deems necessary, a State report or county report shall be reexamined and checked by such persons who may be designated by the Secretary.
[69 FR 77572, Dec. 27, 2004, as amended at 73 FR 76194, Dec. 16, 2008]
§ 1280.632
Disposition of records.
Each FSA CED will place in sealed containers marked with the identification of the “Lamb Checkoff Program Referendum,” all of the form LS-86's along with the accompanying documentation and county summaries. Such records will be placed in a secure location under the custody of FSA CED for a period of not less than 12 months after the date of notification by the Administrator, FSA, that the final results have been announced by the Secretary. If the county FSA office receives no notice to the contrary from the Administrator, FSA, by the end of the 12 month period as described above, the CED or designee shall destroy the records.
§ 1280.633
Instructions and forms.
The Administrator, AMS, is authorized to prescribe additional instructions and forms not inconsistent with the provisions of this subpart.
§ 1280.634
Confidentiality.
The names of persons voting in the referendum and ballots shall be confidential and the contents of the ballots shall not be divulged except as the Secretary may direct. The public may witness the opening of the ballot box and the counting of the votes but may not interfere with the process.
PART 1290 [RESERVED]
PART 1292-1299 [RESERVED]
7 CFR Ch. XIV (1-1-25 Edition)
Commodity Credit Corporation, USDA

# CHAPTER XIV—COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to chapter XIV appear at 60 FR 1710, Jan. 5, 1995, and 60 FR 64297, Dec. 15, 1995.

# SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL REGULATIONS AND POLICIES
Part
Page
1400
Payment limitation and payment eligibility
433
1401
Commodity certificates, in kind payments, and other forms of payment
455
1402
Policy for certain commodities available for sale
460
1404
Assignment of payments
461
1405
Loans, purchases, and other operations
463
1407
Debarment and suspension
465
1409
Trade Mitigation Program
466

# SUBCHAPTER B—LOANS, PURCHASES, AND OTHER OPERATIONS
1410
Conservation Reserve Program
474
1412
Agriculture risk coverage, price loss coverage, and cotton transition assistance programs
498
1413
Commodity incentive payment programs
529
1415
Grasslands Reserve Program
533
1416
Emergency agricultural disaster assistance programs
549
1421
Grains and similarly handled commodities—marketing assistance loans and loan deficiency payments
588
1423
Commodity Credit Corporation approved warehouses
624
1424
Bioenergy program
627
1425
Cooperative marketing associations
633
1427
Cotton
639
1429
Asparagus revenue market loss assistance payment program
671
1430
Dairy products
676
1434
Nonrecourse marketing assistance loans and loan deficiency payments for honey
715
1435
Sugar program
725
1436
Farm Storage Facility Loan Program regulations
747
1437
Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program
761
1450
Biomass Crop Assistance Program (BCAP)
797
1455
Voluntary Public Access and Habitat Incentive Program
813
1463
2005-2014 Tobacco Transition Program
819
1464
Regional Conservation Partnership Program
834
1465
Agricultural Management Assistance
850
1466
Environmental Quality Incentives Program
859
1467
Wetlands Reserve Program
883
1468
Agricultural Conservation Easement Program
897
1469
Conservation Security Program
931
1470
Conservation Stewardship Program
950
1471
PIMA Agriculture cotton trust fund (agriculture PIMA trust) and agriculture wool apparel manufacturers trust fund (agriculture wool trust)
966

# SUBCHAPTER C—EXPORT PROGRAMS
1484
Programs to help develop foreign markets for agricultural commodities
975
1485
Grant agreements for the development of foreign markets for U.S agricultural commodities
996
1486
Emerging Markets Program
1023
1487
Technical assistance for specialty crops
1037
1488
Financing of sales of agricultural commodities
1047
1489
Regional Agricultural Promotion Program
1057
1491
Farm and Ranch Lands Protection Program
1082
1492
[Reserved]
1493
CCC Export Credit Guarantee Programs
1093
1494-1495
[Reserved]
1499
Food for Progress Program
1157

# Cross Reference:
For regulations relative to standards, inspections, and marketing practices, see Chapter I of this title.

# SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL REGULATIONS AND POLICIES
Pt. 1400

# PART 1400—PAYMENT LIMITATION AND PAYMENT ELIGIBILITY

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
1400.1
Applicability.
1400.2
Administration.
1400.3
Definitions.
1400.4
Indian Tribe.
1400.5
Denial of program benefits.
1400.6
Joint and several liability.
1400.7
Revocable trust.
1400.8
Equitable treatment.
1400.9
Appeals.
1400.10
Notification of interests.

# Subpart B—Payment Limitation
1400.100
[Reserved]
1400.101
Minor children.
1400.102
States, political subdivisions, agencies thereof.
1400.103
Charitable organizations.
1400.104
Changes in farming operations.
1400.105
Attribution of payments.
1400.106
Payment limits.

# Subpart C—Payment Eligibility
1400.201
General provisions for determining whether a person or legal entity is actively engaged in farming.
1400.202
Persons.
1400.203
Joint operations.
1400.204
Limited partnerships, limited liability partnerships, limited liability companies, corporations and other similar legal entities.
1400.205
Trusts.
1400.206
Estates.
1400.207
Landowners.
1400.208
Family members.
1400.209
Sharecroppers.
1400.210
Deceased and incapacitated persons.
1400.211
Persons and legal entities not considered to be actively engaged in farming.
1400.212
Growers of hybrid seed.
1400.213
Military personnel.
1400.214
Cash rent tenants.
Subpart D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Foreign Persons
1400.401
Eligibility.
1400.402
Notification.

# Subpart F—Average Adjusted Gross Income Limitation
1400.500
Applicability.
1400.501
Determination of average adjusted gross income.
1400.502
Compliance and enforcement.
1400.503
Commensurate reduction.

# Subpart G—Additional Payment Eligibility Provisions for Joint Operations and Legal Entities Comprised of Non-Family Members or Partners, Stockholders, or Persons With an Ownership Interest in the Farming Operation
1400.600
Applicability.
1400.601
Definitions.
1400.602
Restrictions on active personal management contributions.
1400.603
Recordkeeping requirements.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1308, 1308-1, 1308-2, 1308-3, 1308-3a, 1308-4, and 1308-5; and Title I, Pub. L. 115-123.

# Source:
73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 1400.1
Applicability.
(a) This part, except as otherwise noted, is applicable to all of the following programs and any other programs as specified in individual program regulations of this chapter:
(1) The Agriculture Risk Coverage (ARC) and Price Loss Coverage (PLC) Programs, part 1412 of this chapter;
(2) The Price Support programs in parts 1421, 1427, and 1434 of this chapter;
(3) The Conservation Reserve Program (CRP), part 1410 of this chapter;
(4) The Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program (NAP), part 1437 of this chapter;
(5) The Livestock Forage Disaster Program (LFP), Livestock Indemnity Program (LIP), and the Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honey Bees and Farm-raised Fish Program (ELAP), part 1416 of this chapter;
(6) The Tree Assistance Program (TAP), part 1416 of this chapter;
(7) The Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) conservation programs of this title including the Agricultural Management Assistance (AMA) program, Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP), Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP),
and Agricultural Conservation Easement Program (ACEP); and
(8) The Emergency Conservation Program (ECP) and Emergency Forest Restoration Program (EFRP) in part 701 of this title.
(9) Subparts C and G of this part do not apply to the programs listed in paragraphs (a)(3) through (8) of this section.
(b) This part will apply to the programs specified in:
(1) Paragraphs (a)(1), (2), (4), and (7) of this section on a crop year basis;
(2) Paragraph (a)(3) of this section on a fiscal year basis;
(3) Paragraphs (a)(5) and (6) of this section on a calendar year basis;
(4) Paragraph (a)(7) of this section when funding is available; and
(5) Paragraph (a)(8) of this section on a per disaster event basis.
(c) This part will be used to determine the manner in which payments will be attributed to persons and legal entities for the payment limitations provided in this section and to other programs as specified in individual program regulations in this chapter.
(d) Where more than one provision of this part may apply, the provision that is most restrictive on the program participant will be applied.
(e) The payment limitations of this part are not applicable to:
(1) Payments made under State conservation reserve enhancement program agreements approved by the Secretary, and
(2) Payments made subject to this part if ownership interest in land or a commodity is transferred as the result of the death of a program participant and the new owner of the land or commodity has succeeded to the contract of the prior owner. If the successor is otherwise eligible, payments cannot exceed the amount the previous owner was entitled to receive at the time of death.
(f) The following amounts are the limitations on payments per person or legal entity for the applicable period for each payment or benefit.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
f
)
Payment or benefit
Limitation per person or legal entity
($)
(1) Price Loss Coverage, Agriculture Risk Coverage payments (other than Peanuts)
125,000 per program year.
(2) Price Loss Coverage and Agriculture Risk Coverage payments for Peanuts
125,000 per program year.
(3) CRP annual rental payments
50,000 per program year.
(4) NAP payments
(i) basic 50/55 NAP coverage
125,000 per crop year.
(ii) Buy-up NAP coverage
300,000 per crop year.
(5) LFP
125,000 per program year.
(6) CSP
1
200,000.
(7) EQIP
2
450,000.
(8) AMA program
50,000 per fiscal year.
(9) ECP
500,000 per disaster event.
(10) EFRP
500,000 per disaster event.
1
The $200,000 limitation is the total amount a person or legal entity can receive directly or indirectly in the aggregate under all CSP contracts entered into during fiscal years 2019 through 2023.
2
The $450,000 limitation is the total amount of cost share and incentive payments a person or legal entity can receive directly or indirectly, under all EQIP contracts (excluding Conservation Incentive Contracts) in the aggregate entered into during the period of either: Fiscal years 2014 through 2018, or fiscal years 2019 through 2023.
[79 FR 21096, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 119, Jan. 2, 2015; 80 FR 78128, Dec. 16, 2015; 83 FR 49463, Oct. 2, 2018; 85 FR 52036, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.2
Administration.
(a) The regulations in this part will be administered under the general supervision and direction of the Executive Vice President, Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC), and the Administrator, Farm Service Agency (FSA). In the field, the regulations in this part will be administered by the FSA State and county committees (referred to as “State committee” and “county committee,” respectively).
(b) State executive directors, county executive directors, and State and
county committees do not have authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of this part.
(c) The State committee may take any action authorized or required by this part to be taken by the county committee that has not been taken by the county committee. The State committee may also:
(1) Correct or require a county committee to correct any action taken by the county committee that is not in accordance with this part or
(2) Require a county committee to withhold taking any action that is not in accordance with this part.
(d) No delegation in this part to a State or county committee precludes the Executive Vice President, CCC, and the Administrator, FSA, or a designee, from determining any question arising under this part or from reversing or modifying any determination made by a State or county committee.
(e) Benefits from programs subject to this part may not be issued until all required forms and necessary payment eligibility and payment limitation determinations are made.
(f) The initial payment eligibility determinations will be made within 60 days after the required forms and any other supporting documentation needed in making the determinations are received in the county FSA office. If the determination is not made within 60 days, the producer will receive a determination for that program year that reflects the determination sought by the producer unless the Deputy Administrator determines that the producer did not follow the farm operating plan that was presented to the county or State committee for the applicable year.
(g) Initial determinations concerning the provisions of this part will be made by the FSA State office with respect to any farm operating plan that is for a joint operation with six or more members.
(h) Reviews of farming operations and corresponding documentation submitted by program participants may be conducted at any time to determine compliance with applicable statutes and regulations. The completion of the reviews is not subject to the time constraints specified in paragraph (f) of this section.
(i) The Deputy Administrator will periodically monitor the status of completion of assigned compliance reviews and take any actions deemed appropriate to ensure timely completion of reviews for payment eligibility and payment limitation compliance purposes.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 899, Jan. 7, 2010; 80 FR 78128, Dec. 16, 2015; 85 FR 52036, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.3
Definitions.
(a) The terms defined in part 718 of this title are applicable to this part and all documents issued in accordance with this part, except as otherwise provided in this section.
(b) The following definitions are also applicable to this part:
Active personal management
means personally providing and participating in activities considered critical to the profitability of the farming operation and performed under one or more of the following categories:
(1) Capital, which includes:
(i) Arranging financing and managing capital;
(ii) Acquiring equipment;
(iii) Acquiring land or negotiating leases;
(iv) Managing insurance; and
(v) Managing participation in USDA programs;
(2) Labor, which includes hiring and managing of hired labor; and
(3) Agronomics and marketing, which includes:
(i) Selecting crops and making planting decisions;
(ii) Acquiring and purchasing crop inputs;
(iii) Managing crops (that is, whatever managerial decisions are needed with respect to keeping the growing crops living and healthy—soil fertility and fertilization, weed control, insect control, irrigation if applicable) and making harvest decisions; and
(iv) Pricing and marketing of crop production.
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Farm Service Agency including any designee of the Administrator.
Alien
means any person not a citizen or national of the United States.
Attribution
means the combination of any payment made directly to a person or legal entity with the person's or legal entity's pro rata direct and indirect interest in payments received by a legal entity, joint venture, or general partnership.
Average Adjusted Gross Income
means the average of the adjusted gross income as defined under 26 U.S.C. 62 or comparable measure of the person or legal entity over the 3 taxable years preceding the most immediately preceding complete taxable year.
Capital
means the funding provided by a person or legal entity to the farming operation for the operation to conduct farming activities. In determining whether a person or legal entity has independently contributed capital, in the form of funding, to the farming operation, the capital must have been derived from a fund or account separate and distinct from that of any other person or legal entity with an interest in the farming operation. Capital does not include the value of any labor or management that is contributed to the farming operation or any outlays for land or equipment. A capital contribution must be a direct out-of-pocket input of a specified sum or an amount borrowed by the person or legal entity and does not include advance program payments.
Chief
means the Chief of the Natural Resources Conservation Service including any designee of the Chief (also referred to in this part as NRCS Chief).
Contribution
means providing land, capital, or equipment assets, and the actions of providing active personal labor or active personal management to a farming operation in exchange for, or with the expectation of, deriving benefit based solely on the success of the farming operation.
Deputy Administrator
means the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, Farm Service Agency including any designee.
Environmentally sensitive land of special significance
means land offered for enrollment or adjacent to the land offered for enrollment that contains, or through enrollment will address, critical resources including, but not limited to:
(1) Habitat for threatened, endangered, or at-risk species;
(2) Historical or cultural resources;
(3) Native grasslands;
(4) Unique wetlands;
(5) Rare, unique, or related soils; and
(6) Critical groundwater recharge areas.
Equipment
means the machinery and implements needed by the farming operation to conduct activities of the farming operation, including machinery and implements involved in land preparation, planting, cultivating, harvesting, or marketing of the crops involved. Equipment also includes machinery and implements needed to establish and maintain conserving cover crops on CRP acreages and those needed to conduct livestock operations. The equipment may be leased from any source. If the equipment is leased from another person or legal entity with an interest in the farming operation, the equipment must be leased at a fair market value.
Family member
means a person to whom another member in the farming operation is related as a lineal ancestor, lineal descendant, sibling, first cousin, niece, nephew, spouse, or otherwise by marriage.
Farming operation
means a business enterprise engaged in the production of agricultural products, commodities, or livestock, operated by a person, legal entity, or joint operation that is eligible to receive payments, directly or indirectly, under one or more of the programs specified in § 1400.1. A person or legal entity may have more than one farming operation if the person or legal entity is a member of one or more joint operations.
Indian tribe
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, pueblo, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601-1629h), which is recognized as eligible for special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
Interest in the farming operation
means any of the following:
(1) Owner, lessor, or lessee of the land in the farming operation;
(2) An interest in the agricultural products, commodities, or livestock produced by the farming operation; or
(3) A member of a joint operation that is an owner, lessor, or lessee of the land in the farming operation or has an interest in the agricultural products, commodities, or livestock produced by the farming operation.
Irrevocable trust
means a trust as specified in this definition. Any trust not meeting this definition will be considered a revocable trust. A trust may be considered to be an irrevocable trust only if:
(1) The trust cannot be modified or terminated by the grantor;
(2) The grantor has no future, contingent, or remainder interest in the corpus of the trust; and
(3) The trust agreement does not provide for the transfer of the corpus of the trust to the remainder beneficiary in less than 20 years from the date the trust is established except in cases where the transfer is contingent upon either the remainder beneficiary achieving at least the age of majority or the death of the grantor or income beneficiary.
Joint operation
means a general partnership, joint venture, or other similar business organization in which the members are jointly and severally liable for the obligations of the organization.
Land
means farmland that meets the specific requirements of the applicable program. The land may be leased from any source. If the land is leased from another person or legal entity with an interest in the farming operation, the land must be leased at a fair market value.
Lawful alien
means any person who is not a citizen or national of the United States but who is admitted into the United States for permanent residence under the Immigration and Nationality Act and possesses appropriate valid credentials issued by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, Department of Homeland Security.
Legal entity
means an entity created under Federal or State law and that:
(1) Owns land or an agricultural commodity, product, or livestock; or
(2) Produces an agricultural commodity, product, or livestock.
Livestock
means those animals included in § 1416.304(a) of this chapter.
Payment
means:
(1) Payments made in accordance with part 1412 of this chapter or successor regulation of this chapter;
(2) CRP annual rental payments made in accordance with part 1410 of this chapter or successor regulation of this chapter;
(3) NAP payments made in accordance with part 1437 of this chapter or successor regulation of this chapter;
(4) ELAP, LIP, LFP, and TAP payments made in accordance with part 1416 of this chapter or successor regulations of this chapter:
(5) Price support payments made in accordance with parts 1421 and 1434 of this chapter; and
(6) For other programs, any payments designated in individual program regulations in this chapter.
Person
means an individual, natural person and does not include a legal entity.
Public school
means a primary, elementary, secondary school, college, or university that is directly administered under the authority of a governmental body or that receives a predominant amount of its financing from public funds.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture.
Sharecropper
means a person who performs work in connection with the production of the crop under the supervision of the operator and who receives a share of the crop in return for work.
Significant contribution
means the provision of the following to a farming operation:
(i)(A) For land, capital, or equipment contributed independently by a person or legal entity, a contribution that has a value at least equal to 50 percent of the person's or legal entity's commensurate share of the total:
(
1
) Value of the capital necessary to conduct the farming operation;
(
2
) Rental value of the land necessary to conduct the farming operation; or
(
3
) Rental value of the equipment necessary to conduct the farming operation; or
(B) If the contribution by a person or legal entity consists of any combination of land, capital, and equipment, such combined contribution must have a value at least equal to 30 percent of the person's or legal entity's commensurate share of the total value of the farming operation;
(ii) For active personal labor, an amount contributed by a person to the farming operation that is described by the smaller of the following:
(A) 1,000 hours per calendar year; or
(B) 50 percent of the total hours that would be necessary to conduct a farming operation that is comparable in size to such person's or legal entity's commensurate share in the farming operation;
(iii) With respect to active personal management, activities that are critical to the profitability of the farming operation, taking into consideration the person's or legal entity's commensurate share in the farming operation; and
(iv) With respect to a combination of active personal labor and active personal management, when neither contribution by itself meets the requirement of paragraphs (ii) and (iii) of this definition, a combination of active personal labor and active personal management that, when made together, results in a critical impact on the profitability of the farming operation in an amount at least equal to either the significant contribution of active personal labor or active personal management as defined in paragraphs (ii) and (iii) of this definition.
Substantial amount of active personal labor
means the provision of active personal labor to a farming operation in an amount described by the smaller of the following:
(1) 1,000 hours per calendar year; or
(2) 50 percent of the total hours that would be necessary to conduct a farming operation that is comparable in size to the person's or legal entity's commensurate share in the farming operation.
Total value of the farming operation
means the total of the costs, excluding the value of active personal labor and active personal management contributed by a person who is a member of the farming operation, needed to carry out the farming operation for the year for which the determination is made.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014; 85 FR 52037, Aug. 24, 2020; 85 FR 73602, Nov. 19, 2020]
§ 1400.4
Indian Tribe.
Provisions of this part do not apply to Indian tribes as defined in § 1400.3.
§ 1400.5
Denial of program benefits.
(a) All or any part of a payment otherwise due a person or legal entity on all farms in which the person or legal entity has an interest may be withheld or be required to be refunded if the person or legal entity fails to comply with the provisions of this part.
(b) All or any part of a payment otherwise due a person or legal entity on all farms in which the person or legal entity has an interest may be withheld or be required to be refunded if the person or legal entity fails to comply with the provisions of this part and adopts or participates in adopting a scheme or device designed to evade this part, or that has the effect of evading this part. Examples of acts may include, but are not limited to:
(1) Concealing information that affects the application of this part;
(2) Submitting false or erroneous information; or
(3) Creating a business arrangement using rental agreements and other arrangements to conceal the interest of a person or legal entity in a farm or farming operation for the purpose of obtaining program payments the person or legal entity would otherwise not be eligible to receive. Examples of business arrangements or acts include, but are not limited to the following:
(i) No crops are grown or agricultural commodities produced by the represented operation;
(ii) The represented operation has no appreciable assets;
(iii) The only source of capital for the operation is the program payments; or
(iv) The represented operation exists only for the receipt of program payments.
(c) If the Deputy Administrator determines that a person or legal entity has adopted a scheme or device to
evade, or that has the purpose of evading, the provisions of 7 U.S.C. 1308, 1308-1, or 1308-3, as amended, the person or legal entity will be ineligible to receive payments under the programs specified in § 1400.1 in the year the scheme or device was perpetrated or adopted and the succeeding year.
(d) A person or legal entity that lies or perpetuates fraud, commits fraud, or participates in equally serious actions for the benefit of the person or legal entity, or the benefit of any other person or legal entity, to exceed the applicable limit on payments or the requirements of this part will be subject to a 5-year denial of all program benefits. Examples of equally serious actions include, but are not limited to:
(1) Knowingly engaged in, or aided in the creation of a fraudulent document;
(2) Failed to disclose material information relevant to the administration of the provisions of this part, or
(3) Any other actions of a person or legal entity determined by the Deputy Administrator as designed or intended to circumvent the provisions of this subpart.
(e) Program payments and benefits will be denied on pro-rata basis:
(1) In accordance to the interest held by the person or legal entity in any other legal entity or joint operations and
(2) To any person or legal entity that is a cash rent tenant on land owned or under control of a person or legal entity for which a determination of this section has been made.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 52038, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.6
Joint and several liability.
(a) Any legal entity, including joint operations, and any member of a legal entity determined to have knowingly participated in a scheme or device, or other equally serious actions to evade the payment limitation provisions in this part, or that has the purpose of evading the provisions of this part, will be jointly and severally liable for any amounts determined to be payable as the result of the scheme or device, or other examples of equally serious actions mentioned in this section or in § 1400.5, including amounts necessary to recover the payments.
(b) Any person or legal entity that cooperates in the enforcement of the payment limitation and payment eligibility provisions of this part may be partially or fully released from liability, as determined by the Executive Vice President, CCC.
(c) The provisions of this section will be applicable in addition to any liability that arises under a criminal or civil statute.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 899, Jan. 7, 2010; 85 FR 52038, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.7
Revocable trust.
A revocable trust and the grantor will be considered to be the same person under this part.
[85 FR 52038, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.8
Equitable treatment.
(a) Actions taken by a person or legal entity in good faith based on action or advice of an authorized representative of the Administrator may be accepted as meeting the requirements of this part to the extent the Administrator deems necessary to provide fair and equitable treatment to the person or legal entity.
(b) Actions taken by a person or legal entity in good faith based on action or advice of an authorized representative of the NRCS Chief may be accepted as meeting the requirements of this part to the extent the NRCS Chief deems necessary to provide fair and equitable treatment to the person or legal entity.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 52038, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.9
Appeals.
(a) A person or legal entity may obtain reconsideration and review of determinations made under this part in accordance with the appeal regulations set forth in part 780 of this title. With respect to the appeals, the applicable reviewing authority will:
(1) Schedule a hearing with respect to the appeal within 45 days following receipt of the written appeal and
(2) Issue a determination within 60 days following the hearing.
(b) The time limitations provided in paragraph (a) will not apply if:
(1) The appellant, or the appellant's representative, requests a postponement of the scheduled hearing;
(2) The appellant, or the appellant's representative, requests additional time following the hearing to present additional information or a written closing statement;
(3) The appellant has not timely presented information to the reviewing authority; or
(4) An investigation by the Office of Inspector General is ongoing or a court proceeding is involved that affects the amount of payments a person may receive.
(c) If the deadlines provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are not met, the relief sought by the producer's appeal will be granted for the applicable crop year unless the Deputy Administrator determines that the producer did not follow the farm operating plan initially presented to the county committee for the year that is the subject of the appeal.
(d) An appellant may waive the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 52038, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.10
Notification of interests.
(a) To facilitate administration of subparts B, C, E, and F of this part for programs specified in § 1400.1, or any other program as provided in individual program regulations in this chapter, a person or legal entity must provide information in the manner as prescribed by the Deputy Administrator.
(b) The information required to be submitted under paragraph (a) of this section must include:
(1) The name, address, valid taxpayer identification number, and ownership share of each person, or the name, address, valid taxpayer identification number, and ownership share of each legal entity, that holds or acquires an ownership interest in the legal entity; and
(2) The name, address, valid taxpayer identification number, and ownership share of each legal entity in which the person or legal entity holds an ownership interest.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, payments to a legal entity will be reduced in proportion to a member's ownership share when a valid taxpayer identification number for a person or legal entity that holds a direct or indirect ownership interest of less than 10 percent at, or above the fourth level of ownership in the business structure is not provided to USDA. Additionally, A legal entity will not be eligible to receive payment when a valid taxpayer identification number for a person or legal entity that holds a direct or indirect ownership interest of 10 percent or greater at, or above the fourth level of ownership in the business structure is not provided to USDA.
(d) In order to be eligible to receive any payment specified in § 1400.1(a)(7) or as provided by the Natural Resources Conservation Service in individual program regulations in this chapter, a person or legal entity must provide information in the manner as prescribed by the Deputy Administrator as identified in paragraph (b) of this section. Paragraph (c) of this section does not apply to the identified Natural Resources Conservation Service programs (programs specified in § 1400.1(a)(7) or any other Natural Resources Conservation Service program as specified in the individual program regulations in this chapter).
[87 FR 1890, Jan. 11, 2023]

# Subpart B—Payment Limitation
§ 1400.100
[Reserved]
§ 1400.101
Minor children.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, payments received by a child under 18 years of age as of June 1 of the applicable crop, program, or fiscal year, including the person who is the beneficiary of a trust or who is an heir of an estate, will be attributed for the entire crop, program, or fiscal year to the parent receiving the greater amount of program payments subject to this part or to any court-appointed person such as a guardian or conservator who is responsible for the minor.
(b) Payments received by a minor will not be attributed to the minor's
parent or to any court-appointed person such as a guardian or conservator who is responsible for the minor if all of the following apply:
(1) The minor is a producer on a farm and the minor's parents or any court-appointed person such as guardian or conservator who is responsible for the minor, does not have any interest in the farm;
(2) The minor has established and maintains a separate household from the minor's parents or any court-appointed person such as a guardian or conservator who is responsible for the minor, and the minor personally carries out the farming activities with respect to the minor's farming operation for which there is a separate accounting; and
(3) The minor does not live in the same household as the minor's parents and:
(i) Is represented by a court-appointed guardian or conservator who is responsible for the minor and
(ii) Ownership of the farm is vested in the minor.
(c) A person will be considered to be a minor until the age 18 is reached. Court proceedings conferring majority on a person under 18 years of age will not change the person's status as a minor.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 899, Jan. 7, 2010; 85 FR 52038, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.102
States, political subdivisions, and agencies thereof.
(a) A State, political subdivision, and agency thereof, is not eligible for payments or benefits under programs specified in § 1400.1, unless the exception provided in paragraph (b) of this section applies.
(b) Subject to the limitation in paragraph (c) of this section, a State, political subdivision, and any agency thereof, may receive payments or benefits under programs specified in § 1400.1(a)(1) if both of the following apply:
(1) The land for which payments are received is owned by the State, political subdivision, or agency thereof and
(2) The payments are used solely for the support of public schools;
(c) The total payments described in paragraph (b) of this section cannot exceed $500,000 annually except for States with a population less than 1,500,000, as established by the most recent U.S. Census Bureau annual estimate of the State's resident population.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 899, Jan. 7, 2010; 85 FR 52038, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.103
Charitable organizations.
(a) A charitable organization, including a club, society, fraternal organization, or religious organization will be considered a separate legal entity for payment limitation purposes to the extent that the entity is independently engaged in the production of crops, agricultural commodities, or livestock, except where the land or the proceeds from the farming operation may transfer to a legal entity that exercises control or authority over the organization.
(b) If the land or the proceeds from the farming operation may transfer to a legal entity that exercises control or authority over the charitable organization, payments to the charitable organization will be attributed to the parent organization.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 52038, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.104
Changes in farming operations.
(a) Any change in a farming operation that would increase the number of persons to which the provisions of this part apply must be bona fide and substantive. If bona fide, the following will be considered to be a substantive change in the farming operation:
(1) The addition of a family member to a farming operation in accordance with § 1400.208, except that the addition will not affect the status of any other person or legal entity that is added to the farming operation; or
(2) With respect to a landowner only, a change from a cash rent to a share rent; or
(3) An increase through the acquisition of land used for agricultural production not previously involved in the farming operation of at least 20 percent or more in the total land involved in the farming operation.
(i) For the purpose of payment limitations, the increase in agricultural land will be considered an applicable
bona fide and substantive change for the increase of only one person or legal entity to the farming operation, unless;
(ii) A representative of the State FSA office determines, based on the magnitude and complexity of the change represented, the increase in agricultural land supports additional persons or legal entities to the farming operation; or
(4) A change in ownership by sale or gift of equipment from a person or legal entity previously engaged in a farming operation to a person or legal entity that has not been involved in the operation. The sale or gift of equipment will be considered to be bona fide and substantive only if:
(i) The transferred amount of the equipment is commensurate with the new person's or legal entity's share of the farming operation;
(ii) The sale or gift of the equipment was based on the equipment's fair market value;
(iii) The former owner of the equipment has no direct or indirect control over the equipment;
(iv) The transaction was not financed by the former owner; and
(v) Preference was not given to the former owner to re-purchase the equipment at a later date; or
(5) A change in ownership by sale or gift of land or livestock from a person or legal entity who previously has been engaged in a farming operation to a person or legal entity that has not been involved in the operation. The sale or gift of land or livestock will be considered to be bona fide and substantive only if:
(i) The transferred amount of the land or livestock is commensurate with the new person's or legal entity's share of the farming operation;
(ii) The sale or gift of land or livestock was based on land's or livestock's fair market value;
(iii) The former owner of the land or livestock has no direct or indirect control over the land or livestock;
(iv) The transaction was not financed by the former owner; and
(v) Preference was not given to the former owner to re-purchase the land or livestock at a later date.
(b) Unless the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section are met, the increase in persons in the farming operation will not be recognized for payment limitation purposes and the additional persons or legal entities are not eligible for program payment identified in § 1400.1 otherwise resulting from the farming operation.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 899, Jan. 7, 2010; 85 FR 52038, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.105
Attribution of payments.
(a) A payment made directly to a person or legal entity will be combined with the pro rata interest of the person or legal entity in payments received by a legal entity in which the person or legal entity has a direct or indirect ownership interest, unless the payments of the legal entity have been reduced by the pro rata share of the person or legal entity.
(b) A payment made to a legal entity will be attributed to those persons who have a direct and indirect ownership interest in the legal entity, unless the payment of the legal entity has been reduced by the pro rata share of the person.
(c) Attribution of payments made to legal entities will be tracked through four levels of ownership in legal entities as follows:
(1) First level of ownership—any payment made to a legal entity that is owned in whole or in part by a person will be attributed to the person in an amount that represents the direct ownership interest in the first-tier or payment legal entity;
(2)(i) Second level of ownership—any payment made to a first-tier legal entity that is owned in whole or in part by another legal entity (referred to as a second-tier legal entity) will be attributed to the second-tier legal entity in proportion to the ownership of the second-tier legal entity in the first-tier legal entity;
(ii) If the second-tier legal entity is owned in whole or in part by a person, the amount of the payment made to the first-tier legal entity will be attributed to the person in the amount that represents the indirect ownership in the first-tier legal entity by the person.
(3) Third and fourth levels—except as provided in paragraph (2)(ii) of this section, any payments made to a legal entity at the third and fourth tiers of ownership will be attributed in the same manner as specified in paragraph (2)(i) of this section.
(4) Fourth-tier ownership—if the fourth-tier of ownership is that of a legal entity and not that of a person, a reduction in payment will be applied to the first-tier or payment legal entity in the amount that represents the indirect ownership in the first-tier or payment legal entity by the fourth-tier legal entity.
(d) For purposes of administering direct attribution, and to determine a person's ownership interest in a legal entity that receives a payment subject to limitation; the ownership interest on June 1 of each year will be used.
(1) If the change in ownership interest is due to the death of an interest holder in the legal entity or the legal entity did not exist on June 1 of the applicable year, the Deputy Administrator may determine that a change after June 1 is considered relevant or effective for the current year.
(2) Changes that occur after June 1 cannot be used to increase the amount of program payments a legal entity, or its members, is eligible to receive directly or indirectly for the applicable year.
(e) Direct attribution of payments is not applicable to a cooperative association of producers with respect to commodities produced by the members of the association that are marketed by the association on behalf of the members of the association. The payments will instead be attributed to the producers as persons.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 900, Jan. 7, 2010; 85 FR 52039, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.106
Payment limits.
(a) Direct or indirect payments made to a person or legal entity will not exceed the amounts specified in subpart A of this part and will be determined in accordance with § 1400.105.
(b) Payments made to a joint operation cannot exceed, for each payment specified in subpart A of this part, the amount determined by multiplying the maximum payment amount specified in subpart A of this part by the number of persons and legal entities, other than joint operations, that comprise the ownership of the joint operation.
(c) Payments made to a legal entity will be reduced proportionately by an amount that represents the direct or indirect ownership in the legal entity by any person or legal entity that has otherwise reached the applicable maximum payment limitation.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 900, Jan. 7, 2010; 85 FR 52039, Aug. 24, 2020]

# Subpart C—Payment Eligibility
§ 1400.201
General provisions for determining whether a person or legal entity is actively engaged in farming.
(a) To be considered eligible to receive payments with respect to a particular farming operation, a person or legal entity must be actively engaged in farming with respect to the operation.
(b) Actively engaged in farming means, except as otherwise provided in this part, that the person or legal entity:
(1) Independently and separately makes a significant contribution to a farming operation of:
(i) Capital, equipment, or land, or a combination of capital, equipment, or land and
(ii) Active personal labor or active personal management, or a combination of active personal labor and active personal management;
(2) Has a share of the profits or losses from the farming operation commensurate with the person's or legal entity's contributions to the operation; and
(3) Makes contributions to the farming operation that are at risk for a loss, with the level of risk being commensurate with the person's or legal entity's claimed share of the farming operation.
(c) All of the following factors will be taken into consideration in determining if the person or legal entity is independently and separately contributing a significant amount of capital, equipment, or land, or a combination of capital, equipment, or land, to the farming operation:
(1) A separate and distinct interest in the land, crop, and livestock involved in the farming operation;
(2) The demonstration of separate and total responsibility for the interest in the land, crop, and livestock in the farming operation; and
(3) All funds and business accounts of the farming operation are separate from that of any other person and legal entity.
(d) In determining if the person or legal entity is independently and separately contributing a significant amount of active personal labor or active personal management, all of the following factors will be taken into consideration:
(1) The types of crops and livestock produced by the farming operation;
(2) The normal and customary farming practices of the area;
(3) The total amount of labor and management necessary for the farming operation in the area; and
(4) Whether the person or legal entity receives compensation for the labor and management activities.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 52039, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.202
Persons.
(a) A person will be considered to be actively engaged in farming with respect to a farming operation if:
(1) The person independently and separately makes a significant contribution to a farming operation of:
(i) Capital, equipment, or land, or a combination of capital, equipment, or land and
(ii) Active personal labor or active personal management, or a combination of active personal labor and active personal management;
(2) Has a share of the profits or losses from the farming operation commensurate with the person's or legal entity's contributions to the operation; and
(3) Makes contributions to the farming operation that are at risk for a loss, with the level of risk being commensurate with the person's or legal entity's claimed share of the farming operation.
(b) If one spouse, or an estate of a deceased spouse, is determined to be actively engaged in farming as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the other spouse is considered to have made a significant contribution, as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, only to the same farming operation.
(c) If a farming operation is conducted by a person, and the capital, land, or equipment is contributed by the person, the capital, land, or equipment:
(1) To meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, must be contributed directly by the person and must not be acquired as a result of a loan made to, guaranteed, co-signed, or secured by any other person, joint operation, or legal entity that has an interest in the farming operation; and
(2) To meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section, and if acquired as a loan made to, guaranteed, co-signed, or secured by the persons, joint operations, or legal entities, the loan must:
(i) Bear the prevailing interest rate and
(ii) Have a repayment schedule considered reasonable and customary for the area.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 900, Jan. 7, 2010; 85 FR 52039, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.203
Joint operations.
(a) A member of a joint operation will be considered to be actively engaged in farming with respect to a farming operation if the member:
(1) Makes a significant contribution of:
(i) Capital, equipment, or land or a combination of capital, equipment, or land and
(ii) Active personal labor or active personal management, or a combination of active personal labor and active personal management, and that are:
(A) Performed on a regular basis,
(B) Identifiable and documentable, and
(C) Separate and distinct from the contributions of any other member of the farming operation;
(2) Has a share of the profits or losses from the farming operation commensurate with the member's contributions to the operation; and
(3) Makes contributions to the farming operation that are at risk for a
loss, with the level of risk being commensurate with the member's claimed share of the farming operation.
(b) For a farming operation conducted by a joint operation in which the capital, land, or equipment is contributed by the joint operation, the capital, land, or equipment:
(1) To meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, and if contributed directly by the joint operation, must not be acquired as a loan made to, guaranteed, co-signed, or secured by any person, legal entity, or other joint operation that has an interest in the farming operation; and
(2) To meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section, and if acquired as a result of a loan made to, guaranteed, co-signed, or secured by the persons, legal entities, or joint operations with an interest in the operation, the loan must:
(i) Bear the prevailing interest rate and
(ii) Have a repayment schedule considered reasonable and customary for the area.
(c) If a joint operation separately makes a significant contribution of capital, equipment, or land, or a combination of capital, equipment, or land, and the joint operation meets the provisions of § 1400.201(b)(2) and (3), the members of the joint operation who make a significant contribution of active personal labor, active personal management, or a combination of active personal labor and active personal management to the farming operation as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section will be considered to be actively engaged in farming with respect to the farming operation.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 900, Jan. 7, 2010; 85 FR 52039, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.204
Limited partnerships, limited liability partnerships, limited liability companies, corporations, and other similar legal entities.
(a) A limited partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability company, corporation, or other similar legal entity will be considered to be actively engaged in farming with respect to a farming operation if:
(1) The legal entity independently and separately makes a significant contribution to the farming operation of capital, equipment, or land, or a combination of capital, equipment, or land;
(2) Each partner, stockholder, or member with an ownership interest or their spouse with an ownership interest makes a contribution, whether compensated or not compensated, of active personal labor, active personal management, or a combination of active personal labor and active personal management to the farming operation; that are:
(i) Performed on a regular basis;
(ii) Identifiable and documentable; and
(iii) Separate and distinct from the contributions of any other partner, stockholder or member of the farming operation;
(3) The collective contribution of the partners, stockholders and members is significant and commensurate;
(4) The legal entity has a share of the profits or losses from the farming operation commensurate with the legal entity's contributions to the operation; and
(5) The legal entity makes contributions to the farming operation that are at risk for a loss, with the level of risk being commensurate with the legal entity's claimed share of the farming operation.
(b) If any partner, stockholder, or member fails to meet the requirements in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, any program payment and benefit subject to this subpart provided to the legal entity will be reduced by an amount commensurate with the ownership share held by that partner, stockholder, or member in the legal entity.
(c) An exception to paragraph (b) of this section will apply if:
(1) At least 50 percent of the stock is held by partners, stockholders, or members that are actively providing labor or management and
(2) The partners, stockholders, or members are collectively receiving, directly or indirectly, total payments equal to or less than one payment limitation.
(d) For a farming operation conducted by a legal entity in which the
capital, land, or equipment is contributed by the legal entity, the capital, land, or equipment:
(1) To meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, must be contributed directly by the legal entity and must not be acquired as a loan made to, guaranteed, co-signed, or secured by any person, legal entity, or joint operation that has an interest in the farming operation, as defined in this part; and
(2) To meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(4) and (a)(5) of this section, and if acquired as a result of a loan made to, guaranteed, co-signed, or secured by the persons, legal entities, or joint operations as defined, the loan must:
(i) Bear the prevailing interest rate and
(ii) Have a repayment schedule considered reasonable and customary for the area.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 900, Jan. 7, 2010; 85 FR 52039, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.205
Trusts.
A trust will be considered to be actively engaged in farming with respect to a farming operation if:
(a) The trust independently and separately makes a significant contribution to the farming operation of capital, equipment, or land, or a combination of capital, equipment, or land;
(b) The income beneficiaries collectively make a significant contribution of active personal labor or active personal management, or a combination of active personal labor and active personal management to the farming operation. The combined interest of all the income beneficiaries providing active personal labor or active personal management, or a combination of active personal labor and active personal management, must be at least 50 percent;
(c) The trust has a share of the profits or losses from the farming operation commensurate with the legal entity's contributions to the operation;
(d) The trust makes contributions to the farming operation that are at risk for a loss, with the level of risk being commensurate with the legal entity's claimed share of the farming operation;
(e) For a farming operation conducted by a trust in which the capital, land, or equipment is contributed by the trust, the capital, land, or equipment:
(1) To meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, must be contributed directly by the trust and must not be acquired as a loan made to, guaranteed, co-signed, or secured by any person, legal entity, or joint operation that has an interest in the farming operation, as defined in this part; and
(2) To meet the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section and if land, capital or equipment is acquired as a result of a loan made to, guaranteed, co-signed, or secured by the persons, legal entities, or joint operations as defined, the loan must:
(i) Bear the prevailing interest rate; and
(ii) Have a repayment schedule considered reasonable and customary for the area.
(f) The trust has provided a tax identification number of the trust unless the trust is a revocable trust and the grantor is the sole income beneficiary; and
(g) The trust has provided a copy of the trust agreement to the county committee unless the trust is a revocable trust.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 900, Jan. 7, 2010; 85 FR 52039, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.206
Estates.
(a) For 2 program years after the program year in which a person dies, the person's estate will be considered to be actively engaged in farming if:
(1) The estate, as a legal entity, makes a significant contribution of either:
(i) Capital, equipment, or land or
(ii) A combination of capital, equipment, or land; and
(2) The personal representative or heirs of the estate collectively make a significant contribution of either:
(i) Active personal labor or active personal management or
(ii) The combination of active personal labor and active personal management; and
(3) The estate has a share of the profits or losses from the farming operation commensurate with the legal entity's contributions to the operation;
(4) The estate makes contributions to the farming operation that are at risk for a loss, with the level of risk being commensurate with the legal entity's claimed share of the farming operation; and
(5) The representative of the estate has provided a tax identification number for the estate and a copy of a court order, will, or other legal document that identifies the heir(s) and tax identification number(s) of the heir(s).
(b) For a farming operation conducted by an estate in which the capital, land, or equipment is contributed by the estate, the capital, land, or equipment:
(1) To meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, must be contributed directly by the estate and must not be acquired as a loan made to, guaranteed, co-signed, or secured by any person, legal entity, or joint operation that has an interest in the farming operation, as defined in this part; and
(2) To meet the requirements of paragraphs (c)(3)and (a)(4) of this section, and if land, capital or equipment is acquired as a result of a loan made to, guaranteed, co-signed, or secured by the persons, legal entities, or joint operations as defined, the loan must:
(i) Bear the prevailing interest rate; and
(ii) Have a repayment schedule considered reasonable and customary for the area.
(c) After the period set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, the deceased person's estate will not be considered to be actively engaged in farming unless, on a case by case basis, the Deputy Administrator determines, for the purpose of obtaining program payments, that the estate has not been settled.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 900, Jan. 7, 2010; 85 FR 52039, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.207
Landowners.
(a) A person or legal entity that is a landowner, including landowners with an undivided interest in land, making a significant contribution of owned land to the farming operation, will be considered to be actively engaged in farming with respect to the owned land, if the landowner:
(1) Receives rent or income for the use of the land based on the land's production or the operation's operating results;
(2) Has a share of the profits or losses from the farming operation commensurate with the landowner's contributions to the operation; and
(3) Makes contributions to the farming operation that are at risk for a loss, with the level of risk being commensurate with the landowner's claimed share of the farming operation.
(b) A landowner also includes a member of a joint operation if the joint operation holds title to land in the name of the joint operation and if the joint operation or its members submit adequate documentation to determine that, upon dissolution of the joint operation, the title to the land owned by the joint operation will revert to the member of the joint operation.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 52039, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.208
Family members.
(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of §§ 1400.201 through 1400.206, with respect to a farming operation conducted by persons, a majority of whom are family members, an adult family member who makes a significant contribution of active personal labor, active personal management, or a combination of active personal labor and active personal management will be considered to be actively engaged in farming if the adult family member meets the provisions in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) An adult family member who elects to be considered actively engaged in farming under this section must:
(1) Have a share of the profits or losses from the farming operation commensurate with the person's contributions to the operation and
(2) Make contributions to the farming operation that are at risk for a
loss, with the level of risk being commensurate with the person's claimed share of the farming operation.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 52039, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.209
Sharecroppers.
(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of §§ 1400.201 through 1400.206 of this part, with respect to a person who is a sharecropper, the person will be considered to be actively engaged in farming if the sharecropper meets the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) A sharecropper who elects to be considered actively engaged in farming under this section must:
(1) Make a significant contribution of active personal labor to the farming operation;
(2) Have a share of the profits or losses from the farming operation commensurate with the person's contribution to the operation; and
(3) Make a contribution to the farming operation that is at risk for a loss, with the level of risk being commensurate with the person's claimed share of the farming operation.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 52039, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.210
Deceased and incapacitated persons.
If the person dies or is incapacitated before a determination is made that the person is “actively engaged in farming,” the representative of the deceased person's estate or the incapacitated person, or other person if necessary, must provide the determining authority information to verify that the person did make a conscious effort to and would have been determined to be actively engaged in farming if not for the person's death or incapacitation. If the person dies or is incapacitated after being determined to be “actively engaged in farming,” the determining authority will allow the determination to be in effect for that program year or fiscal year, as applicable. However, the following year the person or the person's estate must meet all necessary requirements in order to be determined to be “actively engaged in farming” for that year.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 52039, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.211
Persons and legal entities not considered to be actively engaged in farming.
Any person or legal entity that does not satisfy all of the applicable provisions of §§ 1400.201 through 1400.210 and a landowner who rents land to a farming operation for cash or a crop share guaranteed as to the amount of the commodity will not be considered to be actively engaged in farming with respect to the farming operation.
§ 1400.212
Growers of hybrid seed.
The existence of a hybrid seed contract for a person or legal entity will not be taken into account when making an actively engaged in farming determination with respect to the person or legal entity. However, the person or legal entity must satisfy all other applicable provisions of this part.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 52039, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.213
Military personnel.
If a person is called to active duty in the military before a determination is made that the person is actively engaged in farming, the person may be considered to be actively engaged in farming if the determining authority determines that the person did make a conscious effort to, and would have been determined to be, actively engaged in farming if the person would not have been called to active duty. If the person is called to active duty after being determined to be actively engaged in farming, the determination will remain in effect for the program year.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 52039, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.214
Cash rent tenants.
(a) Any tenant that is actively engaged in farming in accordance with the provisions of this subpart and conducts a farming operation in which the tenant rents the land for cash, for a crop share guaranteed as to the amount of the commodity, or by any
arrangement in which the tenant does not compensate the landlord by cash or a crop share, and receives benefits, with respect to the land under a program specified in § 1400.1(a)(1) and (2) will not be eligible to receive any payment with respect to the cash-rented land unless the tenant independently makes a significant contribution to the farming operation of:
(1) Active personal labor; or
(2) Significant contributions of both active personal management and equipment.
(b) If the equipment is leased by the tenant from:
(1) The landlord, then the lease must reflect the fair market value of the equipment leased with a payment schedule considered reasonable and customary for the area; or
(2) The same person or legal entity that is providing hired labor to the farming operation, then the contracts for the lease of the equipment and for the hired labor must be two separate contracts.
(c) If the equipment is leased by the tenant from the landlord, or from the same person or legal entity that is providing hired labor to the farming operation, then the tenant must exercise complete control over the leased equipment during the entire current crop year. Complete control is defined as exclusive access and use by the tenant.
(d) If the cash rent tenant is a joint operation, then each member or their spouse must make a significant contribution of active personal labor or active personal management as specified in § 1400.203(a)(1)(ii) to be considered eligible for the member's share of the program payments received by the joint operation on the cash rented land.
(e) If the cash rent tenant is a legal entity, then a significant contribution of active personal labor or active personal management must be made to the legal entity as specified in § 1400.204(a)(2) for the legal entity to be considered eligible for the program payments on the cash rented land.
[85 FR 52040, Aug. 24, 2020]
Subpart D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Foreign Persons
§ 1400.401
Eligibility.
(a) Subject to the conditions set out in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, any person who is not a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted into the United States for permanent residence under the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101-1778) will be ineligible to receive any type of loans or payments made available under Title I of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, the Agricultural Market Transition Act, the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714-714o), or subtitle D of Title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3831-3836), or under any contract entered into under Title XII of that Act (16 U.S.C. 3801-3845), with respect to any commodity produced, or land set aside from production, on a farm that is owned or operated by the person, unless the person is an individual who is providing land, capital, and a substantial amount of personal labor in the production of crops on the farm. Likewise, and subject to the same conditions, such persons may be ineligible for payments under any other program which by its own regulations specifically provides for that ineligibility and adopts the regulations in this subpart.
(b)(1) A corporation or other legal entity will be ineligible to receive payments, loans, and benefits if more than 10 percent of the ownership of the legal entity is held by persons who are not citizens of the United States or lawful aliens unless each foreign person who is a stockholder or other type of member provides a substantial amount of active personal labor in the production of crops on a farm owned or operated by the legal entity. However, upon the written request of the legal entity, the Deputy Administrator may make payments in an amount determined by the Deputy Administrator to be representative of the percentage interest of the legal entity that is owned by citizens of the United States and lawful aliens or foreign stockholders or other type of member who provide a significant contribution of active personal labor in the production of crops on a farm owned or operated by the legal entity.
(2) In determining whether more than 10 percent of the ownership of a legal entity is held by persons who are not citizens of the United States or by lawful aliens, the ownership interest will be the higher of the amount of the interest on:
(i) The date the applicable program contract or agreement is executed by the legal entity or
(ii) Any other date prior to the final harvest date that is determined and announced by the Deputy Administrator to be normal in the area for the applicable program crop.
(3) A corporation or other legal entity must inform the county committee of any increase in ownership that occurs after the applicable program contract or agreement is executed.
(4) In the event of an increase in ownership after a payment, loan, or benefit has been made, the legal entity will refund the payment, loan, or benefit.
(5) Where there is only one class of stock or other similar unit of ownership, a person's or legal entity's percentage share of the limited partnership, corporation, or other similar legal entity will be based upon the outstanding shares of stock or other similar unit of ownership held by the person or legal entity as compared to the total outstanding shares of stock or other similar unit of ownership. If the limited partnership, corporation, or other similar legal entity has more than one class of stock or other unit of ownership, the percentage share of the limited partnership, corporation or other similar legal entity owned by a person or legal entity will be determined by the Deputy Administrator on the basis of market quotations. If market quotations are unavailable or so infrequent that they do not represent fair market value, the percentage share will be determined by the Deputy Administrator on the basis of all relevant factors affecting the fair market value of the stock or other unit of ownership, including the various rights and privileges that are attributed to each the class.
(c) A citizen of the United States, lawful alien, or legal entity that is not subject to this part who is in lawful possession, through a lease or otherwise, of a farm owned by a person or legal entity who is subject to this part may receive a payment, loan, and benefit without regard to this part.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 19189, Apr. 14, 2010]; 85 FR 52040, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.402
Notification.
(a) Any legal entity, whether foreign or domestic, that executes a program contract or agreement under which a payment, loan, or benefit may be available must provide written notification to the county committee in the county where the legal entity conducts its farming operation if:
(1) Any person, group of persons, legal entity, or group of legal entities holds more than a 10 percent interest in the legal entity; and
(2) The person, group of persons, legal entity, or group of legal entities, in accordance with § 1400.401, are ineligible to receive a payment, loan, or benefit.
(b) Written notification must include the name and social security number or taxpayer identification number of the a person or legal entity, if known, and of all persons and legal entities that hold an interest in the legal entity.
(c) The failure of the legal entity to provide this information will result in the ineligibility of the legal entity to receive any payment, loan, or benefit.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 52040, Aug. 24, 2020]

# Subpart F—Average Adjusted Gross Income Limitation
§ 1400.500
Applicability.
(a) A person or legal entity, other than a joint venture or general partnership, will not be eligible to receive, directly or indirectly, certain program payments or benefits described in § 1400.1 if the average adjusted gross income of the person or legal entity exceeds $900,000 for the 3 taxable years preceding the most immediately preceding complete taxable year, as determined by the Deputy Administrator.
(b) Determinations made under this subpart for conservation programs are:
(1) Applicable starting with the 2015 fiscal year, except for AMA which is applicable with the 2014 fiscal year;
(2) Based on the year for which the conservation program contract or agreement is approved; and
(3) Applicable for the entire term of the subject agreement or contract.
(c) Vendors that receive payment for technical services provided in conjunction with programs made subject to this subpart by regulation or statute, but who are not beneficiaries of the program, are not subject to this subpart for services that are of the type that are also performed by the Federal Government in connection with the programs.
(d) Payments to an escrow agent, or other legal entity of similar capacity in which the recipient is maintaining temporary custody of the funds for eventual disbursement to an eligible program participant, are not subject to this subpart so long as the party ultimately receiving the payment is eligible under this subpart.
(e) Payments to States, counties, political subdivisions and agencies thereof, and Indian tribes as defined in § 1400.3 are not subject to this subpart.
(f) The Administrator or NRCS Chief may waive the limitation under this section on a case-by-case basis for the protection of environmentally sensitive land of special significance. A waiver request must be in writing and:
(1) Show that use of conservation program funding on or adjacent to environmentally sensitive land of special significance is critical to the success of a project that provides conservation benefits to multiple producers or landowners in a community, watershed, or other geographic area;
(2) Demonstrate that the proposed action achieves enduring protection of environmentally sensitive land of special significance through use of a long-term agreement that is greater than 15 years in duration or through use of a deed restriction on the land; or
(3) Present evidence that otherwise demonstrates, as determined by the Administrator or the NRCS Chief, that the waiver is necessary to address the critical natural resources referenced in the definition of environmentally sensitive land of special significance.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014; 85 FR 52040, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.501
Determination of average adjusted gross income.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, average adjusted gross income means:
(1) For a person filing a separate tax return, the amount reported as “adjusted gross income” on the final federal income tax return for the person for the applicable tax year;
(2) For a person filing a joint tax return, the amount reported as “adjusted gross income” on the final federal income tax return for the applicable tax year unless a certified statement is provided by a certified public accountant or attorney specifying the manner in which the income would have been declared and reported if the persons had filed two separate returns and that this calculation is consistent with the information supporting the filed joint return;
(3) For a corporation, including a subchapter S corporation, the total reported “taxable income” as reported to the Internal Revenue Service plus the amount of the charitable contributions as reported on the final federal income tax return for the applicable tax year;
(4) For a tax exempt legal entity, the “unrelated business taxable income” of the legal entity as reported to the Internal Revenue Service on the final federal income tax return, less any other income CCC determines to be from non-commercial activities;
(5) For a limited liability company, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, or similar type of organization, the income from trade or business activities plus the amount of guaranteed payments to the members as reported to the Internal Revenue Service on the final federal income tax return for the applicable tax year; and
(6) For an estate or trust, the adjusted total income plus charitable deductions as reported to the Internal Revenue Service on the final federal income tax return for the applicable tax year, or the amount of net increase in the estate's or trust's value resulting from its business or investment interests.
(b) For purposes of applying this subpart and calculating the 3-year average referenced in § 1400.500, that average will be for the adjusted gross income
for the 3 taxable years preceding the most immediately preceding complete taxable year, as determined by CCC. For a legal entity that is not required to file a federal income tax return, or a person or legal entity that did not have taxable income in one or more tax years, the average will be the adjusted gross income, including losses, averaged for the 3 taxable years preceding the most immediately preceding complete taxable year, as determined by CCC. A new legal entity will have its adjusted gross income averaged only for those years of the base period for which it was in business; however, a new legal entity will not be considered “new” to the extent it takes over an existing operation and has any elements of common ownership or interests with the preceding legal entity, or with persons or legal entities with an interest in the “old” legal entity. When there is this commonality, income of the “old” legal entity will be averaged with that of the “new” legal entity for the base period.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014; 85 FR 50240, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.502
Compliance and enforcement.
(a) To comply with the average adjusted gross income limitation, a person or legal entity, including all interest holders in a legal entity, general partnership, or joint venture, must provide annually the following as required by CCC:
(1) A certification in the manner prescribed by CCC from a certified public accountant or attorney that the average adjusted gross income of the person or legal entity does not exceed the applicable limitation;
(2) A certification from the person or legal entity that the average adjusted gross income of the person or legal entity does not exceed the applicable adjusted gross income limitations;
(3) The relevant Internal Revenue Service documents and supporting financial data as requested by CCC. Supporting financial data may include State income tax returns, financial statements, balance sheets, reports prepared for or provided to another Government agency, information prepared for a private lender, and other credible information relating to the amount and source of the person's or legal entity's income;
(4) Authorization for CCC to obtain tax data from the Internal Revenue Service for purposes of verification of compliance with this subpart.
(b)(1) All persons and legal entities are subject to an audit by FSA of any information submitted in accordance with this subpart. As a part of this audit, income tax returns may be requested, and if requested, must be supplied by all related persons and legal entities.
(2) In addition to any other requirement under any Federal statute, relevant Federal income tax returns and documentation must be retained a minimum of two years after the end of the calendar year corresponding to the year for which payments or benefits are requested.
(c) Failure to comply with this subpart's requirements, will result in ineligibility for all program benefits subject to this subpart for the year or years subject to the request.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014]
§ 1400.503
Commensurate reduction.
(a) Any program payment or benefit subject to this subpart provided to a legal entity, general partnership, or joint venture will be reduced by an amount commensurate with the direct and indirect ownership interest in the legal entity, general partnership, or joint venture of each person or legal entity determined to have an average adjusted gross income in excess of the applicable limitation under the standards provided elsewhere in this subpart for the direct recipient of the payments.
(b) Ownership interest in a legal entity will be reviewed to the fourth level of ownership, as specified in § 1400.105, to determine whether a commensurate reduction is applicable and the extent of the reduction. If an ownership interest is not held by a person in the fourth level of ownership in a legal entity, no
payment or benefit will be made with respect to the interest.
[73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 52040, Aug. 24, 2020]

# Subpart G—Additional Payment Eligibility Provisions for Joint Operations and Legal Entities Comprised of Non-Family Members or Partners, Stockholders, or Persons With an Ownership Interest in the Farming Operation

# Source:
80 FR 78128, Dec. 16, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1400.600
Applicability.
(a) This subpart is applicable to all of the programs as specified in § 1400.1 and any other programs as specified in individual program regulations.
(b) The requirements of this subpart will apply to farming operations for FSA program payment eligibility and limitation purposes as specified in subparts B and C of this part.
(c) The requirements of this subpart do not apply to farming operations specified in paragraph (b) of this section if either:
(1) All persons who are partners, stockholders, or persons with an ownership interest in the farming operation or of any entity that is a member of the farming operation are family members as defined in § 1400.3; or
(2) The farming operation is seeking to qualify only one person as making a significant contribution of active personal management, or a significant contribution of the combination of active personal labor and active personal management, for the purposes of qualifying only one person or entity as actively engaged in farming.
§ 1400.601
Definitions.
(a) The terms defined in § 1400.3 are applicable to this subpart and all documents issued in accordance with this part, except as otherwise provided in this section.
(b) The following definitions are also applicable to this subpart:
Active personal management
means personally providing and participating in management activities considered critical to the profitability of the farming operation and performed under one or more of the following categories:
(i) Capital, which includes:
(A) Arranging financing and managing capital;
(B) Acquiring equipment;
(C) Acquiring land and negotiating leases;
(D) Managing insurance; and
(E) Managing participation in USDA programs;
(ii) Labor, which includes hiring and managing of hired labor; and
(iii) Agronomics and marketing, which includes:
(A) Selecting crops and making planting decisions;
(B) Acquiring and purchasing crop inputs;
(C) Managing crops (that is, whatever managerial decisions are needed with respect to keeping the growing crops living and healthy—soil fertility and fertilization, weed control, insect control, irrigation if applicable) and making harvest decisions; and
(D) Pricing and marketing of crop production.
Significant contribution of active personal management
means active personal management activities performed by a person, with a direct or indirect ownership interest in the farming operation, on a regular, continuous, and substantial basis to the farming operation, and meets at least one of the following to be considered significant:
(i) Performs at least 25 percent of the total management hours required for the farming operation on an annual basis; or
(ii) Performs at least 500 hours of management annually for the farming operation.
Significant contribution of the combination of active personal labor and active personal management
means a contribution of a combination of active personal labor and active personal management that:
(i) Is critical to the profitability of the farming operation;
(ii) Is performed on a regular, continuous, and substantial basis; and
(iii) Meets the following required number of hours:
Table 1 to Paragraph
(iii)
of the Definition of Significant Contribution of the Combination of Active Personal Labor and Active Personal Management
Combination of active personal labor and active personal management minimum requirement for a significant contribution
Management contribution in hours
Labor contribution
in hours
Meets the minimum threshold for
significant
contribution,
in hours
475
75
550
450
100
550
425
225
650
400
250
650
375
375
750
350
400
750
325
425
750
300
550
850
275
575
850
250
600
850
225
625
850
200
650
850
175
675
850
150
800
950
125
825
950
100
850
950
75
875
950
50
900
950
25
925
950
[85 FR 73602, Nov. 19, 2020]
§ 1400.602
Restrictions on active personal management contributions.
(a) If a farming operation includes any nonfamily members as specified under the provisions of § 1400.201(b)(2) and (3) and the farming operation is seeking to qualify more than one person as providing a significant contribution of active personal management, or a significant contribution of the combination of active personal labor and active personal management, then:
(1) Each person must maintain contemporaneous records or logs as specified in § 1400.603; and
(2) Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, if the farming operation seeks not more than one additional person to qualify as providing a significant contribution of active personal management, or a significant contribution of the combination of active personal labor and active personal management, because the operation is large, then the operation may qualify for one additional person if the farming operation:
(i) Produces and markets crops on 2,500 acres or more of cropland;
(ii) Produces honey with more than 10,000 hives; or
(iii) Produces wool with more than 3,500 ewes; and
(3) If the farming operation seeks not more than one additional person to qualify as providing a significant contribution of active personal management, or a significant contribution of the combination of active personal labor and active personal management, because the operation is complex, then the operation may qualify for one additional person if the farming operation is determined by the FSA state committee as complex after considering the factors described in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section. Any determination that a farming operation is complex by an FSA state committee must be reviewed and DAFP must concur with that determination for it to be implemented. To demonstrate complexity, the farming operation will be required to provide information to the FSA state committee on the following:
(i) Number and type of livestock, crops, or other agricultural products produced and marketing channels used; and
(ii) Geographical area covered.
(b) FSA state committees may adjust the limitations described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section up or down by not more than 15 percent if the FSA state committee determines that the relative size of farming operations in the state justify making a modification of either or both of these limitations. If the FSA state committee seeks to make a larger adjustment, then DAFP will review and may approve the request.
(c) If a farming operation seeks to qualify a total of three persons as providing a significant contribution of active personal management, or a significant contribution of the combination of active personal labor and active personal management, then the farming operation must demonstrate both size and complexity as specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) In no case may more than three persons in the same farming operation qualify as providing a significant contribution of active personal management, or a significant contribution of the combination of active personal labor and active personal management, as defined by this subpart.
(e) A person's contribution of active personal management, or the contribution of the combination of active personal labor and active personal management, to a farming operation specified in § 1400.601(b) will only qualify one member of that farming operation as actively engaged in farming as defined in this part. Other individual persons in the same farming operation are not precluded from making management contributions, except that the contributions will not be recognized as meeting the requirements of being a significant contribution of active personal management.
[80 FR 78128, Dec. 16, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 52040, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 1400.603
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a) Any farming operation requesting that more than one person qualify as making a significant contribution of active personal management, or a significant contribution of the combination of active personal labor and active personal management, must maintain contemporaneous records or activity logs for all persons that make any contribution of any management to a farming operation under this subpart that must include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Location where the management activity was performed; and
(2) Time expended and duration of the management activity performed.
(b) To qualify as providing a significant contribution of active personal management each person covered by this subpart must:
(1) Maintain these records and supporting business documentation; and
(2) If requested, timely make these records available for review by the appropriate FSA reviewing authority.
(c) If a person fails to meet the requirement of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, then both of the following will apply:
(1) The person's contribution of active personal management as represented to the farming operation for payment eligibility purposes will be disregarded; and
(2) The person's payment eligibility will be re-determined for the applicable program year.
Pt. 1401

# PART 1401—COMMODITY CERTIFICATES, IN KIND PAYMENTS, AND OTHER FORMS OF PAYMENT
Sec.
1401.1
Applicability.
1401.2
Payments in lieu of cash payments.
1401.3
Payments to persons with outstanding CCC loans.
1401.4
Commodity certificates.
1401.5
In kind payments.
1401.6
Assignments.
1401.7
Miscellaneous provisions.
1401.8
Subsequent holders.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 714b and 714c; 7 U.S.C. 1445d.

# Source:
51 FR 36921, Oct. 16, 1986, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 53 FR 20290, June 3, 1988, and further redesignated at 61 FR 37575, July 18, 1996.
§ 1401.1
Applicability.
This part shall be applicable to payments and loans made in accordance with the programs administered by the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) or the Farm Service Agency (FSA) as determined and announced by the Secretary of Agriculture or a designee of the Secretary. The definitions of the terms applicable to 7 CFR part 713 set forth at § 713.3 also shall be applicable to this part, except that the term “commodity” shall mean any agricultural commodity.
§ 1401.2
Payments in lieu of cash payments.
(a) CCC will, in accordance with applicable program provisions, make payments in a form other than in cash to persons who otherwise are eligible to receive a cash payment from CCC. Further, subject only to statutory prohibition and notwithstanding any provisions of the contract to participate in a program administered by CCC or FSA, CCC may: at its option, make payments in a form other than in cash.
(b) As determined by CCC, payments in a form other than in cash may be made in the following manner:
(1) By delivery of a commodity to a person at a warehouse or other similar facility;
(2) By transfer of negotiable warehouse receipts;
(3) By the issuance of certificates which CCC shall redeem in accordance with this part;
(4) By the acquisition and use of commodities pledged as collateral for CCC price support loans;
(5) By the use of commodities owned by CCC; and
(6) By such other methods as CCC determines appropriate, including methods to enable the producer to receive payments in order to assure that the producer receives the same total return as if the payments had been made in cash.
(c) The value of the payments made in any manner set forth in paragraph (b) shall be determined by CCC.
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, CCC may, with respect to producers who are members of a cooperative marketing association which has been determined in accordance with part 1425 of this title to be eligible to receive price support on behalf of its producer-members, enter into agreements with such producers and such cooperatives to facilitate the making of payments to such producers. Such agreements may include a provision which allows a producer to make available for the use of the cooperative the value of the non-cash payment which would otherwise be made to the producer.
§ 1401.3
Payments to persons with outstanding CCC loans.
(a) Persons with outstanding CCC loans who are eligible to receive payments from CCC, including a person authorized to receive a payment on behalf of another person, may be required to liquidate such loans in accordance with this section in order to be eligible to receive a payment authorized by § 1470.2.
(b) A person with an outstanding CCC loan must, unless otherwise agreed upon by the person and CCC, redeem and sell to CCC a quantity of the commodity pledged as collateral for a CCC loan, as determined by CCC, in an amount equal in value to the value of the payment which would otherwise be made to such person. If the person has more than one outstanding CCC loan, CCC may, by contract or otherwise, prescribe which loan collateral the person shall be required to redeem in order to receive payment. The purchase price shall be equal to the cost of liquidating the loan or the portion of the loan for which the quantity of the commodity sold to CCC is pledged as collateral, except that, in the case of a special producer storage loan or a farmer-owned reserve loan, the purchase price will not include the amount of any unearned advance storage payments received with respect to the redeemed collateral. After redemption and the subsequent sale to CCC of the commodity pledged as collateral for such CCC loan, CCC shall make available to the person a like quantity of the commodity.
§ 1401.4
Commodity certificates.
(a)
General.
CCC may issue commodity certificates as a form of payment. Commodity certificates will bear a dollar denomination. Such certificate may be transferred, exchanged for the inventory of CCC (including the receipt in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section of loan collateral by a person to whom a loan secured by such collateral is made): or exchanged for cash, as provided for in this section. Commodity certificates shall be subject to the provisions of this part, and to any terms, conditions and restrictions provided on the certificate, which are incorporated by reference herein.
(b)
Liens, encumbrances, and State law.
(1) The provisions of this section or the commodity certificates shall take precedence over any state statutory or regulatory provisions which are inconsistent with the provisions of this section or with the provisions of the commodity certificates.
(2) Commodity certificates shall not be subject to any lien, encumbrance, or other claim or security interest, except that of an agency of the United States Government arising specifically under Federal statute.
(3) The provisions of this paragraph (b) shall apply without regard to the identity of the holder of the certificate.
(c)
Transferability.
Any person may transfer a commodity certificate to any other person. However, any such transfer must be in the full amount of the certificate, and can be effected only by restrictive endorsement on the back of the certificate, showing the name of the transferee and the date of
the transfer, and signed by the transferor. CCC will not honor any certificate bearing any endorsement to “bearer” or any other nonrestrictive endorsement, or otherwise transferred in a manner contrary to the regulations contained in this section. The person who submits a commodity certificate to CCC shall endorse the certificate to CCC.
(d)
Exchange of commodity certificate for CCC-owned commodities
—(1)
General.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph and in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, any holder of a commodity certificate may exchange such certificate, by itself or together with other commodity certificates, for such commodities as are made available by CCC by endorsing and submitting the certificate to CCC. If a person submits commodity certificates for exchange in order that the person would be eligible to receive a quantity of a commodity which includes less than an entire unit in which the commodity is stored (e.g., less than an entire bale of cotton or an entire barrel of honey): (i) Such person may forfeit the partial unit of the commodity to CCC, or (ii) CCC may issue a check to such person for the partial unit of the commodity or permit such person to purchase the remainder of such unit at a price determined by CCC. A person may obtain information regarding commodities available for exchange and the procedure for exchange from Kansas City Commodity Office, FSA-USDA, Kansas City, MO 64141-0205.
(2)
Minimum quantities.
A holder of an amount of commodity certificates sufficient to acquire a carload lot, or other quantity as may be determined by CCC, may present such amount for exchange at any time on or before the expiration date of such certificates. A holder who is permitted to exchange the certificate for CCC-owned commodities but who does not possess commodity certificates in the amount specified in the preceding sentence may, not to exceed once during a calendar month, submit such certificates to CCC. CCC will, at CCC's option, pay such holder by check in the amount of the certificate or transfer to such holder title to commodities owned by CCC.
(3)
CCC-owned commodities stored by a person who submits commodity certificates to CCC.
CCC may require or permit holders of commodity certificates to exchange such certificates for commodities owned by CCC which are stored by such holder, without making such commodities or kinds of commodities available to other holders of commodity certificates.
(4)
Valuation.
Except as otherwise may be announced by CCC, CCC will determine the value of CCC-owned commodities made available to holders of commodity certificates.
(5)
Transfer of title.
Title to commodities owned by CCC which are transferred to a person who submits commodity certificates to CCC shall be transferred in store, except as may be determined and announced by CCC. The person who submits certificates to CCC shall be responsible for all costs incurred in transferring title to the commodity, except as specifically provided by CCC. The transfer of title to such commodities shall occur without regard to any State law or any claim of lien against the commodity or proceeds thereof which may be asserted by any creditor except agencies of the U.S. Government whose lien arises specifically under Federal statute.
(6)
Expiration date.
CCC may, at its option, discount or refuse to accept any commodity certificate presented for exchange after the expiration date stated on the certificate.
(e)
Use of commodity certificates to receive loan collateral
—(1)
General.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph and in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, any holder of a commodity certificate may use such certificate to receive commodities pledged as collateral for CCC loans made to such person, at any time on or before the expiration date stated on the certificate. A holder of a commodity certificate who wishes to receive a quantity of a commodity pledged by such person as collateral for a CCC loan in exchange for a certificate shall redeem and sell to CCC a quantity of the commodity equal in value to the dollar denomination of the certificate, as determined by CCC. The purchase price shall be equal to the cost of liquidating the loan or the portion of the loan for which the quantity
of the commodity sold to CCC is pledged as collateral, except that, in the case of a special producer storage loan or a farmer-owned reserve loan, the purchase price will not include the amount of any unearned advanced storage payments received with respect to the redeemed loan collateral. Upon submission of the certificate, which is endorsed to CCC, to the county FSA office which issued the loan, the holder of a commodity certificate will receive the quantity of the commodity which has been sold to CCC. Except as otherwise determined by CCC, if the holder of such certificate does not have commodities pledged as collateral for CCC loans equal in value to the dollar denomination of the certificate, as determined by CCC, CCC will, at CCC's option and after the producer has submitted the certificate, pay the difference to the person by check or in the form of a new commodity certificate.
(2)
Ineligible commodities.
No person may use a commodity certificate to receive a quantity of tobacco, peanuts, or extra long staple cotton pledged as collateral for a CCC loan. No person may, before August 1, 1986, use a commodity certificate to receive a quantity of upland cotton pledged as collateral for a CCC loan.
(f)
Cash redemption start date.
(1) The person to whom a generic certificate is issued which has a date entered in block D may submit such certificate, endorsed to CCC, at the issuing county FSA office for payment by check in the amount of the certificate on or after the date entered in block D through the expiration date of the certificate. Such person may not exchange the certificate for commodities owned by CCC, except as otherwise agreed upon between such person and CCC.
(2) The person to whom a generic certificate is issued which has an entry of “S/H” in block D may exchange such certificate for commodities owned by CCC.
(3) The person to whom a commodity specific certificate is issued which has a date entered in block D may submit such certificate, endorsed to CCC, to the Kansas City Commodity Office for the specific commodity entered in block C beginning on the date entered in block D through the expiration date of the certificate. Such certificate may not be exchanged for cash, except as otherwise agreed on by CCC.
(4) All other certificates may be transferred and exchanged as determined and announced by CCC.
(g)
“Generic” and commodity-specific commodity certificates
—(1)
General.
If a commodity certificate indicates that it is a “generic” certificate, such certificate may, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section, be exchanged for any commodity made available by CCC or, as appropriate, used to receive a quantity of any commodity which serves as collateral for a CCC loan. If a certificate is not a “generic certificate”, such certificate may be exchanged for the commodity specified on the certificate, except as may be determined and announced by CCC.
(2)
Cotton program payments.
Certificates issued as payments under the 1991 through 1995 upland cotton program, including payments issued in accordance with section 103B(a)(5)(B) of the Agricultural Act of 1949, may be exchanged for CCC-owned upland cotton only during such times as determined and announced by CCC.
(3)
Commodities not available in CCC inventory.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, if a person submits a commodity specific certificate to CCC in exchange for a quantity of such commodity and CCC determines it is not possible to make such commodity available, CCC may: (i) Require such person to exchange the commodity specific certificate for a generic certificate; or (ii) refuse to accept submission of such certificate until CCC is able to make available a quantity of the commodity specified on such certificate.
(h) CCC, at its option, may discount or refuse to accept any certificate made, transferred, or submitted in violation of this section.
(i)
Interest.
With respect to producers who receive commodity certificates in accordance with the wheat, feed grains, upland cotton and rice price support and production adjustment programs authorized by parts 1413 and 1421 of this title, a producer to whom the certificate is issued who exchanges such a
certificate with CCC for cash in accordance with subsection (f) of this section shall receive interest with respect to such certificate for a 150 day period. Such interest shall be the rate of interest determined in accordance with part 1405 of this Title which is in effect on the date the certificate is issued.
[51 FR 36921, Oct. 16, 1986, as amended at 51 FR 43580, Dec. 3, 1986; 52 FR 45607, Dec. 1, 1987; 56 FR 361, Jan. 4, 1991]
§ 1401.5
In kind payments.
(a) Subject to the provisions of §§ 1470.2 and 1470.3, CCC may make payments in the form of commodities. Quantities of commodities made available as payment shall be based upon the value of the commodity, as determined by CCC. Such quantity may be adjusted by CCC to reflect the location, quality, and other similar factors which CCC determines to affect the value of the commodity.
(b) The transfer of title to commodities made available in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section shall be in store, except as determined by CCC, and shall be made without regard to any State law or any claim of lien against the commodity, or proceeds thereof, which may be asserted by any creditor except agencies of the U.S. Government whose lien arises specifically under Federal statute. The recipient of such commodities shall be responsible for all costs incurred in transferring title to the commodity, except as specifically provided by CCC.
§ 1401.6
Assignments.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a payment made under this part may not be the subject of an assignment, except as determined and announced by CCC.
§ 1401.7
Miscellaneous provisions.
Except as determined by CCC, the following provisions of this title shall apply to this part:
(a) Part 13, Setoffs and Withholding.
(b) Part 707, Payments Due Persons Who Have Died, Disappeared, or Been Declared Incompetent.
(c) Part 718, Determination of Acreage and Compliance.
(d) Part 780, Appeal Regulations.
(e) Part 790, Incomplete Performance Based Upon Actions or Advice of an Authorized Representative of the Secretary.
(f) Part 791, Authority to Make Payments When There has been a Failure to Comply Fully with the Program.
(g) Part 795, Payment Limitation.
(h) Part 796, Denial of Program Eligibility for Controlled Substance Violations.
(i) Part 1403, Interest on Delinquent Debts.
(j) All other parts of the Code of Federal Regulations which are made applicable to this part.
§ 1401.8
Subsequent holders.
(a)
General.
A person who acquires a commodity certificate from another person shall be considered to be a “subsequent holder” of the certificate. Subsequent holders of certificates who purchased a commodity certificate on or before January 1, 1990 may, after the expiration date specified on the certificate, submit the certificate to CCC for a payment from CCC determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. All certificates must be submitted after January 2, 1991 and on or before May 28, 1991. Certificates submitted after May 28, 1991 shall not be accepted for payment. Certificates shall be considered to be submitted as of the date of the postmark on the envelope containing the certificate. All certificates submitted for payment must be submitted with, and in accordance with, Form CCC-8. All certificates submitted to CCC for payment shall be retained by CCC.
(b)
Payment rates.
(1) Certificates with an expiration date of April 30, 1989 or earlier shall not, in any instance, be eligible for payment by CCC. Certificates which are submitted 18 months after the expiration date specified on the certificate shall not be accepted for payment by CCC.
(2) Persons who submit to CCC, in accordance with this section, certificates with an expiration date of May 31, 1989 or later shall receive a payment equal to 50 percent of the certificate's face value if such certificate is submitted within the period which:
(i) Begins 6 months and one day after the expiration date specified on the certificate and
(ii) Ends 18 months after such expiration date.
(3) Persons who submit to CCC in accordance with this section certificates with an expiration date of May 31, 1989 or later shall receive a payment equal to 85 percent of the certificate's face value if such certificate is submitted within the period which:
(i) Begins the day after the expiration date specified on the certificate and
(ii) Ends 6 months after such expiration date.
(c)
Transitional rules.
In order to provide full benefits under this section to parties whose certificates may decline in value from the date of enactment of section 1122 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (November 28, 1990) until the implementation of the provisions of such section, persons who, by January 31, 1991, submit to CCC in accordance with this section certificates with expiration dates of May 31, 1989, June 30, 1989, May 31, 1990, and June 30, 1990, shall receive payments for such certificates as if they had been submitted on November 30, 1990.
(d)
Payment limit.
(1) No person, as defined in § 719.2(r) of this title, shall receive a payment in excess of $1,000, except that any wholly-owned or wholly controlled entity, such as a corporation, shall be considered to be the same person as the person which owns or controls such entity. Any person who adopts or participates in adopting a scheme or device which is designed to evade this limitation or which has the effect of evading this limitation shall be ineligible to receive a payment under this section. Such acts include, but are not limited to:
(i) Concealing information which affects the application of this section;
(ii) Submitting false or erroneous information;
(iii) Creating fictitious entities for the purpose of evading the application of this section.
(2) No payment shall be paid to a person which is in excess of the amount which the person paid for the certificate.
(e)
Application.
In order to receive a payment under this section, a person must:
(1) Submit certificates with an expiration date of May 31, 1989, or later with a completed Form CCC-8 to CCC postmarked by May 28, 1991;
(2) Submit no earlier than January 2, 1991 all certificates and Forms CCC-8 to CCC by mail at the following address: CCC Expired Certificate Exchange, Attn: Claims and Collections Division, P.O. Box 419205, Kansas City, Missouri, 64141-6205;
(3) Submit evidence to CCC which establishes to the satisfaction of CCC:
(i) The date the subsequent holder purchased the certificates;
(ii) The price paid by the subsequent holder for the certificates; and
(iii) If requested by CCC, the name and address of the person from whom the subsequent holder purchased the certificates.
[56 FR 362, Jan. 4, 1991]
Pt. 1402

# PART 1402—POLICY FOR CERTAIN COMMODITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE
Sec.
1402.1
General.
1402.2
Sales of inventory.
1402.3
Submission of offers, terms, and conditions.
1402.4
Information availability.
1402.5
Late payments.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7285, 15 U.S.C. 714b and 714c.

# Source:
71 FR 40642, July 18, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1402.1
General.
To facilitate trade through usual and customary channels, facilities, and arrangements of trade and commerce, the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) will disseminate general sales offering information on the Farm Service Agency's (FSA) Commodity Operations Web site located on the Worldwide Web at
http://www.fsa.usda.gov/daco/default.htm.
The Web site will be reviewed and amended as necessary to reflect current general sales offering information. CCC will make regular amendments as necessary deleting or adding to the sales provisions or changing prices or methods of sales. The information
posted at this Web site is for the purpose of public information and does not constitute an offer to sell by CCC or an invitation for offers to purchase from CCC. CCC may make its commodities available for sale without prior notification to storing warehouse operators. Information pertaining to opportunities to purchase commodities from CCC will be published on the FSA Commodity Operations Web site when such opportunities are available.
§ 1402.2
Sales of inventory.
CCC will entertain offers from prospective buyers for the purchase of any commodities owned by CCC, including those commodities that are marketed through commercial, Internet-based marketing services. Various commodities owned by CCC may be offered for sale through commercial, Internet-based marketing services. Interested parties may submit requests for information related to Internet-based commodity sales to the Director, Warehouse and Inventory Division, Stop 0553, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20250-9860.
§ 1402.3
Submission of offers, terms, and conditions.
Offers accepted by CCC will be subject to terms and conditions prescribed by CCC. These terms include, among other things, payment by wire transfer of funds, certified check or cashiers check before delivery of the commodity, removal of the commodity from CCC storage within a reasonable period of time, and in sales that require a commodity to be used for only a specific purpose, documentation that use of the commodity was for only that purpose.
§ 1402.4
Information availability.
The terms and conditions of sale with respect to commodities that are not sold through Internet-based marketing service are available online. Requests for terms and conditions may be addressed to the Director, Warehouse and Inventory Division, Stop 0553, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20250-9860.
§ 1402.5
Late payments.
If payment is not received by CCC within the period specified in the sales contract, interest will be assessed by CCC. If a buyer fails to make arrangements for payment according to the provisions of the contract, CCC retains the right to terminate the sales contract. If CCC terminates the sales contract for default in whole or in part, CCC may offer the commodity for sale and the original party will be liable to CCC for any losses incurred and damages sustained as a result of the party's failure to timely remit payment for the commodity.
Pt. 1404

# PART 1404—ASSIGNMENT OF PAYMENTS
Sec.
1404.1
General statement.
1404.2
Definitions.
1404.3
Payments which may be assigned.
1404.4
Execution of assignment form.
1404.5
[Reserved]
1404.6
Payment to the assignee.
1404.7
Misrepresentations.
1404.8
Liability of the Secretary or disbursing agents.
1404.9
OMB Control Numbers assigned pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 714b and 714c; 16 U.S.C. 590h(g).

# Source:
54 FR 52883, Dec. 22, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1404.1
General statement.
This part sets forth the manner in which a person may assign a cash payment which is made by the Farm Service Agency (FSA) or the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC). Such payments may only be assigned in the manner set forth in this part.
§ 1404.2
Definitions.
(a)(1)
Assignee
means any person, including any agency of the Federal Government, to whom an assignment of an FSA or CCC payment is made in accordance with this part.
(2)
Assignor
means any person who is the recipient of a payment from FSA or CCC who assigns the payment to another person in accordance with this part.
(3)
Payment
means a cash payment and excludes
(i) Any payment made in accordance with part 1470 of this title;
(i) Price support loan or purchase agreement proceeds; and
(iii) Any payments made in accordance with parts 1487, 1488, 1491, 1492, and 1493 of this title.
(b) The terms defined in parts 719, 1413, 1421 and 1427 shall also be applicable to this part.
§ 1404.3
Payments which may be assigned.
Except as otherwise provided in this part or in individual program regulations, contracts and agreements entered into by FSA or CCC, any payment due a person from FSA or CCC may be assigned.
[54 FR 52883, Dec. 22, 1989, as amended at 56 FR 361, Jan. 4, 1991]
§ 1404.4
Execution of assignment form.
(a)(1) The assignment of any FSA or CCC payment must be made by the execution of Form CCC-36 or Forms CCC-251 and CCC-252. Form CCC-36 is applicable to payments made under programs administered in accordance with 7 CFR parts 701, 704, 1413, 1430, 1468, 1472 and 1475. Such form is also applicable to any other program which is administered by a county ASC committee. Forms CCC-251 and 252 are applicable to all other CCC or FSA programs and contracts.
(2)(i) To be recognized by FSA or CCC, Form CCC-36 must be filed in the county FSA office prior to the time the county committee approves the making of the payment covered by the assignment. To be recognized by FSA or CCC, Forms CCC-251 and 252 must be filed with the FSA or CCC office from which the payment will be made prior to the making of the payment.
(ii) Form CCC-36 or Forms CCC-251 and 252 must be signed by both the assignor and the assignee.
(3) The assignor and the assignee shall promptly notify the appropriate FSA or CCC office of any change affecting the assignment.
(b) [Reserved]
[54 FR 52883, Dec. 22, 1989, as amended at 56 FR 361, Jan. 4, 1991]
§ 1404.5
[Reserved]
§ 1404.6
Payment to the assignee.
(a) The assignee shall be paid the smaller of the amount specified on Form CCC-36 or CCC-251 or the amount of the payment earned under the program or contract covered by the assignment. Any indebtedness owed by the assignor to CCC, FSA, or any other agency of the United States shall be subject to offset.
(b) Any indebtedness owed by the assignor to CCC or FSA shall be offset from any payment which is owed by CCC or FSA without regard to the date of filing of a Form CCC-36 with the applicable FSA or CCC office. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, any indebtedness owed by the assignor to CCC or FSA shall be offset from any payment which is owed by CCC or FSA if such indebtedness was entered on the debt record of the applicable FSA or CCC office prior to the date of the filing of Forms CCC-251 and 252 with the applicable FSA or CCC office.
(c) Any indebtedness owed by the assignor to any agency of the United States other than CCC or FSA which was entered on the debt record of the applicable FSA or CCC office prior to the date of filing of the Form CCC-36 or Forms CCC-251 and 252 with such office shall be offset prior to the making of any payment to the assignee.
(d) Any indebtedness arising under a contract between the assignor and FSA or CCC which is the subject of the assignment shall be offset from the payment prior to the making of any payment to the assignee under such contract without regard to the date of the filing of Form CCC-36 or Forms CCC-251 and 252 with the appropriate FSA or CCC office.
§ 1404.7
Misrepresentations.
If FSA or CCC has reason to believe that any material misrepresentation was made by the assignor or the assignee in executing Forms CCC-36, CCC-251 or CCC-252, FSA or CCC shall give notice thereof to the assignor and the assignee. If, after investigation and opportunity for the assignor and assignee to be heard, FSA or CCC finds that any material misrepresentation
was in fact made, FSA or CCC shall notify the assignor and the assignee of such finding, and void such assignment, and insofar as concerns FSA, CCC or any other agency of the United States, the assignment shall be of no effect.
§ 1404.8
Liability of the Secretary or disbursing agents.
Neither the United States, the CCC, the Secretary nor any disbursing agent shall be liable in any suit if payment is made to the assignor without regard to the existence of any assignment, and nothing contained herein shall be construed to authorize any suit against the United States, the CCC, the Secretary or any disbursing agent if payment is not made to the assignee, or if payment is made to only one of several assignees.
§ 1404.9
OMB Control Numbers assigned pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act.
The information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 35 and have been assigned OMB control number 0560-0004.
Pt. 1405

# PART 1405—LOANS, PURCHASES, AND OTHER OPERATIONS
Sec.
1405.1
Interest.
1405.2
Basic rule of fractions.
1405.3
Effect of changes in regulations.
1405.4
Delegations of authority.
1405.5
Notice and comment.
1405.6
Crop insurance requirement.
1405.7
Uruguay Round Agreements Act.
1405.8
Disqualification due to crop insurance violation.
1405.9
Commodity assessments.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1515; 7 U.S.C. 7416a; 7 U.S.C. 7991(e); 15 U.S.C. 714b and 714c.

# Source:
61 FR 37575, July 18, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1405.1
Interest.
(a) Except as may otherwise be determined by CCC as provided in individual program regulations, program contracts or such other means as deemed appropriate by CCC the rate of interest that is applicable to CCC loans shall be equal to the rate of interest charged by the U.S. Treasury for funds borrowed by CCC on the date the loan is disbursed by CCC, plus 1 percent. This rate of interest shall be in effect until the earlier of the maturity of the loan or the next January 1.
(b) The rate of interest applicable to all CCC loans that are outstanding as of January 1 of any year shall be adjusted as of such date to equal the rate of interest charged by the U.S. Treasury for funds borrowed by CCC on such date, plus 1 percent. This rate shall be in effect until the earlier of the maturity of the loan or the next January 1. The rate of interest applicable to CCC loans as of January 1 of any year shall be announced by CCC by press release or other means.
§ 1405.2
Basic rule of fractions.
Fractions shall be rounded in accordance with the provisions of 7 CFR part 718.
§ 1405.3
Effect of changes in regulations.
Unless otherwise indicated, the regulations in effect in this chapter as of April 4, 1996, shall continue to apply to the 1991 through 1995 crops of agricultural commodities, to milk produced on or before May 1, 1996, and to contracts entered into prior to any amendments to this chapter after that date.
§ 1405.4
Delegations of authority.
The delegations of authority relating to the CCC programs and activities are set forth in the by-laws of CCC and in dockets approved by the CCC Board of Directors. Copies of the By-laws and the dockets may be obtained from the Secretary of CCC.
§ 1405.5
Notice and comment.
The level of loans, purchases and payments made in accordance with the programs set forth in this chapter shall be determined without regard to the notice and comment provisions of 5 U.S.C. 553.
§ 1405.6
Crop insurance requirement.
(a) To be eligible for any benefits or payments under 7 CFR part 1410 the producer must obtain at least the catastrophic level of insurance for each crop of economic significance in which
the producer has an interest or provide a written waiver to the Secretary that waives any eligibility for emergency crop loss assistance in connection with the crop, if insurance is available in the county for the crop. In meeting this requirement, the producer may:
(1) Obtain at least the catastrophic level of crop insurance in all counties for each crop of economic significance in which the producer has an interest;
(2) Obtain at least the catastrophic level of crop insurance for some, but not all, crops of economic significance for which the producer has an interest, and sign a waiver; or
(3) Sign a waiver that waives any eligibility for crop loss assistance in connection with the producer's crop.
(b)
Crop of economic significance.
The term “crop of economic significance” means a crop that has contributed in the previous year, or is expected to contribute in the current crop year, 10 percent or more of the total expected value of all crops grown by the producer. However, notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the total expected liability under the catastrophic risk protection endorsement is equal to or less than the administrative fee required for the crop, such crop will not be considered a crop of economic significance.
[61 FR 37575, July 18, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 32337, May 30, 2003]
§ 1405.7
Uruguay Round Agreements Act.
In the event the outlays by the United States for domestic support measures will exceed, in any required reporting period, the allowable levels under the Uruguay Round Agreements (as defined in section 2 of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act), CCC will, as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture, reduce the amount of payments and benefits to be made in any such reporting period, and/or collect a refund of payments or benefits previously made with respect to such reporting period, under parts 1412, 1413, 1421, 1427, 1430, 1434 and 1435 of this chapter in order to ensure that the level of domestic support provided by the United States complies with the commitments of the United States in the Uruguay Round Agreements.
[67 FR 64751, Oct. 21, 2002]
§ 1405.8
Disqualification due to crop insurance violation.
(a) Section 515(h) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (FCIA) provides that a person who willfully and intentionally provides any false or inaccurate information to the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC) or to an approved insurance provider with respect to a policy or plan of FCIC insurance after notice and an opportunity for a hearing on the record, will be subject to one or more of the sanctions described in section 515(h)(3). In section 515(h)(3), the FCIA specifies that in the case of a violation committed by a producer, the producer may be disqualified for a period of up to 5 years from receiving any monetary or non-monetary benefit under a number of programs. The list includes, but is not limited to, benefits under:
(1) The FCIA.
(2) The Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 7201
et seq.
), including the Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program under section 196 of that Act (7 U.S.C. 7333).
(3) The Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1421
et seq.
).
(4) The Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714
et seq
).
(5) The Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1281
et seq.
).
(6) Title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3801
et seq.
).
(7) The Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921
et seq.
).
(8) Any law that provides assistance to a producer of an agricultural commodity affected by a crop loss or a decline in prices of agricultural commodities.
(b) Violation determinations are made by FCIC. However, upon notice from FCIC to CCC that a producer has been found to have committed a violation to which paragraph (a) of this section applies, that person shall be considered ineligible for payments under the programs specified in paragraph (a) of this section that are funded by CCC for the same period of time for which, as determined by FCIC, the producer will be ineligible for crop insurance
benefits of the kind referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Appeals of the determination of ineligibility will be administered under the rules set by FCIC.
(c) Other sanctions may also apply.
[68 FR 39448, July 2, 2003, as amended at 72 FR 63361, Nov. 8, 2007]
§ 1405.9
Commodity assessments.
(a) CCC will deduct from the proceeds of a marketing assistance loan an amount equal to the amount of an assessment otherwise required to be remitted to a State agency under a State statute by the producer of the commodity pledged as collateral for such loan or by the first purchaser of such commodity subject to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) The assessment will be collected in one of the following ways, as requested by the State, but not both:
(i) When the proceeds of the loan are disbursed; or
(ii) When the commodity pledged as collateral for the loan is forfeited to CCC, in which case CCC will collect from the producer the amount of the assessment submitted by CCC to the State.
(2) CCC will deduct from the proceeds of a marketing assistance loan an amount equal to the amount of an assessment otherwise authorized to be remitted to a federally authorized entity under a Federal statute by the producer of the commodity pledged as collateral for such loan or the first purchaser of such commodity in the manner agreed to by CCC and the entity to whom the Secretary of Agriculture has authorized to collect such assessments.
(b) CCC will collect commodity assessments authorized under a State statute when:
(1) The State entity has:
(i) Requested that the assessment be collected;
(ii) Identified whether the assessment is to be collected at the time the loan proceeds are disbursed or at the time the commodity is forfeited to CCC;
(iii) Identified the person who may enter into an agreement with CCC that sets forth the obligations of the State and CCC with respect to the collection of the assessment; and
(iv) Provided an opinion from the Office of the Attorney General to CCC that concludes the person signing the agreement may obligate the State to comply with the agreement and the provisions of Public Law 108-470 have been met.
(2) The agreement described in paragraph (c) of this section has been executed by the appropriate State official and CCC.
(c) CCC will enter into an agreement with an authorized State official to collect commodity assessments when the actions set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section have been completed. Such agreement will contain the obligations and responsibilities of the State and CCC. All such agreements will include provisions that provide:
(1) The State will indemnify CCC for any costs incurred in the collection of the assessment including costs incurred with respect to resolution of disputes arising from the requested collection of the assessment but not for administrative costs incurred by CCC in the collection of the assessment;
(2) The State, in cases where an assessment has been collected two or more times with respect to the same quantity of the commodity subject to the assessment, will refund the amount of the excess collection to the producer.
(3) The agreement may be terminated by either party upon 30 days notice.
(4) The State, in cases where the marketing assistance loan is made by a cooperative marketing association or a designated marketing association approved by CCC, or any other similar entity that is approved by CCC, to obtain such a loan on behalf of its members may enter into individual arrangements with such entity to facilitate the collection of the assessment with the approval of CCC.
[70 FR 52285, Sept. 2, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 70812, Nov. 19, 2010]
Pt. 1407

# PART 1407—DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
Sec.
1407.1
Purpose.
1407.2
Nonprocurement debarment and suspension.
1407.3
Procurement debarment and suspension.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 714b.

# Source:
64 FR 67471, Dec. 2, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1407.1
Purpose.
This part specifies the policies that CCC will follow in taking action to debar or suspend individuals or firms from participation in Federal nonprocurement and procurement activities.
§ 1407.2
Nonprocurement debarment and suspension.
(a) CCC will proceed under 2 CFR parts 180 and 417 when taking action to debar or suspend participants or potential participants in CCC's nonprocurement activities.
(b) The debarring and suspending official for nonprocurement actions taken by CCC shall be as follows: For actions initiated on behalf of CCC by the Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS), the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS), or the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS), the debarring and suspending official will be the Vice President, CCC, who is the Administrator FAS, FNS, or AMS, respectively. For actions initiated on behalf of CCC by the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), the official will be the Vice President, CCC, who is the Chief, NRCS.
[64 FR 67471, Dec. 2, 1999, as amended at 79 FR 75997, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 1407.3
Procurement debarment and suspension.
CCC will proceed under this part when taking action to debar or suspend contractors with CCC or participants or potential participants in CCC's procurement activities. CCC will apply the provisions of 48 CFR part 409, subpart 409.4, in such actions, with the exception that the debarring and suspending official will be the Executive Vice President, CCC, or a designee.
Pt. 1409

# PART 1409—TRADE MITIGATION PROGRAM

# Subpart A—2018 Market Facilitation Program (MFP)
Sec.
1409.1
Applicability.
1409.2
Definitions.
1409.3
Producer eligibility requirements.
1409.4
Time and method of application.
1409.5
Calculation of payments.
1409.6
Eligibility subject to verification.
1409.7
Miscellaneous provisions.

# Subpart B—2019 Market Facilitation Program (MFP)
1409.101
Applicability.
1409.102
Definitions.
1409.103
Producer eligibility requirements.
1409.104
Method of application.
1409.105
Calculation of payments.
1409.106
Eligibility subject to verification.
1409.107
Miscellaneous provisions.

# Subpart C—Expanded Domestic Commodity Donation Program (EDCDP)
1409.201
Applicability.
1409.202
Definitions.
1409.203
Application process.
1409.204
Award process.
1409.205
Execution of agreement.
1409.206
Eligibility subject to verification.
1409.207
Miscellaneous provisions.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 714b and 714c.

# Source:
83 FR 44176, Aug. 30, 2018, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—2018 Market Facilitation Program (MFP)

# Source:
Redesignated at 84 FR 36461, July 29, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1409.1
Applicability.
This subpart specifies the eligibility requirements and payment calculations for the Market Facilitation Program (MFP) for 2018 crops. MFP will provide payments with respect to commodities which have been significantly impacted by actions of foreign governments resulting in the loss of traditional exports. The determination of eligible commodities and any specific program requirements for a commodity will be specified in a notice of funding
availability published by CCC in the
Federal Register
.
[83 FR 44176, Aug. 30, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 36461, July 29, 2019]
§ 1409.2
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to MFP. The definitions in part 718 of this title and parts 1400, and 1421 of this section apply, except where they conflict with the definitions in this section.
Application
means the MFP application form.
Commodity
means an agricultural commodity produced in the United States intended to be marketed for commercial production that has been designated as eligible for payments under MFP.
Crop
means the harvested production of a commodity.
Crop year
means:
(1) For insurable crops, the crop year as defined according to the applicable crop insurance policy; and
(2) For NAP covered crops, the crop year as provided in part 1437 of this chapter.
NOFA
means a notice of funds availability published by CCC in the
Federal Register
that specifies terms and conditions of MFP that are applicable to a specific commodity.
Producer
means a livestock producer, dairy producer, or a producer of a crop as defined in § 718.2 of this title.
§ 1409.3
Producer eligibility requirements.
(a) To be eligible for an MFP payment, a producer must:
(1) Meet all of the requirements in this part and the NOFA that is applicable to the commodity;
(2) Be a:
(i) Citizen of the United States;
(ii) Resident alien, which for purposes of this part means “lawful alien” as defined in part 1400 of this chapter;
(iii) Partnership of citizens of the United States; or
(iv) Corporation, limited liability corporation, or other organizational structure organized under State law;
(3) Have an ownership interest in the commodity.
(b) For eligible crops, a producer's share in the crop must be reported for the applicable crop year on form FSA-578, Report of Acreage, on file in the FSA county office as of the acreage reporting deadline, or no later than the date specified in the relevant NOFA. For crops that are covered commodities under § 1412.3 of this chapter, each applicant must be a person or legal entity who was actively engaged in farming, as provided in part 1400 of this chapter, in the crop year for which the crop is included in MFP.
(c) For livestock and dairy, a producer must have had an ownership interest in livestock or dairy production during the applicable time period established by CCC in the applicable NOFA.
§ 1409.4
Method of application.
(a) To apply for an MFP payment, the producer must submit an MFP application on the form designated by CCC to an FSA county office.
(b) In the event that the producer does not submit documentation in response to any request of FSA to support the producer's application or documentation furnished does not show the producer had ownership in the commodity as claimed, the application for that commodity will be disapproved.
(c) A request for an MFP payment will not be approved by CCC until all the applicable eligibility provisions have been met and the producer has submitted all required forms and supporting documentation. In addition to the completed application form, if the following forms and documentation are not on file in the FSA county office or are not current for the applicable crop year of the crop or applicable year for the commodity for which MFP has been announced as available, the producer must also submit:
(1) A farm operating plan for an individual or legal entity as provided in part 1400 of this chapter;
(2) An average adjusted gross income statement for the applicable year entity as provided in part 1400 of this chapter;
(3) A highly erodible land conservation (sometimes referred to elsewhere as HELC) and wetland conservation certification as provided in part 12 of this title;
(4) For crops, an acreage report for the applicable crop year as provided in part 718 of this title; and
(5) Verifiable records that substantiate the amount of production as specified in the relevant NOFA.
§ 1409.5
Calculation of payments.
The payment under this rule will be calculated by multiplying fifty percent of the total production of the commodity times the MFP payment rate for that commodity that is in effect when the payment is made times the producer's eligible share of the commodity. On or about December 3, 2018, CCC may announce a second payment rate, if applicable, that will apply to the remaining 50 percent of the producer's production for the selected commodity.
§ 1409.6
Eligibility subject to verification.
(a) Producers who are approved for participation in MFP are required to retain documentation in support of their application for 3 years after the date of approval.
(b) Producers must submit documentation to CCC as requested to substantiate an application.
(c) Producers receiving payments or any other person who furnishes such information to CCC must permit authorized representatives of USDA or the General Accounting Office during regular business hours to inspect, examine, and to allow such representatives to make copies of such books, records or other items for the purpose of confirming the accuracy of the information provided by the producer.
§ 1409.7
Miscellaneous provisions.
(a) If an MFP payment resulted from erroneous information provided by a producer, or any person acting on their behalf, the payment will be recalculated and the producer must refund any excess payment to CCC with interest calculated from the date of the disbursement of the payment.
(b) The refund of any payment to CCC is in addition to liability under any other provision of law including, but not limited to: 18 U.S.C. 286, 287, 371, 641, 651, 1001, and 1014; 15 U.S.C. 714; and 31 U.S.C. 3729.
(c) The regulations in parts 11 and 780 of this title apply to determinations under this part.
(d) Any payment under this part will be made without regard to questions of title under State law and without regard to any claim or lien against the commodity or proceeds from the sale of the commodity.
(e) The $900,000 average AGI limitation provisions in part 1400 of this chapter relating to limits on payments for persons or legal entities, excluding joint ventures and general partnerships, apply to each applicant for MFP. The average AGI will be calculated for a person or legal entity based on the 3 complete tax years that precede the year for which the payment is made (for the 2018 crop year or marketing year for livestock and dairy the tax years are 2014, 2015, and 2016).
(f) No person or legal entity, excluding a joint venture or general partnership, as determined by the rules in part 1400 of this chapter may receive, directly or indirectly, more than $125,000 in payments as specified in the relevant NOFA.
(g) The direct attribution provisions in part 1400 of this chapter apply to MFP. Under those rules, any payment to any legal entity will also be considered for payment limitation purposes to be a payment to persons or legal entities with an interest in the legal entity or in a sub-entity. If any such interested person or legal entity is over the payment limitation because of direct payment or their indirect interests or a combination thereof, then the payment to the actual payee will be reduced commensurate with the amount of the interest of the interested person in the payee. If anyone with a direct or indirect interest in a legal entity or sub-entity of a payee entity exceeds the AGI levels that would allow a producer to directly receive an MFP payment, then the MFP payment to the actual payee will be reduced commensurately with that interest.
(h) For the purposes of the effect of lien on eligibility for Federal programs (28 U.S.C. 3201(e)), CCC waives the restriction on receipt of funds under MFP but only as to beneficiaries who, as a condition of such waiver, agree to
apply the MFP payments to reduce the amount of the judgment lien.
(i) The provisions of § 718.304 of this title, “Failure to Fully Comply,” do not apply to this part.

# Subpart B—2019 Market Facilitation Program (MFP)

# Source:
84 FR 36461, July 29, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1409.101
Applicability.
This subpart specifies the eligibility requirements and payment calculations for the MFP for 2019 agricultural commodities. MFP will provide payments with respect to agricultural commodities that have been impacted by trade actions of foreign governments resulting in the loss of exports. Any specific program requirements for a commodity will be specified in a notice of funding availability published by the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) in the
Federal Register
.
§ 1409.102
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to MFP. The definitions in 7 CFR part 718 and parts 1400 and 1421 of this chapter apply, except where they conflict with the definitions in this section.
Application
means the MFP application form.
Commodity
means an agricultural commodity produced in the United States intended to be marketed for commercial purposes that has been designated as eligible for payments under MFP.
County payment rate
means the per acre value determined by: Historical acres and yields of non-specialty crops planted in that county and the amount of damage calculated due to trade actions of foreign governments resulting in the loss of exports represented as a per unit (for example, bushel or pound).
Crop
means the non-specialty crops and specialty crops.
Crop year
means:
(1) For insurable crops, the crop year as defined according to the applicable crop insurance policy; and
(2) For NAP covered crops, the crop year as provided in part 1437 of this chapter.
MFP
means the Market Facilitation Program funded by CCC and administered by the Farm Service Agency (FSA).
NOFA
means a notice of funds availability published by CCC in the
Federal Register
that specifies terms and conditions of MFP that are applicable to a specific commodity.
Non-specialty crop
means any of the following crops: Alfalfa hay, barley, canola, corn, crambe, dried beans, dry peas, extra long staple cotton, flaxseed, lentils, long grain and medium grain rice, millet, mustard seed, oats, peanuts, rapeseed, rye, safflower, sesame seed, small and large chickpeas, sorghum, soybeans, sunflower seed, temperate japonica rice, triticale, upland cotton, and wheat. If warranted, additional non-specialty crops may be included in MFP in which case the availability of assistance will be specified in a NOFA published in the
Federal Register
.
Producer
means a livestock producer, dairy producer, or a producer of a crop as defined in 7 CFR 718.2.
Specialty crops
means any of the following crops: Almonds, cranberries, cultivated ginseng, fresh grapes, fresh sweet cherries, hazelnuts, macadamia nuts, pecans, pistachios, and walnuts. If warranted, additional specialty crops may be included in MFP in which case the availability of assistance will be specified in a NOFA published in the
Federal Register
.
§ 1409.103
Producer eligibility requirements.
(a) To be eligible for an MFP payment, a producer must meet all of the requirements in this part and the NOFA that is applicable to the commodity.
(b) A producer's share in the crop must be reported for the 2019 crop year on form FSA-578, Report of Acreage, submitted to FSA, and must be on file in the FSA county office by the applicable reporting dates, or no later than the date specified in the applicable NOFA.
(c) For non-specialty crops, except as determined by CCC, each applicant must be a person or legal entity who was actively engaged in farming, as provided in part 1400 of this chapter.
(d) For livestock and dairy, a producer must have had an ownership interest in livestock or dairy production during the applicable time period established by CCC in the applicable NOFA.
§ 1409.104
Method of application.
(a) To apply for a payment, the producer must submit an MFP application on the form designated by CCC to an FSA county office.
(b) In the event that the producer does not submit documentation in response to any request of CCC to support the producer's application or documentation furnished does not show the producer had ownership in the commodity as claimed, the application for that commodity will be disapproved.
(c) A request for a payment will not be approved by CCC until all the applicable eligibility provisions have been met and the producer has submitted all required forms and supporting documentation. In addition to the completed application form, if the following forms and documentation are not on file in the FSA county office or are not current for the 2019 crop year of the crop or applicable year for the commodity for which MFP has been announced as available, the producer must also submit:
(1) A farm operating plan for an individual or legal entity as provided in part 1400 of this chapter;
(2) An average adjusted gross income statement for the applicable year entity as provided in part 1400 of this chapter;
(3) A highly erodible land conservation and wetland conservation certification as provided in part 12 of this title;
(4) For non-specialty and specialty crops, an acreage report for the applicable crop year as provided in 7 CFR part 718; and
(5) For dairy and livestock, verifiable records that substantiate the amount of production as specified in the applicable NOFA.
§ 1409.105
Calculation of payments.
(a) For non-specialty crops, the payment under this subpart will be calculated by multiplying the county payment rate by the 2019 reported planted acreage for a farm not to exceed the sum of planted and prevented planted acres of non-specialty crops on the farm in 2018, and available acreage from 2018 expired Conservation Reserve Program contracts. Producers' payments may be adjusted as determined by CCC and as detailed in the applicable NOFA.
(b) For non-specialty prevented planted crops followed by a CCC approved cover crop, the payment rate will be $15 per acre.
(c) For dairy and livestock, the payment under this subpart will be calculated by multiplying the total production of the commodity times the producer's eligible share of the commodity times the payment rate for that commodity, as provided for in a subsequent NOFA.
(d) For specialty crops, the payment under this subpart will be calculated by multiplying 2019 bearing acres of the specialty crop by the payment rate for the relevant specialty crop.
(e) For MFP payments:
(1) The first payment will be up to 50 percent of the total calculated payment.
(2) CCC will determine if any further payments are warranted. If CCC determines that a second payment is warranted, it will be up to 75 percent of the total calculated payment less the amount received in the first payment and the second payment period will begin in November 2019.
(3) If CCC determines that a final payment is warranted, it will be for up to the remaining amount of the total calculated payment, unless otherwise adjusted by CCC, and the last payment period will begin in January 2020.
§ 1409.106
Eligibility subject to verification.
(a) Producers approved for participation in MFP are required to retain documentation in support of their application for 3 years after the date of approval.
(b) Producers must submit documentation to CCC as requested to substantiate an application.
(c) Producers receiving payments or any other person who furnishes such information to CCC must permit authorized representatives of USDA or
the General Accounting Office during regular business hours to inspect, examine, and to allow such representatives to make copies of such books, records, or other items for the purpose of confirming the accuracy of the information provided by the producer.
§ 1409.107
Miscellaneous provisions.
(a) If an MFP payment resulted from erroneous information provided by a producer, or any person acting on their behalf, the payment will be recalculated and the producer must refund any excess payment to CCC with interest calculated from the date of the disbursement of the payment.
(b) The refund of any payment to CCC is in addition to liability under any other provision of law including, but not limited to: 18 U.S.C. 286, 287, 371, 641, 651, 1001, and 1014; 15 U.S.C. 714; and 31 U.S.C. 3729.
(c) The regulations in 7 CFR parts 11 and 780 part 1400 of this chapter apply to determinations under this subpart.
(d) Any payment under this part will be made without regard to questions of title under State law and without regard to any claim or lien against the commodity or proceeds from the sale of the commodity.
(e) The $900,000 average AGI limitation provisions in part 1400 of this chapter relating to limits on payments for persons or legal entities, excluding joint ventures and general partnerships, apply to each applicant for MFP unless at least 75 percent of the person or legal entity's average AGI is derived from farming, ranching or forestry related activities. If at least 75 percent of the person or legal entity's average AGI is derived from farming, ranching, or forestry related activities, the person or legal entity, other than a joint venture or general partnership, is eligible to receive 2019 MFP payments up to the $250,000 payment limitation specified in the applicable NOFA. The average AGI will be calculated for a person or legal entity based on the 3 complete tax years that precede the year for which the payment is made (for the 2019 crop year or marketing year for livestock and dairy the tax years are 2015, 2016, and 2017).
(f) No person or legal entity, excluding a joint venture or general partnership, as determined by the rules in part 1400 of this chapter may receive, directly or indirectly, more than $250,000 in payments as specified in the applicable NOFA.
(g) The direct attribution provisions in part 1400 of this chapter apply to MFP. Under those rules, any payment to any legal entity will also be considered for payment limitation purposes to be a payment to persons or legal entities with an interest in the legal entity or in a sub-entity. If any such interested person or legal entity is over the payment limitation because of direct payment or their indirect interests or a combination thereof, then the payment to the actual payee will be reduced commensurate with the amount of the interest of the interested person in the payee. If anyone with a direct or indirect interest in a legal entity or sub-entity of a payee entity exceeds the AGI levels that would allow a producer to directly receive an MFP payment, then the MFP payment to the actual payee will be reduced commensurately with that interest.
(h) For the purposes of the effect of lien on eligibility for Federal programs (28 U.S.C. 3201(e)), CCC waives the restriction on receipt of funds under MFP but only as to beneficiaries who, as a condition of such waiver, agree to apply the MFP payments to reduce the amount of the judgment lien.
(i) The provisions of 7 CFR 718.304, “Failure to Fully Comply,” do not apply to this part.

# Subpart C—Expanded Domestic Commodity Donation Program (EDCDP)

# Source:
84 FR 36463, July 29, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1409.201
Applicability.
(a) This subpart specifies the process for eligible non-profit entities to receive commodities from the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) that CCC has acquired in response to trade actions taken by foreign governments resulting in the loss of exports. The types and quantities of commodities made available under this subpart, if any, is dependent upon the ability of CCC to use such commodities through
existing domestic feeding programs administered by the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS). In the event that these domestic feeding programs are unable to use the commodities acquired by CCC, EDCDP is intended to provide the remaining commodities to low income individuals, primarily through eligible entities not participating in existing FNS food distribution programs.
(b) CCC, as specified in the applicable Notice of Commodity Availability, will use grants and cooperative agreements to conduct the Expanded Domestic Commodity Donation Program (EDCDP).
(c) The Food and Nutrition Service and the Agricultural Marketing Service will administer the EDCDP on behalf of CCC.
§ 1409.202
Definitions.
Commodity
means an agricultural commodity produced in the United States intended to be marketed for commercial purposes.
Eligible entity
means an incorporated nonprofit entity that is operating for religious, charitable, or educational purposes, and does not provide net earnings to or operate in any other manner that inures to the benefit of any officer, employee, or shareholder of the entity as defined in section 22 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1791) and meets the requirements of § 1409.203.
Notice of Commodity Availability (NOCA)
means the notice published by CCC specifying: The types of commodities available for use under this subpart; the terms and conditions that are in addition to the requirements of this subpart regarding approved uses of such commodities; the requirements a non-profit entity must meet to be an eligible entity; and whether funds will be made available by CCC regarding storage, handling, transportation and other administrative costs.
§ 1409.203
Application process.
(a) A non-profit entity that seeks approval for participation in EDCDP, as specified in the applicable NOCA must submit to the U.S. Department of Agriculture office identified in the NOCA:
(1) The application form;
(2) A copy of the entity's 501(c)(3) tax exempt status letter from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS);
(3) A copy of the entity's most recent IRS Form-990; and
(4) Any other supporting documents specified in the NOCA.
(b) After CCC has determined that the entity has met all eligibility requirements, the eligible entity may be considered for participation in EDCDP. After approval by CCC, the eligible entity must execute the applicable grant or cooperative agreement presented by CCC.
§ 1409.204
Award process.
(a) CCC intends to make awards to responsive applicants able to fully meet the requirements of the program subject to the priority criteria outlined below.
(b) To the extent that it is unable to make awards to all fully qualified applicants due to the limited quantity of commodities that will be available under this subpart, CCC reserves the right to both make awards on a prorated basis and to prioritize awards on the criteria listed below. CCC will consider the following factors in accepting offers for participation:
(1) The extent to which an eligible entity is already a participant in existing FNS administered programs with priority placed upon those entities that are not participating in such programs;
(2) The ability of the eligible entity to receive, store, and distribute at least 20,000 pounds of food per shipment and any other requirements as outlined in the NOCA, as determined by CCC, to successfully implement the proposed program activity;
(3) The eligible entity's operational and financial capability to receive and distribute commodities provided by CCC under this subpart;
(4) The scope of the proposed program activity in terms of its intended use of such commodities in low income areas, as determined by CCC using United States Census Bureau data and information available from federal means tested programs; and
(5) Any other criteria specified in the NOCA.
(c) An eligible entity may submit only one program proposal in response
to a NOCA for the same geographic area.
§ 1409.205
Execution of agreement.
CCC will enter into a grant or cooperative agreement with an eligible entity regarding the entity's approved program proposal. The eligible entity may not assign or delegate any required action or responsibility of the entity except as provided in the applicable grant or cooperative agreement. Any modification of the grant or cooperative agreement must be made with the written approval of CCC.
§ 1409.206
Eligibility subject to verification.
(a) Eligible entities participating in EDCDP are required to retain documentation relating to the EDCDP for 3 years after the date of approval of the grant or cooperative agreement. However, records pertaining to claims or audits that remain unresolved in this period of time must be retained until such actions have been resolved.
(b) Eligible entities participating in EDCDP must permit authorized representatives of the U.S. Department of Agriculture or the General Accounting Office during regular business hours to inspect, examine, and to allow such representatives to make copies of such books, records, or other items for the purpose of confirming the accuracy of the information provided by such entity.
§ 1409.207
Miscellaneous provisions.
(a) An eligible entity must comply with the provisions of:
(1) 2 CFR Chapters I and II (Office of Management and Budget Government-wide Guidance for Grants and Agreements);
(2) 2 CFR parts 200 and 400 (Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards);
(3) 2 CFR part 415 (General Program Administrative Regulations); and
(4) 2 CFR part 418 (New Restrictions on Lobbying).
(b) An eligible entity that does not comply with the terms of the applicable grant or cooperative agreement is subject to the provisions of: 18 U.S.C. 286, 287, 371, 641, 651, 1001, and 1014; 15 U.S.C. 714; and 31 U.S.C. 3729.

# SUBCHAPTER B—LOANS, PURCHASES, AND OTHER OPERATIONS

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations to regulations affecting previous program years not included in this volume, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
Pt. 1410

# PART 1410—CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM
Sec.
1410.1
Administration.
1410.2
Definitions.
1410.3
General description.
1410.4
Maximum county acreage.
1410.5
Eligible persons.
1410.6
Eligible land.
1410.7
Duration of contracts.
1410.8
Conservation priority areas.
1410.10
Restoration of wetlands.
1410.11
Farmable Wetlands Program.
1410.13
Grassland enrollments and permitted uses.
1410.20
Obligations of participant.
1410.21
Obligations of the Commodity Credit Corporation.
1410.22
CRP conservation plan.
1410.23
Eligible practices.
1410.30
Signup.
1410.31
Acceptability of offers.
1410.32
CRP contract.
1410.33
Contract modifications.
1410.40
Cost-share payments.
1410.41
Levels and rates for cost-share payments.
1410.42
Annual rental payments.
1410.44
Average adjusted gross income.
1410.45
Incentive payments.
1410.51
Transfer of land.
1410.52
Violations.
1410.53
Executed CRP contract not in conformity with this part.
1410.54
Performance based upon advice or action of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
1410.55
Access to land under CRP contract.
1410.56
Division of payments and provisions about tenants and sharecroppers.
1410.57
Payments not subject to claims.
1410.58
Assignments.
1410.59
Appeals.
1410.60
Scheme or device.
1410.61
Filing of false claims.
1410.62
Miscellaneous.
1410.63
Permissive uses.
1410.64
Transition Incentives Program.
1410.70
Soil Health and Income Protection Pilot Program.
1410.80
CLEAR 30 Pilot Program.
1410.90
Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 714b and 714c; 16 U.S.C. 3801-3847.

# Source:
84 FR 66819, Dec. 6, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1410.1
Administration.
(a) The Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) is administered under the general supervision and direction of the Executive Vice President, Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC), the Administrator, Farm Service Agency (FSA), or a designee, or the Deputy Administrator, FSA; and will be carried out by the FSA State and county committees (“State committees” and “county committees,” respectively).
(b) State executive directors, county executive directors, and State and county committees do not have the authority to modify or waive any of the provisions in this part unless specifically authorized by the Deputy Administrator.
(c) The State committee may take any action authorized or required by this part to be taken by the county committee, but which has not been taken by such county committee, including, but not limited to:
(1) Correct or require a county committee to correct any action taken by such county committee that is not in accordance with this part; or
(2) Require a county committee to withhold taking any action that is not in accordance with this part.
(d) No delegation of authority herein to a State or county committee will preclude the Executive Vice President, CCC, the Administrator, FSA, or a designee, or the Deputy Administrator, from determining any question arising under this part or from reversing or modifying any determination made by a State or county committee.
(e) Data furnished by producers will be used to determine eligibility for CRP benefits. Furnishing the data is
voluntary; however, the failure to provide data could result in CRP benefits being withheld or denied.
(f) Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, the suitability of land for permanent vegetative or water cover, factors for determining the likelihood of improved water quality, and adequacy of the planned practice to achieve desired objectives will be determined by the Natural Resource Conservation Service (NRCS) or other sources approved by the Deputy Administrator, in accordance with the Field Office Technical Guide (FOTG) of NRCS or other guidelines deemed appropriate by NRCS. In no case will such determination compel the Deputy Administrator to execute a CRP contract that the Deputy Administrator does not believe will serve the purposes of CRP established by this part. Any approved technical authority will use CRP guidelines established by the Deputy Administrator.
(g) The regulations in this part apply to all CRP contracts approved after December 6, 2019.
§ 1410.2
Definitions.
(a) The definitions in part 718 of this title apply to this part and all documents issued in accordance with this part, except as otherwise provided in this section.
(b) The following definitions also apply to this part:
Agricultural commodity
means:
(i) Any crop planted and produced by annual tilling of the soil or on an annual basis by one-trip planters;
(ii) Sugarcane planted or produced in a State; or
(iii) Alfalfa and other multi-year grasses and legumes grown in a rotation practice as approved by CCC.
Agricultural Conservation Easement Program (ACEP)
means the program that provides for the establishment of wetland easements on land under subtitle H of Title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985, as amended.
Annual rental payment
means, unless the context indicates otherwise, the annual payment specified in the CRP contract that, subject to the availability of funds, is made to a participant to compensate a participant for placing eligible land in CRP, including any incentive payments that are not specifically cost-share payments. For purposes of this definition, practice incentive payments, and incentive payments related to forest management are not considered part of annual rental payments.
Approved cover
means permanent vegetative cover or water cover specified in an approved CRP contract.
Carrying capacity
has the same meaning as “normal carrying capacity” defined in part 1416 of this chapter.
Commercial pond-raised aquaculture facility
means any earthen facility from which $1,000 or more of freshwater food fish were sold or normally would have been sold during a calendar year.
Common grazing practices
means grazing practices, including those related to forage and seed production, common to the area of the subject ranching or farming operation. Included are routine management activities necessary to maintain the viability of forage or browse resources that are common to the locale of the subject ranching or farming operation.
Conservation district
means a political subdivision of a State, Indian Tribe, or territory, organized pursuant to the State or territorial soil conservation district law, or Tribal law. The subdivision may be a conservation district, soil conservation district, soil and water conservation district, resource conservation district, natural resource district, land conservation committee, or similar legally constituted body.
Conservation plan
means a record of the participant's decisions and supporting information for treatment of a unit of land or water, and includes a schedule of operations, activities, and estimated expenditures needed to solve identified natural resource problems by devoting eligible land to permanent vegetative cover, trees, water, or other comparable measures.
Conservation priority area
means an area designated with adverse water quality, wildlife habitat, or other natural resource impacts related to agricultural production activities or to assist agricultural producers to comply with Federal and State environmental laws or to meet other conservation needs.
Conserving use
means a use of land that meets crop rotation requirements, as specified by CCC, for: Alfalfa, multi-year grasses, and legumes planted during 2012 through 2017; for summer fallow during 2012 through 2017; or for land on which the CRP contract expired during the period 2012 through 2017 and on which the grass cover required by the CRP contract continues to be maintained as though still enrolled. Land that meets this definition of “conserving use” will be considered to have been planted to an agricultural commodity for the purposes of eligibility specified in § 1410.6(b)(1).
Considered planted
means land devoted to a conserving use during the crop year or during any of the 2 years preceding the crop year if the contract expired; cropland enrolled in CRP; or land for which the producer received for prevented planting credit in accordance with part 718 of this title.
Contour grass strip
means a vegetation area that follows the contour of the land that complies with the FOTG and a conservation plan developed under this part.
Contract period
means the term of the CRP contract.
Cost-share payment
means, unless the context indicates otherwise, the payment made by CCC to assist CRP participants in installing the practices required in a CRP contract.
Cropland
means land defined as cropland in part 718 of this title, except for land in terraces that are no longer capable of being cropped.
Eligible partner
means a State, political subdivision of a State, nongovernmental organization, or an Indian Tribe.
Erodibility index (EI)
means an index, as prescribed by CCC, used to determine the inherent erodibility from either from water or wind, but not both combined, of a soil in relation to the soil loss tolerance for that soil.
Federally-owned land
means land owned by the Federal Government or any department, instrumentality, bureau, or agency thereof, or any corporation whose stock is wholly owned by the Federal Government.
Field border
means a strip of permanent vegetation established at the edge or around the perimeter of a field the purpose of which is to provide food and cover for quail and upland birds in cropland areas.
Field Office Technical Guide (FOTG)
means the official USDA guidelines, criteria, and standards for planning and applying conservation treatments and conservation management systems. It contains detailed information on the conservation of soil, water, air, plant, animal resources, and cultural resources applicable to the local area for which it is prepared. (See
https://www.nrcs.usda.gov/wps/portal/nrcs/main/national/technical/fotg/
to access your State FOTG.)
Field windbreak, shelterbelt, and living snowfence
mean a vegetative barrier with a linear configuration composed of trees, shrubs, or other vegetation, that are designated as such in a conservation plan and that are planted for the purpose of reducing wind erosion, controlling snow, improving wildlife habitat, or conserving energy.
Filter strip
means a strip or area of vegetation immediately adjacent and parallel to an eligible water body, the purpose of which is to remove nutrients, sediment, organic matter, pesticides, and other pollutants from surface runoff and subsurface flow by deposition, absorption, plant uptake, and other processes, thereby reducing pollution and protecting surface water and subsurface water quality and of a width determined appropriate for such purpose.
Forb
means any herbaceous plant other than those in the grass family.
Grassland
means land described in § 1410.6(d).
Grass waterway
means a shaped or graded channel that is established with suitable vegetation to convey surface water from terraces, diversions, or other water concentrations without causing erosion or flooding using a broad and shallow cross section to a stable outlet.
Highly erodible land
means land determined to have an EI equal to or greater than 8 on the acreage offered.
Improved rangeland or pastureland
means grazing land permanently producing naturalized forage species that receives varying degrees of periodic cultural treatment to enhance forage
quality and yields and is primarily consumed by livestock.
Indian Tribe
means any Indian Tribe, band, nation, or other organized group, or community, including pueblos, rancherias, colonies and any Alaska Native Village, or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601-1629h), which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
Infeasible to farm
means an area of land that is too small or isolated to be economically farmed, or is otherwise suitable for such classification.
Local FSA office
means the FSA county office serving the area in which the FSA records are located for the farm or ranch.
Offer
means, unless the context indicates otherwise, if required by CCC, the per-acre rental payment requested by the owner or operator in such owner's or operator's request to participate in the CRP.
Perennial crop
means a crop that is produced from the same root structure for 2 or more years.
Permanent vegetative cover
means perennial stands of approved combinations of certain grasses, legumes, forbs, shrubs and trees for the contract period.
Permanent wildlife habitat
means a vegetative cover with the specific purpose of providing habitat, food, or cover for wildlife and protecting other environmental concerns for the contract period.
Practice
means a conservation, wildlife habitat, or water quality measure with appropriate operations and management as agreed to in the conservation plan to accomplish the desired program objectives according to CRP and FOTG standards and specifications as a part of a conservation management system.
Prairie strip
means a strip(s) of diverse, dense, herbaceous, predominately native perennial vegetation designed and positioned on the landscape to most effectively address soil erosion and water quality by intercepting surface and subsurface water flow to remove nutrients, sediment, organic matter, pesticides, and other pollutants by deposition, absorption, plant uptake, denitrification, and other processes, and thereby reduce pollution and protect surface and subsurface water quality while providing food and cover for wildlife.
Primary nesting season
means the nesting season for birds in the local area that are economically significant, in significant decline, or conserved in accordance with Federal or State law, as determined by CCC in consultation with the State technical committee established as specified in part 610 of this title.
Riparian buffer
means a strip or area of vegetation immediately adjacent and parallel to an eligible water body of sufficient width, the purpose of which is to remove nutrients, sediment, organic matter, pesticides, and other pollutants from surface runoff and subsurface flow by deposition, absorption, plant uptake, and other processes, thereby reducing pollution and protecting surface water and subsurface water quality, and to provide shade to reduce water temperature for improved habitat for aquatic organisms and supply large woody debris for aquatic organisms and habitat for wildlife.
Shrubland
means land where the dominant plant species are shrubs, which are plants that are persistent, have woody stems, and a relatively low growth habit.
Socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher
means a farmer or rancher who is a member of a socially disadvantaged group whose members have been subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice because of their identity as members of a group without regard to their individual qualities. Socially disadvantaged groups include the following and no others unless approved in writing by CCC:
(i) American Indians or Alaskan Natives;
(ii) Asians or Asian-Americans;
(iii) Blacks or African Americans;
(iv) Hispanics; and
(v) Native Hawaiians or other Pacific Islanders.
Soil loss tolerance (T)
means the maximum average annual erosion rate
specified in the FOTG that will not adversely impact the long-term productivity of the soil.
State
means State agencies, departments, districts, county or city governments, municipalities or any other State or local government of the State.
State Technical Committee
means a committee established pursuant to part 610 of this title to provide information, analysis, and recommendations to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Technical assistance
means assistance in regard to determining the eligibility of land and practices, implementing and certifying practices, ensuring CRP contract performance, and providing annual rental rate surveys. The technical assistance provided in connection with CRP to owners or operators, as approved by CCC, includes, but is not limited to:
(i) Technical expertise, information, and tools necessary for the conservation of natural resources on land;
(ii) Technical services provided directly to farmers, ranchers, and other eligible entities, including, but not limited to, conservation planning, technical consultation, and assistance with design and implementation of conservation practices; and
(iii) Technical infrastructure, including activities, processes, tools, and agency functions needed to support delivery of technical services, including, but not limited to, technical standards, resource inventories, training, data, technology, monitoring, and effects analyses.
Violation
means an action or inaction by the participant, either intentional or unintentional, that would cause the participant to no longer be eligible for all or a portion of cost-share payments, incentive payments, or annual rental payments.
Water cover
means flooding of land by water either to develop or restore shallow water areas for wildlife or wetlands, or as a result of a natural disaster.
Wellhead protection area
means the area designated by EPA or the appropriate State agency with an Environmental Protection Agency approved Wellhead Protection Program for water being drawn for public use, as defined for public use by the Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended.
Wetland
means land defined as wetland in accordance with provisions of part 12 of this title.
Wetlands Reserve Program (WRP)
means the program authorized by part 1467 of this chapter in which eligible persons enter into long-term agreements to restore and protect wetlands.
§ 1410.3
General description.
(a) Under CRP, CCC will enter into contracts with eligible producers to convert eligible land to an approved cover during the contract period in return for financial and technical assistance.
(b) A producer must obtain and adhere, for the contract period, to a conservation plan prepared in accordance with CCC guidelines and the other provisions of § 1410.22.
(c) The objectives of the CRP are to cost-effectively reduce water and wind erosion, protect the Nation's long-term capability to produce food and fiber, reduce sedimentation, improve water quality, create and enhance wildlife habitat, and other objectives including, as appropriate, addressing issues raised by State, regional, and national conservation initiatives and encouraging more permanent conservation practices, including, but not limited to, tree planting.
§ 1410.4
Maximum county acreage.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section the maximum cropland acreage that may be placed in CRP and the wetland reserve easements of WRP and ACEP, as appropriate, may not exceed 25 percent of the total cropland in the county. No more than 15 percent of the cropland in a county may be subject, in the aggregate, to a wetland reserve easement.
(b) The restrictions in paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) May be waived by CCC as follows:
(i) If such waiver would not adversely affect the local economy of the county and that operators in the county are having difficulties complying with conservation plans implemented under part 12 of this title; or
(ii) If the cropland, in a county, is enrolled under provisions as specified in
§ 1410.90, provided that the county government concurs with such waiver.
(2) Do not apply to cropland that is:
(i) Subject to an easement and enrolled in CRP as a shelterbelt or windbreak; or
(ii) Designated with subclass w in the land capability classes IV through VIII because of severe use limitations due to soil saturation or inundation, as determined by NRCS.
(c) The restrictions on acreage enrollment in this section are in addition to any other restrictions imposed by law.
§ 1410.5
Eligible persons.
(a) To be eligible to enter into a CRP contract in accordance with this part, a person must be an owner, operator, or tenant of eligible land and:
(1) If an operator of eligible land seeks to participate without the owner's participation, then such operator must have operated such land for either at least 12 months prior to the close of the applicable signup period for enrollments under announced signup periods, or for at least 12 months prior to submitting an offer under continuous signup periods as provided in § 1410.30(b); further, such operator must provide satisfactory evidence to CCC that such operator will be in control of such eligible land for the full term of the contract period;
(2) If an owner of eligible land, such owner must have owned such land for either at least 12 months prior to the close of the applicable signup period for enrollment under announced signup periods, or for at least 12 months prior to submitting an offer for continuous signup periods as provided in § 1410.30(b), unless:
(i) The new owner acquired such land by will or succession as a result of the death of the previous owner;
(ii) The only ownership change in the 12-month period occurred due to foreclosure on the land, and the owner of the land, immediately before the foreclosure, exercised a timely right of redemption from the mortgage holder in accordance with State law; or
(iii) The circumstances of the acquisition present adequate assurance that a new owner of such eligible land did not acquire such land for the purpose of placing it in the CRP; or
(3) If a tenant, then the participation of an eligible owner or operator is also required.
(b) The provisions of this section do not apply to beginning, socially disadvantaged, or veteran farmers or ranchers who are eligible participants in the Transition Incentives Program as specified in § 1410.64.
§ 1410.6
Eligible land.
(a) The provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section do not apply to:
(1) The Transition Incentives Program as specified in § 1410.64;
(2) The Soil Health and Income Protection Pilot Program as specified in § 1410.70; or
(3) The Clean Lakes, Estuaries, and Rivers 30 (CLEAR 30) Pilot Program as specified in § 1410.80.
(b) To be eligible for CRP, land must be one of the following:
(1) Cropland that:
(i) Has been annually planted or considered planted to an agricultural commodity in 4 of the 6 crop years from 2012 through 2017, provided that field margins that are incidental to the planting of crops may also be considered qualifying cropland; and
(ii) Is physically and legally capable of being planted in a normal manner to an agricultural commodity;
(2) Marginal pasture land that:
(i) Is located immediately adjacent and parallel to an eligible stream, other water body, or wetland, but excluding such areas as gullies or sod waterways or similar areas; and
(ii) Is capable, when permanent grass, forbs, shrubs, or trees are grown, or when planted with appropriate vegetation for the area, including vegetation suitable for wetland restoration or wildlife habitat, of either substantially reducing sediment or nutrient runoff that otherwise would be delivered to the adjacent eligible stream or water body, or serving other water quality purposes;
(3) Acreage enrolled in CRP during the final year of the contract period, unless such land is federally-owned, provided the scheduled expiration date of the current CRP contract is before
the effective date of the new CRP contract;
(4) Land that meets the criteria specified in paragraph (d) of this section; or
(5) Land that meets all of the criteria in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section, which land will then be considered as land enrolled in CRP in the final year of the contract period, and therefore will be eligible to be offered for enrollment in CRP until September 30, 2020, provided the effective starting date of the new CRP contract is on or before October 1, 2020:
(i) The land was enrolled in CRP under a CRP contract, with a contract period of greater than 14 years, that expired on September 30, 2017, or September 30, 2018;
(ii) There was no opportunity for re-enrollment of the land in CRP prior to the end of the contract period; and
(iii) The conservation practice and approved cover under the expired CRP contract has been maintained in accordance with the terms of the expired CRP contract.
(c) Land qualifying under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must also meet at least one of the following criteria to be eligible for CRP:
(1) Be a field or portion of a field that:
(i) Is suitable for use as a permanent wildlife habitat, prairie strip, contour grass strip, grass waterway, field windbreak, shelterbelt, living snowfence, field border, or other suitable uses;
(ii) Poses an off-farm environmental threat or a threat of continued degradation of productivity due to soil salinity if permitted to remain in production, including any applicable recharge area;
(iii) Is an area determined eligible for CRP based on wetland or wellhead protection area criteria; or
(iv) Is suitable for use as a filter strip or riparian buffer, and the land:
(A) Is located immediately adjacent and parallel to an eligible stream, other water body, or wetland, but excluding such areas as gullies or sod waterways or similar areas; and
(B) Is capable, when permanent grass, forbs, shrubs, or trees are grown, or when planted with appropriate vegetation for the area, including vegetation suitable for wetland restoration, of either substantially reducing sediment or nutrient runoff that otherwise would be delivered to the adjacent eligible stream, or water body, or serving other water quality purposes;
(2) Be non-irrigated or irrigated cropland that would facilitate a net savings in groundwater or surface water of the agricultural operation of the producer, only as approved by CCC;
(3) Be a portion of the field not enrolled in CRP, if either:
(i) More than 50 percent of the field is enrolled as a riparian buffer or filter strip; or
(ii) More than 75 percent of the field is enrolled as a conservation practice other than a riparian buffer or filter strip; and
(iii) With respect to both paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, the remainder portion of the field is determined to be infeasible to farm and enrolled at an annual payment rate not to exceed the maximum annual calculated soil rental rate approved by CCC;
(4) Be contributing to the degradation of water quality or posing an on-site or off-site environmental threat to water quality if such land remains in production;
(5) Be devoted to certain covers that are established and maintained according to the FOTG, provided such land is not required to be maintained as such under any life-span obligations;
(6) Have an EI of greater than or equal to 8 calculated by using the weighted average of the EI's of soil map units within the acreage offered;
(7) Be within a State or federally identified wellhead protection area;
(8) Be within a designated conservation priority area; or
(9) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1) of this section, be cropland devoted to a perennial crop; such cropland will only be eligible for continuous signup practices authorized by § 1410.30(b) and practices authorized under a Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program agreement as specified in § 1410.90.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, to be eligible under a grassland signup as specified in § 1410.30(c), the land must be one of the following:
(1) Land that:
(i) Contains forbs or shrubland, including improved rangeland and pastureland, for which grazing is the predominant use;
(ii) Is located in an area historically dominated by grassland; and
(iii) Is able to provide habitat for animal and plant populations of significant ecological value if the land is retained in its current use or restored to a natural condition; or
(2) Land that is enrolled in CRP in the final year of the contract period, provided the scheduled expiration date of the current CRP contract is the day before the effective starting date of the new CRP contract, and the provisions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section are met.
(e) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section and §§ 1410.64, 1410.70, and 1410.80, land will be ineligible for enrollment if the land is one of the following:
(1) Federally-owned land;
(2) Land on which the use of the land is either restricted through deed or other restriction prior to enrollment in CRP prohibiting the production of agricultural commodities, or requires any resource-conserving measures, during any part of the contract period;
(3) Land already enrolled in the CRP, unless authorized by paragraph (b)(3) of this section and § 1410.80;
(4) Land for which Tribal, State, or other local laws, ordinances, or other regulations require any resource conserving or environmental protection measures or practices, and the owners or operators of such land have been notified in writing of such requirements, except, such land may be eligible for enrollment in CRP if:
(i) The land is, at the time of offer, enrolled in CRP under an approved Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program agreement that was in effect on December 20, 2018, and was initially approved before January 1, 2014, including any amended or successor Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program agreement; provided, that the CRP contract under which the land is enrolled is in the final year of the contract period, and the scheduled expiration date of the current CRP contract is before the effective starting date of the new CRP contract; or
(ii) The land is such other land in the State that CCC determines is both otherwise eligible for CRP and appropriate for enrollment in CRP;
(5) Land that is required to be used, or otherwise dedicated to mitigate actions undertaken, or planned to be undertaken, on other land, or to mitigate other actions taken by landowners or operators; or
(6) Land devoted to hardwood trees that has been re-enrolled in CRP one or more times while it was devoted to hardwood trees; however, such ineligibility does not extend to:
(i) Forested wetlands enrolled under a Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program agreement or under a continuous signup as specified in § 1410.30(b);
(ii) Riparian buffers; and
(iii) Shelterbelts.
[84 FR 66819, Dec. 6, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 70705, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1410.7
Duration of contracts.
(a) In general, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and §§ 1410.70 and 1410.80, the CRP contract period will be for a term of at least 10 years, and up to no more than 15 years.
(b) The CRP contract period for land enrolled under a grassland signup as specified in § 1410.30(c) will be for a term of 10 years or 15 years, as requested by the producer.
(c) CRP contracts for land devoted to hardwood trees, shelterbelts, windbreaks, and wildlife corridors will be for a term of 10 years to 15 years, as requested by the producer.
(d) All CRP contracts will expire on September 30 of the final calendar year of the contract period.
§ 1410.8
Conservation priority areas.
(a) Subject to CCC approval, a State agency may submit proposals for conservation priority areas within guidelines established by CCC. Such submission must clearly define conservation and environmental objectives, and provide analysis of how CRP can cost-effectively address such objectives. Generally, the total acreage of all conservation priority areas, in aggregate, will not total more than 25 percent of the cropland in a State unless there are
identified and documented exceptional environmental needs.
(b) A region may be eligible for designation as a priority area only if the region has actual significant adverse water quality, wildlife habitat, or other natural resource impacts related to activities of agricultural production, or if the designation helps agricultural producers to comply with Federal and State environmental laws.
(c) Conservation priority area designations will expire after 5 years unless re-designated, except they may be withdrawn before 5 years by CCC.
(d) In those areas designated as conservation priority areas under this section, cropland is considered eligible for enrollment according to § 1410.6(c)(8) based on identified environmental concerns. These concerns may include water quality, such as assisting agricultural producers to comply with nonpoint source pollution requirements or wildlife habitat (especially for threatened and endangered species or those species that may become threatened and endangered).
§ 1410.10
Restoration of wetlands.
(a) An owner or operator who entered into a CRP contract on land that is suitable for restoration to wetlands or that was restored to wetlands while under such CRP contract, may, if approved by CCC, subject to any restrictions as may be imposed by law, apply to transfer such land from CRP to a wetland reserve easement under WRP or ACEP, as appropriate. Transferred land will be terminated from CRP effective the day a WRP or ACEP wetland reserve easement is filed. Participants will receive a prorated CRP annual payment for the part of the year the land was enrolled in CRP as specified in § 1410.42. Cost-share payments or applicable incentive payments need not be refunded unless specified by CCC.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1410.11
Farmable Wetlands Program.
(a) In addition to other allowable enrollments, eligible land may be enrolled in the CRP through the Farmable Wetlands Program (FWP).
(b) Eligible owners and operators may enroll land in FWP provided that the land:
(1) Is a wetland, including a converted wetland, that has been planted or considered planted to an agricultural commodity during at least 3 of the immediately preceding 10 crop years and that does not exceed the size limitations specified in paragraph (d) of this section;
(2) Is enrolled to be a constructed wetland that is to be developed so as to receive surface and subsurface flow from row crop agricultural production and is designed to provide nitrogen removal in addition to other wetland functions and that does not exceed the size limitations specified in paragraph (d) of this section;
(3) Was a commercial pond-raised aquaculture facility in any year during the period of calendar years 2002 through 2007; or
(4) Was cropped, after January 1, 1990, and before December 31, 2002, at least 3 of 10 crop years, was subject to the natural overflow of a prairie wetland, and does not exceed the size limitations specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(c) In addition, land may be enrolled through FWP if the land is buffer acreage that provides protection for and is contiguous to land otherwise eligible under paragraph (b) of this section, subject to the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section.
(d) Total enrollment in CRP under this section may not exceed 750,000 acres. In addition, the maximum size of land enrolled under this section may not exceed:
(1) 40 contiguous acres per tract, for land made eligible by paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(2) 40 contiguous acres per tract, for land made eligible by paragraph (b)(2) of this section;
(3) 20 contiguous acres for land made eligible by paragraph (b)(4) of this section, not to exceed 40 acres per tract; or
(4) A suitable buffer for lands added under paragraph (c) of this section.
(e) All participants subject to a CRP contract under this section must agree to establish and maintain, as appropriate, the practice described in paragraph (b) of this section in accordance with FOTG including, as appropriate, restoring the hydrology of the wetland
and establishing vegetative cover (which may include emerging vegetation in water and bottomland hardwoods, cypress, and other appropriate tree species in shallow water areas).
(f) Offers for contracts under this section must be submitted under continuous signup provisions as specified in § 1410.30(b).
(g) The annual rental payment for land enrolled under this section will be determined in accordance with the provisions of § 1410.42 for cropland. In addition, any incentive payments in the form of annual rental payments provided for enrolling filter strips under this part will also be provided to participants who enroll land under this section, provided the participant has a share of the annual rental payment greater than zero.
§ 1410.13
Grassland enrollments and permitted uses.
(a) Land may be enrolled in CRP under a grassland signup as specified in §§ 1410.30(c) and 1410.31(e) and (f).
(b) Grassland enrollments will generally be administered under all the provisions of this part, except where specific provisions apply only to grassland enrollments.
(c) Land enrolled in CRP under a grassland signup may be eligible for the Transition Incentives Program as specified in § 1410.64.
(d) The following activities may be permitted on grassland enrolled in CRP according to an approved conservation plan:
(1) Common grazing practices, including maintenance and necessary cultural practices, in a manner that is consistent with maintaining the viability of grassland, forb, and shrub species appropriate to the locality;
(2) Haying, mowing, or harvesting for seed production, subject to appropriate restrictions during the primary nesting season;
(3) Fire pre-suppression, fire-related rehabilitation, and construction of firebreaks;
(4) Grazing related activities, such as fencing and livestock watering facilities; and
(5) Other activities, when the manner, number, intensity, location, operation, and other features associated with such activity will not adversely affect the grassland resources or related conservation values protected under the CRP contract.
§ 1410.20
Obligations of participant.
(a) All participants subject to a CRP contract must agree to:
(1) Carry out the terms and conditions of such CRP contract;
(2) Implement the conservation plan, which is part of such CRP contract, in accordance with the schedule of dates included in such conservation plan unless CCC determines that the participant cannot fully implement the conservation plan for reasons beyond the participant's control, and CCC agrees to a modified plan; however, a contract will not be terminated for failure to establish an approved vegetative or water cover on the land if:
(i) The failure to plant or establish such approved cover was due to excessive rainfall, flooding, or drought;
(ii) The land subject to the CRP contract on which the participant could practicably plant or establish to such approved cover, is planted or established to such approved cover; and
(iii) The land on which the participant was unable to plant or establish such approved cover is planted or established to such approved cover after the wet or drought conditions that prevented the planting or establishment subside;
(3) Establish temporary vegetative cover either when required by the conservation plan or if the permanent approved cover cannot be timely established;
(4) Comply with part 12 of this title;
(5) Not allow grazing, harvesting, or other commercial or agricultural use of the land subject to such CRP contract, or the cover on such land, except as specified in this part;
(6) Establish and maintain the required vegetative or water cover and the required practices on the land subject to such CRP contract, and take other actions that may be required by CCC to achieve the desired environmental benefits, and to maintain the productive capability of the soil throughout the contract period;
(7) Comply with noxious weed laws of the applicable State or local jurisdiction on such land;
(8) Control, on land subject to such CRP contract, all weeds, insects, pests, and other undesirable species to the extent necessary to ensure that the establishment and maintenance of the approved cover as specified in the CRP conservation plan, and to avoid an adverse impact on surrounding land, taking into consideration water quality, wildlife, and other similar conservation factors;
(9) Be jointly and severally responsible, if the participant has a share of the annual rental payment greater than zero, with the other participants on the CRP contract, for compliance with the provisions of such CRP contract and the provisions of this part, and for any refunds or payment adjustments that may be required for violations of any of the terms and conditions of the CRP contract and this part; and
(10) On land devoted to trees, excluding windbreaks and shelterbelts, carry out thinning and similar conservation practices, as provided in the conservation plan to enhance the conservation benefits and wildlife habitat resources applicable to the CRP conservation practice on the land, and to promote forest management.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1410.21
Obligations of the Commodity Credit Corporation.
CCC will:
(a) Share up to 50 percent of the cost with participants of installing eligible practices specified in the conservation plan for which CCC determines that cost sharing is appropriate and in the public interest, and at the levels and rates of cost-sharing determined in accordance with the provisions of this part; and
(b) Pay to eligible participants for a period of years not in excess of the contract period an annual rental payment, including applicable and available incentive payments, in such amounts as may be specified in the CRP contract.
§ 1410.22
CRP conservation plan.
(a) The producer must obtain a CRP conservation plan that complies with CCC guidelines and is approved by NRCS.
(b) The practices included in the conservation plan and agreed to by the participant must cost-effectively reduce erosion necessary to maintain the productive capability of the soil, improve water quality, protect wildlife or wetlands, protect a public wellhead, improve grassland, or achieve other environmental benefits as applicable. The participant must undertake maintenance activities on the land as needed throughout the contract period to implement the conservation plan.
(c) If applicable, a tree planting plan or forest stewardship plan must be developed and included in the conservation plan. Such tree planting or forest stewardship plan may allow up to 3 years to complete plantings if 10 or more acres of hardwood trees are to be established.
(d) If applicable, the conservation plan must address the goals included in the conservation priority area designation authorized under § 1410.8.
(e) Except for land enrolled under a grassland signup, as specified in § 1410.30(c), management activities must be conducted as needed throughout the contract period in accordance with an approved conservation plan. However, the planned management activity is not required in the case where a natural disaster or adverse weather event occurs that has the same effect of the planned management activity. CCC will not provide any cost-share payment for any management activities.
§ 1410.23
Eligible practices.
(a) Eligible practices are those CRP practices specified in the conservation plan that meet all standards needed to cost-effectively:
(1) Establish permanent vegetative or water cover, including introduced or native species of grasses and legumes, trees, permanent wildlife habitat, and grassland improvements;
(2) Meet other environmental benefits, as applicable, for the CRP contract period; and
(3) Accomplish other purposes of CRP.
(b) Water cover is eligible cover for purposes of paragraph (a) of this section only if approved by CCC for purposes such as the enhancement of wildlife or the improvement of water quality. Such water cover will not include ponds for the purpose of watering livestock, irrigating crops, or raising aquaculture for commercial purposes.
§ 1410.30
Signup.
(a) Offers for CRP contracts may be submitted only during signup periods as announced periodically by CCC, but not less often than once each year. Acceptability of otherwise eligible offers will be determined as provided in § 1410.31.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, CCC may hold a continuous signup for land to be devoted to particular uses. Generally, continuous signup is limited to those offers that provide appropriate environmental benefits, as determined by CCC, or that would otherwise rank highly under § 1410.31(b) and may include high priority practices including, but not limited to, filter strips, riparian buffers, shelterbelts, field windbreaks, living snowfences, grass waterways, shallow water areas for wildlife, salt-tolerant vegetation, prairie strips, field borders, and practices to benefit certain approved wetlands and public wellhead protection areas.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, offers to enroll acreage specified in § 1410.6(d) may be submitted only during signup periods as announced by CCC. At least 1 ranking period will be announced subsequent to the announcement of offers specified in paragraph (a) of this section. Eligible offers will be evaluated and ranked as provided in § 1410.31(e) and (f).
§ 1410.31
Acceptability of offers.
(a) Producers may submit offers for the amounts they are willing to accept as rental payments to enroll their acreage in CRP. The offers will, to the extent practicable, be evaluated on a competitive basis in which the offers selected will be those where the greatest environmental benefits relative to cost are generated, and provided that the offer is not in excess of the maximum acceptable payment rate established by CCC for the acreage offered. Acceptance or rejection of any offer, however, will be in the sole discretion of CCC and offers may be rejected for any reason as determined needed to accomplish the goals of CRP.
(b) In evaluating offers, different factors may be considered by CCC for priority purposes to accomplish the goals of CRP. Such factors may include, but are not limited to:
(1) Soil erosion;
(2) Water quality (both surface and ground water);
(3) Wildlife benefits;
(4) Soil productivity;
(5) Likelihood that enrolled land will remain in non-agriculture use beyond the contract period, considering, for example, tree planting, permanent wildlife habitat, or commitments by a participant to a State or other entity to extend the conservation plan; and
(6) Cost of enrolling acreage in CRP.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, when all other appropriate factors are equivalent, CCC may give preference to offers from residents of the county or contiguous county where the offered land is located.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, acreage determined eligible for continuous signup, as provided in § 1410.30(b), may be automatically accepted in CRP if the:
(1) Land is eligible under § 1410.6;
(2) Producer is eligible under § 1410.5; and
(3) Producer accepts either the maximum payment rate CCC is willing to offer to enroll the acreage in CRP or a lesser rate.
(e) For grassland signup offers:
(1) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, offers to enroll in CRP under grassland signup, as specified in § 1410.30(c), will be evaluated and ranked during an announced ranking period, on a competitive basis in which the offers selected will be those where the greatest environmental benefits relative to cost are generated, and further provided that:
(i) The offered land is eligible under § 1410.6(d);
(ii) The producer is eligible under § 1410.5;
(iii) The producer accepts either the maximum payment rate CCC is willing
to offer to enroll the acreage in CRP, or a lesser rate; and
(iv) The offer ranks above the minimum ranking level needed for offer acceptance, as determined by CCC.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (e)(1) of this section, acceptance or rejection of any offer will be at the sole discretion of the CCC, and offers may be rejected for any reason as determined necessary and appropriate to accomplish the goals of CRP.
(f) In ranking and evaluating grassland signup offers, different factors may be considered by CCC for priority purposes to accomplish the goals of CRP. Such factors may include, but are not limited to:
(1) Existence of expiring CRP land;
(2) Land at risk of development or conversion; and
(3) Land of ecological significance, including land that:
(i) May assist in the restoration of threatened or endangered species under the Endangered Species Act of 1973;
(ii) May assist in preventing a species from being listed as a threatened or endangered species under the Endangered Species Act of 1973; or
(iii) Improves or creates wildlife habitat corridors.
§ 1410.32
CRP contract.
(a) In order to enroll land in CRP, the producer must enter into a contract with CCC.
(b) The CRP contract is comprised of:
(1) The terms and conditions for participation in CRP; and
(2) The CRP conservation plan.
(c) For offers:
(1) In order to enter into a CRP contract, the producer must submit an offer to participate as provided in § 1410.30.
(2) An offer to enroll land in CRP will be irrevocable for such period as is determined and announced by CCC. The producer will be liable to CCC for liquidated damages if the producer revokes an offer during the period in which the offer is irrevocable unless CCC determines to waive such liquidated damages.
(d) The CRP contract must, within the dates established by CCC, be signed by:
(1) The producer; and
(2) The owners of the land to be enrolled in the CRP and other eligible producers, if applicable.
(e) For the termination of CRP contracts:
(1) CRP contracts may be terminated in whole or in part by CCC before the end of the contract period if:
(i) The owner loses control of or transfers all or part of the acreage under the CRP contract and the new owner does not wish to continue the CRP contract;
(ii) The participant voluntarily requests in writing to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, and obtains approval from CCC;
(iii) The participant is not in compliance with the terms and conditions of the CRP contract;
(iv) All or part of the acreage under the CRP contract is enrolled in another Federal, State or local conservation program;
(v) The CRP practice fails or is not established after a certain time period and the cost of restoring the practice outweighs the benefits received from the restoration;
(vi) The CRP contract was approved based on erroneous eligibility determinations; or
(vii) Such termination is needed in the public interest, or is otherwise necessary and appropriate to further the goals of CRP.
(2) A participant whose CRP contract has been terminated, in whole or in part in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section, must refund all or part of the payments made by CCC with respect to the CRP contract, plus interest, and must also pay liquidated damages as provided for in the CRP contract, if directed to do so by CCC.
(f) If a participant transfers all or part of the right and interest in, or right to occupancy of, land subject to a CRP contract and the new owner or operator becomes a successor to such contract within 60 days, or such other time as CCC determines to be appropriate, then such participant will not be required to refund previous payments received under the contract; provided, that no refunds of previous payments received will be required if such participant sells such land to, or such land is purchased for, the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service; provided further, that no refunds of previous payments will be required if the person or entity to whom all or part of the right and interest in, or right of occupancy of, land subject to such contract reaches an agreement with CCC to modify the contract in a way that is consistent with the objectives of the program.
(g) The participants on a CRP contract will not be in violation of the terms of the CRP contract if:
(1) During the final year of the CRP contract period the land is enrolled in the Environmental Quality Incentives Program or Conservation Stewardship Program, as specified in parts 1466 and 1470 of this chapter, and the participant begins establishment of a practice under such programs; or
(2) During the 3 years prior to the end of the CRP contract period, the participant begins the certification process under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990.
§ 1410.33
Contract modifications.
(a) As agreed between CCC and the participant, a CRP contract may be modified in order to:
(1) Decrease acreage in CRP, provided that such modification will be considered a partial termination for purposes of § 1410.32(e);
(2) Permit the production of an agricultural commodity under exceptional circumstances during a crop year on all or part of the land subject to the CRP contract;
(3) Facilitate the practical administration of CRP; or
(4) During the last 2 years of the CRP contract period, facilitate a transition of land subject to the contract to a beginning, socially disadvantaged, or veteran farmer or rancher for the purpose of returning some or all of the land into production using sustainable grazing or crop production methods. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(4), “sustainable grazing and crop production methods” will be considered methods that would be designed as part of an overall plan defined on an ecosystem level to be useful in the creation of integrated systems of plant and animal production practices that have a site specific application that would:
(i) Enhance the environment and the natural resource base;
(ii) Use nonrenewable resources efficiently; and
(iii) Sustain the economic viability of the farming operation.
(b) CCC may modify CRP contracts to add or substitute practices when:
(1) The installed practice failed to adequately provide for the desired environmental benefit through no fault of the participant; or
(2) The installed measure deteriorated because of conditions beyond the control of the participant; and
(3) Another practice will achieve at least the same level of environmental benefit.
(c) Offers to extend contracts may be made as allowed by law.
(d) For the transfer of land into WRP, ACEP, or other Federal or State programs:
(1) CCC may terminate or modify a CRP contract in whole or in part when the land is transferred into WRP, ACEP, or other Federal or State programs.
(2) For contracts terminated or modified for enrollment in other Federal or State programs, participants will not be required to refund CRP payments or pay interest and liquidated damages to CCC, as otherwise required under this part.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(2) of this section, participants must refund CRP signup incentive payments if land in CRP containing a wetland reserve easement is enrolled in ACEP.
(e) During the final year of the CRP contract period, CCC will allow an owner or operator to make conservation and land improvements for economic use that facilitate maintaining protection of enrolled land after expiration of the CRP contract, but only under the following conditions:
(1) All provisions are identified in an approved CRP conservation plan;
(2) Land improved in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section will not be eligible to be re-enrolled in CRP for 5 years after end of the CRP contract period; and
(3) CCC will reduce the final annual rental payment otherwise payable under the CRP contract by an amount
commensurate with the economic value of the activity carried out.
§ 1410.40
Cost-share payments.
(a) Cost-share payments will be made available to the participant if an eligible practice, or an identifiable unit thereof, including fencing and water distribution, has been installed in compliance with the appropriate standards and specifications. Cost-share payments are not subject to the provisions of § 1410.42(d).
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, cost-share payments will not be made to the same owner or operator on the same acreage for any eligible practices that have been previously established, or for which such owner or operator has received cost-share assistance from any other Federal agency.
(c) Cost-share payments may be authorized for the replacement or restoration of practices for which cost-share payments have been previously allowed under CRP, only if:
(1) Replacement or restoration of the practice is needed to achieve adequate erosion control, enhance water quality, wildlife habitat, or increase protection of public wellheads, or other conservation measures approved by CCC;
(2) The failure of the original practice was due to reasons beyond the control of the participant; and
(3) The benefits that would be received from the replacement or restoration of the practice outweighs the cost of replacing or restoring the practice.
(d) Limitations on cost-share payments include:
(1) The cost-share payment made to a participant will not exceed the participant's actual contribution to the eligible costs of establishing the practice.
(2) The amount of the cost-share payments, including practice incentive payments, may not be an amount that, when added to such assistance from other sources, exceeds 100 percent of the actual cost of establishing the practice.
(e) CCC will not make cost-share payments with respect to a CRP contract if any other Federal cost-share assistance has been, or is being, made with respect to the land subject to such CRP contract. Participants must refund to CCC all cost-share payments received under this part if other Federal cost-share assistance is received with respect to the same land.
(f) CCC may make cost-share payments for thinning of existing tree stands to benefit wildlife habitat and other resource conditions on enrolled land.
(g) In addition to cost-share payments, a practice incentive payment will be made available to a participant to whom CCC has made a cost-share payment after a determination that an eligible practice has been installed in compliance with the appropriate standards and specifications. The practice incentive payment will be considered a cost-share payment for purposes of this part, and is not subject to the provisions of § 1410.42(d). A practice incentive payment will be provided only for land enrolled under:
(1) Continuous sign-up as provided in § 1410.30(b); or
(2) The Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program as provided in § 1410.90.
§ 1410.41
Levels and rates for cost-share payments.
(a) CCC will not pay more than 50 percent of either the actual or average cost of installing eligible practices specified in the conservation plan.
(b) The average cost of performing a practice may be based on recommendations from the State Technical Committee. Such cost may be the average cost in a State, a county, or a part of a State or county.
(c) If there is any other sources of cost-share assistance:
(1) A participant may, in addition to any payment under this part, receive cost-share assistance, rental or easement payments, tax benefits, or other payments from a State or a private organization in return for enrolling lands in CRP.
(2) A participant may not receive or retain CRP cost-share payments if other Federal cost-share assistance is provided for such acreage under any law.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, cost-share payments for eligible seed related to the
establishment of approved cover will not exceed 50 percent of the actual cost of the eligible seed mixture.
(e) Practice incentive payments will not exceed an amount equal to 50 percent of the actual cost of installing the eligible practice specified in the conservation plan.
§ 1410.42
Annual rental payments.
(a) Subject to the availability of funds, annual rental payments will be made in such amount and in accordance with such time schedule as specified in the CRP contract.
(b) Annual rental payments are based on a weighted average soil rental rate, marginal pastureland rental rate, or grassland rate, as appropriate, and may include an incentive payment as a portion of the annual payment for specified practices. A per-acre national maximum rental payment rate may also be established by CCC for certain categories of CRP offers and contracts.
(c) The annual rental payment will be divided among the participants on a CRP contract as agreed to in such CRP contract.
(d) Limitations on annual rental payments include:
(1) The maximum amount of annual rental payments that a person or entity may receive, directly or indirectly, under CRP for any fiscal year must not exceed $50,000. The regulations in part 1400 of this chapter will be used to determine if the limit has been reached or exceeded.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(1) of this section, annual rental payments received by a rural water district or association for land enrolled in CRP for the purpose of protecting a wellhead may exceed $50,000.
(e) In the case of a contract succession, annual rental payments will be divided between the predecessor and the successor participants as agreed to among the participants and approved by CCC. If there is no agreement among the participants, annual rental payments will be divided in such manner deemed appropriate by CCC, and such distribution may be prorated based on the actual days of ownership of the property by each party.
(f) CCC will prepare a schedule for each county that shows the maximum soil rental rate CCC may pay and which may be supplemented to reflect special contract requirements. Such schedule may be calculated for cropland based on the relative productivity of soils within the county using NRCS data and local FSA average cash rental estimates. For marginal pastureland, rental rates will be based on estimates of the prevailing rental values of marginal pastureland in riparian areas. Grassland rental rates will be based on not more than 75 percent of the estimated grazing value of the land. The schedule will be available in the local FSA office and will indicate, when appropriate, that:
(1) Offers by producers who request rental payments greater than the maximum payment rate for their offer will be rejected;
(2) Offers submitted under continuous signup authorized at § 1410.30(b) may be accepted without further evaluation when the requested payment rate is less than or equal to the maximum payment rate for the offer; and
(3) Otherwise qualifying offers will be ranked competitively based on factors established under § 1410.31 in order to provide the most cost-effective environmental benefits.
(g) In the case of an owner or operator who transfers acreage to a wetland reserve easement in accordance with § 1410.10, annual rental payments will be prorated based on the actual number of days the transferred acreage was enrolled in CRP.
§ 1410.44
Average adjusted gross income.
(a) Benefits under this part will not be available to persons or entities whose average adjusted gross income exceeds $900,000 for the 3 taxable years preceding the most immediately preceding complete taxable year, or who otherwise do not meet the AGI requirements specified in part 1400 of this chapter.
(b) The limit specified in paragraph (a) of this section may be waived in accordance with part 1400, subpart F, of this chapter.
§ 1410.45
Incentive payments.
(a) A signup incentive payment will be made to eligible participants only
for the initial enrollment of certain land that is enrolled under:
(1) A continuous signup authorized in § 1410.30(b) for land to be devoted to particular uses as determined by CCC; and
(2) A Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program as specified in § 1410.90 for land to be devoted to particular uses as determined by CCC.
(b) The signup incentive payment will be:
(1) An amount equal to 32.5 percent of the amount of the first annual rental payment for the land referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, as determined by CCC;
(2) Divided among the participants on a CRP contract in accordance with their share of the annual rental payment as agreed to in such CRP contract;
(3) Considered an annual rental payment and thus subject to the provisions in § 1410.42(d); and
(4) Made only after the CRP contract is approved by CCC.
(c) A signup incentive payment will not be made for land that was previously enrolled in CRP or land currently enrolled in CRP that is re-enrolled.
(d) CCC may make incentive payments to owners and operators of enrolled land in an amount sufficient to encourage proper tree thinning and other practices to improve the condition of resources, promote forest management, or enhance wildlife habitat. Incentive payments for such tree thinning and other practices will:
(1) Not exceed 100 percent of the total cost of the practice;
(2) Only be available for practices outlined in the tree planting plan under the approved CRP conservation plan;
(3) Only be made to the extent that funds are available; and
(4) Not exceed $200,000 per person or entity.
(e) Additional financial incentives may be provided to participants whose contracts are expected to provide especially high environmental benefits. Such incentives will be considered annual rental payments and subject to the provisions in § 1410.42(d).
§ 1410.51
Transfer of land.
(a) If a new owner or operator purchases or obtains the right and interest in, or right to occupancy of, the land subject to a CRP contract, such new owner or operator may be approved by CCC as a participant to a new CRP contract for the transferred land. Such new owner or operator must assume all obligations of the CRP contract of the previous participant.
(b) Cost-share payments will be made by CCC to the participant who established the practice.
(c) Annual rental payments to be paid during the fiscal year when the land was transferred will be divided between the new participant and the previous participant in the manner specified in § 1410.42.
(d) If a participant transfers all or part of the right and interest in, or right to occupancy of, land subject to a CRP contract and the new owner or operator does not become a successor to such CRP contract within 60 days, or such other time period as CCC determines to be appropriate, then such CRP contract will be terminated with respect to the affected portion of such land and the original participant:
(1) Forfeits all rights to any future payments for that acreage; and
(2) Will refund all previous payments received under the CRP contract by the participant(s) or prior participants, plus interest and liquidated damages, except as otherwise agreed to by CCC.
(e) Federal agencies acquiring property, by foreclosure or otherwise, that contains CRP contract acreage cannot be a party to the CRP contract by succession. However, through an addendum to the CRP contract, if the current operator of the property is one of the CRP contract participants, such operator may continue to receive payments under such CRP contract if:
(1) The property is maintained in accordance with the terms of the CRP contract;
(2) Such operator continues to be the operator of the property; and
(3) Ownership of the property remains with such Federal agency.
§ 1410.52
Violations.
(a) If a participant fails to carry out the terms and conditions of a CRP contract, CCC may terminate the CRP contract in whole or in part.
(b) If the CRP contract is terminated in whole or in part by CCC in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, the participant will:
(1) Forfeit all rights to further payments under such CRP contract for the terminated acres, and refund all payments previously received for the terminated acres, plus interest; and
(2) Pay liquidated damages to CCC in an amount as specified in the contract.
§ 1410.53
Executed CRP contract not in conformity with this part.
If, after a CRP contract is approved by CCC, it is discovered that such CRP contract is found to contain material errors of fact or is not in conformity with this part, CCC may terminate or offer to modify the CRP contract in whole or in part.
§ 1410.54
Performance based upon advice or action of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
The provisions of part 718 of this title relating to performance based upon the action or advice of an authorized representative of the U.S. Department of Agriculture are applicable to this part.
§ 1410.55
Access to land under CRP contract.
(a) Any representative of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, or designee thereof, will, for purposes related to CRP, be provided by the producer or participant, as the case may be, with access to land that is:
(1) The subject of an offer for a contract under this part; or
(2) Under a CRP contract or otherwise subject to this part.
(b) For land identified in paragraph (a) of this section, the producer or participant will provide the representative with access to examine records for the land to determine land classification, erosion rates, or for other purposes, and to determine whether the terms and conditions of the CRP contract are being met.
§ 1410.56
Division of payments and provisions about tenants and sharecroppers.
(a) Payments received under this part will be divided as specified in the applicable CRP contract and CCC will ensure that producers who would have an interest in acreage being offered receive treatment that is equitable. CCC may refuse to enter into a contract when there is a disagreement among producers seeking enrollment as to a producer's eligibility to participate in the CRP contract as a tenant and there is insufficient evidence to indicate whether the producer seeking participation as a tenant does or does not have an interest in the acreage offered for enrollment in CRP.
(b) CCC may remove an operator or tenant from a CRP contract when:
(1) The operator or tenant requests in writing to be removed from the CRP contract;
(2) The operator or tenant files for bankruptcy and the trustee or debtor in possession fails to affirm the contract, to the extent permitted by applicable bankruptcy laws;
(3) The operator or tenant dies during the CRP contract period and the administrator of the estate fails to succeed to the contract; or
(4) A court of competent jurisdiction orders the removal from the CRP contract of the operator or tenant and such order is received by CCC.
(c) In addition to paragraph (b) of this section, tenants must maintain their tenancy throughout the CRP contract period in order to remain on a CRP contract. Tenants who fail to maintain tenancy on the acreage under CRP contract, including failure to comply with applicable State law, may be removed from a CRP contract by CCC. CCC will assume the tenancy is being maintained unless notified otherwise by a party to the CRP contract.
§ 1410.57
Payments not subject to claims.
Subject to part 3 of this title, any payment or portion thereof due any person under this part will be allowed without regard to questions of title under State law, and without regard to
any claim or lien in favor of any creditor, except agencies of the United States Government.
§ 1410.58
Assignments.
Participants may assign the right to receive cash payments, in whole or in part, as provided in part 1404 of this chapter.
§ 1410.59
Appeals.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a participant or producer seeking participation may appeal or request reconsideration of an adverse determination in accordance with the administrative appeal regulations at parts 11 and 780 of this title.
(b) Determinations by NRCS assigned to make such determination for CCC may be appealed in accordance with procedures established in part 614 of this title.
§ 1410.60
Scheme or device.
(a) If CCC determines that a person has employed a scheme or device to defeat the purposes of this part, or any part of any CCC or USDA program, payment otherwise due or paid such person during the applicable period may be required to be refunded with interest as determined by CCC.
(b) A scheme or device includes, but is not limited to, coercion, fraud, misrepresentation, depriving any other person of cost-share, incentive, or annual rental payments, or obtaining a payment that otherwise would not be payable.
(c) A new owner or operator or tenant of land subject to a CRP contract, and who succeeds to the CRP contract, must report in writing to CCC any interest of any kind in such land that is retained by a previous participant. The interest will include a present, future, or conditional interest, reversionary interest, or any option, future or present, on such land, and any interest of any lender in the land where the lender has, will, or can legally obtain, a right of occupancy to such land or an interest in the equity in the land other than an interest in the appreciation in the value of the land occurring after the loan was made. Failure to fully disclose interest will be considered a scheme or device.
§ 1410.61
Filing of false claims.
If CCC determines that any participant has knowingly supplied false information or has knowingly filed a false claim, such participant will be ineligible for payments under this part with respect to the fiscal year in which the false information or claim was filed and the CRP contract may be terminated, in which case a full refund of all prior payments may be demanded. False information or false claims include, but are not limited to, claims for payment for practices that do not comply with the conservation plan. Any amounts paid under these circumstances must be refunded, plus interest as determined by CCC and any amounts otherwise due to the participant will be withheld. The remedies provided for in this section will be in addition to any and all other remedies, criminal and civil, that may apply.
§ 1410.62
Miscellaneous.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, in the case of death, incompetency, or disappearance of any participant, any payments due under this part will be paid to the participant's successor(s), as specified in part 707 of this title.
(b) Unless otherwise specified in this part, payments under this part will be subject to the requirements of part 12 of this title concerning highly erodible land and wetland conservation and payments.
(c) Any remedies permitted CCC under this part will be in addition to any other remedy, including, but not limited to, criminal remedies, or actions for damages in favor of CCC, or the United States, as may be permitted by law.
(d) When an owner loses control of CRP acreage due to foreclosure and the new owner chooses not to continue the contract in accordance with § 1410.51, refunds may not be required from any participant on the contract to the extent CCC determines that waiver of such refund is appropriate.
(e) Cropland enrolled in CRP will be classified as cropland for the time period it is enrolled in CRP. After the CRP contract ends, such land will be removed from the classification of
cropland if the county committee determines the land no longer meet the definition of cropland in part 718 of this title.
(f) As determined by CCC, incentives may be authorized to foster opportunities for Indian Tribes and beginning, limited resource, socially disadvantaged, and veteran farmers and ranchers, and to enhance long-term environmental goals.
§ 1410.63
Permissive uses.
(a) Unless specified in this part or otherwise approved by CCC, no uses of any kind are authorized on CRP acreage during the contract period.
(b) Commercial shooting preserves may be operated on CRP acreage provided:
(1) The commercial shooting preserve is licensed by a State agency such as the State fish and wildlife agency or State department of natural resources;
(2) The commercial shooting preserve is operated in a manner consistent with the applicable State agency rules governing commercial shooting preserves; and
(3) The CRP cover is maintained according to the conservation plan.
(c) No barrier fencing or boundary limitations that prohibit wildlife access to or from the CRP acreage are allowed, unless required by State law.
(d) Wind turbines and associated access to the wind turbines may be installed on CRP acreage in numbers and locations as determined appropriate by CCC considering the location, size, and other physical characteristics of the land, the extent to which the land contains threatened or endangered wildlife and wildlife habitat, and the purposes of CRP, but only in exchange for a 25 percent reduction in the annual rental payment for the acres covered by the wind turbine and associated access acreage.
(e) The sale of carbon, water quality, or environmental credits may be permitted by CCC.
(f) There are specific activities that are permitted on specific land:
(1) The permitted activities provisions of paragraphs (f)(2) and (3) of this section do not apply to land enrolled under:
(i) A grassland signup authorized by § 1410.30(c);
(ii) The Soil Health and Income Protection Pilot Program described in § 1410.70;
(iii) The Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program described in § 1410.90:
(A) Except for land enrolled under Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program agreements executed before December 20, 2018; provided, that such agreements may be amended by mutual agreement to disallow such otherwise permitted activities; or
(B) Unless the approved Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program agreement under which the land was enrolled specifically permits such activity; and
(iv) A State Acres for Wildlife Enhancement project, unless the State Acres for Wildlife Enhancement project under which the land was enrolled specifically permits such activity.
(2) The following activities may be permitted on CRP acreage according to an approved conservation plan, without any reduction to the annual rental payment:
(i) Emergency haying, emergency grazing, or emergency use of the forage in response to a localized or regional drought, flooding, wildfire, or other emergency as determined by CCC on all practices, outside the primary nesting season, when:
(A) All or any part of the county in which the CRP acreage is located is designated as D2 (severe drought) or greater according to the United States Drought Monitor;
(B) There is at least a 40 percent loss in forage production in the county in which the CRP acreage is located; or
(C) CCC determines that CRP can assist in the response to a natural disaster event without permanent damage to the established cover;
(ii) Emergency grazing on all practices during the primary nesting season if payments are authorized for the county under the Livestock Forage Disaster Program under part 1416 of this chapter, at 50 percent of the normal carrying capacity determined in accordance with part 1416 of this chapter;
(iii) Emergency haying on certain practices, as determined by CCC, only outside the primary nesting season, if payments are authorized for the county under the Livestock Forage Disaster Program under part 1416 of this chapter, but on not more than 50 percent of the eligible CRP contract acres;
(iv) Grazing of all practices only outside the primary nesting season if included as an approved CRP contract management activity in accordance with § 1410.22;
(v) The intermittent and seasonal grazing of vegetative buffers, only outside the primary nesting season, that are incidental to agricultural production on land adjacent to the buffer provided such grazing:
(A) Does not destroy the permanent vegetative cover; and
(B) Retains suitable vegetative structure for wildlife cover and shelter outside the primary nesting season; and
(vi) Grazing on all practices only outside the primary nesting season if conducted by a beginning farmer or rancher who is a participant on the CRP contract with a share of the rental payment greater than zero.
(3) The following activities may be permitted on CRP acreage according to an approved conservation plan, but only in exchange for a 25 percent reduction to the annual rental payment for the acres on which the permitted activity occurred:
(i) Grazing of all practices not more frequently than every other year on the same land, except that during the primary nesting season the grazing will be subject to a 50 percent reduction in the stocking rate, as determined by CCC;
(ii) Haying and other commercial use (including the managed harvesting of biomass, but not the harvesting of vegetative cover) of all practices, on the condition the activity:
(A) Is completed only outside the primary nesting season;
(B) Occurs not more than once every 3 years; and
(C) Maintains 25 percent of the total CRP contract acres unharvested, in accordance with a conservation plan that provides for wildlife cover and shelter; and
(iii) Annual grazing of all practices, only outside the primary nesting season for the control of invasive species.
(g) Not withstanding paragraph (f) of this section, haying and grazing will not be permitted on any land enrolled in CRP if such haying and grazing for that year would cause long-term damage to the vegetative cover on that land.
§ 1410.64
Transition Incentives Program.
(a) To be eligible for the Transition Incentives Program, all the following must be met:
(1) The land must be enrolled in CRP;
(2) The conditions for the timing of the sale or lease of the land and to whom it must be sold or leased are:
(i) Beginning on the date of the end of the CRP contract period, the land must be sold or leased (under a long-term lease, or a lease with an option to purchase the land, including a lease with a term of less than 5 years and an option to purchase the land) to a beginning, veteran, or socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher who will return some or all of the land to production using sustainable grazing or crop production methods; and
(ii) The sale or lease, as applicable, must take effect on the day immediately after the end of the CRP contract period;
(3) The CRP contract is modified in accordance with § 1410.33(a)(4);
(4) The land is not subject to an easement or other restriction that prohibits the use of the land allowed under this section; and
(5) The beginning, veteran, or socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers must:
(i) Certify that they meet the definition of either a beginning or veteran farmer or rancher as defined in part 718 of this title, or a socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher as defined in § 1410.2;
(ii) Obtain an approved conservation plan prior to approval of the Transition Incentives Program contract; and
(iii) Implement sustainable grazing or crop production on land not re-enrolled in CRP in compliance with the conservation plan by the time specified in the conservation plan.
(b) Beginning in the last 2 years of the CRP contract period, the beginning, veteran, or socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher may:
(1) In conjunction with the contract participants, make conservation and land improvements, including preparing to plant a crop, that are consistent with the conservation plan; and
(2) Begin the organic certification process under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990.
(c) Eligible beginning, veteran, or socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers may be eligible immediately to re-enroll certain partial field conservation practices in CRP, in accordance with the conservation plan and the provisions of this part, following the expiration of the CRP contract, provided that the beginning, veteran, or socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher has control of the land and meets all other qualifying conditions specified in this part.
(d) Eligible beginning, veteran, or socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers will be eligible to enroll land in the Environmental Quality Incentives Program or the Conservation Stewardship Program, as specified in parts 1466 and 1470 of this chapter, provided that their offer to enroll otherwise meets all program conditions, and provided that the CRP contract has expired and the beginning, veteran, or socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher is either leasing or has possession of the property.
(e) As an incentive for selling or leasing land to a beginning, veteran, or socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher who is not a family member of the previous participants, CCC will pay 2 years of additional CRP annual rental payments at the same contract rate to the previous participants. The previous participants must certify in writing that the beginning, veteran, or socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher is not a family member.
(f) The previous participants and the eligible beginning, veteran, or socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher must agree to be jointly and severally responsible for complying with both the provisions of the Transition Incentives Program contract and the provisions of this part, and must also agree to be jointly and severally responsible for any payment adjustments that may result from violations of the terms or conditions of the Transition Incentives Program contract or this part.
§ 1410.70
Soil Health and Income Protection Pilot Program.
(a) Enrollments under the Soil Heath and Income Protection Pilot Program will be administered under the provisions of this part, except where specifically provided otherwise.
(b) Notwithstanding § 1410.6(b) and (c), to be eligible under the Soil Health and Income Protection Pilot Program, land must be cropland that:
(1) Is physically located within a Soil Health and Income Protection Pilot Program pilot area specified by CCC;
(2) Has been annually planted or considered planted to an agricultural commodity each of the 3 crop years immediately preceding the year in which the offer for enrollment is submitted; and
(3) Is verified to be less productive land, as compared to other land on the farm from which the land is offered for enrollment.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, land will be ineligible for enrollment under the Soil Health and Income Protection Pilot Program if the land was enrolled in CRP in any of the 3 crop years immediately preceding the year in which the offer for enrollment is submitted. Further, not more than 15 percent of the eligible land on a farm may be enrolled in the Soil Health and Income Protection Pilot Program.
(d) Notwithstanding § 1410.30, offers for contracts under the Soil Health and Income Protection Pilot Program may be submitted only during signup periods as announced by CCC. Further, eligible land may only be enrolled under the Soil Health and Income Protection Pilot Program through December 31, 2020. Acreage determined eligible in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section may be automatically accepted in CRP without further evaluation if:
(1) A producer is eligible under § 1410.5; and
(2) The producer accepts either the maximum payment rate CCC is willing to pay to enroll the acreage in CRP, or a lesser rate.
(e) The approved cover for land enrolled under the Soil Health and Income Protection Pilot Program is the lowest practicable cost permanent vegetative cover.
(f) Notwithstanding § 1410.40, CCC will not provide any cost-share payments for planting the approved permanent vegetative cover, except as provided for in paragraph (g) of this section.
(g) Notwithstanding paragraph (f) of this section and § 1410.41, CCC will provide cost-share payments of 50 percent of the eligible actual cost of installation of the approved permanent vegetative cover to beginning, limited resource, socially disadvantaged, and veteran farmers and ranchers, upon a determination that the approved permanent vegetative cover has been planted.
(h) The contract period for land enrolled under the Soil Health and Income Protection Pilot Program will be for a term of 3, 4, or 5 years, as requested by the producer.
(i) The following uses are permitted on land enrolled under the Soil Health and Income Protection Pilot Program:
(1) Without any reduction in the annual rental payment, the land may be:
(i) Made available for a walk-in access program of the applicable State; and
(ii) Hayed or grazed outside the primary nesting season, provided adequate stubble height of the cover is maintained to protect the soil as specified in the conservation plan; and
(2) In exchange for a 25 percent reduction to the annual rental payment, and not being eligible to be insured or reinsured under the Federal Crop Insurance Act, the land may be harvested for seed outside the primary nesting season if included in the conservation plan.
(j) A CRP contract for land enrolled under the Soil Health and Income Protection Pilot Program may be terminated before the end of the CRP contract period by either:
(1) CCC, if CCC determines that such termination is appropriate; or
(2) The participant, upon the condition that all CCC payments made with respect to the CRP contract being terminated are refunded.
§ 1410.80
CLEAR 30 Pilot Program.
(a) Not withstanding § 1410.6(b) and (c), to be eligible under the CLEAR 30 Pilot Program, land must be:
(1) Physically located within a CLEAR 30 Pilot Program area, as announced by CCC;
(2) Devoted to a grass waterway, contour grass strip, prairie strip, filter strip, riparian buffer, wetland restoration practice, or other similar water quality practice that helps reduce sediment loadings, nutrient loadings, and harmful algal blooms; and
(3) Enrolled in CRP, in the final year of the CRP contract period, provided the scheduled expiration date of the current CRP contract is:
(i) On or after December 20, 2018; and
(ii) Before the effective starting date of the new CRP contract.
(b) The contract period for land enrolled under the CLEAR 30 Pilot Program will be 30 years.
(c) In addition to the provisions in § 1410.32 and elsewhere in this part, the CRP contract for land enrolled under the CLEAR 30 Pilot Program will:
(1) Permit repairs, improvements, and inspections on the land that are necessary to maintain existing public drainage systems; and
(2) Prohibit:
(i) Alteration of wildlife habitat and other natural features of the land, unless authorized by CCC and provided for in the conservation plan;
(ii) Mowing or spraying chemicals on the land, unless such action is authorized by CCC to:
(A) Comply with Federal or State noxious weed laws;
(B) Comply with a Federal or State emergency pest management program; or
(C) Meet habitat needs of specific wildlife; and
(iii) Adoption of any other practice or action that would tend to defeat the purpose of CRP.
(d) Land enrolled under the CLEAR 30 Pilot Program may be used for compatible economic uses, including but not limited to hunting and fishing, managed timber harvest, or periodic haying or grazing, provided the use is:
(1) Included in the conservation plan; and
(2) Consistent with the long-term protection and enhancement of the conservation resource for which the land was enrolled.
(e) Notwithstanding § 1410.30, offers for contracts under the CLEAR 30 Pilot Program may be submitted only during a time period, as determined and announced by CCC, and only within the final year of the contract period of the CRP contract under which the land is currently enrolled.
(f) In addition to the provisions in § 1410.52, upon a violation of the terms and conditions of a contract for land enrolled under the CLEAR 30 Pilot Program, CCC may require the participant to refund all or part of any payments received under CRP plus interest and liquidated damages.
§ 1410.90
Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program.
(a) An agreement executed under the provisions of this section will not effect, modify, or otherwise interfere with any Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program agreement in effect on or before December 20, 2018. In order to implement other provisions of this section, the signatories to a Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program agreement in effect on or before December 20, 2018, may mutually agree in writing to modify such agreement in such a manner.
(b) CCC may enter into a Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program agreement with an eligible partner to cost-effectively assist in enrolling otherwise eligible land in CRP.
(c) To enter into a Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program agreement with CCC, eligible partners must provide required matching funds. Such matching funds provided by the eligible partners may be cash, in-kind contributions, or technical assistance. The amount and type of matching funds must be specified in the Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program agreement. The amount of matching funds an eligible partner must contribute under a Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program agreement will be either:
(1) 30 percent of the total cost of the project, unless a different amount is determined by negotiation between CCC and the eligible partner with whom CCC is entering into the Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program agreement, if the majority of the matching funds to carry out the agreement are provided by one or more eligible partners that are not nongovernmental organizations; or
(2) Not less than 30 percent of the total cost of the project, if a majority of the matching funds to carry out the agreement are provided by one or more nongovernmental organizations.
(d) Notwithstanding § 1410.40(d), cost-share payments, including practice incentive payments, from all sources may exceed 100 percent of the actual cost of establishing eligible practices, but only if specifically authorized by the Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program agreement. Furthermore, a participant may not receive or retain cost-share payments if other Federal cost-share assistance is provided for such acreage under any law.
(e) With regard only to land enrolled as a riparian buffer:
(1) The term “management” means an activity conducted by the owner or operator of the land after the riparian buffer is established to regularly maintain or enhance only the vegetative cover throughout the CRP contract period and in accordance with the conservation plan;
(2) Cost-share payments will be made available for approved management as provided for in the Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program agreement:
(i) If such activity has been completed in accordance with the conservation plan; and
(ii) In an amount as provided for in the agreement, but not greater than 100 percent of the normal and customary cost of such activity; but
(iii) No practice incentive payment will be made for such activity; and
(3) If provided for in the Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program agreement, a participant may plant food-producing woody plants as part of the approved cover, provided such plantings:
(i) Contribute to the conservation of soil, water quality, and wildlife habitat;
(ii) Are consistent with recommendations of the applicable State Technical Committee;
(iii) Are consistent with the FOTG; and
(iv) Are provided for in the conservation plan.
(f) Participants may harvest from the food-producing woody plants specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section only if the following conditions are met:
(1) The criteria in paragraph (e)(3) of this section are met;
(2) The participant agrees to a reduction in the annual rental payment commensurate with the value of the crop harvested;
(3) All the food-producing woody plant species within 35 feet of the water body the riparian buffer is buffering are only native plant species;
(4) The harvesting will not damage the approved cover or otherwise have a negative impact on the resource concern being addressed by the riparian buffer; and
(5) The harvesting is conducted in accordance with the conservation plan.
(g) In the case of a Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program agreement whose purpose is to address regional drought concerns, CCC may:
(1) Enroll otherwise ineligible cropland, marginal pastureland, or grassland, on which the resource concerns identified in the Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program agreement can be addressed if the enrollment of such land is critical to the accomplishment of the purposes of the agreement; and
(2) Determine annual rental payments so as to be consistent with similar Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program agreements, and to ensure regional consistency regarding such payments.
(h) Notwithstanding § 1410.30, generally, enrollment under a Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program will be held on a continuous signup basis. However, the terms and conditions of the Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program agreement will determine the basis of enrollment.
[ 84 FR 66819, Dec. 6, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 70705, Dec. 13, 2021]
Pt. 1412

# PART 1412—AGRICULTURE RISK COVERAGE, PRICE LOSS COVERAGE, AND COTTON TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
1412.1
Applicability, changes in law, interest, application, and contract provisions.
1412.2
Administration.
1412.3
Definitions.
1412.4
Appeals.

# Subpart B—Establishment of Base Acres for a Farm for Covered Commodities
1412.23
Base acres, and Conservation Reserve Program.
1412.24
Limitation of total base acres on a farm.
1412.25
Allocation of generic base acres on a farm and updating of records.
1412.26
Treatment of base acres on farms entirely in pasture, grass, idle, or fallow.

# Subpart C—Establishment of Price Loss Coverage Yields and Submitting Production
1412.31
PLC yields for covered commodities.
1412.32
Updating PLC yield for all covered commodities except seed cotton.
1412.33
Updating PLC yield for seed cotton.
1412.34
PLC yield for additional oilseeds.
1412.35
Submitting production evidence.
1412.36
Incorrect or false production evidence.

# Subpart D— ARC and PLC Contract Terms and Enrollment Provisions for Covered Commodities
1412.41
ARC or PLC program contract.
1412.42
Eligible producers.
1412.43
Reconstitutions.
1412.44-1412.45
[Reserved]
1412.46
Planting flexibility.
1412.49
Matters of general applicability.

# Subpart E—Financial Considerations Including Sharing Payments
1412.50
Transfer of land and succession-in-interest.
1412.51
Limitation of payments.
1412.52
PLC payment provisions.
1412.53
ARC payment provisions.
1412.54
Sharing of payments.
1412.55
Provisions relating to tenants and sharecroppers.

# Subpart F—Violations and Compliance Provisions
1412.61
Contract violations.
1412.63
Contract or application liability.
1412.64
Inaccurate representation, misrepresentation, and scheme or device.
1412.65
Offsets and assignments.
1412.66
Acreage and production reports, prevented planting, and notice of loss.
1412.67
Compliance with highly erodible land and wetland conservation provisions.
1412.68
Controlled substance violations.
1412.69
Control of noxious weeds.

# Subpart G—ARC and PLC Election
1412.71
Election of ARC or PLC.
1412.72
Election period.
1412.73
Reconstitutions of farms and election.
1412.74
Failure to make election.

# Subpart H—CTAP
1412.81
Administration.
1412.82
Eligibility and CTAP application.
1412.83
Sharing of CTAP payments.
1412.84
Impact of CTAP application on ARC or PLC.
1412.86
CTAP payments.
1412.87
Transfer of land and succession-in-interest.
1412.88
Executed CTAP application not in conformity with regulations.
1412.89
Division of CTAP payments and provisions relating to tenants and sharecroppers.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1508b, 7911-7912, 7916, 8702, 8711-8712, 8751-8752, and 15 U.S.C. 714b and 714c.

# Source:
79 FR 46339, Aug. 8, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 1412.1
Applicability, changes in law, interest, application, and contract provisions.
(a) This part specifies how base acres and farm program payment yields are established or adjusted for the purpose of calculating payments for agriculture risk coverage (ARC) and price loss coverage (PLC) for covered commodities: Wheat, oats, and barley (including wheat, oats, and barley used for haying and grazing); corn; grain sorghum; long grain rice; medium grain rice; seed cotton; pulse crops; soybeans; other oilseeds; and peanuts. This part specifies how and when producers on a farm may make an election and enroll on a farm to obtain either ARC or PLC (and if ARC, whether to receive ARC payments based on county coverage applicable on a covered commodity-by-commodity basis; or individual coverage applicable to all the covered commodities on a farm).
(b) Payments otherwise provided for in this part are subject to changes made by law in rates, conditions, and eligibility notwithstanding any contract under this part. However, any such modification may, as determined by FSA, allow producers the opportunity to withdraw their ARC or PLC contract.
(c) If any refund is due to FSA under this part, interest will be due from the date of the FSA disbursement except as determined by FSA. The provisions of this section will apply notwithstanding any other provision of this or any other part. In order to receive payment under this part a participant is required to comply with the regulations in this part and any additional requirements imposed by the ARC or PLC contract.
(d) For ARC and PLC, assistance under this part will be provided for producers satisfying all requirements of this part who have a share of eligible base acres of the covered commodity. The sum of the base acres on a farm are based on the farm's constitution according to part 718 of this title. FSA farm records and PLC yields are based on the administrative county of the farm. ARC-CO assistance under this part will be determined by FSA for the enrolled covered commodity base acres based on the physical location of covered commodity base acres on a farm weighted and summarized to the farm.
[79 FR 46339, Aug. 8, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 40656, Aug. 16, 2018; 84 FR 45887, Sept. 3, 2019]
§ 1412.2
Administration.
(a) ARC and PLC are administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice-President, CCC, and will be carried out by FSA State and county committees (State and county committees).
(b) State and county committees, and representatives and their employees, do not have authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of the regulations of this part.
(c) The State committee may take any action required by the regulations of this part that the county committee
has not taken. The State committee will also:
(1) Correct, or require a county committee to correct, any action taken by such county committee that is not in accordance with the regulations of this part; or
(2) Require a county committee to withhold taking any action that is not in accordance with this part.
(d) No provision or delegation to a State or county committee will preclude the Executive Vice President, or the Deputy Administrator, or a designee, from determining any question arising under the program or from reversing or modifying any determination made by a State or county committee.
(e) The Deputy Administrator has the authority to permit State and county committees to waive or modify any non-statutory deadline specified in this part.
(f) Items of general applicability to program participants, including, but not limited to, application periods, application deadlines, internal operating guidelines issued to State and county offices, prices, yields, and payment factors established for ARC or PLC, are not subject to appeal in accordance with part 780 of this title.
[79 FR 46339, Aug. 8, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 40656, Aug. 16, 2018]
§ 1412.3
Definitions.
The definitions in this section are applicable for all purposes of administering this part. The terms defined in part 718 of this title and part 1400 of this chapter are also applicable, except where those definitions conflict with the definitions specified in this section. Where there is a conflict or a difference in definitions specified in this part and part 718 of this title or part 1400 of this chapter, the regulations in this part will apply.
2014 Farm Bill
means the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Pub. L. 113-79), as amended.
Actual average county yield
means the yield, which is calculated as the crop year production of a covered commodity in the county divided by the commodity's total planted acres for a crop year in the county.
(1) For wheat, corn, grain sorghum, barley and oats, planted acres are the harvested acres plus unharvested acres.
(2) In determining the yield for a county, FSA uses data in order from the following data sources: RMA and yields determined by State committee.
(3) Separate irrigated and non-irrigated yields will be established in a county having farms with P
CP acreage history of a covered commodity in 2013 through 2017. These separate yields will be established where FSA determines the covered commodity's P
CP acreage was both irrigated and non-irrigated in 2013 through 2017.
(4) At FSA's discretion, FSA will calculate and use a trend-adjusted yield factor to adjust the yield taking into consideration, but not exceeding, the trend-adjusted yield factor that is used to increase yield history under the crop insurance endorsement under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501-1524).
Actual crop revenue
is calculated as follows for:
(1) ARC-CO, for a crop year of a covered commodity: The actual average county yield per planted acre of the covered commodity times the higher of either the market year average (MYA) price of the covered commodity or the national average loan rate for the covered commodity. If a county has separate irrigated and non-irrigated yields established for a covered commodity, the actual crop revenue calculated for a farm with that covered commodity will be weighted by FSA based on the farm's historical irrigated percentage.
(2) ARC-IC, for a producer on a farm for a crop year, which is based on the producer's enrolled share of planted acres of all covered commodities on all farms for which ARC-IC has been elected and in which the producer has an interest for which the producer enrolled: the sum of the results of the following calculation for each covered commodity on the farm:
(i) The total production of the covered commodity for all enrolled farms in the State in which the producer has an interest; times
(ii) The higher of either the MYA price or national loan rate for the covered commodity; divided by
(iii) The producer's share of the planted acres of the covered commodity in the State.
Administrative units
means, for the purposes of ARC-CO, the division of specific counties into two areas for counties that are each larger than 1,400 square miles and have more than 190,000 base acres where appropriate based on the differences in weather patterns, soil types, and other factors.
Agriculture risk coverage (or ARC)
means coverage provided under subparts D and E of this part.
ARC-CO
means the Agriculture Risk Coverage elected with the county option.
ARC guarantee
is calculated for a crop year for a covered commodity, and is equal to 86 percent of the benchmark revenue for ARC-CO and ARC-IC, as defined in this part.
ARC-IC
means the Agriculture Risk Coverage elected with the individual option.
ARC-IC farm
is calculated as the sum of the producer's interests in all of the producer's farms having an ARC-IC election and enrollment in the State.
Average historical county yield
means the 5-year Olympic determined by FSA as the average of actual average county yields for the most recent 5 years for which data is available, substituting 80 percent of the county transitional yield as defined in this part in each year in which the actual average county yield is less than 80 percent of the county transitional yield. Separate irrigated and non-irrigated yields will be established in a county having a sufficient number of farms with P
CP acreage history of a covered commodity in 2013 through 2017. These separate yields will be established for counties where a covered commodity's P
CP acreage was both irrigated and non-irrigated in 2013 through 2017. If needed, a trend-adjusted yield factor will be used to adjust the yield taking into consideration, but not exceeding, the trend-adjusted yield factor that is used to increase yield history under the crop insurance endorsement under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501-1520).
Base acres
means, with respect to a covered commodity on a farm, the number of acres in effect on September 30, 2013, as defined in the regulations in 7 CFR part 1412, subpart B that were in effect on that date, subject to any reallocation, adjustment, or reduction. The term “base acres” includes any unassigned base acres.
Benchmark revenue for ARC-CO
is calculated as the product obtained by multiplying the average historical county yield times the average MYA price for the most recent 5 crop years available, excluding each of the crop years with the highest and lowest prices and substituting the effective reference price in each year where the MYA price is less than the effective reference price. If a county has separate irrigated and non-irrigated yields established for a covered commodity, the benchmark revenue calculated by FSA for that farm and covered commodity will be weighted based on the farm's historical irrigated percentage.
Benchmark revenue for ARC-IC
means a producer's share of all covered commodities planted on all farms in the State for which individual ARC has been elected and enrolled and in which the producer has an interest. FSA will calculate the benchmark revenue for ARC-IC using the following three steps, based on the producer's planted commodities:
(1) For each planted covered commodity for each of the most recent 5 crop years available:
(i) Yield per planted acre (substituting 80 percent of the county transitional yield in each year where the yield per planted acre is less than 80 percent of the county transitional yield); times
(ii) The MYA price for the most recent 5 crop years, excluding each of the crop years with the highest and lowest prices and substituting the effective reference price in each year where the MYA price is less than the effective reference price.
(2) For each covered commodity, the average of the revenues determined under paragraph (1) of this definition for the most recent 5 crop years available, excluding each of the crop years with the highest and lowest revenues; and
(3) For each of the 2019 through 2023 crop years, the benchmark revenue for the ARC-IC farm is the sum of the
amounts determined under paragraph (2) of this definition for all covered commodities on such farms, adjusted to reflect the ratio between the total number of P
CP acres and eligible subsequently planted crop acreage on such farms to a covered commodity and the total P
CP acres and eligible subsequently planted crop acreage of all covered commodities planted on such farms. If a producer has an interest in multiple farms that have enrolled in ARC-IC, the ARC-IC benchmark revenue for that producer will be a weighted average of the benchmark revenue for those multiple farms.
Considered planted
means acreage approved as prevented planted in accordance with part 718 of this title.
Contract
means the CCC-approved forms and appendixes that constitute the agreement for participation of producers and covered commodities in ARC or PLC Program, as applicable.
Contract period
means the compliance period specified for the contract for the particular program year, as designated on the contract or application. References to the “contract” period refer to the compliance period for the particular program year. The compliance period for each program year is October 1 through September 30. For example, for the 2019 contract (and therefore for the 2019 program), the period that begins on October 1, 2018 and ends on September 30, 2019.
Contract year or program year
means the particular year of the particular contract based on the compliance period for the contract or application. The compliance year will run from October 1 to the following September 30 and will have the same name as the corresponding fiscal year. For example, the 2019 contract or program year will be October 1, 2018, through September 30, 2019, and that year will also be considered the 2019 crop year. The same references will apply to all other years.
Counter-cyclical payment yield
means the farm's covered commodity yield as specified in the regulations for 7 CFR part 1412 that were in effect as of September 30, 2013.
County coverage
means agriculture risk coverage (ARC-CO) elected under subpart D of this part with the county option.
Covered commodity
means wheat, oats, and barley (including wheat, oats, and barley used for haying and grazing), corn, grain sorghum, long grain rice, medium grain rice, seed cotton, pulse crops, soybeans, other oilseeds, and peanuts.
Covered commodity base acres
means base acres of any covered commodity. The term does not include unassigned base acres on the farm.
Crop year
means the relevant contract or application year. For example, the 2019 crop year is the year that runs from October 1, 2018, through September 30, 2019, and references to payments for that year refer to payments made under contracts or applications with the compliance year that runs during those dates.
Deputy Administrator
means the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, FSA, or a designee.
Developed
means:
(1) Land has been approved by the local government for uses other than commercial agricultural uses; and
(2) Construction activity has begun to install any aspect of the development, for example utilities or roadways.
Direct payment yield for upland cotton
means the farm's upland cotton yield established as specified in the regulations for 7 CFR part 1412 that were in effect as of September 30, 2013.
Double-cropping
means for covered commodities, notwithstanding the meaning in subparts D and E of this part for fruits and vegetables, the planting of a covered commodity for harvest in a crop year, in cycle with another covered commodity on the same acres for harvest in the same crop year in counties that have been determined to be areas where there is determined to be substantial, successful, and long-term double cropping of the crop and where the producer has followed customary production techniques and planting deadlines as determined by FSA (that is, using techniques and deadlines used by the majority of farmers in the region to double crop the particular crops involved). In a county determined capable of supporting such double-cropping of the covered commodities, as determined by
FSA, both an initial crop and a subsequent crop will be considered planted or prevented planted acres for the purpose of this part. Notwithstanding any of the provisions of 7 CFR part 718, in those instances where the subsequently planted or approved prevented planted covered commodity cannot be recognized as double-cropped acreage under this definition, the subsequently planted crop acreage will not be considered planted or prevented planted.
Dry peas
means Austrian, wrinkled seed, yellow, Umatilla, and green peas, excluding peas grown for the fresh, canning, or frozen market.
Effective price
is, the higher of the—
(1) National average market price received by producers during the 12-month marketing year for the covered commodity (also known as the MYA price), as determined by FSA; or
(2) National average loan rate as defined in this part for the covered commodity in effect for the crop year, which is the same as the loan rate for a marketing assistance loan for the commodity for that crop year.
Effective reference price
means the lesser of the following:
(1) An amount equal to 115 percent of the reference price for a covered commodity; or
(2) An amount equal to the greater of:
(i) The reference price for a covered commodity; or
(ii) 85 percent of the average of the MYA price of the covered commodity for the most recent 5 crop years available, excluding each of the crop years with the highest and lowest MYA price.
Extra long staple cotton
means cotton that is other than upland cotton and both the following:
(1) Produced from pure strain varieties of the Barbadense species or any hybrid of the species, or other similar types of extra long staple cotton, designated by the Secretary, having characteristics needed for various end uses for which United States upland cotton is not suitable and grown in irrigated cotton-growing regions of the United States designated by the Secretary or other areas designated by the Secretary as suitable for the production of the varieties or types; and
(2) Ginned on a roller-type gin or, if authorized by the Secretary, ginned on another type of gin for experimental purposes.
Fallow
means any cropland or DCP cropland that is not devoted to any crop or trees.
Farm structure
means the constitution of the farm. References to “farm structure” can be by date or crop year. When references to farm structure are by crop year, that means the farm as was last constituted as specified in 7 CFR part 718 subpart C in that crop year.
Fiscal year
means the year running from October 1 to the following September 30 and will be designated by the same calendar year in which it ends. For example, the 2019 fiscal year begins on October 1, 2018 and ends on September 30, 2019.
Generic base acres
means the number of base acres for upland cotton in effect on September 30, 2013, as defined in the regulations in 7 CFR part 1412, subpart B that were in effect on that date, subject to any adjustment or reduction under this part. Generic base acres are subject to allocation according to § 1412.25.
Grass or pasture
means any cropland or DCP cropland devoted to grass, native grass, mixed forage two or more interseeded grass mix, and mixed forage native grass interseeded.
Harvested
means the producer has removed the crop from the field by hand, mechanically, or by grazing of livestock. The crop is considered harvested once it is removed from the field and placed in or on a truck or other conveyance or is consumed by livestock through the act of grazing. Crops normally placed in a truck or other conveyance and taken off the crop acreage, such as hay, are considered harvested when in the bale, whether removed from the field or not.
Historical irrigated percentage
means the percentage of the covered commodity on a farm that was irrigated (P
CP, including subsequently planted crop acreage) divided by the total acreage of the covered commodity (P
CP, including subsequently planted crop acreage) between the years 2013 through 2017, or, at FSA's discretion,
such other similar 5 year-period (such as 2015 through 2019).
Idle
means any cropland or DCP cropland that is not devoted to any crop or trees.
Individual coverage
means ARC (ARC-IC) elected under subpart D of this part with the individual option.
Initial crop
means acreage of a covered commodity planted or approved as prevented planted for harvest as peanuts, grain, or lint. The initial crop includes reseeded or replanted crop acreage.
Marketing year
means the 12-month period beginning in the calendar year the crop is normally harvested as follows:
(1) Barley, oats, and wheat: June 1 through May 31;
(2) Canola, flax and rapeseed, lentils, and dry edible peas: July 1 through June 30;
(3) Peanuts, seed cotton, and rice: August 1 through July 31; and
(4) Corn, grain sorghum, soybeans, sunflowers, safflower, mustard, crambe, sesame, and chickpeas: September 1 through August 31.
Market year average (MYA) price
means the national average price received by producers during the 12-month marketing year (as defined in this part), as determined by FSA for the relevant crop of the covered commodity.
Medium grain rice
means medium grain rice and includes short grain rice and temperate japonica rice.
Most recent 5 crop years available
means the 5 years preceding the most immediately preceding crop year. For example, for the 2019 crop year, the most recent 5 years available are 2013 through 2017.
NASS
means the National Agricultural Statistics Service.
National average loan rate
means the loan rate established for a crop year of the covered commodity as specified in 7 CFR part 1421.
Other oilseed
means a crop of sunflower seed, rapeseed, canola, safflower, flaxseed, mustard seed, crambe, sesame seed, or any oilseed designated by the Secretary.
Owner
means the person or legal entity meeting the definition of owner in part 718 of this title for the applicable contract period for which that person or legal entity is signing any form or performing any action required under this part. For example, if a signature of an “owner” is required under this part, the person or legal entity must be an owner for the applicable contract period for which the person or legal entity is signing the form or performing the action required under this part.
Payment acres
means:
(1) For the purpose of ARC-CO and PLC, subject to planting flexibility provisions as specified § 1412.46, the payment acres for each covered commodity on a farm will be equal to 85 percent of the covered commodity's base acres on the farm.
(2) For the purpose of ARC-IC, subject to planting flexibility provisions as specified in § 1412.46, the payment acres for a farm will be equal to 65 percent of all the covered commodity base acres on the farm.
Payment yield
means for a farm for a covered commodity, the yield established under subpart C of this part.
Price Loss Coverage (or PLC)
means coverage provided under subpart D of this part.
Producer
means the person or legal entity meeting the definition of producer in 7 CFR part 718 for the applicable contract period for which that person or legal entity is signing any form or performing any action required under this part. For example, if a signature of a “producer” is required under this part, the person or legal entity must be a producer during the applicable contract period for which that person or legal entity is signing the form or performing the action required under this part.
Pulse crop
means dry peas, lentils, small chickpeas, and large chickpeas.
Reference price
means, with respect to a covered commodity for a crop year, the following for:
(1) Wheat, $5.50 per bushel;
(2) Corn, $3.70 per bushel;
(3) Grain sorghum, $3.95 per bushel;
(4) Barley, $4.95 per bushel;
(5) Oats, $2.40 per bushel;
(6) Long grain rice, $14.00 per hundredweight;
(7) Medium grain rice, $14.00 per hundredweight;
(8) Soybeans, $8.40 per bushel;
(9) Other oilseeds, $20.15 per hundredweight;
(10) Peanuts, $535.00 per ton;
(11) Dry peas, $11.00 per hundredweight;
(12) Lentils, $19.97 per hundredweight;
(13) Small chickpeas, $19.04 per hundredweight;
(14) Large chickpeas, $21.54 per hundredweight; and
(15) Seed cotton, $0.367 per pound.
Replacement crop
means the planting or approved prevented planting of any crop for harvest following the failure of planted crop acreage or prevented planted acreage of a covered commodity not in a recognized double-cropping sequence (as specified in this section). Replacement crops cannot generate payments under this part unless the replacement crop acreage meets the definition of eligible subsequently planted crop acreage as specified in this section; and
Reseeded or replanted crop
means the second planting of a covered commodity on the same acreage after the first planting of that same crop has failed.
RMA
means the Risk Management Agency.
Seed cotton
means unginned upland cotton that includes both lint and seed.
Subsequently planted crop acreage
means planted acres of a covered commodity following an initial P
CP covered commodity. Subsequently planted crop acreage can be used for base reallocation for ARC and PLC under subpart B.
Supportive and necessary contractual documents
mean those documents including, but not limited to, those items substantiating the ARC or PLC contract such as leases, deeds, signatures of contract participants, owners, operators, and other tenant signatures, as determined by FSA.
Temperate japonica rice
means rice that is grown in high altitudes or temperate regions of high latitudes with cooler climate conditions, in the Western United States, as determined by FSA, for the purpose of the—
(1) Reallocation of base acres under subpart B of this part;
(2) Establishment of a reference price equal to the medium grain rice reference price multiplied by the ratio obtained by dividing:
(i) The simple average of the marketing year average price of medium grain rice from the 2012 through 2016 crop years, by
(ii) The simple average of the marketing year average price of all rice from the 2012 through 2016 crop years; and
(3) Determination of the actual crop revenue and ARC guarantee under subparts D and E of this part.
Transitional yield
means the yield determined according to section 502(b) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1502(b)).
Trend-adjusted yield
means the yield computed by multiplying the benchmark yield by a factor determined by taking into consideration, but not exceeding, the trend-adjusted yield factor that is used to increase yield history under crop insurance endorsement under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501-1524) for that crop and county.
Unassigned base acres
means the number of acres derived from generic base acres where no ARC or PLC payments are generated or earned.
Upland cotton
means cotton that is produced in the United States from other than pure strain varieties of the Barbadense species, any hybrid thereof, or any other variety of cotton in which one or more of these varieties predominate. In other words, it means any cotton that is not extra long staple cotton.
[79 FR 46339, Aug. 8, 2014, as amended at 79 FR 57714, Sept. 26, 2014; 79 FR 74571, Dec. 15, 2014; 83 FR 40657, Aug. 16, 2018; 84 FR 45888, Sept. 3, 2019; 85 FR 16232, Mar. 23, 2020]
§ 1412.4
Appeals.
A participant may seek reconsideration and review of any individual program eligibility adverse determination made under this part in accordance with the appeal regulations found at parts 11 and 780 of this title.

# Subpart B—Establishment of Base Acres for a Farm for Covered Commodities
§ 1412.23
Base acres, and Conservation Reserve Program.
(a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, FSA will annually adjust the base acres for covered commodities with respect to the farm by the number of production flexibility contract acres or base acres protected by a Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) contract that expired, was voluntarily terminated, or was early released.
(b) The total base acres on a farm cannot exceed the limitation specified in § 1412.24.
(c) Adjustments to (not reallocation of) base acres on a farm in accordance with this section are to be completed by no later than August 1 or other date as determined and announced by the CRP contract expired or was voluntarily terminated.
(d) For the fiscal year in which an adjustment to base acres under this section is made, the producer of the farm may elect to receive ARC or PLC payments, in accordance with any ARC and PLC election made under section 1115 of the 2014 Farm Bill with respect to the base acres added to the farm under this section, or a prorated payment under the CRP contract, but not both. For any farm that had all of its base acres reduced for participation in CRP, if the farm had no base acres or election in effect before an adjustment is made to put base acres of a covered commodity back on the farm, the owners of that farm will have an opportunity to reallocate base acres and the producers will have an opportunity to elect ARC or PLC within 30 days of being notified of the establishment of base acres on that farm before producers enroll base acres on that farm.
[79 FR 46339, Aug. 8, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 40657, Aug. 16, 2018; 84 FR 45889, Sept. 3, 2019]
§ 1412.24
Limitation of total base acres on a farm.
(a) The sum of the following cannot exceed the total cropland acreage on the farm, plus approved double-cropped acreage for the farm:
(1) The sum of all base acres established for the farm in accordance with this part; plus
(2) Any cropland acreage on the farm enrolled in a CRP contract in accordance with part 1410 of this chapter; plus
(3) Any cropland acreage on the farm enrolled in a wetland reserve program contract in accordance with part 1467 of this chapter; plus
(4) Any other acreage on the farm enrolled in a Federal conservation program for which payments are made in exchange for not producing an agricultural commodity on the acreage.
(b) The Deputy Administrator will give the owner of the farm the opportunity to select the base acres against which any reduction required in this section will be made. Absent the owner selecting the base acres for reduction, FSA will apply a pro-rata reduction against the base acres before computing and issuing any payments for the program year when a reduction becomes necessary.
(c) In applying paragraph (a) of this section, FSA will take into account the practice of double cropping on a farm, as determined by FSA.
(d) For base acre reductions:
(1) Subject to the limitation in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, a permanent reduction of all or a portion of a farm's base acreswill be allowed when all owners of the farm execute and submit a written request for such reduction, on a CCC-approved standard, uniform form designated by CCC, to the FSA county office where the records for the farm are administratively maintained.
(2) A permanent reduction of all or a portion of a farm's base acres to negate or reduce a program violation is not allowed.
(e) When base acres on a farm are converted to a non-agricultural commercial or industrial use, the total base acres on the farm will be reduced accordingly regardless of the submission of a request for such reduction.
(f) The base acres on a farm will be proportionately reduced when it is determined that the land has been subdivided and developed for multiple residential units or other nonfarming uses if, in the judgment of the county committee, the size of the tracts and the
density of the subdivision is such that the land is unlikely to return to the previous agricultural use, unless either of the following applies:
(1) The producers on the farm demonstrate that the land remains devoted to commercial agricultural production or is likely to be returned to the previous agricultural use and such land has not been divided from the farm with a farm reconstitution performed according to part 718 of this title; or
(2) A properly constituted or reconstituted farm contains sufficient land that has not yet been subdivided and developed for multiple residential units or other nonfarming uses, and the producers on the farm demonstrate that the land remains devoted to commercial agricultural production or is likely to be returned to the previous agricultural use.
[79 FR 46339, Aug. 8, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 40657, Aug. 16, 2018; 84 FR 45889, Sept. 3, 2019]
§ 1412.25
Allocation of generic base acres on a farm and updating of records.
(a) Any or all of the owner(s) of a farm with generic base acres adjusted as of February 9, 2018, will have a one-time opportunity in an allocation period as announced by FSA, if a covered commodity including upland cotton was planted or prevented from being planted during the 2009 through 2016 crop years, to:
(1) Allocate the farm's generic base acres to seed cotton base acres in a quantity equal to the greater of:
(i) 80 percent of the generic base acres on the farm; or
(ii) The average number of upland cotton acres planted and prevented from being planted on the farm during the 2009 through 2012 crop years, not to exceed the total generic base acres on the farm; or
(2) Allocate base acres for covered commodities, including seed cotton, by applying paragraph (e) of this section.
(b) Under no circumstances will the allocation of generic base acres on a farm as specified in paragraph (a) of this section result in any increase in total base acres on a farm. Additionally, if any owner submits a written statement that conflicts with the allocation request or expresses written disagreement with the allocation filed according to paragraph (a) of this section, no allocation will be approved for the farm unless all the owners of the farm provide FSA with written evidence of the dispute resolution during the allocation period.
(c) FSA will provide the farm operator and owners of record with a summary of all covered commodities P
CP acres and subsequently planted crop acreage for the 2008 through 2012 crop years (as reported to FSA on acreage reports filed with FSA in each of those years). Acreage not reported to FSA by producers will not be included in the summary. The summary of records specified in paragraph (c) of this section is intended to assist owners of farms with the one-time opportunity for generic base acre allocation as provided in this section. Any owner of a farm may also at any time visit the FSA county office and request to obtain a copy of the summary referenced in this paragraph (c).
(d) Owners will be provided a one-time opportunity to update the records identified in paragraph (c) of this section during the allocation period, provided that there are crop insurance records (or other verifiable documentation available to support those requested updates). In the event that an update to a farm's P
CP acres of a covered commodity for 2009 through 2012 causes any payment under another FSA or CCC program to become unearned, the overpayment must be refunded to FSA or CCC in accordance with the rules for that program and the FSA or CCC regulations governing overpayment (part 718 of this title and part 1403 of this chapter).
(e) After an update as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, the owner may allocate the farm's generic base acres during the allocation period based on a proration of each covered commodity's P
CP acres or subsequently planted crop acreage in crop years 2009 through 2012 to the total P
CP acres or subsequently planted crop acreage of all covered commodities during that time.
(f) Owners can allocate generic base acres at any time during the allocation period without receiving or requesting
the summary records, and, therefore, failure to receive a summary record from FSA is not grounds for appeal or extension of the allocation period.
(g) The option to allocate generic base acres is an “all or nothing” decision for the farm. Generic base acres will not be retained, partially or in whole. A decision by any owner to allocate generic base acres on a farm in accordance with this section is final and binding if made according to this section during the allocation period unless that allocation is withdrawn in writing by that owner or another owner. If another owner subsequently files a different allocation request in whatever time remains in the stated allocation period or if there are conflicting allocation requests of owners in the allocation period, FSA will not make the allocation unless the conflict is resolved via written agreement between the owners who filed the conflicting requests. In the event that a resolution is not presented, the provisions of paragraph (h) of this section will take effect. In the case of submitting evidence of resolution, the written agreement must be filed with FSA during the allocation period. Any and all updates and allocation requests mentioned in this section are subject to review and approval or disapproval by FSA for CCC.
(h) In the event that an owner fails to make an allocation according to this part and the farm has met the planting requirement in paragraph (a) of this section, the farm will receive an allocation of seed cotton base acres in accordance with paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.
[83 FR 40657, Aug. 16, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 45889, Sept. 3, 2019]
§ 1412.26
Treatment of base acres on farms entirely in pasture, grass, idle, or fallow.
(a) A farm on which all of the cropland was planted to grass or pasture, including cropland that was idle or fallow from January 1, 2009, through December 31, 2017, will have base acres and yields maintained for the covered commodities on the farm, except that no payment will be made with respect to those base acres under this part for the 2019 through 2023 crop years.
(b) The producers on a farm for which all of the base acres are maintained under paragraph (a) of this section are:
(1) Ineligible to change the election applicable to the producers on the farm under subpart G of this part; and
(2) Not permitted to reconstitute the farm to void or change the treatment of base acres under paragraph (a) of this section.
[84 FR 45890, Sept. 3, 2019]

# Subpart C—Establishment of Price Loss Coverage Yields and Submitting Production

# Source:
79 FR 57716, Sept. 26, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1412.31
PLC yields for covered commodities.
(a) Except for seed cotton PLC yield for covered commodities on the farm is equal to the counter-cyclical payment yield established for each covered commodity on the farm that was effective September 30, 2013, unless the PLC yield is updated as specified in § 1421.32. If the Secretary designates an additional oilseed or pulse crop as a covered commodity that does not have a counter-cyclical payment yield, the PLC yield for that commodity will be established as specified in § 1412.34.
(b) The PLC yield for seed cotton on the farm is equal to the counter-cyclical payment yield established for upland cotton on the farm as in effect September 30, 2013, times 2.4, unless the PLC yield is updated as specified in § 1421.33.
(c) If a PLC yield is not already established for a covered commodity on a farm for which base acres are allocated through the base acres reallocation process a yield will be established for the covered commodity on the farm using the yield on similarly situated farms, as determined by FSA. The yield on similarly situated farms will then be used as the 2013 county average counter-cyclical yield for the covered commodity.
[79 FR 57716, Sept. 26, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 40658, Aug. 16, 2018]
§ 1412.32
Updating PLC yield for all covered commodities except seed cotton.
(a) For any covered commodity on the farm that has base acres as adjusted, in excess of zero acres, an owner of the farm has a one-time opportunity in a specified period, as announced by FSA, to update PLC yields on a covered commodity-by-covered commodity basis equal to 90 percent of each covered commodity's 2013 through 2017 average yield per planted acre, excluding from the average any year when no acreage was planted to the covered commodity. If the yield per planted acre in any of the years 2013 through 2017 is less than 75 percent of the average of the county yield, then 75 percent of the average of the 2013 through 2017 county yield will be substituted for that year, excluding from the average any year when no acreage was planted to the covered commodity, multiplied by the ratio obtained by dividing:
(1) The average of the 2008 through 2012 national average yield per planted acre for the covered commodity; by
(2) The average of the 2013 through 2017 national average yield per planted acre for the covered commodity.
(b) The owner of the farm may retain the counter-cyclical yield as the PLC yield or update the PLC yield, on a covered commodity-by-covered commodity basis.
(c) PLC yields are exclusively used for PLC. However, any owner of a farm can update the PLC yields, regardless of program election or decision on enrollment or participation.
(d) A decision by any owner of a farm to update any PLC yield as specified in this section is final and binding unless that decision to update the yield is withdrawn by that owner or a different yield update is made by that owner or another owner. If that owner or another owner requests a different PLC yield update for the covered commodity during the yield update period specified in paragraph (a) of this section that update will become final.
(e) All PLC yield updates are subject to review and approval by FSA as specified in § 1412.36. FSA's decision to issue payments based on the PLC yield updated by an owner is subject to verification and spot check by FSA at any time.
(f) Yield updates in this section will be permitted using the owner's certification of yield. The certification is subject to spot check or verification by FSA at any time. If selected for spot check or verification, the owner must submit evidence specified in § 1412.34 to support the certified yield.
[79 FR 57716, Sept. 26, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 40658, Aug. 16, 2018; 84 FR 45890, Sept. 3, 2019]
§ 1412.33
Updating PLC yield for seed cotton.
(a) For a farm that has seed cotton base acres as adjusted, in excess of zero acres, an owner of the farm has a one-time opportunity in a specified period, as announced by FSA, to update the PLC yield equal to 90 percent of the seed cotton's 2013 through 2017 average yield per planted acre, excluding from the average any year that no acreage was planted to upland cotton, times 2.4. If the yield per planted acre in any of the years 2013 through 2017 is less than 75 percent of the average of the county yield, then 75 percent of the average of the 2013 through 2017 county yields will be substituted for that year, excluding from the average any year when no acreage was planted to the covered commodity, multiplied by the ratio obtained by dividing:
(1) The average of the 2008 through 2012 national average yield per planted acre for the covered commodity; by
(2) The average of the 2013 through 2017 national average yield per planted acre for the covered commodity.
(b) The owner of the farm may retain the PLC yield or update the PLC yield.
(c) PLC yields are exclusively used for PLC. However, any owner of a farm can update the seed cotton PLC yield as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, regardless of program election, enrollment, or participation.
(d) A decision by any owner of a farm to update the seed cotton PLC yield as specified in this section is final and binding unless that decision to update the yield is withdrawn by that owner or a different yield update is made by that owner or another owner. If that owner or another owner requests a different PLC yield update for the covered
commodity during the yield update period specified in paragraph (a) of this section, that update will become final.
(e) All PLC yield updates are subject to review and approval by FSA as specified in § 1412.36. FSA's decision to issue payments based on the PLC yield updated by an owner is subject to verification and spot check by FSA at any time.
(f) Yield updates in this section will be permitted using the owner's certification of yield. The certification is subject to spot check or verification by FSA at any time. If selected for spot check or verification, the owner must submit evidence specified in § 1412.35 to support the certified yield.
[83 FR 40658, Aug. 16, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 45890, Sept. 3, 2019]
§ 1412.34
PLC yield for additional oilseeds.
(a) The PLC yield for the farm for additional oilseeds designated by the Secretary will be determined by multiplying the weighted average yield per planted acre for the crop on the farm, as determined in paragraph (b) of this section, times the ratio resulting from:
(1) The national average yield for the crop, as determined by FSA, divided by
(2) The national average yield for the crop for the 1998 through 2001 crop years, as determined by FSA.
(b)(1) The yield per planted acre for such designated oilseed on the farm is calculated as follows:
(i) The sum of the production of the crop for the 1998 through 2001 crop years, as determined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; divided by
(ii) The sum of the total planted acres of the crop for the 1998 through 2001 crop years.
(2) The production of the crop for each of the 1998 through 2001 crop years will be the higher of the following, except in a year in which the acreage planted to the crop was zero, in which case the production for the crop for such year will be zero:
(i) The total production for the applicable year based on the production evidence submitted in accordance with § 1412.35; or
(ii) The amount equal to the product of:
(A) The total planted acres for the crop, times
(B) 75 percent of the harvested average county yield for that crop determined, where practicable, by calculating the weighted 4-year average of the National Agricultural Statistics Service (NASS) harvested acreage yields for the crop using the 1998 through 2001 crop years.
(3) The NASS harvested acreage yield to be used in paragraph (b)(2) of this section will be based on:
(i) NASS harvested irrigated yield for the crop, if available, for producers who irrigated the crop in the applicable years;
(ii) NASS harvested non-irrigated yield for the crop, if available, for producers who did not irrigate the crop in the applicable years; or
(iii) NASS harvested blended yield for all acreage, regardless of whether or not the acres were irrigated or non-irrigated, for all crops in all counties for which the yields in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section are unavailable.
(4) If NASS harvested acreage yield data is not available, the Deputy Administrator will assign a yield to be used in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.
(c) The establishment of PLC yield for an additional oilseed in this section will be permitted using a producer certification of yield. The certification is subject to spot check or verification by FSA at any time. If selected for spot check or verification, the producer must submit evidence as specified in in § 1412.35 to support the certified yield.
[79 FR 57716, Sept. 26, 2014. Redesignated and amended at 83 FR 40658, Aug. 16, 2018]
§ 1412.35
Submitting production evidence.
(a) When required by FSA as specified in this part, documentary evidence supporting any certification of yield or production must be provided to the county committee of the county where the farm is administratively located.
(b) Documentary evidence acceptable to FSA includes, but is not limited to:
(1) Production approved by the county committee for some other FSA program purpose;
(2) Commercial receipts;
(3) Settlement sheets;
(4) Warehouse ledger sheets;
(5) Elevator receipts or load summaries, supported by other evidence showing disposition, such as sales documents;
(6) Evidence from harvested or appraised acreage, approved for FCIC or multi-peril crop insurance; or
(7) Other production evidence determined acceptable by the Deputy Administrator.
(c) Production evidence specified in paragraph (b) of this section must show:
(1) The producer's name,
(2) The commodity,
(3) The buyer or name of storage facility,
(4) The date of transaction or delivery, and
(5) The quantity.
(d) FSA may verify the production evidence submitted with records on file at the warehouse, Risk Management Agency, or other entity that received or may have received the reported production.
[79 FR 57716, Sept. 26, 2014. Redesignated at 83 FR 40658, Aug. 16, 2018]
§ 1412.36
Incorrect or false production evidence.
(a) If a certification of production and yield or production evidence submitted in support of that certification is false or incorrect, as determined by the county committee, the county committee will determine whether the owner, operator, or producer submitting the certification or production evidence for a farm acted in good faith or took action to defeat the purpose of ARC or PLC.
(b) If the county committee determines the owner or producer who submitted the certification or production evidence referenced in paragraph (a) of this section acted in good faith and did not take action to defeat the purpose of ARC or PLC, the county committee will, as applicable:
(1) Correct the PLC yield for the applicable covered commodity to equal the yield that would have been calculated as specified in § 1412.32 based on accurate production evidence; and
(2) Recalculate any payments based on the correct yield and require refunds of any payments that were issued as a result of the incorrect yield. Unearned payments must be refunded together with interest from the date of disbursement and are due from any producers who received payments that would not have issued absent the error or incorrect yield.
(c) If the county committee determines the owner, operator, or producer who submitted the false or incorrect evidence did not act in good faith or took any action to defeat or undermine the purpose of ARC or PLC, the county committee will require a full refund of any payments, with interest, that were issued to any persons based on that false or erroneous certification or production evidence and the yield update request is invalid.
[79 FR 57716, Sept. 26, 2014. Redesignated at 83 FR 40658, Aug. 16, 2018]

# Subpart D—ARC and PLC Contract Terms and Enrollment Provisions for Covered Commodities
§ 1412.41
ARC or PLC program contract.
(a) The following provisions apply to ARC and PLC Program contracts:
(1) Eligible producers (as specified in § 1412.42) of covered commodities with base acres may enroll in ARC and PLC contracts during the enrollment period announced by FSA.
(i) The 2019 contract period ends September 30, 2019. Accordingly, the enrollment for 2019 is the only program year a retroactive contract can be approved. (ii) Except as stated in this section, enrollment is not allowed after September 30 of the fiscal year in which the ARC or PLC payments are requested. FSA will not process offers of enrollment for a contract period after the contract period has ended. This is not a compliance provision but a rule of general applicability and will apply to every offer to contract in each contract year.
(iii) If a 2019 farm did not have a valid election made by producers in accordance with subpart G of this part, no producer on that farm is eligible for any 2019 ARC or PLC payment for that farm. This is not an adverse decision
for any enrolled producer on that farm; rather, the farm's producers are simply not eligible for payments on the enrolled farm because the farm's producers failed to make a valid election in 2019.
(2) Except as specified in this section for ARC-CO and PLC enrollments, contracts will not be approved unless all producers sharing in contract acreage with more than a zero share have submitted all applicable signatures on the contract and documentation necessary for FSA to approve the contract.
(i) For ARC-IC contracts there are no exceptions to this provision for signatures and documentation.
(ii) A contract not having all requisite signatures of producers having more than a zero share of contract acreage on or before the enrollment deadline is incomplete and will not be considered by FSA or CCC for any purpose and will not be acted on or approved.
(iii) Contracts enrolled by a producer by the date specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section that were not signed by other producers as required by this section will be withdrawn and will not be approved.
(iv) An exception to this signature and documentation provision applies to ARC-CO and PLC offers of enrollment. In those instances in which, at the discretion of the Deputy Administrator and where no dispute of shares or other disagreement between producers is evident or suspected, ARC-CO and PLC offers of enrollment can be approved for the covered commodity to permit payment to only those eligible producers who did enroll and without regard to shares that do not have signatures. In this exception, the covered commodity on the farm will be considered enrolled. This exception will be made only if, in the sole judgment and discretion of FSA, FSA is satisfied that those producers who did sign in accordance with this section ensure compliance with all contract provisions and requirements of this part.
(v) Producers have no right to payment on any farm that is not enrolled in ARC or PLC and they are not entitled to a decision to authorize the exception in paragraph (a)(2)(iv) for ARC-CO and PLC enrollments, as that is discretionary. CCC and FSA are not responsible for ensuring that producers annually enroll in ARC or PLC.
(3) An eligible producer's valid share of enrolled base acres on a farm is always limited to the producer's share of reported crop acreage on the farm. For example, if a producer enrolled with a 75 percent share of a farm's 1,000 base acres, the producer's enrollment would only be valid if the producer had 100 percent share interest in 750 or more reported crop acres on that farm. Valid claimed shares of base acres must always be supported by reported crop acres on the farm.
(4) Except for enrollments of ARC-IC, eligible producers who choose to enter into a contract with FSA do so on a covered commodity-by-covered commodity basis. If the decision is made to enroll a covered commodity on a farm, producers having not less than 100 percent of the interest in those covered commodity base acres must enroll all covered commodity base acres of the covered commodity on the farm. Enrollment of fewer than all base acres of the covered commodity by all the producers having a share interest in that covered commodity on the farm is not allowed and such covered commodity will not be considered enrolled unless all producers who share in the base acres complete enrollment by the end of the enrollment period. Producers on a farm are solely responsible for ensuring that enrollment occurs.
(5) Producers who have enrolled according to this section must submit all required documents necessary to determine payment eligibility as specified in §§ 1412.51 and 1412.67.
(b) Any eligible producer of an enrolled covered commodity or ARC-IC contract may withdraw from a contract at any time by the end of the contract period. The withdrawal must be filed in writing and submitted to CCC and FSA by the end of the contract period. If any producer of a covered commodity or ARC-IC contract submits a written request to withdraw, FSA will consider the enrollment of that covered commodity or ARC-IC contract withdrawn.
(c) If the multiyear annual contract option is selected by all of a farm's producers of covered commodity base
acres on the farm, the enrollment of any covered commodity on the farm in a year will be presumed by CCC and FSA to be the enrollment for following subsequent crop years unless any of the following, occur:
(1) A change to the farm's constitution;
(2) A change to any of the farm's base acres or PLC yield of any covered commodity;
(3) A change to any of the producers or producer shares of covered commodities on the farm;
(4) A change in either election or enrollment of any covered commodity on the farm; or
(5) Any change, including a withdrawal of any enrolled producer, that FSA determines to require producers on the farm to reaffirm enrollment.
(d) All contracts expire on September 30 of the fiscal year of the contract unless:
(1) Withdrawn in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) Terminated in accordance with paragraph (e) or (f) of this section; or
(3) Terminated at an earlier date by mutual consent of all parties, including CCC.
(e) A transfer or change in the interest of an owner or producer in the farm or in acreage on the farm subject to a contract will result in the termination of the contract. The contract termination will be effective on the date of the transfer or change. Successors to the interest in the farm or crops on the farm subject to the contract may enroll the covered commodities on the farm in a new contract for the current year and assume all obligations under the contract.
(f) In the event a 2019 or subsequent crop year farm reconstitution is completed on a properly enrolled farm or farms in accordance with part 718 of this title, FSA will issue notices to the farm operator and owners of record on a farm that all producers with an interest in the base acres on the farm must sign a new ARC or PLC program contract within the later of 30 days of the notice or September 30 of the fiscal year program payments are requested, after receiving written notification by the county committee indicating the reconstitution is completed. It is the responsibility of the operator and owners on a farm that producers with an interest in base acres are notified of the reconstitution and requirement for a new contract.
[84 FR 45890, Sept. 3, 2019]
§ 1412.42
Eligible producers.
(a) Producers eligible to enter into a contract are:
(1) An owner of a farm who has an ownership share of a crop and who assumes all or a part of the risk of producing a crop that is commensurate with that claimed ownership share of the crop; or
(2) A producer, other than an owner, on a farm with a share-rent lease for such farm, regardless of the length of the lease, if the owner of the farm enters into the same contract; or
(3) A producer, other than an owner, on a farm who cash rents such farm under a lease expiring on or after September 30 of the year of the contract in which case the owner is not required to enter into the contract; or
(4) A producer, other than an owner, on a farm who cash rents such farm under a lease expiring before September 30 of the year of the contract. The owner of such farm must also enter into the same contract, failing which the farm is not enrolled; or
(5) An owner of an eligible farm who cash rents such farm and the lease term expires before September 30 of the year of the contract, if the tenant declines to enter into a contract for the applicable year. In the case of an owner covered by this paragraph, payments will not begin under the contract until the lease held by the tenant ends.
(b) A minor child will be eligible to enter into a contract only if one of the following conditions exist:
(1) The right of majority has been conferred upon the minor by court proceedings or law;
(2) A guardian has been appointed to manage the minor's property and the applicable program documents are executed by the guardian; or
(3) A bond is furnished under which a surety guarantees any loss incurred for which the minor would be liable had the minor been an adult.
(c) The owner of the farm may be considered the “producer” if there is
no other producer, but the owner could have shared in the crop had a crop been produced, but only if the farm and owner otherwise meet all the requirements for payment.
[79 FR 57717, Sept. 26, 2014]
§ 1412.43
Reconstitutions.
Farms will only be reconstituted in accordance with subpart G of this part and part 718 of this title.
[79 FR 57717, Sept. 26, 2014]
§§ 1412.44-1412.45
[Reserved]
§ 1412.46
Planting flexibility.
(a) Any crop may be planted and harvested on base acres on a farm, except as limited in this section. Any crop may be planted on cropland in excess of the base acres on a farm.
(b) Base acres may be hayed or grazed at any time.
(c) Except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, the planting or harvesting of perennial or harvesting of non-perennial fruits, vegetables (except mung beans and covered commodities), or wild rice, as determined by FSA, will result in an acre for acre payment reduction when such crop or crops are planted and or harvested, as applicable, on more than:
(1) 15 percent of the base acres of a farm enrolled in ARC or PLC using county coverage; or
(2) 35 percent of the base acres of a farm enrolled in ARC using individual coverage.
(d) For each crop year for which a reduction in payment acres is made according to paragraph (c) of this section, those acres will be considered to be P
CP to a covered commodity for the purpose of any adjustment or reduction of base acres for the farm.
(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section, perennial fruits, vegetables, and wild rice may be planted or harvested on base acres of a farm and non-perennial fruits, vegetables, and wild rice may be harvested on base acres of a farm if a producer double-crops fruits, vegetables, or wild rice with a covered commodity in any region described in paragraph (f) of this section, in which case payment acres will not be reduced for the planting or harvesting of the fruit, vegetable, or wild rice.
(f) Double-cropping for purposes of this section means planting for harvest non-perennial fruits, vegetables, or wild rice on the same acres in cycle with a planted covered commodity harvested for grain in a 12-month period under normal growing conditions for the region and being able to repeat the same cycle in the following 12-month period. For purposes of this part, the following counties have been determined to be regions having a history of double-cropping covered commodities or peanuts with fruits, vegetables, or wild rice. State committees have established the following counties as regions within their respective States:
(1)
Alabama.
Baldwin, Barbour, Butler, Chambers, Chilton, Clarke, Covington, Cullman, Geneva, Greene, Houston, Jackson, Jefferson, Lee, Madison, Mobile, Montgomery, Randolph, Sumter, Talladega, Walker, and Washington.
(2)
Alaska.
None.
(3)
Arizona.
Cochise, Graham, Greenlee, LaPaz, Maricopa, Mohave, Pima, Pinal, and Yuma.
(4)
Arkansas.
Ashley, Benton, Clay, Craighead, Crawford, Crittenden, Cross, Faulkner, Franklin, Greene, Independence, Jackson, Jefferson, Lawrence, Lee, Lincoln, Logan, Lonoke, Mississippi, Monroe, Phillips, Pulaski, St. Francis, Sebastian, Washington, Woodruff, and Yell.
(5)
California.
Alameda, Amador, Butte, Colusa, Contra Costa, Fresno, Glenn, Imperial, Kern, Kings, Madera, Merced, Riverside, Sacramento, San Benito, San Joaquin, Santa Clara, Siskiyou, Solano, Sonoma, Stanislaus, Sutter, Tehama, Tulare, Yolo, and Yuba.
(6)
Caribbean Office.
None.
(7)
Colorado.
Otero.
(8)
Connecticut.
None.
(9)
Delaware.
All counties.
(10)
Florida.
All counties except Monroe.
(11)
Georgia.
All counties.
(12)
Hawaii.
None.
(13)
Idaho.
None.
(14)
Illinois.
Adams, Bureau, Calhoun, Cass, Clark, Crawford, DeKalb, Edgar, Edwards, Effingham, Franklin, Gallatin, Hamilton, Iroquois, Jefferson,
Jersey, Johnson, Kankakee, Lawrence, LaSalle, Lee, Madison, Marion, Mason, Monroe, Peoria, Randolph, Sangamon, St. Clair, Tazewell, Union, Vermilion, Wabash, Washington, Wayne, White, Woodford, and Whiteside.
(15)
Indiana.
Allen, Bartholemew, Daviess, Gibson, Jackson, Johnson, Knox, LaGrange, LaPorte, Madison, Marion, Martin, Miami, Pike, Posey, Ripley, Shelby, Sullivan, Vandenberg, and Warrick.
(16)
Iowa.
Kossuth, Mitchell, Palo Alto, and Winnebago.
(17)
Kansas.
None.
(18)
Kentucky.
All counties.
(19)
Louisiana.
Avoyelles, Franklin, Grant, Morehouse, Rapides, Richland, and West Carroll.
(20)
Maine.
None.
(21)
Maryland.
Anne Arundel, Baltimore, Calvert, Caroline, Carroll, Cecil, Charles, Dorchester, Harford, Kent, Prince George's, Queen Anne's, St. Mary's, Somerset, Talbot, Wicomico, and Worcester.
(22)
Massachusetts.
None.
(23)
Michigan.
St. Joseph and Kalamazoo.
(24)
Minnesota.
Blue Earth, Brown, Carver, Chippewa, Cottonwood, Dakota, Dodge, Faribault, Fillmore, Freeborn, Goodhue, Houston, Kandiyohi, Le Sueur, Martin, McLeod, Meeker, Mower, Nicollet, Olmsted, Pope, Redwood, Renville, Rice, Scott, Sibley, Stearns, Steele, Swift, Waseca, Wabasha, Watonwan, and Winona.
(25)
Mississippi.
All counties.
(26)
Missouri.
Barton, Butler, Cape Girardeau, Dade, Dunklin, Jasper, Lawrence, Mississippi, New Madrid, Newton, Pemiscot, Perry, Ripley, Scott, and Stoddard.
(27)
Montana.
None.
(28)
Nebraska.
Box Butte, Dawes-North Sioux, Morrill, and Sheridan.
(29)
Nevada.
None.
(30)
New Hampshire.
None.
(31)
New Jersey.
Atlantic, Burlington, Camden, Cape May, Cumberland, Gloucester, Hunterdon, Mercer, Middlesex, Monmouth, Morris, Ocean, Salem, Somerset, Sussex, and Warren.
(32)
New Mexico.
Chaves, Curry, Dona Ana, Eddy, Hidalgo, Lea, Luna, Quay, Roosevelt, San Juan, and Sierra.
(33)
New York.
Cayuga, Columbia, Dutchess, Erie, Genesee, Greene, Livingston, Madison, Monroe, Niagara, Oneida, Onondaga, Ontario, Orange, Orleans, Putnam, Rensselaer, Saratoga, Schoharie, Seneca, Steuben, Suffolk, Tompkins, Ulster, Warren, Washington, Wayne, Westchester, Wyoming, and Yates.
(34)
North Carolina.
Alamance, Alexander, Alleghany, Anson, Ashe, Beaufort, Bertie, Bladen, Brunswick, Burke, Cabarrus, Caldwell, Camden, Carteret, Caswell, Catawba, Chatham, Cherokee, Chowan, Clay, Cleveland, Columbus, Craven, Cumberland, Currituck, Dare, Davidson, Davie, Duplin, Edgecombe, Franklin, Gaston, Gates, Graham, Granville, Greene, Halifax, Harnett, Hertford, Hoke, Hyde, Iredell, Johnston, Jones, Lee, Lenoir, Lincoln, Macon, Martin, McDowell, Mecklenburg, Montgomery, Moore, Nash, New Hanover, Northampton, Onslow, Pamlico, Pasquotank, Pender, Perquimans, Person, Pitt, Richmond, Robeson, Rockingham, Rutherford, Sampson, Scotland, Stanly, Stokes, Tyrell, Union, Vance, Wake, Warren, Washington, Wayne, Wilkes, Wilson, and Yadkin.
(35)
North Dakota.
None.
(36)
Ohio.
Carroll, Champaign, Clermont, Fulton, Henry, Jackson, Lucas, Miami, Morgan, Muskingum, Scioto, Stark, Tuscarawas, Wood, and Vinton.
(37)
Oklahoma.
Adair, Alfalfa, Beckham, Blaine, Bryan, Caddo, Canadian, Carter, Cherokee, Cleveland, Cotton, Custer, Delaware, Dewey, Ellis, Garfield, Garvin, Grady, Grant, Greer, Harmon, Haskell, Hughes, Jackson, Jefferson, Kay, Kingfisher, Kiowa, LeFlore, Logan, Love, McClain, McIntosh, Major, Marshall, Mayes, Muskogee, Noble, Nowata, Okmulgee, Osage, Pawnee, Payne, Pittsburg, Pottawatomie, Roger Mills, Rogers, Sequoyah, Stephens, Tillman, Tulsa, Wagoner, Washita, Woods, and Woodward.
(38)
Oregon.
Clackamas, Marion, Morrow, Multnomah, Polk, Umatilla, and Yamhill.
(39)
Pennsylvania.
Adams, Bucks, Carbon, Centre, Chester, Clinton, Columbia, Cumberland, Delaware, Erie, Franklin, Indiana, Lancaster, Lehigh,
Montgomery, Monroe, Montour, Northampton, Northumberland, Schuylkill, Snyder, Union, and York.
(40)
Puerto Rico.
None.
(41)
Rhode Island.
None.
(42)
South Carolina.
All counties.
(43)
South Dakota.
None.
(44)
Tennessee.
Benton, Bledsoe, Cannon, Chester, Cocke, Coffee, Crockett, Dickson, Dyer, Fayette, Gibson, Giles, Greene, Grundy, Hardeman, Haywood, Henry, Jefferson, Knox, Lake, Lauderdale, Lawrence, Lincoln, Madison, Marion, Maury, McNairy, Obion, Overton, Pickett, Putnam, Rhea, Robertson, Rutherford, Sequatchie, Shelby, Sumner, Tipton, Unicoi, VanBuren, Warren, Washington, Wayne, White, Williamson, and Wilson.
(45)
Texas.
Anderson, Andrews, Atascosa, Austin, Bailey, Bastrop, Baylor, Bee, Bexar, Borden, Bosque, Bowie, Brazos, Brazoria, Briscoe, Brooks, Brown, Burleson, Caldwell, Callahan, Cass, Cameron, Castro, Chambers, Cherokee, Childress, Clay, Cochran, Collin, Collingsworth, Comanche, Cooke, Coryell, Cottle, Crosby, Culberson, Dallam, Dawson, Deaf Smith, Delta, Denton, Dickens, Dimmit, Donley, Duval, Eastland, Ellis, El Paso, Erath, Falls, Fannin, Fayette, Fischer, Floyd, Foard, Fort Bend, Franklin, Freestone, Frio, Gaines, Gillespie, Glasscock, Gonzales, Gray, Grayson, Grimes, Guadalupe, Hale, Hall, Hansford, Hardeman, Hardin, Harris, Hartley, Haskell, Hemphill, Henderson, Hidalgo, Hill, Hockley, Hood, Hopkins, Houston, Howard, Hudspeth, Hunt, Jefferson, Jim Hogg, Jim Wells, Johnson, Jones Karnes, Kent, Kinney, Kleberg, Knox, Lamar, Lamb, LaSalle, Lee, Leon, Liberty, Limestone, Lipscomb, Live Oak, Llano, Loving, Lubbock, Lynn, Martin, Mason, Matagorda, Maverick, McCulloch, McLennan, Medina, Menard, Midland, Milam, Mills, Mitchell, Montague, Moore, Motley, Navarro, Nueces, Ochiltree, Oldham, Palo Pinto, Parker, Parmer, Pecos, Rains, Randall, Red River, Refugio, Reeves, Robertson, Runnels, San Saba, San Patricio, Scurry, Sherman, Smith, Somervell, Starr, Stonewall, Swisher, Tarrant, Taylor, Terry, Tom Green, Upton, Uvalde, Van Zandt, Victoria, Walker, Washington, Webb, Wharton, Wheeler, Wilbarger, Willacy, Williamson, Wise, Wilson, Wood, Wise, Wood, Yoakum, Young, Zapata, and Zavala.
(46)
Utah.
None.
(47)
Vermont.
None.
(48)
Virginia.
Accomack, Albemarle, Alleghany, Amelia, Amherst, Appomattox, Augusta, Bath, Bedford, Bland, Botetourt, Brunswick, Buchanan, Buckingham, Campbell, Caroline, Carroll, Charles City, Charlotte, Chesapeake, Chesterfield, Clarke, Craig, Culpeper, Cumberland, Dickenson, Dinwiddie, Essex, Fairfax, Fauquier, Floyd, Fluvanna, Franklin, Frederick, Giles, Gloucester, Goochland, Grayson, Greene, Greensville, Halifax, Hanover, Henrico, Henry, Highland, Isle of Wight, James City, King and Queen, King George, King William, Lancaster, Lee, Loudoun, Louisa, Lunenburg, Madison, Mathews, Mecklenburg, Middlesex, Montgomery, Nelson, New Kent, Northampton, Northumberland, Nottoway, Orange, Page, Patrick, Pittsylvania, Powhatan, Prince Edward, Prince George, Prince William, Pulaski, Rappahannock, Richmond, Roanoke, Rockbridge, Rockingham, Russell, Scott, Shenandoah, Smyth, Southampton, Spotsylvania, Stafford, Suffolk, Surry, Sussex, Tazewell, Virginia Beach, Warren, Washington, Westmoreland, Wise, Wythe, and York.
(49)
Washington.
Yakima.
(50)
West Virginia.
Monroe.
(51)
Wisconsin.
Adams, Calumet, Columbia, Dane, Dodge, Fond du Lac, Green, Green Lake, Iowa, Kenosha, Milwaukee, Ozaukee, Portage, Racine, Richland, Rock, Sauk, Trempealeau, Walworth, Washington, Waukesha, Waushara, and Winnebago.
(52)
Wyoming.
None.
(g) The acreage of any fruit or vegetable specified in paragraph (i) of this section will first be attributed to cropland not having base acres, followed by base acres, before applying any payment acreage reduction required by paragraph (c) of this section. The reduction will be attributed to each of the covered commodities on the farm having payment acres on a pro rata basis to reflect the ratio of the payment acres of the covered commodity on the farm to the total payment acres of all covered commodities on the farm.
(h) For the purposes of this part, fruits, vegetables, and wild rice planted on payment acres of a farm under ARC or PLC Program contract:
(1) Will be considered harvested at the time of planting, unless the producer pays a fee to cover the cost of a farm visit, as specified in part 718 of this title, to verify that the fruit, vegetable, or wild rice has been destroyed before harvest, as determined by FSA; or
(2) Will not be considered as planted to a fruit, vegetable, or wild rice when reported by a producer on the farm with an intended use of green manure or forage, as determined by FSA, and a fee to cover the cost of a farm visit is paid by the producer, as specified in part 718 of this title, to verify that the crop has not been harvested.
(i) Unless otherwise specifically included as a covered commodity as specified in this part, fruits and vegetables include, but are not limited to, all nuts except peanuts, certain fruit-bearing trees and: Acerola (barbados cherry), antidesma, apples, apricots, aragula, ariona (chokeberry), artichokes, asparagus, atemoya (custard apple), avocados, babaco papayas, bananas, beans (except soybeans, mung, adzuki, faba, and lupin), beets—other than sugar, blackberries, blackeye peas, blueberries, bok spare choy, boysenberries, breadfruit, broccoflower, broccolo-cavalo, broccoli, brussel sprouts, cabbage, cailang, caimito, calabaza, carambola (star fruit), calaboose, carob, carrots, cascadeberries, cauliflower, celeriac, celery, chayote, cherimoyas (sugar apples), canary melon, cantaloupes, cardoon, casaba melon, cassava, cherries, chinese bitter melon, chicory, chinese cabbage, chinese mustard, chinese water chestnuts, chufes, citron, citron melon, coffee, collards, cowpeas, crabapples, cranberries, cressie greens, crenshaw melons, cucumbers, currants, cushaw, daikon, dasheen, dates, dry edible beans, dunga, eggplant, elderberries, elut, endive, escarole, etou, feijoas, figs, gai lien, gailon, galanga, genip, gooseberries, grapefruit, grapes, guambana, guavas, guy choy, honeydew melon, huckleberries, jackfruit, jerusalem artichokes, jicama, jojoba, kale, kenya, kiwifruit, kohlrabi, kumquats, leeks, lemons, lettuce, limequats, limes, lobok, loganberries, longon, loquats, lotus root, lychee (litchi), mandarins, mangos, marionberries, mar bub, melongene, mesple, mizuna, mongosteen, moqua, mulberries, murcotts, mushrooms, mustard greens, nectarines, ny Yu, okra, olallieberries, olives, onions, opo, oranges, papaya, paprika, parsnip, passion fruits, peaches, pears, peas, all peppers, persimmon, persian melon, pimentos, pineapple, pistachios, plantain, plumcots, plums, pomegranates, potatoes, prunes, pummelo, pumpkins, quinces, radicchio, radishes, raisins, raisins (distilling), rambutan, rape greens, rapini, raspberries, recao, rhubarb, rutabaga, santa claus melon, salsify, saodilla, sapote, savory, scallions, shallots, shiso, spinach, squash, strawberries, suk gat, swiss chard, sweet corn, sweet potatoes, tangelos, tangerines, tangos, tangors, taniers, taro root, tau chai, teff, tindora, tomatillos, tomatoes, turnips, turnip greens, watercress, watermelons, white sapote, yam, and yam yu choy.
[79 FR 46339, Aug. 8, 2014, as amended at 79 FR 57718, Sept. 26, 2014; 83 FR 40659, Aug. 16, 2018; 84 FR 45891, Sept. 3, 2019; 84 FR 53579, Oct. 8, 2019]
§ 1412.49
Matters of general applicability.
(a) The regulations in this part and FSA and CCC's interpretation of the regulations in this part and internal agency directives issued to FSA State and county offices are matters of general applicability and are not individually appealable in administrative appeals according to §§ 11.3 and 780.5 of this title. Additionally, the regulations in this part and any decisions of CCC and FSA that are not based on specific facts derived from an individual participant's application, contract, or file are not appealable under part 11 or part 780 of this title. Examples of such decisions include how the program is generally administered, signup deadlines, payment rates, or any other generally applicable matter or determination that is made by CCC or FSA for use in all similarly situated applications. The only extent by which the matters referenced in this section are reviewable administratively in an appeal forum is
whether FSA's or CCC's decision to apply the generally applicable matter is factually accurate and in conformance with the regulations in this part.
(b) The relief provisions of 7 CFR part 718 are applicable only to ineligibility and noncompliance decisions. The relief provisions cannot be used to extend a benefit or assistance not otherwise available under law or not otherwise available to others who have satisfied or complied with every eligibility or compliance requirement of the provisions of this part. Equitable relief provisions of part 718 of this title cannot be used to obtain a review of either these regulations, the requirements of this part, the agency's interpretations of this part, or compliance provisions of this part.
[79 FR 46339, Aug. 8, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 45893, Sept. 3, 2019]
§ 1412.50
Transfer of land and succession-in-interest.
(a) Land subject to an election in subpart G will continue to be subject to the election even if there is a transfer of land or change in interest of any producer or owners on the farm. If a new owner or operator or producer purchases or obtains the right and interest in, or right to occupancy of, the land subject to an election option, such new owner or operator or producer, upon the approval of FSA, may enroll and participate under a new contract with FSA with respect to such transferred land in accordance with § 1412.41.
(b) A succession in interest to an ARC or PLC program contract is required if there has been a change in the operation of a farm such as:
(1) A sale of land;
(2) A change of operator or producer, including a change in a partnership that increases or decreases the number or changes who are partners;
(3) A foreclosure, bankruptcy, or involuntary loss of the farm;
(4) A change in the producer shares to reflect changes in the producer's share of the crop(s) that were originally approved on the contract; or
(5) Another change as otherwise determined by the Deputy Administrator by which the succession will not adversely affect nor defeat the purpose of the program.
(c) A succession in interest to an ARC program contract is not permitted if FSA determines that the change:
(1) Is not for all the time remaining under the ARC or PLC program contract;
(2) Results in a violation of the landlord-tenant provisions specified in § 1412.55; or
(3) Adversely affects or otherwise defeats the purpose of the program.
(d) If a producer who is entitled to receive ARC or PLC payments dies, becomes incompetent, or is otherwise unable to receive the payment, CCC will make the payment in accordance with part 707 of this title.
(e) A producer or owner of an enrolled farm must inform the county committee of changes in interest in base acres on the farm not later than:
(1) August 1 of the fiscal year in which the change occurs if the change requires a reconstitution be completed in accordance with part 718 of this title or
(2) September 30 of the fiscal year in which the change occurs if the change does not require a reconstitution be completed in accordance with part 718 of this title.
(f) In any case in which either an ARC or PLC payment has previously been made to a predecessor, such payment will not be paid to the successor, unless such payment has been refunded in full by the predecessor, in accordance with § 1412.41(d).
[79 FR 57718, Sept. 26, 2014]

# Subpart E—Financial Considerations Including Sharing Payments
§ 1412.51
Limitation of payments.
(a) The provisions of part 1400 of this chapter apply to this part. Payments under this part cannot exceed the amounts specified in part 1400 of this chapter.
(b) For all covered commodities other than peanuts, the total amount of ARC and PLC payments received, directly or indirectly, by a person or legal entity (except a joint venture or general partnership) for any crop yearfor any and all commodities cannot exceed $125,000.
(c) For peanuts, the total amount of payments received, directly or indirectly, by a person or legal entity (except a joint venture or general partnership) for any crop year cannot exceed $125,000.
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, a producer on a farm is not eligible to receive ARC and PLC payments if the sum of the base acres on the farm is 10 acres or less unless the sum of the base acres on the farm, when combined with the base acres of other farms in which the producer has an enrolled producer share interest greater than zero, is more than 10 acres. The 10-acre limitation of this section will not apply to a socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher, a beginning farmer or rancher, a veteran farmer or rancher, or a limited resource farmer or rancher.
(e) Any person or legal entity interested in obtaining a payment under this part for a crop year, in addition to satisfying all eligibility requirements of this part, must submit any and all documents from which payment eligibility can be determined to FSA by March 1 of the second year after the end of the annual contract period for which payments are being made. For example, to obtain a payment for a 2019 contract, which ends in calendar year 2020, all documents must be submitted to FSA by March 1, 2021. This includes any payment eligibility document required under part 12 or part 1400 of this title. For example, for the 2019 contract year, the final date for submission of documents from which payment eligibility will be determined and apply is March 1, 2021. Payments will not issue to any person or legal entity who fails to submit required forms and documents by this date. Further these payments will not be considered denied, as the person or legal entity is presumed to have forfeited their interest in the payment.
[79 FR 46339, Aug. 8, 2014, as amended at 79 FR 57719, Sept. 26, 2014; 83 FR 40659, Aug. 16, 2018; 84 FR 45893, Sept. 3, 2019]
§ 1412.52
PLC payment provisions.
(a) Provided all provisions of this part including but not limited to election have been satisfied for a contract year, a PLC payment will be made to eligible participants on a farm enrolled in PLC with respect to covered commodities for which a PLC yield and base acres are established:
(1) When the effective price for a covered commodity in a crop year is less than the effective reference price for the PLC enrolled covered commodity for that crop year as specified in this part; and
(2) As soon as practical, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, after October 1 following the end of the 12-month marketing year for the covered commodity as applicable.
(b) The effective price for a covered commodity is equal to the higher of the:
(1) MYA price received by producers during the 12-month marketing year for the crop year of the covered commodity, as determined by FSA, or
(2) National loan rate for a marketing assistance loan for the covered commodity for such crop year.
(c) The payment rate used to calculate PLC payments with respect to covered commodity for which PLC yields and base acres are attributed to the covered commodity on a farm enrolled in a PLC contract is the effective reference price of the covered commodity minus the effective price of the covered commodity for a crop year, as determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) For PLC contracts, when PLC payments are triggered in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, subject to the limitation in § 1412.51 and in part 1400 of this chapter, the PLC payment to be paid to producers on a farm enrolled in a contract with respect to a covered commodity for which a PLC yield and base acres are attributed is equal to the product of:
(1) The payment rate determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, multiplied by
(2) The relevant payment acres of the covered commodity, as applicable, minus any payment acre reduction in accordance with § 1412.46, multiplied by
(3) The PLC payment yield for the covered commodity on the farm enrolled in a PLC contract as determined in accordance with § 1412.31, minus
(4) Any reduction calculated in accordance with subpart F of this part.
(e) If a producer declines to accept, has forfeited interest in the payment as specified under § 1412.51, or is determined to be ineligible for all or any part of the producer's share of the PLC payment computed for the farm in accordance with the provisions of this section, the:
(1) Payment or portions thereof will not become available for any other producer and
(2) Producer is required to refund to CCC any amounts representing payments that exceed the payments determined by FSA to have been earned under the program authorized by this part. Part 1403 of this chapter is applicable to all unearned payments.
(f) The payment of any amount due any producer on a farm enrolled in a PLC contract will be made only after all the producers subject to the contract are determined to be in full compliance with the contract and the requirements in this part or any other applicable part.
(g) A participant on a farm enrolled in a contract may receive a payment amount due without regard to the eligibility of other participants on the farm if the:
(1) Participant is in full compliance with the contract and the requirements in this part or any other applicable part;
(2) Payment of such amount does not adversely affect or defeat the purpose of the program, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, or designee; and
(3) Payment is approved by the Deputy Administrator, or designee.
(h) Temperate japonica rice or medium and short grain rice grown:
(1) In California will receive the effective price and guarantee for medium and short grain based only on the prices that temperate japonica or medium and short grain rice receives in California.
(2) Outside of California will receive the effective price and guarantee for medium and short grain rice based only on the prices that temperate japonica or medium and short grain rice receives outside of California.
[79 FR 57719, Sept. 26, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 40659, Aug. 16, 2018; 84 FR 45893, Sept. 3, 2019]
§ 1412.53
ARC payment provisions.
(a) Effective with the 2019 and subsequent crop years, ARC-CO actual crop revenue and guarantee will be based on the physical location of base acres of the farm.
(1) FSA will divide up to 25 counties into administrative units. Each of the resulting administrative unit will be viewed as a county for ARC-CO payment purposes.
(2) If a farm has base acres physically located in more than one physical location county, the ARC-CO actual revenue and ARC-CO guarantee will be weighted and summarized to the farm level.
(3) If determined applicable by FSA, a historical irrigated percentage and trend-adjusted yield factor will be used to determine guarantee and revenue, which will also be weighted and summarized to the farm level.
(b) Provided all provisions of this part, including but not limited to ARC-CO election and enrollment, have been satisfied for the contract year, CCC will issue, as applicable and consistent with the election and enrollment:
(1) An ARC-CO payment beginning October 1, or as soon as practicable thereafter, after the end of the applicable marketing year for the covered commodity to the producers on a farm for a covered commodity in each crop year if the farm and covered commodity were enrolled in ARC-CO and the farm's weighted and summarized ARC-CO actual crop revenue was less than the farm's weighted and summarized ARC-CO guarantee.
(2) Payment is equal to the result of multiplying the payment acres for the covered commodity times the difference between the farm's weighted and summarized actual crop revenue and the ARC-CO guarantee, not to exceed 10 percent of the farm's weighted and summarized ARC-CO benchmark revenue.
(c) In a county having farms with P
CP acreage history of a covered commodity in 2013 through 2017, where a covered commodity's P
CP acreage was both irrigated and non-irrigated in 2013 through 2017, a separate irrigated and non-irrigated benchmark revenue, guarantee, and actual revenue will be maintained by FSA for the affected
county. For farms in those counties with covered commodities enrolled in ARC-CO, the average 2013 through 2017 reported acreage of each covered commodity on the farm with irrigated and non-irrigated status will be used by FSA to calculate a percentage of each applicable covered commodity that will be applied against the irrigated and non-irrigated benchmark revenue, guarantee, and actual revenue.
(d) FSA has determined the irrigated and non-irrigated counties and crops for the 2019 program year.
(e) Provided all provisions of this part, including but not limited to ARC-IC election and enrollment, have been satisfied for the contract year, CCC will issue, as applicable and consistent with the election and enrollment:
(1) An ARC-IC payment beginning October 1, or as soon as practicable thereafter, after the end of the applicable marketing year for the farm if the farm was enrolled in ARC-IC and the ARC-IC actual crop revenue for that farm is less than the ARC-IC guarantee.
(2) Payment is equal to the result of multiplying the payment acres for the covered commodities times the difference between actual crop revenue and the ARC-IC guarantee, not to exceed 10 percent of benchmark revenue for ARC-IC.
(f) If a producer has an interest in multiple farms that have enrolled in ARC-IC, the ARC-IC benchmark revenue for that producer used in the payment calculation will be a weighted average of the benchmark revenue for those multiple farms.
(g) The effective price and guarantee for temperate japonica rice will be based on the price that all medium and short grain (including glutinous) rice receives in California. The effective price and guarantee for medium grain rice outside California will be based on the price that all medium and short grain rice receives outside California.
[84 FR 45893, Sept. 3, 2019]
§ 1412.54
Sharing of payments.
(a) Each eligible producer on a farm may enroll in an ARC or PLC contract, as applicable, and receive assistance and payments determined to be fair and equitable as agreed to by all the producers on the farm and approved by the county committee.
(b) When required by FSA, each person or legal entity leasing a farm who enrolls in ARC or PLC must provide a copy of their written lease to the county committee and, in the absence of a written lease, must provide to the county committee a complete written description of the terms and conditions of any oral agreement or lease.
(1) If a farm is cash leased (that is, the landowner receives a zero share of covered commodities planted on the farm or a zero share of any base acres) and the producers on the farm cash leased the farm in the immediately preceding year, then the tenant(s) who enters a producer signature and has a share greater than zero on the contract, if the same was true for the immediately preceding year, is considered to have satisfied ARC and PLC Program requirements of landowner(s) signing to a zero share on the contract The evidence must have been submitted for the immediately preceding contract year or was referred to in that contract year to an immediately preceding contract year.
(2) When required by FSA, an owner's or landlord's signature affirming a zero share on either an application for assistance or contract under this part, as applicable, may be accepted as evidence of a cash lease between the owner or landlord and tenant.
(3) For the purposes of obtaining payments under this part, the signature or signatures, if entered on the contract to satisfy the requirement of furnishing a written lease, are required to be provided by the enrollment deadline established by CCC for the assistance or payment.
(c) When land on which base acres is leased on a share basis, neither the landlord nor the tenant is eligible to receive 100 percent of the ARC or PLC contract payment for the farm.
(d) CCC will approve an ARC or PLC contract for enrollment and approve the division of payment when CCC is satisfied and determines that all of the following apply:
(1) The landlords, tenants, and sharecroppers sign the contract and agree to the payment shares shown on the contract;
(2) The interests of tenants and sharecroppers are being protected; and
(3) The payment shares shown on the application or contract do not circumvent either the provisions of this part or the provisions of part 1400 of this chapter.
(4) If any civil dispute between persons, legal entities, or members of legal entities not involving FSA or CCC is known or suspected to exist that either FSA or CCC believes might impact the eligibility of any person or legal entity or administration of ARC or PLC under this part, the Deputy Administrator can elect to withhold making any determination on an application or contract until such time as the Deputy Administrator is satisfied that the dispute is resolved or no longer has any bearing on either the administration of ARC or PLC under this part or any eligible producer or potential eligible producer. A decision withheld under to this paragraph will not be construed to be a decision or adverse decision under any law or regulation nor will it be construed to be a failure of FSA or CCC to act under any law or regulation.
(e) A lease will be considered to be a cash lease if the lease provides for only a guaranteed cash payment for a specified amount, or a fixed quantity of the crop (for example, pounds, or bushels per acre).
(1) If a lease contains provisions that require the payment of rent on the basis of the amount of crop produced or the proceeds derived from the crop, or the interest such producer would have had if the crop had been produced, or combination thereof, the agreement will be considered to be a share lease.
(2) If a lease provides for a guaranteed amount and a share of the crop or crop proceeds, the agreement will be considered a cash lease.
(3) If the lease is a cash lease, the landlord is not eligible for assistance or payments under this part. The leasing of grazing or haying privileges is not considered cash leasing.
(f) Shares of PLC and ARC-CO will be determined based on the shares entered on the contract. Shares of ARC-IC payments will be determined based on the shares recorded on the report of acreage filed as specified in § 1412.66. Further, each eligible producer having a share of planted or eligible subsequently planted crop acreage of covered commodities on a farm enrolled under an ARC or PLC Program contract has to do both of the following to be eligible for their share of a payment:
(1) Unless otherwise already enrolled on the ARC or PLC Program contract, sign the ARC or PLC Program contract during the contract period; and
(2) Have the producer's share recorded on the report of acreage filed as required by part 718 of this title and § 1412.66.
(g) In a case where a producer has failed to sign an ARC or PLC Program contract by the signup deadline or contract period established for enrollment and participation for the producer's reported share of P
CP acres or eligible subsequently planted crop acreage of covered commodities on a farm enrolled as specified in this part, that producer's share will not receive any consideration for payment and will not generate any payment to the producer or to any other producer on the farm.
(h) FSA's approval of an ARC or PLC contract or shares under this part on behalf of CCC based on the representations of persons or legal entities signing the ARC or PLC contract, or acreage report in no way implies or will be construed as FSA's determination that the representations or assertions made by persons or legal entities signing the ARC or PLC contract, or acreage report are correct or are approved as legitimate. Any and all assertions and representations of a person, persons, legal entity, or legal entities signing forms, applications, or contracts incidental to program participation in this part are always subject to review and scrutiny or spot check by CCC. On CCC's behalf, FSA can at any time demand documentation to substantiate any representation made by any program participant under this part and recover unearned amounts that are determined to have been paid based on such erroneous representation.
[79 FR 46339, Aug. 8, 2014, as amended at 79 FR 57720, Sept. 26, 2014; 83 FR 40659, Aug. 16, 2018; 84 FR 45894, Sept. 3, 2019]
§ 1412.55
Provisions relating to tenants and sharecroppers.
(a) No payment or assistance authorized under this part will be made by CCC if:
(1) The landlord or operator has adopted a scheme or device for the purpose of depriving any tenant or sharecropper of the payments to which such person would otherwise be entitled under ARC or PLC. If any of such conditions occur or are discovered after payments have been made, all or any such part of the payments as the State committee may determine are required to be refunded to CCC; or
(2) The landlord terminated a lease in violation of State law as determined by a State court.
(b) [Reserved]
[79 FR 46339, Aug. 8, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 40659, Aug. 16, 2018]

# Subpart F—Violations and Compliance Provisions
§ 1412.61
Contract violations.
Violations of contract or application requirements will result in the termination or cancellation of the ARC or PLC contract. Upon such termination or cancellation, all producers that signed the contract or application forfeit all rights to receive payments for the ARC or PLC contract and are required to refund all payments received, plus interest as specified in § 1412.1(d) of this part, as determined in accordance with part 1403 of this chapter.
[79 FR 46339, Aug. 8, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 40659, Aug. 16, 2018]
§ 1412.63
Contract or application liability.
All producers who signed an ARC or PLC Program contract made according to this part are jointly and severally liable for contract or application violations and resulting repayments and penalties.
[79 FR 46339, Aug. 8, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 40659, Aug. 16, 2018]
§ 1412.64
Inaccurate representation, misrepresentation, and scheme or device.
(a) Producers are required to accurately report and certify information provided to CCC for ARC or PLC. Any form containing the signature of a person or legal entity that contains a preprinted certification statement on the form will be construed to be a representation and certification of and from the person or legal entity signing the form regardless of whether or not the person or legal entity personally made the entry or entries on the form. Errors in reporting may impact eligibility or extent of eligibility. Payments under this part will be based on the most correct information available. CCC's issuing payments based on the face of a contract does not signify CCC's approval of the representations made by participants. Producers are responsible for refunding, with interest as specified in § 1412.1(d) of this part, any program benefits that were paid based on incorrect program information.
(b) For those cases in which FSA determines that an inaccurate representation or certification is due to a misrepresentation, scheme, or device, the person or legal entity or members of the legal entity will be ineligible to receive ARC or PLC payments and will have the person, legal entity's or member's interest in all contracts or applications terminated if it is determined that such person, legal entity, or member of the legal entity has done any of the following:
(1) Adopted any scheme or device that tends to defeat the purpose of this part;
(2) Made any fraudulent representation;
(3) Misrepresented any fact affecting an ARC or PLC Program contract or determination made under part 1400 of this chapter; or
(4) Violated or been determined ineligible under § 1400.5 of this chapter.
(c) Any remedies taken by FSA or CCC as specified in this section will be in addition to any other civil or other remedies that may be available, including, but not limited to, those provided in part 1400 of this chapter.
[79 FR 46339, Aug. 8, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 40659, Aug. 16, 2018]
§ 1412.65
Offsets and assignments.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any payment or portion thereof to any person will be made without regard to questions of title under State law and without regard to any claim or lien against the crop, or proceeds thereof, in favor of the owner or any other creditor except agencies of the U.S. Government. The regulations governing offsets and withholdings in part 1403 of this chapter apply to contract payments.
(b) Any participant entitled to any payment may assign any payments in accordance with regulations governing the assignment of payments in part 1404 of this chapter.
§ 1412.66
Acreage and production reports, prevented planting, and notices of loss.
(a) An accurate report of all cropland acreage on the farm is required for ARC or PLC.How to submit the acreage report is specified in part 718 of this title.
(b) Prevented planting acreage credit will only be available to acreage that CCC determines was prevented from being planted due to an eligible cause of loss. Acreage ineligible for prevented planted credit includes acreage not planted due to a management decision. Prevented planting acreage credit is subject to the provisions of part 718 of this title.
(c) As a condition of producer payment eligibility for all ARC-IC payments under this part, all producers of all covered commodities on enrolled ARC-IC elected farms must accurately submit a report of production by the acreage reporting date for the crop in the year immediately following the crop year of the reported crop acreage for all the covered commodities elected and enrolled in ARC-IC. The report is due for each covered commodity for which an acreage report greater than zero planted acres was filed for the farm according to paragraph (a) of this section. The report of production for all of such covered commodity or covered commodities can be submitted by any of the producers of the covered commodity or covered commodities on the farm, the farm operator, or an owner on the farm. The absence of the required production report of any covered commodity being filed on an enrolled ARC-IC elected farm will cause all of the producers who share in any of the covered commodities on that farm to be ineligible for payment on that farm and on any other ARC-IC elected and enrolled farm in the State for the crop year for which the production report was not filed or is missing. At the discretion of CCC, the report of production must be accompanied by documentation acceptable to CCC. The report must include the date harvest was completed. Records of production acceptable to CCC may include those specified in:
(1) Commercial receipts, settlement sheets, warehouse ledger sheets, or load summaries of the crop that was sold or otherwise disposed of through commercial channels provided the records are reliable or verifiable as determined by CCC; and
(2) Such documentary evidence such as contemporaneous measurements, truck scale tickets, and contemporaneous diaries, as is necessary in order to verify the information provided if the crop has been fed to livestock or otherwise disposed of other than through commercial channels, provided the records are reliable or verifiable as determined by CCC. If the crop will be disposed of through retail sales, such as roadside stands, u-pick, etc. and the producer will not be able to certify acceptable records of production, the producer must request an appraisal of the crop acreage prior to harvest.
[79 FR 46339, Aug. 8, 2014, as amended at 79 FR 57720, Sept. 26, 2014; 83 FR 40659, Aug. 16, 2018]
§ 1412.67
Compliance with highly erodible land and wetland conservation provisions.
The provisions of part 12 of this title apply to this part.
§ 1412.68
Controlled substance violations.
The provisions of part 718 of this title apply to this part.
§ 1412.69
Control of noxious weeds.
Enrolled ARC and PLC contract participants agree to effectively control noxious weeds and otherwise maintain
the land on the farm in accordance with sound agricultural practices; and use the land on the farm for an agricultural or conserving use, and not for a nonagricultural commercial, industrial, or residential use.
[79 FR 46339, Aug. 8, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 40659, Aug. 16, 2018]

# Subpart G—ARC and PLC Election

# Source:
79 FR 57720, Sept. 26, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1412.71
Election of ARC or PLC.
(a) For the 2019 though 2023 crop years, subject to paragraph (f) of this section, all of the producers on a farm must make a one-time election in the 2019 enrollment and election period that is both:
(1) Unanimous, and
(2) Irrevocable through 2020.
(b) The election by producers is to obtain—
(1) Either PLC or ARC-CO on a covered commodity-by-covered-commodity basis on the farm; or
(2) ARC-IC for all covered commodities on the farm.
(c) In general, a valid election will also apply to any subsequent year parent to the farm reconstitution as well as farms resulting from the parent farm as specified in § 1412.73. Neither the requesting of a farm reconstitution nor the reconstitution of any farm will impact either the requirement that all producers on a farm must make the unanimous irrevocable election in the defined election period or the valid election that was previously made by those producers.
(d) FSA will process elections from producers on a farm based on the election as submitted. For example, if the producers of a farm attest that they are all or the only producers on the farm and FSA later learns that there was another producer at the time of election who did not agree to the election, the election is invalid. If at any time FSA determines that an election fails to satisfy the requirements of this subpart because it did not include the unanimous agreement of all producers on the farm at the time of election, the election will immediately be invalid. This is not a compliance provision. Only valid elections by all producers will be recognized and used by CCC. All ARC and PLC payments that were issued to any producers on a farm based on an election later determined by CCC to be invalid, for whatever reason, regardless of whether those producers who were issued unearned payments personally made or participated in the invalid election, must be refunded with interest.
(e) Even if completed during the same period of time, election is separate from enrollment; producers on farms that have validly completed an election in the prescribed election period must enroll as specified in subpart D of this part for ARC and PLC payments, as applicable.
(f) Except for those farms specified under § 1412.26, for the 2021 and each subsequent crop year, all the producers on a farm may change the election under paragraph (a) of this section.
[79 FR 46339, Aug. 8, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 40659, Aug. 16, 2018; 84 FR 45894, Sept. 3, 2019]
§ 1412.72
Election period.
(a) Election will be conducted in a defined period as announced by FSA. During the election period, all producers on a farm must unanimously make the irrevocable election as described in § 1412.71 to preserve the payment eligibility for 2019 and determine whether the default election under § 1412.74 will apply to the farm.
(b) If an election is submitted by all producers on a farm as specified in § 1412.71 and paragraph (a) of this section, that election will be recognized as valid for the farm unless any of the following occur:
(1) The election is rescinded or terminated by any producer on the farm in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section during the election period;
(2) The valid election is modified and replaced by another valid election by all producers during the election period;
(3) A subsequent valid election by all producers is made with FSA during the election period; or
(4) FSA determines the election at the time it was made was invalid for any reason.
(c) At any time during an election period, a producer can rescind or terminate an election by providing written notice to FSA during the election period. The written notice to rescind or terminate must be physically received by FSA for CCC during the election period in order to be recognized. Immediately following receipt of such notice to rescind or terminate, the farm will be viewed as not having any effective valid election (in other words, no valid election will be determined to exist—even if there was another previous election in effect before the election that is rescinded, or terminated as specified in with this paragraph).
(d) FSA is under no obligation to notify producers or owners on a farm that an election has been submitted, filed, rescinded, or terminated. Producers of a farm are solely responsible for filing a valid election during an election period or in whatever time remains in an election period following the rescission or termination of an election.
(e) FSA is under no obligation to notify producers or owners of whether or not a valid election exists or is in place or whether any producer has rescinded or terminated an election. FSA will respond to inquiries regarding the status of election of a farm by any producer or owner on a farm including a producer or owner who gains a producer or owner interest on the farm during the election period.
(f) The election period and final day in that election period in which producers can unanimously and irrevocably elect are not a compliance requirement or provision. The requirement of an election is mandated in the 2014 Farm Bill, as amended and as such is not subject to any of the equitable relief provisions of 7 CFR part 718, subpart D. Further, because the requirement of a unanimous irrevocable election and ramifications for not having a valid election are specified in the 2014 Farm Bill, as amended FSA will not consider any equitable relief. There are no late-file provisions for election.
[79 FR 57720, Sept. 26, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 45894, Sept. 3, 2019]
§ 1412.73
Reconstitutions of farms and election.
(a) If a new producer or new owner gains an interest in a farm after the filing of a valid election on that farm during the election period, that new producer or new owner, whether or not known to FSA or the other producers or owners on the farm, will be subject to any previously submitted valid election under §§ 1412.71 and 1412.72 unless that new producer or new owner modifies, rescinds, or terminates the election as a producer or owner as specified in § 1412.72(c) during the remaining time in the election period.
(b) Any reconstitution request initiated after August 1, 2019, will not be made until after the end of the election period specified in § 1412.72. Following the close of the election period in § 1412.72, a valid election on any farm cannot be changed by any reconstitution. This means that valid elected farms can only be combined with farms having an identical election for each and every covered commodity on the farm regardless of whether there are any base acres for any and all covered commodities on the farm. Reconstitutions will not be permitted to alter a valid election or the default election that may apply to a farm.
[79 FR 57720, Sept. 26, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 45895, Sept. 3, 2019]
§ 1412.74
Failure to make election.
(a) If all producers on a farm do not make a unanimous election during the period specified in § 1412.72, that farm will not have a valid election and any producer on the farm is not eligible for 2019 ARC or PLC enrollment or payments.
(b) If a valid election is not made for a farm in the 2019 crop year, FSA will not make any payments with respect to the farm for the 2019 crop year and the producers on the farm will, subject to § 1412.71(f), default to the same coverage for each covered commodity on the farm for the 2020 through 2023 crop years as was applicable for the 2015 through 2018 crop years.
[79 FR 46339, Aug. 8, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 40659, Aug. 16, 2018; 84 FR 45895, Sept. 3, 2019]

# Subpart H—CTAP
§ 1412.81
Administration.
(a) The provisions of this part apply to this subpart, except for provisions that apply specifically to ARC and PLC only, for example, the yield and planting flexibility provisions apply specifically to ARC and PLC. To the extent that there is a conflict with the provisions of other subparts of this part and this subpart, the provisions of this subpart apply to CTAP.
(b) CTAP payments as specified in this subpart will be made available for:
(1) The 2014 crop year to eligible producers on farms in all counties; and
(2) The 2015 crop year to eligible producers on farms only in counties where STAX is not available.
§ 1412.82
Eligibility and CTAP application.
(a)
Eligibility.
In addition to any general eligibility provisions in this part, to be eligible for CTAP the following conditions are required:
(1) The producer is a person or legal entity who is actively engaged in farming and otherwise eligible for payment, as specified in 7 CFR part 1400;
(2) The producer is on a farm that has cotton base acres that were in existence as of September 30, 2013, as adjusted; and
(3) The producer has an interest in the upland cotton base acres on the farm.
(b)
Producer's share interest.
A producer's share interest in cropland on a farm must be equal to or greater than that producer's share interest in cotton base acres on the farm for that crop year, as reported on that farm's acreage report.
(c)
Application.
To apply, submit the application and supportive and necessary contractual documents to the FSA county office:
(1) For 2014 CTAP by October 7, 2014; and
(2) For 2015 CTAP, by July 31, 2015.
§ 1412.83
Sharing of CTAP payments.
(a) Each eligible producer on a farm may apply for and receive CTAP payments determined to be fair and equitable as agreed to by all producers on the farm and as approved by the county committee.
(b) The provisions of § 1412.54 regarding the classification of leases apply to CTAP.
(c) Shares of CTAP payments will be determined based on shares recorded on the application for CTAP payments for the particular program year. The provisions of § 1412.54 apply to shares of CTAP payments.
§ 1412.84
Impact of CTAP application on ARC or PLC.
(a) Applications for CTAP do not establish eligibility for ARC or PLC. Interested producers are required to file documents that are specifically required for CTAP as specified on the CTAP application. An application for CTAP will not be considered an intent to participate in ARC or PLC and, conversely, an election or enrollment in ARC or PLC will not establish eligibility for CTAP.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1412.86
CTAP payments.
(a) In the case of producers on a farm who apply for CTAP as specified in this part, and where all other eligibility provisions have been satisfied, CCC will make CTAP payments available to the producers on a farm's application as specified in this subpart.
(b) CTAP payments for upland cotton producers on farms with eligible upland cotton base acres as specified in § 1412.82(a) are equal to:
(1) For 2014, the product of multiplying 60 percent of the farm's upland cotton base acres, times the farm's direct payment yield for upland cotton, times $0.09, times the producer's share on the approved application; or
(2) Where applicable for 2015 according to this part and subpart, the product of multiplying 36.5 percent of the farm's upland cotton base acres, times the farm's direct payment yield for upland cotton, times $0.09, times the producer's share on the approved application.
§ 1412.87
Transfer of land and succession-in-interest.
(a) A succession in interest application for CTAP is required if there has been a change in the producer shares of
upland cotton base acres in § 1412.82(a) for 2014 or 2015, as applicable, due to:
(1) A sale of land;
(2) A change of producer, including a change in a partnership that increases or decreases the number of partners or changes who are partners;
(3) A foreclosure, bankruptcy, or involuntary loss of the farm;
(4) A change in producer shares to reflect changes in the producer's share of the upland cotton base acres relevant to the originally approved application; or
(5) Any other change determined by the Deputy Administrator to be a succession that will not adversely affect or defeat the purpose of CTAP.
(b) A succession in interest to the CTAP application is not permitted if CCC determines that the change:
(1) Results in a violation of the landlord-tenant provisions specified in § 1412.55; or
(2) Adversely affects or otherwise defeats the purpose of CTAP.
(c) If a producer who is entitled to receive CTAP payments dies, becomes incompetent, or is otherwise unable to receive the payment, CCC will make the payment in accordance with part 707 of this title.
(d) A producer or owner of an enrolled farm is required to inform the county committee of changes in interest in base acres of upland cotton as specified in § 1412.82(b) on the farm not later than:
(1) August 1 of the fiscal year in which the change occurs if the change requires a reconstitution be completed in accordance with part 718 of this title; or
(2) September 30 of the fiscal year in which the change occurs if the change does not require a reconstitution be completed in accordance with part 718 of this title.
(e) In any case in which a CTAP payment has previously been made to a predecessor, such payment will not be paid to the successor, unless such payment has been refunded in full by the predecessor.
§ 1412.88
Executed application not in conformity with regulations.
If, after a CTAP application is approved by CCC, it is discovered that such any information contained in the application is not in conformity with the provisions of this part, the provisions of this part will prevail.
§ 1412.89
Division of CTAP payments and provisions relating to tenants and sharecroppers.
(a) CTAP payments will be divided in the manner specified in the applicable application approved by CCC. CCC will ensure that 2014 or 2015 producers who would have a 2014 or 2015 reported share interest in cropland on the farm specified in § 1412.82(b) receive treatment that CCC deems to be equitable, as determined by CCC. CCC will refrain from acting on an application if, as determined by CCC, there is a disagreement among any person or legal entity applying as to the person's or legal entity's eligibility to apply as a tenant and there is insufficient evidence to indicate whether the person seeking participation as a tenant does or does not have a reported share interest in the cropland on the farm sufficient to cover the claimed share interest in cotton base acres of that farm as specified in § 1412.82(b) in 2014 or 2015, as applicable.
(b) CCC may remove an operator or tenant from an application under this subpart and part when the operator or tenant:
(1) Requests, in writing to be removed from the application;
(2) Files for bankruptcy and the trustee or debtor in possession fails to affirm the application, to the extent permitted by the provisions of applicable bankruptcy laws;
(3) Dies during the 2014 or 2015 program year and the Administrator of the estate fails to succeed to the application within a period of time determined by the Deputy Administrator; or
(4) Is the subject of an order of a court of competent jurisdiction requiring the removal from the application under this part and subpart of the operator or tenant and such order is received by FSA, as determined by CCC.
(c) In addition to the provisions in paragraph (b) of this section, tenants are required to maintain their tenancy throughout the crop year in order to remain on an application. Tenants who
fail to maintain tenancy on the acreage under the application, including failure to comply with provisions under applicable State law, may be removed from an application by CCC. CCC will assume the tenancy is being maintained unless notified otherwise by a participant specified in the application.
Pt. 1413

# PART 1413—COMMODITY INCENTIVE PAYMENT PROGRAMS

# Subpart A—Durum Wheat Quality Program
Sec.
1413.101
Applicability.
1413.102
Definitions.
1413.103
Administration.
1413.104
Eligibility.
1413.105
[Reserved]
1413.106
Application process.
1413.107
Availability of funds.
1413.108
Payment calculation.
1413.109
Refunds, joint and several liability.
1413.110
Misrepresentation and scheme or device.
1413.111
Miscellaneous provisions.
1413.112
Appeals.
1413.113
Deceased individuals or dissolved entities.
1413.114
Records and inspections.
Subparts B-C [Reserved]

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 8788 and 15 U.S.C. 714.

# Source:
75 FR 41965, July 20, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Durum Wheat Quality Program
§ 1413.101
Applicability.
(a) This subpart establishes the terms and conditions under which the Durum Wheat Quality Program (DWQP) as authorized by section 1613 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-246) will be administered.
(b) This program will operate only to the extent appropriated funding is available.
(c) Subject to available funding, eligible producers of durum wheat will be partially compensated for the cost of purchasing and applying fungicides to a crop of durum wheat to control Fusarium head blight on acres accurately certified as planted to durum wheat. “Available funding” requires that there be a specific appropriation for the program that applies to a particular crop for which the producer seeks compensation under this program.
§ 1413.102
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this subpart. The definitions in parts 718 and 1400 of this title also apply, except where they conflict with the definitions in this section.
Application period
means the dates established by the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs for producers to apply for program benefits.
CCC
means the Commodity Credit Corporation.
Crop year
means the calendar year in which the wheat was harvested or intended to be harvested. For example, a reference to the 2010 crop year of wheat means wheat that when planted was intended for harvest in calendar year 2010.
Durum wheat
means all varieties of white (amber) durum wheat as defined in the U.S. Standards for Wheat (7 CFR part 810, subpart M) including, but not limited to, hard amber durum wheat and amber durum wheat.
Flowering stage
means the period of time during the wheat growth stage, after the head emergence has completed and prior to milk development in the kernel.
State committee, county committee or county office
means the respective FSA committee or office.
United States
means all 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
§ 1413.103
Administration.
(a) DWQP will be administered under the general supervision of the Executive Vice President, CCC (Administrator, Farm Service Agency (FSA)), or a designee, and will be carried out in the field by FSA State and county committees and FSA employees.
(b) FSA representatives do not have authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of the regulations of this
subpart, except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(c) The State FSA committee will take any action required by the provisions of this subpart that the county FSA committee has not taken. The State FSA committee will also:
(1) Correct, or require a county FSA committee to correct, any action taken by such county FSA committee that is not in compliance with the provisions of this subpart.
(2) Require a county FSA committee to not take an action that is not in compliance with the provisions of this subpart.
(d) No provision or delegation to a State or county FSA committee will preclude the Administrator, Deputy Administrator, or a designee from determining any question arising under the program in this subpart, or from reversing or modifying any determination made by a State or county FSA committee.
(e) The Deputy Administrator may authorize State and county FSA committees to waive or modify non-statutory program requirements of this subpart in cases where failure to meet such requirements does not adversely affect operation of the program in this subpart. Producers have no right to seek an exception under this provision. The Deputy Administrator's refusal to consider cases or circumstances or decision not to exercise this discretionary authority under this provision will not be considered an adverse decision and is not appealable.
§ 1413.104
Eligibility.
(a) To be considered eligible for DWQP payments, the person or entity must have a share in the treated wheat crop on those acres planted to durum wheat on which an eligible fungicide was applied, as certified on the application, have incurred the cost of acquiring and applying eligible fungicide, and meet the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) To be eligible for benefits, a person or entity must be a:
(1) Citizen of the United States;
(2) “Lawful alien” as defined in § 1400.3 of this chapter;
(3) Partnership of citizens of the United States; or
(4) Corporation, limited liability corporation, or other farm organizational structure organized under State law.
(c) A minor child is eligible to apply for DWQP payments if all the eligibility requirements of this subpart are met and the requirements in part 1400 of this chapter that apply to minor children are met.
(d) A person or entity determined to be a foreign person under part 1400 of this title is not eligible to receive benefits under this subpart, unless that person provides land, capital, and a substantial amount of active personal labor in the production of crops on such farm.
(e) State and local governments and their political subdivisions and related agencies are not eligible for DWQP payments.
(f) To be considered an eligible fungicide under this subpart, the fungicide must be:
(1) Registered with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, as required under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), unless exempt from FIFRA requirements;
(2) In compliance with State pesticide regulations, if applicable, in the State in which benefits are being requested; and
(3) Applied specifically to control Fusarium head blight on acres certified as planted by the producer to durum wheat for the applicable crop year.
(g) CCC will provide program benefits to reimburse eligible costs for a maximum of one fungicide treatment, including application cost, during the flowering stage, to a crop of durum wheat per crop year. Multiple or additional fungicide treatments, beyond a single treatment, to the same crop of wheat are not eligible for benefits.
§ 1413.105
[Reserved]
§ 1413.106
Application process.
(a) To apply for DWQP payment, the producer must submit, to the FSA county office that maintains the producer's farm records for the agricultural operation, a completed application as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, including any supporting
documentation required by FSA, and a report of acreage.
(b) The producer must submit a completed application for payment and required supporting documentation to the administrative FSA county office during the relevant, for the crop, application period announced by FSA which will end no later than September 15 of the crop year in which the fungicide was applied to a crop of durum wheat.
(c) A complete application includes all of the following:
(1) An application form provided by FSA;
(2) Certification of the total number and location of acres planted to durum wheat on which an eligible fungicide was applied specifically to control Fusarium head blight;
(3) Certification of the date durum wheat, on which an eligible fungicide was applied specifically to control Fusarium head blight, was planted;
(4) Certification of the type of eligible fungicide applied to acres certified as planted to durum wheat;
(5) Certification of the date eligible fungicide was applied to acres certified as planted to durum wheat;
(6) Documentation providing adequate proof, as determined by FSA, of the producer's actual cost of purchasing and applying eligible fungicide to acres certified as planted to durum wheat for one treatment; and
(7) Any other documentation as determined by FSA to be necessary to make a determination of eligibility of the producer.
(d) The producer requesting benefits under this program certifies the accuracy and truthfulness of the information provided in the application as well as any documentation filed with or in support of the application. All information provided is subject to verification by FSA.
(e) Data furnished by the producer will be used to determine eligibility for program benefits. Furnishing the data is voluntary; however, without all required data program benefits will not be approved or provided.
§ 1413.107
Availability of funds.
(a) The 2008 Farm Bill authorizes up to $10 million to be appropriated for each of the 2009 through 2012 fiscal years for DWQP. Payments will not be made for claims for a particular crop year until after the application deadline, which is September 15 of that crop year, for the crop for which payment for the fungicide application is sought and only if funds are made available through an appropriation.
(b) In the event that approval of all eligible applications for fungicide treatments for a particular crop would result in expenditures in excess of the amounts appropriated for that crop year, the FSA Deputy Administrator will prorate the funds by a national factor to reduce the total expected payments to the amount made available by the Secretary. FSA will prorate the payments in such manner as it determines appropriate and reasonable.
(c) Claims that are unpaid or paid at a reduced rate for a crop year for any reason will not be carried forward for payment under other funds for later crop years, unless provided for by law and approved by the Deputy Administrator. Such unpaid claims will be considered, as to any unpaid amount, void and nonpayable.
§ 1413.108
Payment calculation.
(a) Subject to the availability of DWQP funds, the payment to an eligible producer will be the result of adding (adjusted for the producer's share of the crop):
(1) The lesser of:
(i) The result of multiplying the number of acres certified by the producer as planted to durum wheat on which an eligible fungicide was applied, during the flowering stage, times the per acre national fungicide acquisition payment rate as set by the Deputy Administrator; or
(ii) Fifty percent of the producer's actual cost of purchasing eligible fungicide for acres certified as planted to durum wheat and treated for the applicable crop year in a manner that would otherwise generate a payment under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section; plus
(2) The result of multiplying the number of acres certified as planted to durum wheat on which an eligible fungicide was applied during the flowering stage, times the State application per-acre payment rate set by the State
committee, with such application payment not to exceed 50 percent of the actual application cost certified to by the producer.
(b) The national fungicide acquisition payment rate set by the Deputy Administrator will be based on 50 percent of the national average cost of eligible fungicide (only including the cost of the chemical itself), applied to one acre of durum wheat for the applicable crop year.
(c) The State application payment rate set by the State committee will be based on 50 percent of the State average cost of applying an eligible fungicide to one acre of durum wheat for the applicable crop year.
§ 1413.109
Refunds, joint and several liability.
(a) Excess payments, payments provided as the result of erroneous information provided by any person, or payments resulting from a failure to comply with any requirement or condition for payment in the application or this subpart, must be refunded to CCC.
(b) A refund required as specified in this section will be due with interest from the date of CCC disbursement and otherwise determined in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section and late payment charges as provided in part 1403 of this chapter.
(c) Persons signing an application for payment as having an interest in an operation will be jointly and severally liable for any refund and related charges found to be due as specified in this section.
(d) Interest will be applicable to any refunds required as specified in parts 792 and 1403 of this title. Such interest will be charged at the rate that the U.S. Department of the Treasury charges CCC for funds, and will accrue from the date CCC made the erroneous payment to the date of repayment.
(e) CCC may waive the accrual of interest if it determines that the cause of the erroneous determination was not due to any action of the person, or was beyond the control of the person committing the violation. Any waiver is at the discretion of CCC alone.
§ 1413.110
Misrepresentation and scheme or device.
(a) In addition to other penalties, sanctions, or remedies as may apply, a producer will be ineligible for payment through the DWQP if the producer is determined by CCC to have:
(1) Adopted any scheme or device that tends to defeat the purpose of the program,
(2) Made any fraudulent representation, or
(3) Misrepresented any fact affecting a program determination.
(b) Any funds disbursed pursuant to this subpart to any producer engaged in a misrepresentation, scheme, or device, must be refunded with interest together with such other sums as may become due and all charges including interest will run from the date of disbursement of the CCC funds. Any producer engaged in acts prohibited by this section and any producer receiving payment as specified in this subpart will be jointly and severally liable with other persons or producers involved in such claim for payment for any refund due as specified in this section and for related charges. The remedies provided in this subpart will be in addition to other civil, criminal, or administrative remedies that may apply.
§ 1413.111
Miscellaneous provisions.
(a)
Other interests.
Any payment to any producer under this part will be made without regard to questions of title under State law, and without regard to any claim or lien against the commodity, or proceeds, in favor of the owner or any other creditor except agencies of the U.S. Government.
(b)
Assignments.
Any producer entitled to any payment may assign any payment(s) in accordance with regulations governing the assignment of payments in part 1404 of this chapter.
(c)
Offsets.
CCC may offset or withhold any amount due to CCC from any benefit provided under this subpart in accordance with the provisions of part 1403 of this chapter and part 792 of this title.
(d)
Violations of highly erodible land and wetland conservation provisions.
The provisions of part 12 of this title apply
to this subpart. That part sets out certain conservation requirements as a general condition for farm benefits.
(e)
Violations regarding controlled substances.
The provisions of § 718.6 of this title, which generally limit program payment eligibility for persons who have engaged in certain offenses with respect to controlled substances, will apply to this part.
§ 1413.112
Appeals.
(a)
Appeals.
Appeal regulations set forth at parts 11 and 780 of this title apply to determinations made under this subpart.
(b)
Determinations not eligible for administrative review or appeal.
CCC determinations and policies that are not limited to a specific individual producer's application are not to be construed to be individual program eligibility determinations or adverse decisions and are, therefore, not subject to administrative review or appeal under 7 CFR part 11 or part 780 of this title (but nothing in the regulations for this program will limit the ability of the National Appeals Division to decide its own jurisdiction under part 11). Such determinations include, but are not limited to, application periods, deadlines, crop years, prices, general statutory or regulatory provisions that apply to similarly situated producers, national average payment prices, and payment factors established by CCC for DWQP for which this subpart applies or similar matters requiring CCC determinations.
§ 1413.113
Deceased individuals or dissolved entities.
(a) Payment may be made for an eligible application on behalf of an eligible producer who is now a deceased individual or is a dissolved entity if a representative who currently has authority to enter into a contract on behalf of the producer signs the application for payment.
(b) Legal documents showing proof of authority to sign for the deceased individual or dissolved entity must be provided.
(c) If a producer is now a dissolved general partnership or joint venture, all members of the general partnership or joint venture at the time of dissolution or their duly authorized representatives must sign the application for payment.
§ 1413.114
Records and inspections.
(a) Any producer receiving DWQP payments, or any other legal entity or person who provides information for the purposes of enabling a producer to receive a DWQP payment, must:
(1) Maintain any books, records, and accounts supporting the information for 3 years following the end of the year during which the request for payment was submitted, and
(2) Allow authorized representatives of USDA and the U.S. Government Accountability Office, during regular business hours, to inspect, examine, and make copies of such books or records, and to enter the farm and to inspect and verify all applicable acreage in which the producer has an interest for the purpose of confirming the accuracy of information provided by or for the producer.
(b) [Reserved]
Subparts B-C [Reserved]
Pt. 1415

# PART 1415—GRASSLANDS RESERVE PROGRAM
Sec.
1415.1
Purpose.
1415.2
Administration.
1415.3
Definitions.
1415.4
Program requirements.
1415.5
Land eligibility.
1415.6
Participant eligibility.
1415.7
Application procedures.
1415.8
Establishing priority for enrollment of properties.
1415.9
Enrollment of easements and rental contracts.
1415.10
Compensation for easements and rental contracts acquired by the Secretary.
1415.11
Restoration agreements.
1415.12
Modifications to easements and rental contracts.
1415.13
Transfer of land.
1415.14
Misrepresentation and violations.
1415.15
Payments not subject to claims.
1415.16
Assignments.
1415.17
Cooperative agreements.
1415.18
Easement transfer to eligible entities.
1415.19
Appeals.
1415.20
Scheme or device.

# Authority:
16 U.S.C. 3838n-3838q.

# Source:
75 FR 73925, Nov. 29, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1415.1
Purpose.
(a) The purpose of the Grassland Reserve Program (GRP) is to assist landowners and operators in protecting grazing uses and related conservation values by conserving and restoring grassland resources on eligible private lands through rental contracts, easements, and restoration agreements.
(b) GRP emphasizes:
(1) Supporting grazing operations;
(2) Maintaining and improving plant and animal biodiversity; and
(3) Protecting grasslands and shrublands from the threat of conversion to uses other than grazing.
§ 1415.2
Administration.
(a) The regulations in this part set forth policies, procedures, and requirements for program implementation of GRP, as administered by the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) and the Farm Service Agency (FSA). The regulations in this part are administered under the general supervision and direction of the NRCS Chief and the FSA Administrator. These two agency leaders:
(1) Concur in the establishment of program policy and direction, development of the national allocation formula, and development of broad national ranking criteria;
(2) Use a national allocation formula to provide GRP funds to NRCS State Conservationists and FSA State Executive Directors that emphasizes support for grazing operations, biodiversity of plants and animals, and grasslands under the greatest threat of conversion to uses other than grazing. The national allocation formula may also include additional factors related to improving program implementation, as determined by the NRCS Chief and the FSA Administrator. The allocation formula may be modified periodically to change the emphasis of any factor(s) in order to address a particular natural resource concern, such as the precipitous decline of a population of a grassland-dependent bird(s) or animal(s);
(3) Ensure the national, State, and local-level information regarding program implementation is made available to the public;
(4) Consult with USDA leaders at the State level and other Federal agencies with the appropriate expertise and information when evaluating program policies and direction; and
(5) Authorize NRCS State Conservationists and FSA State Executive Directors to determine how funds will be used and how the program will be implemented at the State level.
(b) At the State level, the NRCS State Conservationist and the FSA State Executive Director are jointly responsible for:
(1) Determining how funds will be used and how the program will be implemented at the State level to achieve the program purposes;
(2) Identifying State priorities for project selection based on input from the State Technical Committee;
(3) Identifying Department of Agriculture (USDA) employees at the field level responsible for implementing the program by considering the nature and extent of natural resource concerns throughout the State and the availability of human resources to assist with activities related to program enrollment;
(4) Developing, with advice from the State Technical Committee, program outreach materials at the State and local levels to help ensure landowners, operators, and tenants of eligible land are aware and informed that they may be eligible for the program;
(5) Approving conservation practices eligible for cost-share and cost-share rates;
(6) Developing GRP management plans and restoration agreements, when applicable;
(7) Administering and enforcing the terms of easements and rental contracts unless this responsibility is transferred to an eligible entity as provided in § 1415.17 and § 1415.18; and
(8) Developing, with advice from the State Technical Committee, criteria for ranking eligible land consistent with national criteria and program objectives and State priorities.
(c) The funds, facilities, and authorities of the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) are available to NRCS and FSA to implement GRP.
(d) Subject to funding availability, the program may be implemented in any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(e) The NRCS Chief or the FSA Administrator may modify or waive a provision of this part if he or she deems the application of that provision to a particular limited situation to be inappropriate and inconsistent with the conservation purposes and sound administration of GRP. This authority cannot be further delegated. No provision of this part, which is required by law, may be waived.
(f) No delegation in this part to lower organizational levels will preclude the NRCS Chief or the FSA Administrator from determining any issue arising under this part or from reversing or modifying any determination arising from this part.
(g) The USDA Forest Service may hold GRP easements on properties adjacent to USDA Forest Service land, with the consent of the landowner.
(h) Program participation is voluntary.
(i) Applications for participation will be accepted on a continual basis at local USDA Service Centers. Eligible entities wishing to enter into a cooperative agreement under § 1415.17 in order to purchase, own, write, and hold easements may apply on a continuous basis to the NRCS State Conservationist. The NRCS State Conservationist and FSA State Executive Director will establish cut-off periods to rank and select applications for participation. These cut-off periods will be available in program outreach material provided by the local USDA Service Center. Once funding levels have been exhausted, unfunded eligible applications will remain on file until they are funded or the applicant chooses to be removed from consideration.
(j) The services of third parties as provided for in part 652 of this title may be used to provide technical services to participants.
§ 1415.3
Definitions.
Activity
means an action other than a conservation practice that is included as a part of a GRP management or conservation plan that has the effect of alleviating problems or improving treatment of the resources, including ensuring proper management or maintenance of the functions and values restored, protected, or enhanced through an easement or rental contract.
Administrator
means the Administrator of FSA or the person delegated authority to act for the Administrator.
Applicant
means a person, legal entity, joint operator, or Indian Tribe who applies to participate in the program.
Chief
means the Chief of NRCS or designee.
Biological diversity
means the variety and variability among living organisms and the ecological complexes in which they live.
Commodity Credit Corporation
is a government-owned and operated entity that was created to stabilize, support, and protect farm income and prices. The CCC is managed by a Board of Directors, subject to the general supervision and direction of the Secretary of Agriculture, who is an ex-officio director and chairperson of the Board. The CCC provides the funding for GRP, and FSA and NRCS administer GRP on its behalf.
Common grazing practices
means those grazing practices, including those related to forage and seed production, common to the area of the subject ranching or farming operation. Included are routine management activities necessary to maintain the viability of forage or browse resources that are common to the locale of the subject ranching or farming operation.
Conservation district
means any district or unit of State, Tribal, or local government formed under State, Tribal, or territorial law for the express purpose of developing and carrying out a local soil and water conservation program. Such district or unit of government may be referred to as a conservation district, soil conservation district, soil and water conservation district, resource conservation district, natural resource district, land conservation committee, or similar name.
Conservation plan
means a record of the GRP participants' decisions and supporting information that will be developed to address resource concerns in addition to grazing land uses. The conservation plan will describe the implementation and maintenance of GRP management and conservation practices directly related to any additional land eligibility criteria under which the land is enrolled. Additional land eligibility criteria may include, but is not limited to, significant animal or plant habitat and historical or archeological resources.
Conservation practice
means a specified treatment, such as a vegetative, structural, or land management practice, that is planned and applied according to NRCS Field Office Technical Guide (FOTG) standards and specifications.
Conservation values
means those natural resource attributes that sustain and enhance ecosystem functions and values of the grassland area including, but not limited to, habitat for grassland and shrubland dependent plants and animals, native plant and animal biodiversity, soil erosion control, forage production, and air and water quality protection.
Cost-share payment
means the payment made by USDA to a program participant or vendor to achieve the restoration, enhancement, and protection goals in accordance with the GRP restoration plan component of the restoration agreement.
Dedicated account
means a dedicated fund of the eligible entity held in a separate account for the management, monitoring, and enforcement of conservation easements and that cannot be used for other purposes.
Easement
means a conservation easement, which is an interest in land defined and delineated in a deed whereby the landowner conveys certain rights, title, and interests in a property to the United States, an eligible entity, or both for the purpose of protecting the grassland and other conservation values of the property. Under GRP, the property rights are conveyed by a conservation easement deed.
Easement area
means the land encumbered by an easement.
Easement payment
means the consideration paid to a landowner for an easement conveyed to the United States, an eligible entity, or both under GRP.
Eligible entity
means, for the purposes of entering into a cooperative agreement under 16 U.S.C. 3838q(d), an agency of State or local government, an Indian Tribe, or a nongovernmental organization that has the relevant experience necessary, as appropriate for the application, to administer an easement on grassland, land that contains forbs, or shrubland; has a charter that describes a commitment to conserving ranchland, agricultural land, or grassland for grazing and conservation purposes; and has the resources necessary to effectuate the purposes of the charter.
Enhancement
means to increase or improve the viability of grassland and grazing resources, including habitat for declining species of grassland dependent birds and animals.
Farm Service Agency
is an agency of the Department of Agriculture.
FSA State Executive Director
means the FSA employee authorized to implement GRP and direct and supervise FSA activities in a State, Caribbean Area, or the Pacific Islands Area.
Field Office Technical Guide
means the official local NRCS source of resource information and interpretations of guidelines, criteria, and requirements for planning and applying conservation practices and conservation management systems. It contains detailed information on the conservation of soil, water, air, plant, and animal resources applicable to the local area for which it is prepared.
Fire pre-suppression
means activities as outlined in a GRP management plan such as the establishment and maintenance of firebreaks and prescribed burning to prevent or limit the spread of fires.
Forb
means any herbaceous plant other than those in the grass family.
Functions and values of grasslands and shrublands
means ecosystem services provided, including domestic animal productivity, biological productivity, plant and animal richness and diversity, fish and wildlife habitat (including habitat for pollinators and native
insects), water quality and quantity benefits, aesthetics, open space, and recreation.
Grantor
means the landowner who is transferring land rights to the United States or an eligible entity, or both through an easement.
Grassland
means land on which the vegetation is dominated by grasses, grass-like plants, shrubs, or forbs, including shrubland, land that contains forbs, pastureland, and rangeland, and improved pastureland and rangeland.
GRP management plan
means the document developed by NRCS that describes the implementation of the grazing management system consistent with the prescribed grazing standard contained in the FOTG. The GRP management plan will include a description of the grazing management system, permissible and prohibited activities, any associated restoration plan or conservation plan, if applicable, and a description of USDA's right of ingress and egress.
Grazing value
means the financial worth of the land as used for grazing or forage production. The term is used in the calculation of compensation for rental contracts and easements. For easements, this value is determined by NRCS through an appraisal process or a market survey process. For rental contracts, FSA determines the grazing value based upon an administrative process.
Historical and archeological resources
mean resources that are:
(1) Listed in the National Register of Historic Places (established under the National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA), 16 U.S.C. 470,
et seq.
);
(2) Formally determined eligible for listing the National Register of Historic Places by the State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO) or Tribal Historic Preservation Officer (THPO) and Keeper of the National Register in accordance with section 106 or the NHPA);
(3) Formally listed in the State or Tribal Register of Historic Places of the SHPO (designated under section 101(b)(1)(B) of the NHPA) or the Tribal Register of Historic Places (designated under section 101(d)(1)(C) of the NHPA); or
(4) Included in the SPHO or THPO inventory with written justification as to why it meets National Register of Historic Places criteria.
Improved rangeland or pastureland
means grazing land permanently producing naturalized forage species that receives varying degrees of periodic cultural treatment to enhance forage quality and yields and is primarily harvested by grazing animals.
Indian Tribe
means any Indian Tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) that is eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
Landowner
means a person, legal entity, or Indian Tribe having legal ownership of land and those who may be buying eligible land under a purchase agreement. The term landowner may include all forms of collective ownership including joint tenants, tenants-in-common, and life tenants. The term landowner includes Indian Tribes. State governments, local governments, and nongovernmental organizations that qualify as eligible entities are not eligible as landowners.
Legal entity
means an entity created under Federal or State law and that: (1) Owns land or an agricultural commodity, product, or livestock; or (2) produces an agricultural commodity, product, or livestock.
Maintenance
means work performed to keep the applied conservation practice functioning for the intended purpose during its life span. Maintenance includes work to manage and prevent deterioration, repair damage, or replace the practice to its original condition if one or more components fail.
Native
means a species that is indigenous and is a part of the original fauna or flora of the area.
Natural Resources Conservation Service
is an agency of the Department of Agriculture.
NRCS State Conservationist
means the NRCS employee authorized to implement GRP and direct and supervise
NRCS activities in a State, Caribbean Area, or the Pacific Islands Area.
Naturalized
means an introduced, desirable forage species that is ecologically adapted to the site and can perpetuate itself in the community without cultural treatment. The term naturalized does not include noxious weeds.
Nesting season
means the time of year that grassland dependent birds in significant decline in the local area build nests or otherwise find a place of refuge for purposes of reproduction.
Nongovernmental organization
means any organization that:
(1) Is organized for, and at all times since, the formation of the organization, and has been operated principally for one or more of the conservation purposes specified in clause (i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of section 170(h)(4)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
(2) Is an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of that Code that is exempt from taxation under 501(a) of that Code; and
(3) Is described—
(i) In section 509(a)(1) or 509(a)(2) of that Code, or
(ii) Is described in section 509(a)(3) of that Code and is controlled by an organization described in section 509(a)(2) of that Code.
Participant
means a person, legal entity, joint operation, or Indian Tribe who is accepted to participate in GRP through a rental contract or option agreement to purchase an easement.
Pastureland
means grazing lands comprised of introduced or domesticated native forage species that are used primarily for the production of livestock. These lands receive periodic renovation and cultural treatments, such as tillage, aeration, fertilization, mowing, and weed control, and may be irrigated. This term does not include lands that are in rotation with crops.
Permanent easement
means an easement that lasts in perpetuity or for the maximum duration allowed under the law of a State.
Private land
means land that is not owned by a governmental entity and includes Tribal lands.
Purchase price
means the amount paid to acquire an easement under a cooperative agreement between NRCS and an eligible entity. It is the fair market value of the easement.
Rangeland
means a land cover or use category with a climax or potential plant cover composed principally of native grasses, grass-like plants, forbs, or shrubs suitable for grazing and browsing, and introduced forage species that are managed like rangeland. Rangeland includes lands re-vegetated naturally or artificially when routine management of that vegetation is accomplished mainly through manipulation of grazing. This term includes areas where introduced hardy and persistent grasses are planted and such practices as deferred grazing, burning, chaining, and rotational grazing are used with little or no chemicals or fertilizer being applied. Grasslands, savannas, many wetlands, some deserts, and tundra are considered to be rangeland. Certain communities of low forbs and shrubs, such as mesquite, chaparral, mountain shrub, and pinyon juniper are also included as rangeland.
Rental contract
means the legal document that specifies the obligations and rights of a participant in GRP, including the annual rental payments to be provided to the participant for the length of the contract to maintain or restore grassland functions and values under GRP.
Restoration
means implementing any conservation practice, system of practices, or activities to restore functions and values of grasslands and shrublands. The restoration may re-establish grassland functions and values on degraded land, or on land that has been converted to another use.
Restoration agreement
means an agreement between the program participant and NRCS or eligible entity to carry out activities and conservation practices necessary to restore or improve the functions and values of that land. A restoration agreement will include a restoration plan.
Restoration plan
is the portion of the restoration agreement that includes the schedule and conservation practices and activities to restore the functions and values of grasslands and shrublands, including protection of associated streams, ponds, and wetlands. The restoration plan incorporates the requirement that program participants
will maintain GRP-funded conservation practices and activities for their expected lifespan as described in the plan.
Right of enforcement
means a property interest in the easement the Chief may exercise on behalf of the United States under specific circumstances in order to enforce the terms of the conservation easement. The right of enforcement provides that the Chief has the right to inspect and enforce the easement if the eligible entity fails to uphold the easement or attempts to transfer the easement without first securing the consent of the Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Department of Agriculture.
Shrubland
means land where the dominant plant species is shrubs, which are plants that are persistent, have woody stems, and a relatively low growth habit.
Significant decline
means a decrease of a species population to such an extent that it merits conservation priority as determined by the State Conservationist, in consultation with the State Technical Committee.
State Technical Committee
means a committee established by the Secretary in a State pursuant to 16 U.S.C. 3861.
Tribal land
means:
(1) Land held in trust by the United States for individual Indians or Indian Tribes; or
(2) Land, the title to which is held by individual Indians or Indian Tribes subject to Federal restrictions against alienation or encumbrance; or
(3) Land which is subject to rights of use, occupancy, and benefit of certain Indian Tribes; or
(4) Land held in fee title by an Indian, Indian family, or Indian Tribe.
USDA
means the Department of Agriculture and its agencies and offices, as applicable.
§ 1415.4
Program requirements.
(a) Except as provided for under § 1415.17, only landowners may submit applications for easements. For rental contracts, applicants must own or provide written evidence of control of the property for the duration of the rental contract.
(b) The easement or rental contract will require that the area be maintained in accordance with GRP goals and objectives for the term of the easement or rental contract, including the conservation, protection, enhancement, and if necessary, restoration of the grassland functions and values.
(c) All participants in GRP are required to implement a GRP management plan approved by NRCS. When an eligible entity holds the GRP easement, NRCS will develop GRP management plans with eligible entities. In cases where a participant receives ranking points on the basis of resource concerns other than grazing land concerns, all such resource concerns will be addressed in an applicable conservation plan.
(d) The easement or rental contract must grant USDA or its representatives a right of ingress and egress to the easement or rental contract area. For easements, this access is legally described by the conservation easement deed and the GRP management plan. Access to rental contract areas is identified in the GRP management plan.
(e) Easement participants are required to convey unencumbered title that is acceptable to the United States and provide consent or subordination agreements from each holder of a security or other interest in the land. The landowner must warrant that the easement granted the United States or eligible entity is superior to the rights of all others, except for exceptions to the title that are deemed acceptable by USDA.
(f) Landowners are required to use a standard GRP conservation easement deed developed by USDA or developed by an eligible entity and approved by USDA under § 1415.17 of this part. The easement grants development rights, title, and interest in the easement area in order to protect grassland and other conservation values.
(g) The program participant must comply with the terms of the easement or rental contract, and comply with all terms and conditions of the GRP management plan and any associated conservation plan or restoration agreement.
(h) Easements and rental contracts allow, consistent with their terms and the program purposes, the following activities as outlined in the GRP management plan:
(1) Common grazing practices, including maintenance and necessary conservation practices and activities (
e.g.,
prescribed grazing; upland wildlife habitat management; prescribed burning; fencing, watering, and feeding necessary for the raising of livestock; and related forage and seed production) on the land in a manner that is consistent with maintaining the viability of grassland, forb, and shrub species common to the locality;
(2) Haying, mowing, or harvesting for seed production subject to appropriate restrictions, as determined by the State Conservationist, during the nesting season for birds in the local area that are in significant decline, or are conserved in accordance with Federal or State law;
(3) Fire pre-suppression, rehabilitation, and construction of firebreaks;
(4) Grazing related activities, such as fencing and livestock watering facilities;
(5) Facilities for power generation through renewable sources of energy production provided the scope and scale of the footprint of the facility and associated infrastructure is consistent with program purposes as determined by USDA through analysis of the potential site-specific environmental effects; and
(6) Other activities that USDA determines the manner, number, intensity, location, operation, and other features associated with the activity will not adversely affect the grassland resources or related conservation values protected under an easement or rental contract. This includes infrastructure development along existing right-of-ways where the easement deed allows the landowner to grant right-of-ways when it is determined by NRCS that granting such right-of-ways are in the public interest, that grassland resources and related conservation values will not be adversely impacted, and the landowner agrees to a restoration plan for the disturbed area as developed by NRCS, but at no cost to NRCS. This also includes undeveloped, passive, recreational uses such as hiking, camping, bird watching, hunting, and fishing as long as such uses, as determined by the grantee, do not impair the grazing uses and other conservation values.
(i) Easement and rental contracts prohibit the following activities:
(1) The production of crops (other than hay), orchards, vineyards, or other agricultural commodity that is inconsistent with maintaining grazing land and related conservation values; and
(2) Except as permitted under a restoration plan, the conduct of any other activity that would be inconsistent with maintaining grazing uses and related conservation values protected under an easement or rental contract.
(j) Rental contracts may be terminated by USDA without penalty or refund if the original participant dies, is declared legally incompetent, or is otherwise unavailable during the contract period.
(k) Participants, with the agreement of USDA, may convert a rental contract to an easement, provided that funds are available and the project meets conditions established by USDA. Land cannot be enrolled in both a rental contract option and an easement enrollment option at the same time. The rental contract will be terminated prior to the date the easement is recorded in the local land records office.
(l) Rental contract participants are required to suspend any existing cropland base and allotment history for the land under another program administered by the Secretary.
(m) Easement participants are required to eliminate any existing cropland base and allotment history for the land under another program administered by the Secretary.
§ 1415.5
Land eligibility.
(a) GRP is available on privately owned lands, which include private and Tribal land. Publicly owned land is not eligible.
(b) Land is eligible for funding consideration if the State Conservationist determines that the land is:
(1) Grassland, land that contains forbs or shrubland (including improved
rangeland and pastureland) for which grazing is the predominant use; or
(2) Located in an area that has been historically dominated by grassland, forbs, or shrubland, and the State Conservationist, with advice from the State Technical Committee, determines that it is compatible with grazing uses and related conservation values, and
(i) Could provide habitat for animal or plant populations of significant ecological value if the land is retained in its current use or is restored to a natural condition,
(ii) Contains historical or archeological resources, or
(iii) Would address issues raised by State, regional, and national conservation priorities.
(c) Incidental lands, in conjunction with eligible land, may also be considered for enrollment to allow for the efficient administration of an easement or rental contract. Incidental lands may include relatively small areas that do not specifically meet the eligibility requirements, but as a part of the land unit, may contribute to grassland functions and values and related conservation values, or its inclusion may increase efficiencies in land surveying, easement management, and monitoring by reducing irregular boundaries.
(d) Land will not be enrolled if the functions and values of the grassland are already protected under an existing contract, easement, or deed restriction, or if the land already is in ownership by an entity whose purpose is to protect and conserve grassland and related conservation values. This land becomes eligible for enrollment in GRP if the existing contract, easement, or deed restriction expires or is terminated, and the grassland values and functions are no longer protected.
(e) Land on which gas, oil, earth, or other mineral rights exploration has been leased or is owned by someone other than the applicant may be offered for participation in the program. However, if an applicant submits an offer for an easement project, USDA will assess the potential impact that the third party rights may have upon the grassland resources. USDA reserves the right to deny funding for any application where there are exceptions to clear title on the property.
§ 1415.6
Participant eligibility.
To be eligible to participate in GRP, an applicant, except as otherwise described in § 1415.17:
(a) Must be a landowner for easement participation or be a landowner or have control of the eligible acreage being offered for rental contract participation;
(b) Agree to provide such information to USDA that is necessary or desirable to assist in its determination of eligibility for program benefits and for other program implementation purposes;
(c) Meet the Adjusted Gross Income requirements in part 1400 of this chapter, unless exempted under part 1400 of this chapter; and
(d) Meet the conservation compliance requirements found in part 12 of this title.
[75 FR 73925, Nov. 29, 2010, as amended at 83 FR 23209, May 18, 2018]
§ 1415.7
Application procedures.
(a) Applicants, except as otherwise described under § 1415.17, may submit an application through a USDA Service Center for participation in GRP. Applications may be submitted throughout the year.
(b) By filing an application for participation, the applicant consents to a USDA representative entering upon the land offered for enrollment for purposes of assessing the grassland functions and values and for other activities that are necessary for USDA to make an offer of enrollment. Generally, the applicant will be notified prior to a USDA representative entering upon their property.
(c) Applicants submit applications that identify the duration of the easement or rental contract for which they seek to enroll their land. Rental contracts may be for the duration of 10-years, 15-years, or 20-years; easements may be permanent in duration or for the maximum duration authorized by State law.
§ 1415.8
Establishing priority for enrollment of properties.
(a) USDA, at the national level, will provide to NRCS State Conservationists and FSA State Executive Directors, national guidelines for establishing State-specific ranking criteria for selection of applications for funding.
(b) NRCS State Conservationists and FSA State Executive Directors, with advice from State Technical Committees, establish criteria to evaluate and rank applications for easement and rental contract enrollment, including applications from eligible entities under § 1415.17, following the guidance established in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Ranking criteria will emphasize support for:
(1) Grazing operations;
(2) Protection of grassland, land that contains forbs, and shrubland at the greatest risk from the threat of conversion to uses other than grazing;
(3) Plant and animal biodiversity; and
(4) In ranking parcels offered by eligible entities, these additional criteria will also be considered—
(i) Leveraging of non-Federal funds, and
(ii) Entity contributions in excess of 50 percent of the purchase price, as defined in § 1415.3.
(d) When funding is available, NRCS State Conservationists and FSA State Executive Directors will periodically select for funding the highest ranked applications, including applications from entities under § 1415.17, based on applicant and land eligibility and the State-developed ranking criteria.
(e) NRCS State Conservationists and FSA State Executive Directors may establish separate ranking pools to address, for example, specific conservation issues raised by State, regional, and national conservation priorities.
(f) The NRCS State Conservationist and FSA State Executive Director, with advice from the State Technical Committee, may emphasize enrollment of unique grasslands or specific geographic areas of the State.
(g) The NRCS State Conservationist and the FSA State Executive Director, with advice from the State Technical Committee, will select applications for funding.
(h) If available funds are insufficient to accept the highest ranked application, and the applicant is not interested in reducing the acres offered to match available funding, the State Conservationist or State Executive Director may select a lower ranked application that can be fully funded.
(i) Land enrolled in a Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) contract that is within one year of the scheduled expiration date will receive a priority for enrollment. To receive this priority, the following criteria must be met:
(1) The land must be eligible as defined in § 1415.5;
(2) USDA, with advice from the State Technical Committee, must determine it is of high ecological value and under significant threat of conversion to uses other than grazing;
(3) The land must be offered for easement or 20-year rental contract enrollment;
(4) Expired CRP land enrolled under this priority will not exceed 10 percent of the total number of acres accepted for national enrollment in GRP in any year; and
(5) This priority applies only up to 12 months before the scheduled expiration of the CRP contract.
(j) USDA will manage the program nationally to ensure that, to the extent practicable, 60 percent of funds are used for the purchase of easements, either directly or through cooperative agreements with eligible entities as set forth in § 1415.17 and 40 percent of funds are used for rental contracts.
§ 1415.9
Enrollment of easements and rental contracts.
(a) Based on the priority ranking, NRCS or FSA, as appropriate, will notify applicants in writing of their tentative acceptance into the program for either rental contract or conservation easement options. The letter notifies the applicant of the intent to continue the enrollment process unless otherwise notified by the applicant. Enrollment under cooperative agreements is described under § 1415.17.
(b) An offer of tentative acceptance into the program neither binds USDA to acquire an easement or enter into a
rental contract, nor binds the applicant to convey an easement, enter into a rental contract, or agree to restoration activities.
(c) Offer of enrollment will be through either:
(1) An agreement to purchase an easement presented by NRCS to the applicant which will describe the easement, the easement terms and conditions, and other terms and conditions that may be required by NRCS; or
(2) A rental contract will be presented by FSA to the applicant which will describe the contract area, the contract terms and conditions, and other terms and conditions that may be required by FSA.
(d) For rental contracts, land will be considered to be enrolled in GRP once an FSA representative approves the GRP rental contract. FSA may withdraw the offer before approval of the contract due to lack of available funds or other reasons.
(e) For easements, after the option agreement to purchase an easement is executed by NRCS and the participant, the land will be considered enrolled in GRP. NRCS will proceed with the development of the GRP management plan, conservation or restoration plan if applicable, and various easement acquisition activities, which may include conducting a legal survey of the easement area, securing necessary subordination agreements, procuring title insurance, and conducting other activities necessary to record the easement or implement GRP.
(f) Prior to closing an easement, NRCS may withdraw the land from enrollment at any time due to lack of available funds, title concerns, or other reasons.
§ 1415.10
Compensation for easements and rental contracts acquired by the Secretary.
(a) The Chief will not pay more than the fair market value of the land, less the grazing value of the land encumbered by the easement.
(b) To determine this amount, the Chief will pay as compensation the lowest of:
(1) The fair market value of the land encumbered by the easement as determined by the Chief using—
(i) The Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice, or
(ii) An area-wide market analysis or market survey;
(2) The amount corresponding to a geographical cap, as determined by the State Conservationist, with advice from the State Technical Committee; or
(3) An offer made by the landowner.
(c) For 10-, 15-, and 20-year rental contracts, the participant will receive not more than 75 percent of the grazing value in an annual payment for the length of the contract, as determined by FSA. As provided by the regulations at part 1400 of this title, payments made under one or more rental contracts to a person or legal entity, directly or indirectly, may not exceed, in the aggregate, $50,000 per year.
(d) In order to provide for better uniformity among States, the NRCS Chief and FSA Administrator may review and adjust, as appropriate, State or other geographically based payment rates for rental contracts.
(e) Easement or rental contract payments received by a participant will be in addition to, and not affect, the total amount of payments that the participant is otherwise eligible to receive under other USDA programs.
(f) Easement payments will be made in a single payment to the landowner unless otherwise requested by the landowner.
(g) USDA may accept and use contributions of non-Federal funds to support the purposes of the program. These funds are available to USDA without further appropriation and until expended, to carry out the program.
(h) USDA recognizes that environmental benefits will be achieved by implementing conservation practices and activities funded through GRP, and that ecosystem credits may be gained as a result of implementing activities compatible with the purposes of a GRP easement, rental contract, or associated restoration agreement. USDA asserts no direct or indirect interest in these credits except:
(1) In the event the participant sells or trades credits arising from GRP
funded activities, USDA retains the authority to ensure that the requirements for GRP rental contracts, easements, or restoration agreements are met and maintained consistent with this part; and
(2) If activities required under an ecosystem credit agreement may affect land covered under a GRP rental contract, easement, or restoration agreement, participants are required to obtain an assessment from USDA about the compatibility of the activity prior to entering into such agreements.
§ 1415.11
Restoration agreements.
(a) Restoration agreements are only authorized to be used in conjunction with easements and rental contracts. NRCS, in consultation with the program participant, determines if the grassland resources are adequate to meet the participant's objectives and the purposes of the program, or if a restoration agreement is needed. Such a determination is also subject to the availability of funding. USDA may condition participation in the program upon the execution of a restoration agreement depending on the condition of the grassland resources. When the functions and values of the grassland are determined adequate by NRCS, a restoration agreement is not required. However, if a restoration agreement is required, NRCS will set the terms of the restoration agreement. The restoration plan component of the restoration agreement identifies conservation practices and activities necessary to restore or improve the functions and values of the grassland to meet both USDA and the participant's objectives and purposes of the program. If the functions and values of the grassland decline while the land is subject to a GRP easement or rental contract through no fault of the participant, the participant may enter into a restoration agreement at that time to improve the functions and values with USDA approval and when funds are available.
(b) The NRCS State Conservationist, with advice from the State Technical Committee and in consultation with FSA, determines the conservation practices and activities and the cost-share percentages, not to exceed statutory limits available under GRP. A list of conservation practices and activities approved for cost-share assistance under GRP restoration plans is available to the public through the local USDA Service Center. NRCS may work through the local conservation district with the program participant to determine the terms of the restoration plan. The conservation district may assist NRCS with determining eligible conservation practices and activities and approving restoration agreements.
(c) Only approved conservation practices and activities are eligible for cost-sharing. Payments under the GRP restoration agreements may be made to the participant of not more than 50 percent for the cost of carrying out the conservation practices or activities. As provided by the regulations at part 1400 of this chapter, payments made under one or more restoration agreements to a person or legal entity, directly or indirectly, may not exceed, in the aggregate, $50,000 per year.
(d) The participant is responsible for the operation and maintenance of conservation practices in accordance with the restoration agreement.
(e) All conservation practices must be implemented in accordance with the FOTG.
(f) Technical assistance is provided by NRCS, or an NRCS approved third party.
(g) If the participant is receiving cost-share for the same conservation practice or activity from another conservation program, USDA will adjust the GRP cost-share rate proportionately so that the amount received by the participant does not exceed 100 percent of the costs of restoration.
(h) The participant cannot receive cost-share from more than one USDA cost-share program for the same conservation practice or activity on the same land.
(i) Cost-share payments may be made only upon a determination by a qualified individual approved by the NRCS State Conservationist that an eligible restoration practice has been established in compliance with appropriate standards and specifications.
(j) Conservation practices and activities identified in the restoration plan
may be implemented by the participant or other designee.
(k) Cost-share payments will not be made for conservation practices or activities implemented or initiated prior to the approval of a rental contract or easement acquisition unless a written waiver is granted by the NRCS State Conservationist or FSA State Executive Director, as appropriate, prior to installation of the practice.
(l) Upon transfer of an easement with a restoration agreement to an eligible entity as described in § 1415.18, the entity will be responsible for administration of the agreement and providing funds for payment of any costs associated with the completion of the restoration agreement. The eligible entity may, with participant consent, revise an existing restoration agreement or develop a new restoration agreement. Restoration plans must be consistent with the GRP management plan or any associated conservation plan as described in § 1415.4.
(m) Cooperating entities under § 1415.17 will be responsible for development, administration, and implementation costs of restoration plans.
§ 1415.12
Modifications to easements and rental contracts.
(a) After an easement has been recorded, no substantive modification will be made to the easement. Modifications that would not result in acquisition or divestiture of additional property rights may be made.
(b) State Conservationists may approve modifications for restoration agreements and GRP management plans or conservation plans where applicable, as long as the modifications do not affect the provisions of the easement and meet program objectives.
(c) USDA may approve modifications to rental contracts, including corresponding changes to conservation plans, GRP management plans, and restoration plans to facilitate the practical administration and management of the enrolled area so long as the modification will not adversely affect the grassland functions and values for which the land was enrolled.
§ 1415.13
Transfer of land.
(a) Any transfer of the property prior to an applicant's acceptance into the program will void the offer of enrollment, unless at the option of the State Conservationist or State Executive Director, as appropriate, an offer is extended to the new landowner and the new landowner agrees to the same easement or rental contract terms and conditions.
(b) After acreage is accepted in the program, for easements with multiple payments, any remaining easement payments will be made to the original participant unless NRCS receives an assignment of proceeds.
(c) Future annual rental payments will be made to the successor participant.
(d) The new landowner is responsible for complying with the terms of the recorded easement, and the contract successor is responsible for complying with the terms of the rental contract and for assuring completion of all activities and practices required by any associated restoration agreement. Eligible cost-share payments will be made to the new participant upon presentation that the successor assumed the costs of establishing the practices.
(e) With respect to any and all payments owed to participants, the United States bears no responsibility for any full payments or partial distributions of funds between the original participant and the participant's successor. In the event of a dispute or claim on the distribution of cost-share payments, USDA may withhold payments, without the accrual of interest, pending an agreement or adjudication on the rights to the funds.
(f) The rights granted to the United States in an easement will apply to any of its agents or assigns. All obligations of the participant under the GRP conservation easement deed also bind the participant's heirs, successors, agents, assigns, lessees, and any other person claiming under them.
(g) Rental contracts may be transferred to another landowner, operator, or tenant that acquires an interest in the land enrolled in GRP. The successor must be determined by FSA to be eligible to participate in GRP and must assume full responsibility under
the contract. FSA may require a participant to refund all or a portion of any financial assistance awarded under GRP, plus interest, if the participant sells or loses control of the land under a GRP rental contract, and the new landowner, operator, or tenant is not eligible to participate in the program or declines to assume responsibility under the contract.
§ 1415.14
Misrepresentation and violations.
(a) The following provisions apply to violations of rental contracts:
(1) Rental contract violations, determinations, and appeals are handled in accordance with the terms of the rental contract;
(2) A participant who is determined to have erroneously represented any fact affecting a program determination made in accordance with this part may not be entitled to rental contract payments and must refund to CCC all payments, plus interest, in accordance with part 1403 of this title; and
(3) In the event of a violation of a rental contract, the participant will be given notice and an opportunity to voluntarily correct the violation within 30 days of the date of the notice, or such additional time as CCC may allow. Failure to correct the violation may result in termination of the rental contract.
(b) The following provisions apply to violations of easement deeds:
(1) Easement violations are handled under the terms of the easement deed;
(2) Upon notification of the participant, NRCS has the right to enter upon the easement area at any time to monitor compliance with the terms of the GRP conservation easement deed or remedy deficiencies or violations;
(3) When NRCS believes there may be a violation of the terms of the GRP conservation easement deed, NRCS may enter the property without prior notice; and
(4) The participant will be liable for any costs incurred by the United States as a result of the participant's negligence or failure to comply with the easement terms and conditions.
(c) USDA may require the participant to refund all or part of any payments received by the participant under the program contract or agreement.
(d) In addition to any and all legal and equitable remedies available to the United States under applicable law, USDA may withhold any easement payment, rental payment, or cost-share payments owing to the participant at any time there is a material breach of the easement covenants, rental contract, or any contract. Such withheld funds may be used to offset costs incurred by the United States in any remedial actions or retained as damages pursuant to court order or settlement agreement.
(e) Under a GRP conservation easement, the United States will be entitled to recover any and all administrative and legal costs, including attorney's fees or expenses, associated with any enforcement or remedial action.
§ 1415.15
Payments not subject to claims.
Any cost-share, rental, or easement payment or portion thereof due any person under this part will be allowed without regard to any claim or lien in favor of any creditor, except agencies of the United States Government.
§ 1415.16
Assignments.
(a) Any person entitled to any cash payment under this program may assign the right to receive such cash payments, in whole or in part.
(b) If a participant that is entitled to a payment dies, is declared legally incompetent, or is otherwise unable to receive the payment, or is succeeded by another person who renders or completes the required performance, such a participant may be eligible to receive payment in such a manner as USDA determines is fair and reasonable in light of all the circumstances.
§ 1415.17
Cooperative agreements.
(a) NRCS may enter into cooperative agreements which establish terms and conditions under which an eligible entity will use funds provided by NRCS to own, write, and enforce a grassland protection easement.
(b) To be eligible to receive GRP funding, an eligible entity must demonstrate:
(1) A commitment to long-term conservation of agricultural lands, ranch land, or grassland for grazing and conservation purposes;
(2) A capability to acquire, manage, and enforce easements;
(3) Sufficient number of staff dedicated to monitoring and easement stewardship;
(4) The availability of funds; and
(5) For nongovernmental organizations, the existence of a dedicated account and funds for the purposes of easement management, monitoring, and enforcement of each easement held by the eligible entity.
(c) NRCS enters into a cooperative agreement with those eligible entities selected for funding. Once a proposal is selected by the State Conservationist, the eligible entity must work with the appropriate State Conservationist to finalize and sign the cooperative agreement, incorporating all necessary GRP requirements. The cooperative agreement addresses:
(1) The interests in land to be acquired, including the form of the easement deeds to be used and terms and conditions;
(2) The management and enforcement of the interests acquired;
(3) The responsibilities of NRCS;
(4) The responsibilities of the eligible entity on lands acquired with the assistance of GRP;
(5) The parcels accepted by the State Conservationist, landowners' names, addresses, location map(s), and other relevant information in an a attachment to the cooperative agreement;
(6) The allowance of parcel substitution upon mutual agreement of the parties;
(7) The manner in which violations are addressed;
(8) The right of the Secretary to conduct periodic inspections to verify the eligible entity's enforcement of the easements;
(9) The manner in which the eligible entity will evaluate and report the use of funds to the Secretary;
(10) The eligible entity's agreement to assume the costs incurred in administering and enforcing the easement, including the costs of restoration and rehabilitation of the land as specified by the owner and eligible entity. The entity will also assume the responsibility for enforcing the GRP management plan or conservation plan, as applicable. The eligible entity must incorporate any required plan into the conservation easement deed by reference or otherwise;
(11) The source of funding. The eligible entity may include a charitable donation or qualified conservation contribution (as defined by section 170(h) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) from the landowner as part of the entity's share of the purchase price;
(12) The schedule of payments to an eligible entity, as agreed to by NRCS and the eligible entity;
(13) GRP funds may not be used for expenditures such as appraisals, surveys, title insurance, legal fees, costs of easement monitoring, and other related administrative and transaction costs incurred by the entity;
(14) NRCS may provide a share of the purchase price of an easement under the program. The eligible entity will be required to provide a share of the purchase price at least equivalent to that provided by NRCS. The Federal share will be no more than 50 percent of the purchase price, as defined in § 1415.3;
(15) The eligible entity's succession plan, which describes how its successors or assigns will hold, manage, and enforce the interests in land acquired in the event that the eligible entity is no longer able to fulfill its obligations under the cooperative agreement entered into with NRCS; and
(16) Other requirements deemed necessary by NRCS to protect the interests of the United States.
(d) Easements funded under the cooperative agreement option will be in perpetuity, except where State law prohibits a permanent easement, and will require that the easement area be maintained in accordance with GRP goals and objectives for the term of the easement.
(e) The entity may use its own terms and conditions in the conservation easement deed, but a conservation easement deed template used by the eligible entity will be submitted to the Chief within 30 days of the signing of the cooperative agreement. The conservation easement deed templates will be reviewed and approved by the Chief.
NRCS reserves the right to require additional specific language or to remove language in the conservation easement deed to protect the interests of the United States.
(1) In order to protect the public investment, the conveyance document must contain a right of enforcement. NRCS will specify the terms for the right of enforcement clause to read as set forth in the GRP cooperative agreement. This right is a vested property right and cannot be condemned or terminated by State or local government;
(2) The eligible entity will acquire, hold, manage, and enforce the easement. The eligible entity may have the option to enter into an agreement with governmental or private organizations to carry out easement stewardship responsibilities if approved by NRCS;
(3) Prior to closing, NRCS must sign an acceptance of the conservation easement, concurring with the terms of the conservation easement and accepting its interest in the conservation easement deed;
(4) All conservation easement deeds acquired with GRP funds must be recorded in the appropriate land records. Proof of recordation will be provided to NRCS by the eligible entity; and
(5) The conservation easement deed must include an indemnification clause requiring the participant (grantor) to indemnify and hold harmless the United States from any liability arising from or related to the property enrolled in GRP.
§ 1415.18
Easement transfer to eligible entities.
(a) NRCS may transfer title of ownership to an easement to an eligible entity to hold and enforce an easement if:
(1) The Chief determines that transfer will promote protection of grassland, land that contains forbs, or shrubland;
(2) The owner authorizes the eligible entity to hold and enforce the easement; and
(3) The eligible entity agrees to assume the costs incurred in administering and enforcing the easement, including the costs of restoration or rehabilitation of the land as specified by the owner and the eligible entity, and the entity assumes responsibility for enforcing the GRP management plan or conservation plan, as applicable, as approved by NRCS.
(b) NRCS has the right to conduct periodic inspections to verify the eligible entities enforcement of the easement, which includes the terms and requirements set forth in the GRP management plan and any associated restoration or conservation plan for any easements transferred pursuant to this section.
(c) An eligible entity that seeks to hold and enforce an easement will apply to the NRCS State Conservationist for approval.
(d) The Chief may approve an application if the eligible entity:
(1) Has relevant experience necessary, as appropriate for the application, to administer an easement on grassland, land that contains forbs, or shrublands;
(2) Has a charter that describes the commitment of the eligible entity to conserving ranch land, agricultural land, or grassland for grazing and conservation purposes;
(3) Possesses the human and financial resources necessary, as determined by the Chief, to effectuate the purposes of the charter;
(4) Has sufficient financial resources to carry out easement administrative and enforcement activities;
(5) Presents proof of a dedicated fund for enforcement as described in § 1415.17(b)(5), if the entity is a nongovernmental organization; and
(6) Presents documentation that the landowner has concurred in the transfer.
(e) The Chief or his or her successors and assigns, will retain a right of enforcement in any transferred GRP funded easement, which provides the Secretary the right to inspect the easement for violations and enforce the terms of this easement through any and all authorities available under Federal or State law, in the event that the eligible entity fails to enforce the terms of the easement, as determined by NRCS.
(f) Should an easement be transferred pursuant to this section, all warranties and indemnifications provided for in the deed will continue to apply to the United States. Upon transfer of the
easement, the easement holder will be responsible for enforcement of the GRP management plan, as approved by NRCS, and implementation of any associated conservation or restoration plans and costs of such restoration as agreed to by the landowner and entity.
(g) Due to the Federal interest in the GRP easement, GRP-funded easements cannot be condemned.
§ 1415.19
Appeals.
(a) Applicants or participants may obtain a review of any administrative determination concerning eligibility for participation utilizing the administrative appeal regulations provided in parts 614 and 780 of this title.
(b) Before a person may seek judicial review of any administrative action concerning eligibility for program participation under this part, the person must exhaust all administrative appeal procedures set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, and for the purposes of judicial review, no decision will be a final agency action except a decision of the NRCS Chief or the FSA Administrator, as applicable, under these procedures.
(c) Any appraisals, market analysis, or supporting documentation that may be used by NRCS in determining property value are considered confidential information, and will only be disclosed as determined at the sole discretion of NRCS in accordance with applicable law.
(d) Enforcement actions undertaken by NRCS in furtherance of its Federally held property rights are under the jurisdiction of the Federal District Courts and are not subject to review under administrative appeal regulations.
§ 1415.20
Scheme or device.
(a) If it is determined by USDA that a participant has employed a scheme or device to defeat the purposes of this part, any part of any program payment otherwise due or paid to such participant during the applicable period may be withheld or be required to be refunded with interest thereon, as determined appropriate by USDA.
(b) A scheme or device includes, but is not limited to, coercion, fraud, misrepresentation, depriving any other person of payments for cost-share practices, rental contracts, or easements for the purpose of obtaining a payment to which a person would otherwise not be entitled.
(c) A participant who succeeds to the responsibilities under this part will report in writing to USDA any interest of any kind in enrolled land that is held by a predecessor or any lender. A failure of full disclosure will be considered a scheme or device under this section.
Pt. 1416

# PART 1416—EMERGENCY AGRICULTURAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS

# Subpart A—General Provisions for Supplemental Agricultural Disaster Assistance Programs
Sec.
1416.1
Applicability.
1416.2
Administration of ELAP, LFP, LIP, and TAP.
1416.3
Eligible producer.
1416.5
[Reserved]
1416.6
Payment eligibility and limitation.
1416.7
Misrepresentation.
1416.8
Appeals.
1416.9
Offsets, assignments, and debt settlement.
1416.10
Records and inspections.
1416.11
Refunds; joint and several liability.
1416.12
Minors.
1416.13
Deceased individuals or dissolved entities.
1416.14
Miscellaneous.

# Subpart B—Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honeybees, and Farm-Raised Fish Program
1416.101
Applicability.
1416.102
Definitions.
1416.103
Eligible losses, adverse weather, and other loss conditions.
1416.104
Eligible livestock, honeybees, and farm-raised fish.
1416.105
Eligible producers, owners, and contract growers.
1416.106
Notice of loss and application process.
1416.107
Notice of loss and application period.
1416.108
[Reserved].
1416.109
National payment rate.
1416.110
Livestock payment calculations.
1416.111
Honeybee payment calculations.
1416.112
Farm-raised fish payment calculations.
1416.113
Milk losses due to H5N1.

# Subpart C—Livestock Forage Disaster Program
1416.201
Applicability.
1416.202
Definitions.
1416.203
Eligibility.
1416.204
Covered livestock.
1416.205
Eligible grazing losses.
1416.206
Application for payment.
1416.207
Payment calculation.

# Subpart D—Livestock Indemnity Program
1416.301
Applicability.
1416.302
Definitions.
1416.303
Eligible owners and contract growers.
1416.304
Eligible livestock.
1416.305
Application process.
1416.306
Payment calculation.

# Subpart E—Tree Assistance Program
1416.400
Applicability.
1416.401
Administration.
1416.402
Definitions.
1416.403
Eligible losses.
1416.404
Eligible orchardists and nursery tree growers.
1416.405
Application.
1416.406
Payment Calculation.
1416.407
Obligations of a Participant.

# Authority:
Title I, Pub. L. 113-79, 128 Stat. 649; Title I, Pub. L. 115-123; Title VII, Pub. L. 115-141; and Title I, Pub. L. 116-20.

# Source:
79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions for Supplemental Agricultural Disaster Assistance Programs
§ 1416.1
Applicability.
(a) This subpart establishes general conditions for this subpart and subparts B through E of this part and applies only to those subparts. Subparts B through E cover the following programs authorized by the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Pub. L. 113-79, also referred to as the 2014 Farm Bill):
(1) Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honeybees, and Farm-Raised Fish Program (ELAP);
(2) Livestock Forage Disaster Program (LFP);
(3) Livestock Indemnity Payments Program (LIP); and
(4) Tree Assistance Program (TAP).
(b) To be eligible for payments under these programs, participants must comply with all provisions under this subpart and the relevant particular subpart for that program. All other provisions of law also apply.
§ 1416.2
Administration of ELAP, LFP, LIP, and TAP.
(a) The programs in subparts B through E of this part is administered under the general supervision and direction of the Administrator, Farm Service Agency (FSA) (who also serves as the Executive Vice-President, CCC), and the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, FSA (referred to as the “Deputy Administrator” in this part).
(b) FSA representatives do not have authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of the regulations of this part as amended or supplemented, except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(c) The State FSA committee will take any action required by the regulations of this part that the county FSA committee has not taken. The State FSA committee will also:
(1) Correct, or require a county FSA committee to correct, any action taken by such county FSA committee that is not in accordance with the regulations of this part or
(2) Require a county FSA committee to withhold taking any action that is not in accordance with this part.
(d) No provision or delegation to a State or county FSA committee will preclude the FSA Administrator, the Deputy Administrator, or a designee or other such person, from determining any question arising under the programs of this part, or from reversing or modifying any determination made by a State or county FSA committee.
(e) The Deputy Administrator may authorize State and county FSA committees to waive or modify non-statutory deadlines, or other program requirements of this part in cases where lateness or failure to meet such requirements does not adversely affect operation of the programs in this part. Participants have no right to an exception under this provision. The Deputy Administrator's refusal to consider cases or circumstances or decision not to exercise this discretionary authority under this provision will not be considered an adverse decision and is not appealable.
(f) Payments issued under this part are subject to the availability of funds under Federal law. Within whatever funding limitation that may exist under law, the only funds that will be considered available to pay eligible losses will be that amount approved by the Secretary. If funds are limited, for a particular program year, payments may be delayed until the time for applying for the payment for that program year has passed. In the event that, within the limits of the funding made available by the Secretary, approval of eligible applications would result in expenditures in excess of the amount available, FSA will prorate the available funds by a national factor to reduce the total expected payments to the amount made available by the Secretary. FSA will make payments based on the factor for the national rate determined by FSA. FSA will prorate the payments in such manner as it determines necessary and appropriate and reasonable. Applications for payment that are unpaid or prorated for a program year for any reason will not be carried forward for payment under other funds for later years or otherwise, but will be considered, as to any unpaid amount, void and nonpayable.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49463, Oct. 2, 2018; 85 FR 10963, Feb. 26, 2020]
§ 1416.3
Eligible producer.
(a)
Eligible producer
means, in addition to other requirements as may apply, an individual or legal entity who is an owner, operator, landlord, tenant, or sharecropper, who shares in the risk of producing a crop or livestock and who is entitled to share in the crop or livestock available for marketing from the farm, or would have shared had the crop or livestock been produced, and who also meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. The term eligible producer can include a livestock owner or contract grower who satisfies other requirements of this part.
(b) An individual or legal entity seeking to be an eligible producer under this part must submit a farm operating plan in accordance with part 1400 of this chapter and be a:
(1) Citizen of the United States;
(2) Resident alien; for purposes of this part, resident alien means “lawful alien”;
(3) Partnership of citizens of the United States;
(4) Corporation, limited liability company, or other organizational structure organized under State law; or
(5) Indian Tribe or Tribal organization, as defined in section 4(b) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49463, Oct. 2, 2018; 85 FR 10963, Feb. 26, 2020]
§ 1416.5
[Reserved]
§ 1416.6
Payment eligibility and limitation.
(a) For 2019 and each subsequent program year, a person, legal entity, or member of a joint venture or general partnership, as determined in part 1400 of this chapter, cannot receive, directly or indirectly, more than $125,000 per program year under LFP.
(b) The Deputy Administrator may take such actions as needed to avoid a duplication of benefits under the programs provided for in this part, or duplication of benefits received in other programs, and may impose such cross-program payment limitations as may be consistent with the intent of this part in order to help prevent a person or legal entity being paid more than the total value of their loss.
(c) For the purposes of administering LIP, LFP, ELAP, and TAP, the average adjusted gross income (AGI) limitation provisions in part 1400 of this chapter relating to limits on payments for persons or legal entities, excluding joint ventures and general partnerships, apply under this subpart and will apply to each applicant for ELAP, LFP, LIP, and TAP. Specifically, a person or legal entity with an AGI that exceeds $900,000 will not be eligible to receive benefits under this part.
(d) The direct attribution provisions in part 1400 of this chapter apply to ELAP, LFP, LIP, and TAP.
[83 FR 49463, Oct. 2, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 10963, Feb. 26, 2020]
§ 1416.7
Misrepresentation.
(a) A person or legal entity who is determined to have misrepresented any fact affecting a program determination made in accordance with this part, or any other part that is applicable to this part, to receive benefits for which that person or legal entity would not otherwise be entitled, is ineligible for program payments under this part and must refund all such payments received, plus interest as determined in accordance with part 1403 of this chapter. The person or legal entity is ineligible and will be denied program benefits under this part for the immediately subsequent period of at least 2 crop years, and up to 5 crop years. Interest will run from the date of the original disbursement by CCC.
(b) For each year of ineligibility determined according to paragraph (a) of this section, a person or legal entity will refund to CCC all program payments, in accordance with § 1416.11, received by such person or legal entity with respect to all applications under this part, as may be applicable, if the person or legal entity is determined to have knowingly misrepresented any fact affecting a program determination
[83 FR 49464, Oct. 2, 2018 as amended at 85 FR 10963, Feb. 26, 2020]
§ 1416.8
Appeals.
Appeal regulations in parts 11 and 780 of this title apply to this part.
§ 1416.9
Offsets, assignments, and debt settlement.
(a) Any payment under this part will be made without regard to questions of title under State law, and without regard to any claim or lien against the commodity, or proceeds, in favor of the owner or any other creditor except agencies of the U.S. Government. The regulations governing offsets and withholdings in part 1403 of this chapter apply to payments made under this part.
(b) A participant may assign any payment(s) under this part in accordance with regulations governing the assignment of payments in part 1404 of this chapter.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49464, Oct. 2, 2018]
§ 1416.10
Records and inspections.
(a) Any participant receiving payments under any program in ELAP, LFP, LIP or TAP, or any other legal entity or person who provides information for the purposes of enabling a participant to receive a payment under ELAP, LFP, LIP, or TAP must:
(1) Maintain any books, records, and accounts supporting the information for 3 years following the end of the year during which the request for payment was submitted, and
(2) Allow authorized representatives of USDA and the Government Accountability Office, during regular business hours, to inspect, examine, and make copies of such books or records, and to enter the farm and to inspect and verify all applicable livestock and acreage in which the participant has an interest for the purpose of confirming the accuracy of information provided by or for the participant.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1416.11
Refunds; joint and several liability.
(a) In the event that the participant fails to comply with any term, requirement, or condition for payment or assistance arising under ELAP, LFP, LIP, or TAP and if any refund of a payment to CCC will otherwise become due in connection with this part, the participant must refund to CCC all payments made in regard to such matter, together with interest and late-payment charges as provided for in part 1403 of this chapter provided that interest will in all cases run from the date of the original disbursement.
(b) All persons with a financial interest in an operation or in an application for payment will be jointly and severally liable for any refund, including related charges, that is determined to be due CCC for any reason under this part.
§ 1416.12
Minors.
A minor child is eligible to apply for program benefits under ELAP, LFP, LIP, or TAP if all the eligibility requirements are met and the provision for minor children in part 1400 of this chapter are met.
§ 1416.13
Deceased individuals or dissolved entities.
(a) The provisions of part 707 of this chapter apply to the programs of this part.
(b) [Reserved].
[83 FR 49464, Oct. 2, 2018]
§ 1416.14
Miscellaneous.
(a) As a condition of payment eligibility under ELAP, LFP, LIP, or TAP, a participant must have been in compliance with the applicable provisions of parts 12 and 718 of this title and 1400 of this chapter, and must not otherwise be precluded from receiving payments under those provisions or under any law.
(b) In order to be eligible for benefits, participants in the programs specified in this part must submit an accurate acreage report annually as required by these provisions.
[79 FR 21097, Apr. 14, 2014, as amended at 83 FR 49464, Oct. 2, 2018; 85 FR 10963, Feb. 26, 2020]

# Subpart B—Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honeybees, and Farm-Raised Fish Program
§ 1416.101
Applicability.
(a) This subpart establishes the terms and conditions under which the Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honeybees, and Farm-Raised Fish Program (ELAP) will be administered.
(b) Eligible producers of livestock, honeybees, and farm-raised fish will be compensated for eligible losses due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition that occurred in the program year for which the producer requests benefits. The eligible loss must have been a direct result of eligible adverse weather or eligible loss conditions as determined by the Deputy Administrator. ELAP does not cover losses that are covered under LFP or LIP.
§ 1416.102
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this subpart and to the administration of ELAP. The definitions in parts 718 of this title and 1400 of this chapter also apply, except where they conflict with the definitions in this section.
Adult beef bull
means a male beef breed bovine animal that was used for breeding purposes that was at least 2 years old before the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition.
Adult beef cow
means a female beef breed bovine animal that had delivered one or more offspring before the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition. A first-time bred beef heifer is also considered an adult beef cow if it was pregnant on or by the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition.
Adult beefalo bull
means a male hybrid of beef and bison that was used for breeding purposes and was at least 2 years old before the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition.
Adult beefalo cow
means a female hybrid of beef and bison that had delivered one or more offspring before the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition. A first-time bred beefalo heifer is also considered an adult beefalo cow if it was pregnant by the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition.
Adult buffalo or bison bull
means a male animal of those breeds that was used for breeding purposes and was at least 2 years old before the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition.
Adult buffalo or bison cow
means a female animal of those breeds that had delivered one or more offspring before the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition. A first-time bred buffalo or bison heifer is also considered an adult buffalo or bison cow if it was pregnant by the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition.
Adult dairy bull
means a male dairy breed bovine animal that was used primarily for breeding dairy cows and was at least 2 years old by the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition.
Adult dairy cow
means a female bovine dairy breed animal used for the
purpose of providing milk for human consumption that had delivered one or more offspring by the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition. A first-time bred dairy heifer is also considered an adult dairy cow if it was pregnant by the beginning date of the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition.
Agricultural operation
means a farming operation.
All-milk price
means the national average price received, per hundredweight of milk, by dairy operations for all milk sold to dairy plants and milk dealers in the United States, as determined by the Secretary.
APHIS
means the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.
Application
means CCC or FSA form used to apply for either the emergency loss assistance for livestock or emergency loss assistance for farm-raised fish or honeybees.
Aquatic species
means any species of aquatic organism grown as food for human consumption, fish raised as feed for fish that are consumed by humans, or ornamental fish propagated and reared in an aquatic medium by a commercial operator on private property in water in a controlled environment. Catfish and crawfish are both defined as aquatic species for ELAP. However, aquatic species do not include reptiles or amphibians.
Bait fish
means small fish caught for use as bait to attract large predatory fish. For ELAP, it also must meet the definition of aquatic species and not be raised as food for fish; provided, however, that only bait fish produced in a controlled environment are eligible for payment under ELAP.
Blizzard
means, as defined by the National Weather Service, a storm which contains large amounts of snow or blowing snow with winds in excess of 35 miles per hour and visibility of less than one-fourth of a mile for an extended period of time.
Buck
means a male goat.
Cattle tick fever
means a severe and often fatal disease that destroys red blood cells of cattle, commonly known as Texas or cattle fever, which is spread by Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) annulatus, and the southern cattle tick, R. (Boophilus) microplus.
Commercial use
means used in the operation of a business activity engaged in as a means of livelihood for profit.
Contract
means, with respect to contracts for the handling of livestock, a written agreement between a livestock owner and another individual or entity setting the specific terms, conditions, and obligations of the parties involved regarding the production of livestock or livestock products.
Eligible adverse weather
means, as determined by the Deputy Administrator, an extreme and abnormal damaging weather event that is not expected to occur during the loss period, which results in eligible losses. The eligible adverse weather would have resulted in agricultural losses not covered by other programs in this part for which the Deputy Administrator determines financial assistance should be provided to producers. Adverse weather may include, but is not limited to, blizzard, eligible winter storms, and wildfires. Specific eligible adverse weather may vary based on the type of loss. Identification of eligible adverse weather will include locations (National, State, or county-level) and start and end dates.
Eligible drought
means that any area of the county has been rated by the U.S. Drought Monitor as having D2 (severe drought) intensity for at least 8 consecutive weeks for the specific type of eligible grazing land or pastureland for the county, or D3 (extreme drought) or D4 (exceptional drought) intensity for the specific type of eligible grazing land or pastureland for the county, as determined by the Secretary:
(1) At any time during the program year, for additional honey bee feed loss;
(2) That directly impacts water availability at any time during the normal grazing period (for example, snow pack that feeds streams and springs), as determined by the Deputy Administrator or designee, for losses resulting from transporting water to livestock; or
(3) At any time during the normal grazing period, for losses resulting from the additional cost incurred to transport livestock feed or eligible livestock to feed, for additional mileage above normal.
Eligible grazing land
means land that is native or improved pastureland with permanent vegetative cover or land
planted to a crop planted specifically for the purpose of providing grazing for eligible livestock.
Eligible loss condition
means a condition that would have resulted in agricultural losses not covered by other programs in this part for which the Deputy Administrator determines financial assistance needs to be provided to producers. Specific eligible loss conditions include, but are not limited to, disease (including cattle tick fever), insect infestation, and colony collapse disorder. Identification of eligible loss conditions will include locations (National, State, or county-level) and start and end dates. All other causes of losses are not covered, including, but not limited to, negligence, mismanagement, or wrongdoing by the producer.
Eligible winter storm
means an event that is so severe as to directly cause loss and lasts in duration for at least 3 consecutive days and includes a combination of high winds, freezing rain or sleet, heavy snowfall, and extremely cold temperatures. The wind, precipitation, and extremely cold temperatures must occur during the consecutive 3-day period, with wind and extremely cold temperatures occurring in each of the 3 days.
Equine animal
means a weaned domesticated horse, mule, or donkey.
Ewe
means a female sheep.
Farming operation
means a business enterprise engaged in producing agricultural products.
Farm-raised fish
means any aquatic species that is propagated and reared in a controlled environment.
FSA
means the Farm Service Agency.
Game or sport fish
means fish pursued for sport by recreational anglers; provided, however, that only game or sport fish produced in a controlled environment can generate claims under ELAP.
Goat
means a weaned domesticated, ruminant mammal of the genus Capra, including Angora goats.
Grazing animals
mean those species of weaned livestock that, from a nutritional and physiological perspective, satisfy more than 50 percent of their net energy requirement through the consumption of growing forage grasses and legumes. Species of livestock for which more than 50 percent of their net energy requirements are not recommended to be met from consumption of forage grasses and legumes, such as poultry and swine, are excluded regardless of whether those species are grazing or are present on grazing land or pastureland.Unweaned livestock are not grazing animals regardless of whether those unweaned livestock are present on grazing land or pastureland.
Grazing loss
means the value, as calculated in § 1416.110(g) or (m), of eligible grazing lost due to an eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition based on the number of days that the eligible livestock were not able to graze the eligible grazing land during the normal grazing period.
Herd
means, for milk losses due to H5N1, one or more dairy cows that are under common ownership or supervision and are grouped on a single premises (lot, farm, or ranch) or multiple premises which are geographically separated but physically located in the same county.
H5N1
means Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A (HPAI) H5N1 virus as either detected in milk and other bovine-origin samples associated with illness in dairy cattle, or, when pertaining to infection in cattle themselves, as confirmed by means of an H5N1 test.
H5N1 test
means a test, as defined in the APHIS H5N1 case definition, on individual animal or bulk tank samples confirmed at NVSL.
Kid
means a goat less than 1 year old.
Lamb
means a sheep less than 1 year old.
Livestock owner
means one having legal ownership of the livestock for which benefits are being requested during the 60 calendar days before the eligible adverse weather or eligible loss condition.
Nanny
means a female goat.
Newborn livestock
means livestock that are within 10 calendar days of the date of birth.
Non-adult beef cattle
