A public health exemption may be authorized in an emergency condition to control a pest that will cause a significant risk to human health.
(d)
Crisis exemption.
A crisis exemption may be utilized in an emergency condition when the time from discovery of the emergency to the time when the pesticide use is needed is insufficient to allow for the authorization of a specific, quarantine, or public health exemption.
[51 FR 1902, Jan. 15, 1986, as amended at 71 FR 4510, Jan. 27, 2006]
§ 166.3
Definitions.
Terms used in this part have the same meaning as in the Act. In addition, as used in this part, the following terms shall apply:
Act
means the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended.
Agency and EPA
mean the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency.
Beneficial organism
means any pollinating insect, or any pest predator, parasite, pathogen or other biological control agent which functions naturally or as part of an integrated pest management program to control another pest.
Emergency condition
means an urgent, non-routine situation that requires the use of a pesticide(s) and shall be deemed to exist when:
(1) No effective pesticides are available under the Act that have labeled uses registered for control of the pest
under the conditions of the emergency; and
(2) No economically or environmentally feasible alternative practices which provide adequate control are available; and
(3) The situation:
(i) Involves the introduction or dissemination of an invasive species or a pesticide new to or not theretofore known to be widely prevalent or distributed within or throughout the United States and its territories; or
(ii) Will present significant risks to human health; or
(iii) Will present significant risks to threatened or endangered species, beneficial organisms, or the environment; or
(iv) Will cause significant economic loss due to:
(A) An outbreak or an expected outbreak of a pest; or
(B) A change in plant growth or development caused by unusual environmental conditions where such change can be rectified by the use of a pesticide(s).
First food use
means the use of a pesticide on a food or in a manner which otherwise would be expected to result in residues in a food, if no tolerance or exemption from the requirements of a tolerance for residues of the pesticide on any food has been established for the pesticide under section 408 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
Food
means any article used for food or drink for man or animals.
Invasive species
means, with respect to a particular ecosystem, any species that is not native to that ecosystem, and whose introduction does or is likely to cause economic or environmental harm or harm to human health.
IR-4
means the Interregional Research Project No. 4, a cooperative effort of the state land grant universities, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and EPA, to address the chronic shortage of pest control options for minor crops, which are generally of too small an acreage to provide economic incentive for registration by the crop protection industry.
New chemical
means an active ingredient not contained in any currently registered pesticide.
Significant economic loss
means that, compared to the situation without the pest emergency and despite the best efforts of the affected persons, the emergency conditions at the specific use site identified in the application are reasonably expected to cause losses meeting any of the following criteria:
(1) For pest activity that primarily affects the current crop or other output, one or more of the following:
(i) Yield loss greater than or equal to 20%.
(ii) Economic loss, including revenue losses and cost increases, greater than or equal to 20% of gross revenues.
(iii) Economic loss, including revenue losses and cost increases greater than or equal to 50% of net revenues.
(2) For any pest activity where EPA determines that the criteria in paragraph (1) of this definition would not adequately describe the expected loss, substantial loss or impairment of capital assets, or a loss that would affect the long-term financial viability expected from the productive activity.
Special Review
means any interim administrative review of the risks and benefits of the use of a pesticide conducted pursuant to the provisions of part 154 of this chapter, or § 162.11 of this chapter prior to November 27, 1985, or any subsequent version of those rules.
Unreasonable adverse effects on the environment
means any unreasonable risk to man or the environment, taking into account the economic, social, and environmental costs and benefits of the use of any pesticide.
[73 FR 75597, Dec. 12, 2008]
§ 166.7
User notification; advertising.
(a) A State or Federal agency that obtains an exemption may notify eligible users of the availability of the exempted pesticide(s) through user groups, retail dealers, and other means. Notification may include distributing copies of the section 18 approval letter, labeling, or other information to eligible persons.
(b) As set forth more fully in § 168.22 of this chapter, EPA interprets FIFRA sections 12(a)(1) (A) and (B) as making it unlawful for any person who distributes, sells, offers for sale, holds for
sale, ships, delivers for shipment, or receives and (having so received) delivers or offers to deliver any pesticide, to advertise the pesticide for any use authorized by an emergency exemption, except for advertisements that are placed in media that address only persons in the geographical area to which the exemption applies, state the name and address of one or more retail dealers where users may buy the pesticide, and contain a prominent notice of the limitations on use under the emergency exemption. EPA may withdraw an exemption if the use of the pesticide covered by the exemption is advertised unlawfully.
[54 FR 1125, Jan. 11, 1989]

# Subpart B—Specific, Quarantine, and Public Health Exemptions
§ 166.20
Application for a specific, quarantine, or public health exemption.
(a)
General information required in an application for a specific, quarantine or public health exemption.
An application must be submitted in writing by the head of the Federal or State agency, the Governor of the State involved, or their official designee. If a designee has been delegated authority to request exemptions, written authorization of such delegation must accompany the request or be on file with the Agency. In addition, the application must contain all applicable information specified in paragraphs (a) (1) through (11) of this section.
(1)
Identity of contact persons.
(i) Unless otherwise specified, the person who submits the application will be considered the contact person for all matters relating to administration of the emergency exemption.
(ii) Requests should identify by name and telephone number one or more qualified experts who may be contacted in case any questions arise concerning the application.
(2)
Description of the pesticide.
The application shall contain a description of the pesticide(s) proposed for use under the exemption. Such information shall include:
(i) For a federally registered pesticide product:
(A) A copy of the label(s) if a specific product(s) is/are requested; or the formulation(s) requested if a specific product is not requested; and
(B) A copy of any additional labeling proposed for the emergency exemption; or
(ii) For any other pesticide products:
(A) A confidential statement of formula or reference to one already submitted to the Agency; and
(B) Complete labeling to be used in connection with the proposed exemption use.
(3)
Description of the proposed use.
The application shall identify all of the following:
(i) Sites to be treated, including their locations within the State;
(ii) The method of application;
(iii) The rate of application in terms of active ingredient and product;
(iv) The maximum number of applications;
(v) The total acreage or other appropriate unit proposed to be treated;
(vi) The total amount of pesticide proposed to be used in terms of both active ingredient and product;
(vii) All applicable restrictions and requirements concerning the proposed use which may not appear on labeling;
(viii) The duration of the proposed use; and
(ix) Earliest possible harvest dates.
(4)
Alternative methods of control.
The application shall contain:
(i) A detailed explanation of why the pesticide(s) currently registered for the particular use proposed in the application is not available in adequate supplies and/or effective to the degree needed to control the emergency. If the applicant states that an available registered pesticide is ineffective for the given situation, the statement must be supported by field data which demonstrate ineffectiveness of registered pesticides, or, if such data are unavailable, statements by qualified agricultural experts, extension personnel, university personnel or other persons similarly qualified in the field of pest control; and
(ii) A detailed explanation of why alternative practices, if available, either would not provide adequate control or would not be economically or environmentally feasible.
(5)
Effectiveness of proposed use.
The application shall contain data, a discussion of field trials, or other evidence which provide the basis for the conclusion that the proposed pesticide treatment will be effective in dealing with the emergency.
(6)
Discussion of residues for food uses.
If the proposed use is expected to result in residues of the pesticide in or on food, the application shall list the food likely to contain such residues and shall contain an estimate of the maximum amount of the residue likely to result from the proposed use, together with the information on which such estimates are based.
(7)
Discussion of risk information.
The application shall address the potential risks to human health, endangered or threatened species, beneficial organisms, and the environment expected to result from the proposed use, together with references to data and other supporting information.
(8)
Coordination with other affected State or Federal agencies.
If the proposed use of the pesticide is likely to be of concern to other Federal or State agencies, the application shall indicate that such agencies have been contacted prior to submission of the application, and any comments received from such agencies shall be submitted to EPA.
(9)
Acknowledgment by registrant.
The application shall contain a statement by the registrants of all pesticide products proposed for use acknowledging that a request has been made to the Agency for use of the pesticide under this section. This acknowledgment shall include a statement of support for the requested use, including the expected availability of adequate quantities of the requested product under the use scenario proposed by the applicant(s); and the status of the registration in regard to the requested use including appropriate petition numbers, or of the registrant's intentions regarding the registration of the use.
(10)
Description of proposed enforcement program.
Prior to approval, the applicant shall provide an explanation of the authority of the applicant or related State or Federal agencies for ensuring that use of the pesticide under the proposed exemption would comply with any special requirements imposed by the Agency and a description of the program and procedures for assuring such compliance.
(11)
Repeated uses.
Applications for the use of a pesticide at a site for which the applicant has previously been exempted under section 18 shall contain an interim report summarizing the results of the specific, quarantine, or public health exemption previously issued, if the application is submitted prior to the time the final report for the previous exemption is due. The interim report shall contain that information specified in § 166.32 to the extent available at the time the application is made.
(b)
Information required for a specific exemption.
An application for a specific exemption shall provide all of the following information, as appropriate, concerning the nature of the emergency:
(1) The scientific and common name of the pest or pest complex;
(2) A discussion of the events which brought about the emergency condition;
(3) A discussion of the anticipated risks to endangered or threatened species, beneficial organisms, or the environment that would be remedied by the proposed use of the pesticide; and
(4) A discussion of the anticipated significant economic loss, together with data and other information supporting the discussion, that addresses one or more of the following, as appropriate:
(i) Yield or utilized yield reasonably anticipated in the absence of the emergency and expected losses in quantity due to the emergency;
(ii) The information in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section plus prices reasonably anticipated in the absence of the emergency and changes in prices and/or production costs due to the emergency;
(iii) The information in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section plus operating costs reasonably anticipated in the absence of the emergency;
(iv) Any other information explaining the economic consequences of the emergency.
(5)
Re-certification of an emergency condition.
Applicants for specific exemptions may submit re-certification
applications relying on previously submitted information to satisfy the information requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(10) of this section, and of paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section, where all of the following conditions are met:
(i) An exemption was granted for the same pesticide at the same site to the same applicant the previous year;
(ii) The emergency condition could reasonably be expected to continue for longer than 1 year;
(iii) EPA has not declared the use ineligible for re-certification;
(iv) The use is not subject to public notice pursuant to § 166.24(a)(1) through (a)(6);
(v) The applicant certifies that all of the following are true:
(A) The emergency condition described in the preceding year's application continues to exist;
(B) Except as expressly identified, all information submitted in the preceding year's application is still accurate;
(C) Except as expressly identified, the proposed conditions of use are identical to the conditions of use EPA approved for the preceding year;
(D) Any conditions or limitations on the eligibility for re-certification identified in the preceding year's notice of approval of the emergency exemption have been satisfied;
(E) The applicant is not aware of any alternative chemical or non-chemical practice that may offer a meaningful level of pest control, or has provided documentation that each such known practice does not provide adequate control or is not economically or environmentally feasible.
(c)
Information required for a quarantine exemption.
An application for a quarantine exemption shall provide all of the following information concerning the nature of the emergency:
(1) The scientific and common name of pest;
(2) The origin of pest and the means of its introduction or spread if known; and
(3) The anticipated impact of not controlling the pest.
(d)
Information required for a public health exemption.
An application for a public health exemption shall provide all the following information concerning the nature of the emergency:
(1) The scientific and common name of the pest to be controlled and, if the pest is a vector, a description of the disease it is expected to transmit;
(2) A discussion of the magnitude of the health problems which are expected to occur without the pesticide use; and
(3) Discussion of the availability of medical treatment for the health problem.
[51 FR 1902, Jan. 15, 1986, as amended at 58 FR 34203, June 23, 1993; 71 FR 4511, Jan. 27, 2006]
§ 166.22
Consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and Governors of the States.
The Agency, in determining whether or not such emergency conditions exist, shall consult with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Governor of any State concerned if they request such determination.
§ 166.24
Public notice of receipt of application and opportunity for public comment.
(a)
Publication requirement.
The Administrator shall issue a notice of receipt in the
Federal Register
for a specific, quarantine, or public health exemption and request public comment when any one of the following criteria is met:
(1) The application proposes use of a new chemical;
(2) The application proposes the first food use of an active ingredient;
(3) The application proposes any use of a pesticide if the pesticide has been subject to a suspension notice under section 6(c) of the Act;
(4) The application proposes use of a pesticide which:
(i) Was the subject of a notice under section 6(b) of the Act and was subsequently cancelled, and
(ii) Is intended for a use that poses a risk similar to the risk posed by any use of the pesticide which was the subject of the notice under section 6(b);
(5) The application proposes use of a pesticide which:
(i) Contains an active ingredient which is or has been the subject of a Special Review, and
(ii) Is intended for a use that could pose a risk similar to the risk posed by any use of the pesticide which is or has been the subject of the Special Review;
(6) The application proposes use of a pesticide which:
(i) Was voluntarily canceled under section 6(f) of the Act, and
(ii) Is intended for a use that poses a risk similar to the risk posed by any use of the pesticide which was voluntarily canceled under section 6(f);
(7) The application proposes use of a pesticide for a specific or public health exemption, if:
(i) An emergency exemption has been requested or approved for that use in any 3 previous years, or any 5 previous years if the use is supported by the IR-4 program, and
(ii) A complete application for registration of that use and/or a petition for tolerance for residues in or on the commodity has not been submitted to the Agency; or
(8) The Administrator determines that publication of notice is appropriate.
(b)
Contents.
The notice of receipt of an application for an emergency exemption shall contain the following information:
(1) The name of the applicant;
(2) The name of the active ingredient requested for use, including, if available, the common name and the Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) number;
(3) The total amount of product or active ingredient proposed for use;
(4) The geographical location where treatment is proposed;
(5) The proposed number of acres or other appropriate units proposed to be treated;
(6) A summary of the applicant's description of the emergency conditions including the pest and the site or crop to be treated;
(7) A description of the major conditions of use of the pesticide as proposed by the applicant;
(8) If the pesticide proposed for use meets the criteria of paragraph (a) (3), (4), or (5) of this section, an identification of the types of risks that were the basis for EPA's regulatory action; and
(9) The name, telephone number, and address of a person in the Agency who can provide further information.
(c)
Length of comment period.
Normally, a notice of receipt shall give the public 15 days in which to file comments on the application. The Administrator may shorten or eliminate the comment period if he determines that the time available for a decision on the application requires it and shall state reasons for such action in a notice in the
Federal Register.
The Administrator may extend the comment period if additional time for comment is requested and such an extension would not interfere with a timely decision on the application.
[51 FR 1902, Jan. 15, 1986, as amended at 71 FR 4511, Jan. 27, 2006]
§ 166.25
Agency review.
(a)
General.
The Agency will review all requests as expeditiously as possible, making every attempt to respond to requests prior to the time when the proposed use is needed. The Agency will review the application and other available data necessary to make a determination with respect to all of the following:
(1) Whether an emergency condition exists or will exist;
(2) The Agency's ability and intention to establish a time-limited tolerance(s) or exemption(s) from the requirement of a tolerance for any pesticide residues resulting from the authorized use, identifying the level of permissible residues in or on food or feed resulting from the proposed use;
(3) The anticipated benefits to be derived from the proposed use; and
(4) The potential risks to human health, endangered or threatened species, beneficial organisms, and the environment from the proposed use.
(b)
Criteria for approval.
The Administrator may authorize a specific, public health, or quarantine exemption, based on the information available to the Agency, after:
(1) He determines that:
(i) An emergency condition exists;
(ii) The use of the pesticide under the exemption will not cause unreasonable adverse effects on the environment;
(iii) Registration of the pesticide use for which the exemption is requested has not been suspended under section 6(c) of the Act or cancelled following a notice under section 6(b) of the Act,
unless the use is authorized in accordance with the provisions of §§ 164.130 through 164.133 of this chapter;
(2) Giving due consideration to:
(i) Whether the pesticide is reasonably likely to be used in compliance with the requirements imposed by the Agency under the exemption; and
(ii) The progress which has been made toward registration of the proposed use, if a repeated specific or public health exemption is sought. It shall be presumed that if a complete application for registration of a use, which has been under a specific or public health exemption for any 3 previous years, or any 5 previous years if the use is supported for registration by the IR-4 program, has not been submitted, reasonable progress towards registration has not been made.
[51 FR 1902, Jan. 15, 1986, as amended at 71 FR 4511, Jan. 27, 2006]
§ 166.28
Duration of exemption.
(a)
Specific or public health exemptions.
EPA shall allow use of a pesticide under a specific or public health exemption for as long a period as is reasonably expected to be necessary but in no case for longer than 1 year.
(b)
Quarantine exemption.
EPA shall allow use of a pesticide under a quarantine exemption for as long a period as is deemed necessary but in no case for longer than 3 years. Quarantine exemptions may be renewed. Interim reports containing the information specified in § 166.32(b) to the extent available shall be filed annually.
§ 166.30
Notice of Agency decision.
(a)
Notification of applicants.
The Agency shall notify an applicant of its decision to approve or deny an application request for an emergency exemption in a timely manner.
(1)
Incomplete applications.
The Agency may discontinue the processing of any application that does not address all of the requirements of § 166.20 until such time the additional information is submitted by the applicant.
(2)
Complete applications
—(i)
Denials.
The Agency shall provide the specific reasons and rationale for denying the exemption request. If the denial is based on a specific information gap, the decision shall be reconsidered in a timely manner when the information gap is filled.
(ii)
Approvals.
The Agency
shall
provide the specific terms and conditions under which the exempted pesticide may be used.
(b)
Federal Register publication.
(1) At least quarterly, the Administrator shall issue a notice in the
Federal Register
announcing all approvals of specific, quarantine, and public health exemptions. The notice shall contain all of the following:
(i) The name of the applicant;
(ii) The pesticide authorized for use;
(iii) The crop or site to be treated; and
(iv) The name, address, and telephone number of a person in the Agency who can provide further information.
(2) In addition, if EPA has issued a Notice of Receipt of an application for an exemption, it will issue a notice of its final decision and the reasons for that decision.
[51 FR 1902, Jan. 15, 1986, as amended at 71 FR 4512, Jan. 27, 2006]
§ 166.32
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements for specific, quarantine, and public health exemptions.
(a)
Unexpected adverse effects information.
Any unexpected adverse effects resulting from the use of a pesticide under a specific, quarantine, or public health exemption must be immediately reported to the Agency.
(b)
Interim and final reports.
A final report summarizing the results of pesticide use under any specific, quarantine, or public health exemption must be submitted to the Agency within 6 months from the expiration of the exemption unless otherwise specified by the Agency. For quarantine exemptions granted for longer than 1 year, interim reports must be submitted annually. When an application for renewal of the exemption is submitted before the expiration of the exemption or before submission of the final report, an interim report must be submitted with the application. The information in interim and final reports shall include all of the following:
(1) Total acreage, amount of commodity or other unit treated and the total quantity of the pesticide used;
(2) A discussion of the effectiveness of the pesticide in dealing with the emergency condition;
(3) A description of any unexpected adverse effects which resulted from use of the pesticide under the exemption;
(4) The results of any monitoring required and/or carried out under the exemption;
(5) A discussion of any enforcement actions taken in connection with the exemption;
(6) Method(s) of disposition of a food crop, if required to be destroyed under an exemption; and
(7) Any other information requested by the Administrator.
(c)
Records.
Records for all treatments involving the first food use of a pesticide will be maintained by the agency to which the emergency exemption was granted for a minimum of 2 years following the date of expiration of the exemption. On request by the Agency these records shall be made available to the Administrator. Records will include all of the following:
(1) Locations where the pesticide was applied;
(2) Dates of application (range); and
(3) Total quantity of the pesticide used.
[51 FR 1902, Jan. 15, 1986, as amended at 58 FR 34203, June 23, 1993; 71 FR 4512, Jan. 27, 2006]
§ 166.34
EPA review of information obtained in connection with emergency exemptions.
EPA shall review information submitted in connection with emergency exemptions and, when applicable, use it in connection with other regulatory decisions under the Act.
§ 166.35
Revocation or modification of exemptions.
(a)
Grounds.
The Administrator may revoke or modify the terms or conditions of a specific, quarantine, or public health exemption if he determines one of the following:
(1) An emergency no longer exists;
(2) Use of the pesticide under the exemption may cause unreasonable adverse effects on the environment;
(3) The pesticide authorized under the exemption is not effective at controlling the pest or conditions causing the emergency; or
(4) The terms and conditions established by the exemption and these regulations are not being complied with.
(b)
Implementation.
The revocation or modification becomes effective as soon as the Administrator notifies the State or Federal agency which submitted the application. Upon notification, the applicant is required immediately to take all necessary steps to assure that further use complies with the terms and conditions of any modification or, if the exemption has been revoked, to stop further use.

# Subpart C—Crisis Exemptions
§ 166.40
Authorization.
The head of a Federal or State agency, the Governor of a State, or their official designee, may issue a crisis exemption in situations involving an unpredictable emergency situation when:
(a) An unpredictable emergency condition exists;
(b) The time element with respect to the application of the pesticide is critical, and there is not sufficient time either to request a specific, quarantine, or public health exemption or, if such a request has been submitted, for EPA to complete review of the request; and
(c) EPA has provided verbal confirmation that, for food uses, a tolerance or exemption from the requirement of a tolerance can be established in a timely manner, responsive to the projected timeframe of use of the chemical and harvest of the commodity, and that, for any use, the Agency has no other objection.
[51 FR 1902, Jan. 15, 1986, as amended at 71 FR 4512, Jan. 27, 2006]
§ 166.41
Limitations.
The crisis provisions may not be utilized to authorize a pesticide use if any of the following has occurred:
(a) EPA has informed the head of the Federal or State agency, the Governor, or their official designee, not to issue such an exemption;
(b) The pesticide use has been suspended under section 6(c) of the Act;
(c) The pesticide use has been cancelled following a notice issued under section 6(b) of the Act;
(d) The pesticide contains a new chemical; or
(e) The application proposes the first food use of a pesticide.
§ 166.43
Notice to EPA and registrants or basic manufacturers.
(a)
Timing of notice.
(1) The State or Federal Agency issuing the crisis exemption must notify the Administrator in advance of utilization of the crisis provisions.
(2) The State or Federal agency issuing the crisis exemption shall notify the registrant(s) or, if appropriate, the basic manufacturer(s) of the pesticide(s) being used under the crisis exemption at the same time notice is given to EPA or as soon thereafter as possible.
(b)
Contents of notice.
Information required to be provided in notices shall include all of the following:
(1) The name of the product and active ingredient authorized for use, along with the common name and CAS number if available, including a copy of the EPA registered label and use directions appropriate to the authorized use;
(2) The site on which the pesticide is to be used or is being used;
(3) The use pattern;
(4) The date on which the pesticide use is to begin and the date when the use will end;
(5) An estimate of the level of residues of the pesticide expected to result from use under the crisis exemption;
(6) Earliest anticipated harvest date of the treated commodity;
(7) Description of the emergency situation; and
(8) Any other pertinent information available at the time.
[51 FR 1902, Jan. 15, 1986, as amended at 58 FR 34203, June 23, 1993; 71 FR 4512, Jan. 27, 2006]
§ 166.45
Duration of crisis exemption.
A crisis exemption may be authorized for:
(a) Only as long as is necessary to control the pest or conditions causing the emergency; and
(b) No longer than 15 days, unless an application requesting a specific, quarantine, or public health exemption for this use has been submitted to the Agency.
§ 166.49
Public notice of crisis exemptions.
(a)
Periodic notices.
At least quarterly, the Administrator shall issue a notice in the
Federal Register
announcing issuance of crisis exemptions. The notice shall contain all of the following:
(1) The name of the applicant;
(2) The pesticide authorized for use;
(3) The crop or site to be treated; and
(4) The name, address, and telephone number of a person in the Agency who can provide further information.
(b)
Annual reports.
Annually, the Agency shall issue a notice in the
Federal Register
that shall summarize:
(1) The number of crisis exemptions declared; and
(2) The number of crisis exemptions revoked.
[51 FR 1902, Jan. 15, 1986, as amended at 71 FR 4512, Jan. 27, 2006]
§ 166.50
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements for crisis exemption.
(a)
Adverse effects information.
Any adverse effects resulting from the use of a pesticide under a crisis exemption must be immediately reported to the Agency.
(b)
Final reports.
(1) A report summarizing the results of treatment under a crisis exemption will be required to be submitted to the Agency within 3 months following the last date of treatment. If a specific, quarantine, or public health exemption has been approved while the crisis exemption is in effect, however, the crisis exemption report may be incorporated into the specific, quarantine, or public health exemption final report required under § 166.32(b) and submitted at the time it is due.
(2) Information to be included in the crisis exemption report includes the same information as required in § 166.32(b) and an explanation as to why there was a need to utilize the crisis provisions.
(c)
Records.
Records will be maintained for a minimum of 2 years following the date of expiration of the exemption. On request by the Agency, these records shall be made available to the Administrator. Records will include all of the following:
(1) Location where the pesticide was applied;
(2) Dates of application (range); and
(3) Total quantity of the pesticide used.
[51 FR 1902, Jan. 15, 1986, as amended at 58 FR 34203, June 23, 1993]
§ 166.53
EPA review of crisis exemption and revocation of authority.
(a)
Review.
When a crisis exemption is about to be or has already been declared by a State or Federal agency, EPA will undertake an expedited review of the pesticide to determine if use of the pesticide may result in such unreasonable health or environmental risks that the crisis authority should not be exercised or the crisis exemption should be revoked.
(b)
Revocation
—(1)
Individual crisis exemptions.
A crisis exemption for the use of a specific pesticide may be revoked if the Administrator determines that:
(i) There are insufficient data to determine the risks posed from the use;
(ii) Such action is necessary to protect man or the environment; or
(iii) The State or Federal agency is not complying with the requirements of this subpart C.
(2)
State or Federal agency authority.
The Administrator may revoke the authority of a State or Federal agency to issue crisis exemptions for any pesticide if he determines that:
(i) Such action is necessary to protect man or the environment; or
(ii) The State or Federal agency is not complying with the requirements of this subpart C.
(c)
Reason for revocation.
The Agency shall provide the specific reasons for revoking an agency's authority to issue a crisis exemption and for revoking an issued crisis exemption.
Pt. 167

# PART 167—REGISTRATION OF PESTICIDE AND ACTIVE INGREDIENT PRODUCING ESTABLISHMENTS, SUBMISSION OF PESTICIDE REPORTS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
167.3
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Registration Requirements
167.20
Establishments requiring registration.
Subparts C-D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements
167.85
Reporting requirements.
167.90
Where to obtain and submit forms.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 136 (e) and (w).

# Source:
53 FR 35058, Sept. 8, 1988; 54 FR 32638, Aug. 9, 1989, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 167.3
Definitions.
Terms used in this part shall have the meanings set forth for such terms in the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act. In addition, when used in this part, the following terms shall have the meanings stated below:
Act
means the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 136
et seq.
Amount of pesticidal product
means quantity, expressed in weight or volume of the product, and is to be reported in pounds for solid or semi-solid pesticides and active ingredients or gallons for liquid pesticides and active ingredients, or number of individual retail units for devices.
Current production
[sales or distribution] means amount of planned production in the calendar year in which the pesticides report is submitted, including new pesticidal products not previously sold or distributed.
Custom blender
means any establishment which provides the service of mixing pesticides to a customer's specifications, usually a pesticide(s)-fertilizer(s), pesticide-pesticide, or a pesticide-animal feed mixture, when: (1) The blend is prepared to the order of
the customer and is not held in inventory by the blender; (2) the blend is to be used on the customer's property (including leased or rented property); (3) the pesticide(s) used in the blend bears end-use labeling directions which do not prohibit use of the product in such a blend; (4) the blend is prepared from registered pesticides; (b) the blend is delivered to the end-user along with a copy of the end-use labeling of each pesticide used in the blend and a statement specifying the composition of mixture; and (6) no other pesticide production activity is performed at the establishment.
Device
means any device or class of devices as defined by the Act and determined by the Administrator pursuant to section 25(c) to be subject to the provisions of section 7 of the Act.
Establishment
means any site where a pesticidal product, active ingredient, or device is produced, regardless of whether such site is independently owned or operated, and regardless of whether such site is domestic and producing a pesticidal product for export only, or whether the site is foreign and producing any pesticidal product for import into the United States.
Past year
means the calendar year immediately prior to that in which the report is submitted.
Pesticidal product
means a pesticide, active ingredient, or device.
Pesticidal product report
means information showing the types and amounts of pesticidal products which were: (1) Produced in the past calendar year; (2) produced in the current calendar year; and, (3) sold or distributed in the past calendar year. For active ingredients, the pesticidal product report must include information on the types and amounts of an active ingredient for which there is actual or constructive knowledge of its use or intended use as a pesticide. This pesticidal product report also pertains to those products produced for export only which must also be reported. A positive or a negative annual report is required in order to maintain registration for the establishment.
Produce
means to manufacture, prepare, propagate, compound, or process any pesticide, including any pesticide produced pursuant to section 5 of the Act, any active ingredient or device, or to package, repackage, label, relabel, or otherwise change the container of any pesticide or device.
Producer
means any person, as defined by the Act, who produces any pesticide, active ingredient, or device (including packaging, repackaging, labeling and relabeling).
Sold or distributed
means the aggregate amount of a pesticidal product released for shipment by the establishment in which the pesticidal product was produced.
Type of pesticidal product
refers to each individual product as identified by: the product name; EPA Registration Number (or EPA File Symbol, if any, for planned products, or Experimental Permit Number, if the pesticide is produced under an Experimental Use Permit); active ingredients; production type (technical, formulation, repackaging, etc.); and, market for which the product was produced (domestic, foreign, etc.). In cases where a pesticide is not registered, registration is not applied for, or the pesticide is not produced under an Experimental Use Permit, the term shall also include the chemical formulation.

# Subpart B—Registration Requirements
§ 167.20
Establishments requiring registration.
(a)
Who must register.
(1) Any establishment where a pesticidal product is produced must be registered with the Agency. This requirement does not apply to custom blenders as defined in this part.
(2) Any establishment where a substance is produced must be registered with the Agency if the producer intends the substance to be used as an active ingredient of a pesticide, or has actual or constructive knowledge that the substance will be used by any person as an active ingredient of a pesticide.
(3) Any domestic establishment producing a pesticidal product for export, or any unregistered pesticide, or any foreign establishment producing a pesticidal product for import into the United States must be registered. Also, any establishment, either foreign or
domestic, which produces a pesticidal product for use under an Experimental Use Permit, FIFRA section 18 Emergency Exemption or section 24(c) Special Local Needs registration, must be registered.
(b)
Information required.
An applicant for establishment registration must submit the following information:
(1) Name and address of the company.
(2) The type of ownership (individual, partnership, cooperative association, corporation, or any organized group of persons whether incorporated or not).
(3) The name and address of each producing establishment for which registration is sought.
(c)
When to apply.
An application for establishment registration must be submitted, and an establishment registration number must be assigned by the Agency, before any production may occur at an establishment. In the case of an establishment which has not previously been required to be registered and is not currently registered, the producer must apply for establishment registration by submitting an application within 180 days after the effective date of this regulation.
(d)
Assignment of establishment registration number.
The Agency will return incomplete or inaccurately completed applications to the applicant. If the application is complete and accurate, the Agency will register the establishment and assign a registration number to the establishment. The establishment registration number will be entered on the application, and a copy of the application will be returned to the applicant.
(e)
Amendment.
If at any time after the first report there is a change in the information required to be submitted under paragraph (b) of this section, that new information must be reported to EPA, in writing on letterhead stationery or on forms supplied by the Agency, within 30 days after such change occurs.
(f)
Duration of registration.
Establishment registration will remain effective provided pesticide reports are submitted annually pursuant to the requirements of this part. Failure to submit a report may result in termination of establishment registration, civil and/or criminal penalty assessments.
[53 FR 35058, Sept. 8, 1988; 54 FR 32638, Aug. 9, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 34203, June 23, 1993]
Subparts C-D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements
§ 167.85
Reporting requirements.
(a)
Who must report.
Each producer operating an establishment must submit the reports required by this section concerning any pesticide, active ingredient, or device produced at each establishment. Custom blenders are not required to report production to the Agency.
(b)
Information required.
The pesticide report shall include the following: (1) Name and address of the establishment; (2) amount of each pesticidal product: (i) Produced during the past year; (ii) sold or distributed during the past year; (iii) estimated to be produced during the current year. The report shall only include those pesticidal products actually produced at the reporting establishment. Reports submitted by foreign-producing establishments shall cover only those pesticidal products exported to the United States.
(c)
How to report.
The reports required by this section must be made on forms supplied by the Agency. It is the ultimate responsibility of companies to obtain, complete, and submit the form each year.
(d)
When to report.
A producer operating an establishment must submit an initial report no later than 30 days after the first registration of each establishment the producer operates. Thereafter, the producer must submit an annual report on or before March 1 of each year, even if the producer has produced no pesticidal product for that reporting year.
[53 FR 35058, Sept. 8, 1988; 54 FR 32638, Aug. 9, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 34203, June 23, 1993]
§ 167.90
Where to obtain and submit forms.
(a)
Where to obtain forms.
Any person may obtain blank forms for the applications and reports required by this part from any EPA Regional Office, or from the address listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Where to submit applications and reports.
Each producer operating an establishment, with the exception of those establishments not found at the same location as their company headquarters, must submit applications and reports required by this part to the EPA Regional Office which serves the area where the establishment is located. The list of Regional Office addresses is found in 40 CFR 1.7. Applications and reports for those establishments not found at the same location as their company headquarters to be submitted by the company headquarters to the Regional Office having jurisdiction over the State in which the company headquarters is located. A foreign producer who exports any pesticide product, device, or active ingredient to the United States must submit all applications and reports to:
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance, Office of Compliance, Agriculture and Ecosystems Division (2225A), Ariel Rios Building, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20460, ATTN: FIFRA Foreign Establishment Registration Contact.
[53 FR 35058, Sept. 8, 1988; 54 FR 32638, Aug. 9, 1989, as amended at 62 FR 49620, Sept. 23, 1997; 65 FR 4577, Jan. 31, 2000]
Pt. 168

# PART 168—STATEMENTS OF ENFORCEMENT POLICIES AND INTERPRETATIONS
Subpart A—General Provisions [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Advertising
Sec.
168.22
Advertising of unregistered pesticides, unregistered uses of registered pesticides and FIFRA section 24(c) registrations.
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Export Policy and Procedures for Exporting Pesticides
168.65
Applicability.
168.66
Labeling of pesticide products and devices for export.
168.67
Definitions.
168.68
[Reserved]
168.69
Registered export pesticide products.
168.70
Unregistered export pesticide products.
168.71
Export pesticide devices.
168.75
Procedures for exporting unregistered pesticides—purchaser acknowledgement statements.
168.85
Other export requirements.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 136-136y.

# Source:
54 FR 1125, Jan. 11, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A—General Provisions [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Advertising
§ 168.22
Advertising of unregistered pesticides, unregistered uses of registered pesticides and FIFRA section 24(c) registrations.
(a) FIFRA sections 12(a)(1) (A) and (B) make it unlawful for any person to “offer for sale” any pesticide if it is unregistered, or if claims made for it as part of its distribution or sale differ substantially from any claim made for it as part of the statement required in connection with its registration under FIFRA section 3. EPA interprets these provisions as extending to advertisements in any advertising medium to which pesticide users or the general public have access.
(b) EPA regards it as unlawful for any person who distributes, sells, offers for sale, holds for sale, ships, delivers for shipment, or receives and (having so received) delivers or offers to deliver any pesticide, to place or sponsor advertisements which recommend or suggest the purchase or use of:
(1) Any pesticide for a use authorized under a FIFRA section 5 experimental use permit (EUP).
(2) Any pesticide for a use authorized under a FIFRA section 18 emergency exemption, except for advertisements that:
(i) Are placed in media which address primarily persons in the geographical area to which the exemption applies.
(ii) State the name and address of one or more retail dealers who stock the pesticide.
(iii) Contain a prominent notice of the limitations on use under the section 18 emergency exemption.
(3) Any pesticide for any use authorized only by a FIFRA section 24(c) special local need registration, unless the advertisement contains a prominent notice of the limitations on use under the section 24(c) registrations.
(4) Any unregistered pesticide for any use unless the advertisement is one permitted by paragraph (b) (2) or (3) of this section.
(5) A registered pesticide product for an unregistered use, unless the advertisement is one permitted by paragraph (b) (2) or (3) of this section. However, as a matter of policy, the Agency will not regard as unlawful the advertisement of uses permitted by FIFRA section 2(ee) provided the product is not an antimicrobial pesticide targeted against human pathogens (see 51 FR 19174; May 28, 1986).
(c) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, a “prominent notice of the limitations on use” is one which sets forth the limitations on use in a manner reasonably likely to be understood by persons to whom the advertisement is addressed. For printed advertising, this criterion will be met by a legend in 6-point or larger type.
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Export Policy and Procedures for Exporting Pesticides

# Source:
58 FR 9085, Feb. 18, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 168.65
Applicability.
(a) This subpart describes the labeling requirements applicable to pesticide products and devices that are intended solely for export from the United States under the provisions of FIFRA section 17(a).
(b) This subpart applies to all export pesticide products and export pesticide devices that are exported for any purpose, including research.
(c) Export pesticide products and export pesticide devices are also subject to requirements for pesticide production reporting, recordkeeping and inspection, and purchaser acknowledgement provisions that can be found in the following parts:
(1) Pesticide production reporting requirements under FIFRA section 7 are located in part 167 of this chapter (as referenced in § 168.85(b)).
(2) Recordkeeping and inspection requirements under FIFRA section 8 are located in part 169 of this chapter (as referenced in § 168.85(a)).
(3) Purchaser acknowledgement statement provisions under FIFRA section 17(a) are located in § 168.75.
[80 FR 75754, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 168.66
Labeling of pesticide products and devices for export.
Any label and labeling information requirements in §§ 168.69, 168.70, and 168.71 that are not met fully on the product label attached to the immediate product container may be met by collateral labeling that is either:
(a) Attached to the immediate product (container label); or
(b) Attached to or accompanies the shipping container of the export pesticide or export device at all times when it is shipped or held for shipment in the United States.
[80 FR 75754, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 168.67
Definitions.
Terms used in this subpart have the same meanings as in the Act and as in § 152.3 of this chapter, unless otherwise defined in this section.
Export pesticide device
means a device, as defined in FIFRA section 2(h), that is intended solely for export from the United States to another country.
Export pesticide product
means a pesticide product, as defined in § 152.3 of this chapter, that is intended solely for export from the United States to another country.
[78 FR 4077, Jan. 18, 2013]
§ 168.68
[Reserved]
§ 168.69
Registered export pesticide products.
(a) Each export pesticide product that is registered under FIFRA section 3 or FIFRA section 24(c) must bear labeling approved by EPA for its registration or collateral labeling in compliance with § 168.66.
(b) For the purposes of this subpart, a registered export pesticide product is considered to be any of the following:
(1) A pesticide product of composition, packaging and labeling as described in its registration under FIFRA section 3;
(2) A pesticide product that has been modified in compliance with the notification or non-notification provisions of § 152.46 of this chapter, and any associated procedures issued under § 156.10(e) of this chapter, regardless of whether such modification has been made for the pesticide product's registration under FIFRA section 3;
(3) A pesticide product initially registered by a State under FIFRA section 24(c), and whose Federal registration has not been disapproved by EPA under § 162.164 of this chapter.
(c) The text of the labeling of the export pesticide product must be provided in English and, if applicable, the following foreign languages:
(1) The predominant or official language of the country of final destination, if known; and
(2) The predominant or official language of the importing country.
[78 FR 4077, Jan. 18, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 75754, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 168.70
Unregistered export pesticide products.
(a) Any export pesticide product that does not meet the terms of § 168.69 is an unregistered export pesticide product for purposes of this subpart.
(b) Each unregistered export pesticide product must bear labeling that complies with all requirements of this section or collateral labeling in compliance with § 168.66.
(1) The labeling must comply with all of the prominence and legibility requirements of § 156.10(a)(2) of this chapter.
(2) The labeling must comply with all the language requirements in §§ 168.69(c) and 156.10(a)(3) of this chapter.
(3) The labeling must bear the following information:
(i) The name and address of the producer, in accordance with the requirements of § 156.10(c) of this chapter;
(ii) The net weight or measure of contents, in accordance with the requirements of § 156.10(d) of this chapter;
(iii) The pesticide producing establishment number, in accordance with the requirements of § 156.10(f) of this chapter;
(iv) An ingredients statement, in accordance with the requirements of § 156.10(g) of this chapter, except that:
(A) The ingredients statement need not appear in a second language besides English if English is the official or predominant language in the importing country and the country of final destination, if known; and
(B) An export pesticide product intended solely for research and development purposes, (and which bears the statement “For research and development purposes only. Not for distribution, sale, or use,” or similar language) may bear coded ingredient information to protect confidentiality.
(v) Human hazard and precautionary statements in accordance with the requirements of subpart D of part 156 of this chapter. The statements must be true and accurate translations of the English statements.
(vi) The statement “Not Registered for Use in the United States of America,” which may be amplified by additional statements accurately describing the reason(s) why the export pesticide product is not registered in the United States, or is not registered for particular uses in the United States.
(c) This section also applies to all unregistered pesticide products and devices that are intended solely for export and that are transferred, distributed, or sold between registered establishments operated by the same producer according to § 152.30(a) of this chapter if:
(1) The transfer, distribution or sale occurs between a point in the United States and a point outside the United States, or
(2) The transfer occurs within the United States solely for the purpose of export from the United States.
[78 FR 4077, Jan. 18, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 75754, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 168.71
Export pesticide devices.
(a) Each export pesticide device sold or distributed anywhere in the United States must bear labeling that complies with all requirements of this section or collateral labeling in compliance with § 168.66.
(b) The labeling of each export pesticide device must meet all of the prominence and legibility requirements of § 156.10(a)(2) of this chapter.
(c) The labeling must also comply with all the language requirements in § 168.69(c) and § 156.10(a)(3) of this chapter.
(d) The labeling must bear the following information:
(1) The name and address of the producer, meeting the requirements of § 156.10(c) of this chapter;
(2) The producing establishment number, meeting the requirements of § 156.10(f) of this chapter;
(3) The statement “Not Registered for Use in the United States of America,” which may be amplified by additional statements describing the reason why the export pesticide device is not registered in the United States, such as “because pesticide devices are not required to be registered in the United States.”
(e) An export pesticide device is not required to bear an ingredients statement.
[78 FR 4077, Jan. 18, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 75754, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 168.75
Procedures for exporting unregistered pesticides—purchaser acknowledgement statements.
This section describes how EPA interprets and will enforce requirements of FIFRA section 17(a)(2). Section 17(a)(2) provides that any person exporting a pesticide other than a pesticide registered for use under FIFRA section 3 or sold under FIFRA section 6(a)(1), shall obtain a statement signed by the foreign purchaser prior to export, acknowledging that the purchaser understands that such pesticide is not registered for use in the United States and cannot be sold in the United States. Section 17(a)(2) requires that a copy of the statement be transmitted to an appropriate official of the government of the importing country.
(a)
Products subject to the requirement.
EPA will not consider an exporter of an unregistered pesticide to be in violation of FIFRA section 17(a)(2) if, prior to export of the pesticide, the exporter submits to EPA a statement signed by the foreign purchaser which affirms that the purchaser is aware that the pesticide is not registered for use in the United States and cannot be sold for use in the United States. The exporter must also include with the submission of the purchaser acknowledgement statement to EPA, a certification signed by the exporter affirming that the export did not occur until the statement signed by the foreign purchaser was obtained by the exporter. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all pesticide products produced for export which cannot be sold for use in the United States in the form that they are produced for export, are considered to be unregistered pesticides. This includes pesticides which are of a different formulation, including composition (except for variation within certified limits), or type of formulation, and pesticides which are packaged for use patterns for which they are not registered, which may be evidenced by package type or label use statements. This also includes unregistered products which are under development as pesticidal products and which are being exported for research testing.
(b)
Exceptions.
Under the specific circumstances discussed below, EPA will not treat a registered product which has been modified slightly for export purposes, as unregistered for the purposes of the purchaser acknowledgement statement requirement. Any changes to the registered product for export purposes must be documented in accordance with the record-keeping requirements at § 169.2 of this chapter and this policy.
(1)
Labeling on immediate product.
EPA will not treat as unregistered for the purposes of section 17(a)(2), a registered pesticide product which cannot be sold or distributed for use in the United
States because its immediate product container does not bear a label approved under a FIFRA section 3 registration, but which could be sold or distributed in the United States with the approved label attached to the immediate product container, provided that the label and labeling approved under a current FIFRA section 3 registration for the product is either attached to the immediate product container or accompanies the product at all times as supplemental labeling as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Packaging.
(i) Certain changes may be made to a product's labeling or packaging without affecting the registration status of the product, as specified in § 152.46(b) of this chapter and this policy. These changes include any changes in package size and label net contents, provided no change in use directions or requirement for child-resistant packaging would be necessary for the product to be registered for use in the United States. For example, if child-resistant packaging is required for a particular pesticide product in the United States, and the product will be exported without child-resistant packaging, the product would be considered unregistered and therefore subject to all the requirements of FIFRA section 17(a), as described in § 168.75 of this chapter including the requirement for a purchaser acknowledgement statement.
(ii) If an exporter needed to repackage a product in a size to meet a foreign purchaser's specifications, that modification would not affect the registration status of the export product. Other modifications to the label used for export purposes which will not affect the export product's registration status are: the use of metric units for net contents, dosages, and other numeric expressions; the use of a different format for the label, provided that the information does not contradict the U.S. label; revision of non-mandatory U.S. label statements, consistent with 40 CFR part 156, including additions or changes required by other Federal statutes or regulations; a change of the name or address of the registrant, except for a change resulting from transfer of ownership, which requires that a registrant keep his name and address current with the Agency; and any correction of typographical or printing errors that appeared on the U.S. labeling. (See § 152.46(b)).
(3)
Labeling statements.
The following statements which appear on any of the product labels or labeling will not affect the status of the product, provided that they do not contradict the approved FIFRA section 3 labeling:
(i) It is permissible to add explanatory language which accurately explains the meaning of a use classification. For example, the statement “restricted use pesticide” may be expanded to read: “Restricted in the United States of America to use by certified applicators” or “Restricted Use Pesticide. In The United States this product is restricted to use by applicators determined by each state to be competent in pesticide application and the human health and environmental consequences of misuse.” If the explanatory language falsely represents or is misleading regarding the U.S. use classification, the product will be considered misbranded. In addition, a use classification can only be listed if one has been assigned pursuant to the U.S. registration.
(ii) An exporter who is also the manufacturer of a U.S. registered pesticide may add new uses to the label of that product for export purposes, without triggering the requirements of section 17(a)(2), as long as the new uses are within the same general use patterns as those for the registered product. The general pesticide use patterns are: terrestrial food crop and terrestrial non-food crop; greenhouse food crop and greenhouse nonfood crop; aquatic food crop and aquatic nonfood crop' indoor use' and forestry use. Adding new uses to the label which change the use pattern, such as changes from nonfood to food use, outdoor to indoor use, or terrestrial to aquatic use, render the product unregistered and subject to the requirements of section 17 for unregistered products. If the new use added to the label is a food or feed use, a tolerance must already be established for the use of that pesticide in or on that commodity.
(4)
Composition.
EPA will not treat a registered product as unregistered for the purposes of the purchaser acknowledgement statement requirement under the following specific circumstances:
(i) The formula of the exported product is within certified limits of the formula of the U.S. registered product.
(ii) An exporter, who is also the manufacturer of a U.S. registered pesticide, may decrease the percentage of the active ingredient(s) of that product by adding a List 4 inert ingredient, without causing the product to be treated as “unregistered” and triggering the requirement to obtain a purchaser acknowledgement statement as a condition for export. In EPA's Policy Statement on Inert Ingredients in Pesticide Products, EPA included inert ingredients on List 4-a list of inert ingredients posing minimal hazard or risk-if the inert ingredients were generally regarded as innocuous. The provisions of this paragraph do not apply to those pesticide products intended for public health uses which are required or conditionally required to submit efficacy data pursuant to § 158.400 or § 161.640 of this chapter, as applicable. Any differences in formula or composition caused by adding a List 4 inert must be reflected in records which show the complete formula of the export product in accordance with the requirements of § 169.2 and this policy.
(iii) A change in the color or fragrance of the export product will not affect the product's registration status as long as the following conditions are met. The change in color must result only from the addition of a dye included on the list of the chemicals exempted from the requirement of a tolerance at 40 CFR 180.910, 180.920, 180.930, and 180.950, and the dye must not be a List 1 inert. (List 1 inerts are those inerts which the Agency has identified as presenting toxicological concerns. The classification of inerts is explained in EPA's Policy Statement on Inert Ingredients in Pesticide Products. The change in fragrance must result only from the addition of a chemical included on the list of the chemicals exempted from the requirement of a tolerance at 40 CFR 180.910, 180.920, 180.930, and 180.950, and the chemical must not be a List 1 inert. The change in fragrance must not result in a pesticide product containing a food or food-like fragrance. (See “Food Fragrances in Pesticide Formulations,” EPA's Office of Pesticide Programs Policy and Criteria Notice number 2155.1, November 20, 1975.) Any difference in color or fragrance of the export product in accordance with this section must be reflected in records which show the complete formula of the export product in accordance with the requirements of § 169.2 and this policy.
(5)
Research and development products.
An unregistered pesticide product exported only for research and development purposes is subject to the notification requirements of this section, unless its use fits within the criteria described in this paragraph.
(i) An unregistered pesticide product exported solely for research and development purposes will not be considered to be in violation of the notification requirements if the export of the research and development product:
(A) Would not involve land uses of more than 10 acres (4.05 hectares), or be used on or affect food or feed crops which are intended for consumption.
(B) Would not involve aquatic uses of more than 1 acre (0.405 hectares), or any aquatic uses which involve water used for irrigation, drinking or recreation, or be used on or affect plants or animals taken for food or feed from such waters.
(C) Would not involve tests on animals intended for food or feed.
(ii) Shipments to different purchasers, to different countries of final destination, or which occur more than a calendar year apart will be evaluated separately. When determining whether total shipments exceed the criteria described in this paragraph, EPA will evaluate the total amount of shipments by a single exporter during a calendar year for use in a particular country.
(iii) An exporter bears the burden of demonstrating that the product meets these criteria before the research product is shipped. This may be met by documenting before the product is shipped and maintaining records for the time period required by § 169.2(h) of this
chapter from the date of the last shipment relevant to such records. The records to be maintained consist of:
(A) The identity of the purchaser and country of intended use of the research product.
(B) The amount shipped.
(C) The intended research use by the purchaser, including the type of application site, rate of application, and measures taken for protection of humans from direct or dietary exposure.
(c)
Procedures.
An exporter of an unregistered pesticide product must submit a purchaser acknowledgement statement to EPA containing the information stated in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and a statement signed by the exporter certifying that the exportation did not occur until the signed acknowledgement statement had been obtained from the purchaser. If the foreign purchaser signs a purchaser acknowledgement statement in their own language, it must be accompanied by an English translation when it is submitted to EPA by the exporter. These statements shall be submitted in accordance with one of the two options for submission described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(1)
Contents of the purchaser acknowledgement statements.
The purchaser acknowledgement statement must include the following information in a format that is clearly understandable:
(i) Name, address, and EPA identification number, if applicable, of the exporter.
(ii) Name and address of the foreign purchaser.
(iii) Identity of the product and the active ingredient(s), including:
(A) The Chemical Abstract Services (CAS) Registry number for each active ingredient.
(B) The chemical nomenclature for each active ingredient as used by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemists (IUPAC).
(C) Other known chemical or common names; or if the export involves a research product, a code name or identification number that can be used by EPA to identify the product from the exporter's records. If a code name or identification number is used, additional information must be attached to the certification statement submitted with the purchaser acknowledgement statement which will enable EPA to identify the product. This attached information may be claimed as confidential, and EPA will not forward this information with the purchaser acknowledgement statement to foreign governments.
(iv) If known or reasonably ascertainable, the country or countries of final destination of the export shipment,
i.e.
, where the exported pesticide is intended to be used, if different from the country of the foreign purchaser's address.
(v) A statement that indicates that the foreign purchaser understands that the product is not registered for use in the United States and cannot be sold in the United States.
(vi) The signature of the foreign purchaser.
(vii) The date of the foreign purchaser's signature.
(2)
Reporting options.
At the discretion of the exporter, the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section may be met on a per-shipment or annual basis, as stated in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (c)(2)(ii) of this section. If the procedures in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section are not followed, EPA will consider paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, requiring pershipment purchaser acknowledgement statements, to be applicable in full. Where paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section is applicable, each shipment which does not meet the requirements of that paragraph will be considered to be a separate violation of FIFRA.
(i)
Per-shipment purchaser acknowledgment statement.
Unless the exporter chooses to follow the procedures described in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section for the annual reporting procedures, the exporter must obtain and submit to EPA, a signed purchaser acknowledgement statement prior to each shipment of an unregistered pesticide according to the following procedures:
(A) Prior to each shipment in a calendar year of an unregistered pesticide product to a particular purchaser in a foreign country, the exporter must provide the foreign purchaser with instructions about the required information on a purchaser acknowledgement
statement, and inform the foreign purchaser that the pesticide product cannot be exported from the United States until the exporter has received from the foreign purchaser a properly completed, signed, and dated acknowledgment statement.
(B) The exporter must obtain, prior to each shipment in a calendar year of an unregistered pesticide product to a particular purchaser in a foreign country, a signed purchaser acknowledgment statement which contains the information set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(C) The exporter must sign a statement certifying that export did not take place until a signed purchaser acknowledgement statement was received. The exporter must also specify the chemical identity of any research product which is referred to by code in the purchaser acknowledgement statement. The information regarding the specific identity of research products, which may be included in the statement or consist of an attachment to the certification, may be claimed as confidential.
(D) The exporter must submit the signed acknowledgement statement from the foreign purchaser, and the accompanying certification by the exporter including attachments, to EPA within 7 working days of the exporter's receipt of the purchaser acknowledgement statement, or by the date of export, whichever occurs first. This information must be transmitted to the Office of Pesticide Programs' Document Processing Desk at the appropriate address as set forth in 40 CFR 150.17(a) or (b), Attention: Purchaser Acknowledgement Statement.
(ii)
Annual reporting procedures.
Unless the exporter chooses to follow the per-shipment reporting option described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, the exporter must follow the procedures for annual summary reporting which include the requirement of a purchaser acknowledgement statement for the first shipment each calendar year of an unregistered pesticide product to a particular purchaser, and an annual summary of shipments to that purchaser. The annual summary reporting procedures are as follows:
(A) Prior to the first shipment each calendar year of an unregistered pesticide product to a particular purchaser in a foreign country, the exporter must provide the foreign purchaser with instructions about the required information on a purchaser acknowledgement statement, and inform the foreign purchaser that the pesticide product cannot be exported from the United States until the exporter has received from the foreign purchaser a properly completed, signed, and dated purchaser acknowledgement statement.
(B) The exporter must obtain, prior to the first shipment each calendar year of an unregistered pesticide product to a particular purchaser in a foreign country, a signed purchaser acknowledgement statement which contains the information set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(C) The exporter must sign a statement certifying that export did not take place until a signed purchaser acknowledgement statement was received, indicating that this statement is for the first shipment to a particular purchaser in a specific country for that calendar year, and that the exporter will meet all the purchaser acknowledgement statement requirements as described in this paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. The exporter must also specify the chemical identity of any research product which is referred to by code in the purchaser acknowledgement statement. The information regarding the specific identity of research products, which may be included in the statement or consist of an attachment to the certification, may be claimed as confidential.
(D) The exporter must submit the signed acknowledgement statement from the foreign purchaser, and the accompanying certification by the exporter including attachments, to EPA within 7 working days of the exporter's receipt of the purchaser acknowledgement statement, or by the date of export, whichever occurs first. This information must be transmitted to the Office of Pesticide Programs' Document Processing Desk at the appropriate address as set forth in 40 CFR 150.17(a) or (b), Attention: Purchaser Acknowledgement Statement.
(E) The exporter, who has chosen to comply with the requirements of this paragraph instead of providing per-shipment purchaser acknowledgement statements in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, must submit an annual summary report to EPA. An annual summary report is required for each unregistered pesticide exported within the preceding calendar year. The report must be in writing, signed by the exporter, and include the following information:
(
1
) Name, address, and EPA identification number if applicable, of the exporter.
(
2
) Name and address of the foreign purchaser, and the date the purchaser acknowledgement statement, submitted to EPA during the previous calendar year, was signed by the purchaser.
(
3
) The identity of the product and the active ingredients, including: the Chemical Abstract Services (CAS) registry number for each active ingredient, the chemical nomenclature for each active ingredient used by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemists (IUPAC), and other known chemical or common names, or if the export involves a research product, the code name or identification number that can be used by EPA to identify the product from the exporter's records.
(
4
) The dates of each shipment of the pesticide exported to the foreign purchaser during that calendar year.
(
5
) If known, or reasonably ascertainable, the country or countries of final destination of the export shipments,
i.e.
, where the exported pesticide was intended to be used, if different from the foreign purchaser's address.
(F) The exporter shall submit the annual summary no later than March 1st of the following calendar year. The annual summary shall be sent to the Office of Pesticide Programs' Document Processing Desk at the appropriate address as set forth in 40 CFR 150.17(a) or (b), Attention: Annual Summary of Exports.
(iii)
Confidentiality claims.
Persons submitting the information specified in the purchaser acknowledgement statement may assert a claim of business confidentiality by marking the information claimed confidential as “FIFRA Confidential Business Information.” Information so claimed will not be disclosed, with the exception of disclosure to the foreign governments, except in accordance with the procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2, 7 U.S.C. 136(h), and this policy statement. If such claim is not asserted, EPA may disclose the information to the public without providing further notice prior to disclosure or an opportunity to object. Notwithstanding any claim of confidentiality, the purchaser acknowledgement statement will continue to be forwarded to the appropriate foreign government officials in its entirety, as required by section 17(a)(2).
(3)
Recordkeeping.
Except as specifically stated, the requirement to retain records under part 169 of this chapter applies to all pesticide producers, regardless of whether a particular product is intended for export. All records shall be maintained in accordance with the time period required by § 169.2(h) of this chapter. Producers must also maintain certain records pertaining to pesticide products intended for export. In addition to the requirement that a copy of the purchaser acknowledgement statement be kept, as stated at § 169.2(h)(3) of this chapter, the following records must be maintained:
(i) Copies of the instructions provided to foreign purchasers in accordance with paragraphs (c)(2)(i)(A) and (c)(2)(ii)(A) of this section.
(ii) Copies of signed purchaser acknowledgement statements obtained according to paragraphs (c)(2)(i)(B) and (c)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.
(iii) Copies of the certification from the exporter; and copies of any accompanying information regarding the identity of coded R
D products.
(d)
Agency transmission of purchaser acknowledgement statements.
EPA will transmit a copy of each purchaser acknowledgement statement to the appropriate government official in each of the intended destination countries. After receipt of the Annual Summary the following calendar year, EPA will also transmit a copy of that document to the appropriate government official in each of the intended destination countries. In the case that no Annual
Summary has been received within 30 days of the date at which such summary is required to be submitted, EPA will send written notification to the appropriate government official indicating that no summary was submitted, and may also take enforcement action against the exporter.
[58 FR 9085, Feb. 18, 1993, as amended at 69 FR 23117, Apr. 28, 2004; 71 FR 35546, June 21, 2006; 72 FR 61029, Oct. 26, 2007]
§ 168.85
Other export requirements.
This section describes other requirements found in regulations that apply to exporters of pesticides, devices, and active ingredients used in producing a pesticide.
(a)
Recordkeeping and inspection.
Exporters of pesticides, devices and active ingredients must keep records and permit inspections of those records in accordance with part 169 of this chapter. Exporters must keep records of the product labeling used, including the EPA registered labeling, any foreign labeling on or attached to the product when shipped, and, as applicable, any supplemental labeling used. Producers of pesticides for export shall maintain these records in a manner that shows exactly which labels and labeling accompanied each shipment of a pesticide product to a foreign country. As stated at § 168.75(c), when research product identity information appears on the labeling in an encoded manner, information translating the code shall be maintained in records. These records shall be maintained for the time period required by § 169.2(h) of this chapter following the last export of such pesticides. All records required by part 169 of this chapter shall be made available for inspection and copying by EPA or its duly authorized representatives.
(b)
Pesticide production establishment requirements.
Exporters of pesticides, devices, and active ingredients must submit annual reports to EPA in accordance with part 167 of this chapter, concerning those products that are exported. All products required to be labeled “Not Registered for Use in the United States of America” must be reported as unregistered production regardless of whether a purchaser acknowledgement statement is required.
Pt. 169

# PART 169—BOOKS AND RECORDS OF PESTICIDE PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION
Sec.
169.1
Definitions.
169.2
Maintenance of records.
169.3
Inspection.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 136f and 136w.

# Source:
45 FR 54338, Aug. 15, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 169.1
Definitions.
Terms used in this part shall have the meanings set forth for such terms in the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended. In addition, as used in this part, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
(a)
Amount of pesticide or active ingredient.
The term “amount of pesticide or active ingredient” means the weight or volume of the pesticide or active ingredient used in producing a pesticide expressed as weight for solid or semi-solid products and as weight or volume of liquid products.
(b)
Batch.
The term “batch” means a quantity of a pesticide product or active ingredient used in producing a pesticide made in one operation or lot or if made in a continuous or semi-continuous process or cycle, the quantity produced during an interval of time to be specified by the producer.
(c)
Device.
The term “device” means any device or class of device as defined by the Act and determined by the Administrator to be subject to the provisions of the Act.
(d)
Inability.
The term “inability” means the incapacity of any person to maintain, furnish or permit access to any records under this Act and regulations, where such incapacity arises out of causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of such person. Such causes may include, but are not restricted to acts of God or of the public enemy, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, and unusually severe weather, but in every case, the failure must be beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of said person.
(e)
Producer.
The term “producer” means the person, as defined by the
Act, who produces or imports any pesticide or device or active ingredient used in producing a pesticide.
§ 169.2
Maintenance of records.
All producers of pesticides, devices, or active ingredients used in producing pesticides subject to this Act, including pesticides produced pursuant to an experimental use permit and pesticides, devices, and pesticide active ingredients produced for export, shall maintain the following records:
(a) Records showing the product name, EPA Registration Number, Experimental Permit Number if the pesticide is produced under an Experimental Use Permit, amounts per batch and batch identification (numbers, letters, etc.) of all pesticides produced. In cases where the product is an active ingredient used in producing a pesticide or where the product is a pesticide which is not registered, is not the subject of an application for registration, or is not produced under an Experimental Use Permit, the records shall also show the complete formula. The batch identification shall appear on all production control records. These records shall be retained for a period of two (2) years.
(b) Records showing the brand names and quantities of devices produced. These records shall be retained for a period of two (2) years.
(c) Records showing the following information regarding the receipt, by the producer, of all pesticides, devices, and active ingredients used in producing pesticides:
(1) Brand name of the pesticide or device, or common or chemical name of the pesticide active ingredient;
(2) Name and address of shipper;
(3) Name of delivering carrier;
(4) Date received; and
(5) Quantities received.
These records are not intended to cover receipt of pesticides used for in-plant maintenance, extermination, or sanitation programs, etc. Shipping and receiving documents such as invoices, freight bills, receiving tickets, etc., which provide the required information will be considered satisfactory for the purposes of this section. These records shall be retained for a period of two (2) years.
(d) Records showing the following information regarding the shipment of all pesticides, devices, and active ingredients used in producing pesticides:
(1) Brand name of pesticide or device, or the common or chemical name of the pesticide active ingredient;
(2) Name and address of consignee;
(3) Where the pesticide is produced pursuant to an experimental use permit (FIFRA section 5), a special exemption (section 18), or a special local need (section 24), the information required under these sections and any regulations promulgated thereto regarding the distribution of such pesticides;
(4) Name of originating carrier;
(5) Date shipped or delivered for shipment; and
(6) Quantities shipped or delivered for shipment.
Such records are required regardless of whether any shipment or receipt of shipment is between plants owned or otherwise controlled by the same person. Shipping and receiving documents such as invoices, freight bills, receiving tickets, etc., which provide the required information will be considered satisfactory for purposes of this section. These records shall be retained for a period of two (2) years.
(e) Inventory records with respect to the types and amounts of pesticides or pesticide active ingredients, or quantities of devices in stock which he has produced. These records may be disposed of when a more current inventory record is prepared.
(f) Copies of all domestic advertising of the restricted uses of any pesticide registered for restricted use which the producer caused to have prepared, including any radio or television scripts for all such pesticides. These records shall be retained for a period of two (2) years.
(g) Copies of all guarantees given pursuant to section 12(a)(2)(C) of the Act. These records shall be retained for a period of one (1) year after expiration of the guarantee.
(h) In the case of all pesticides, devices, and active ingredients used in producing pesticides intended solely for export to any foreign country:
(1) Copies of the specification or directions of the foreign purchaser for
the production of such pesticides, devices, or pesticide active ingredients;
(2) Copies of labels or labeling required to comply with section 17(a)(1) of the Act; and
(3) For any pesticide other than a pesticide registered under section 3 or sold under section 6(a)(1) of the Act, copies of a statement signed by the foreign purchaser of the pesticide acknowledging that the purchaser understands that such pesticide is not registered for use in the United States and cannot be sold in the United States under this Act.
These records shall be retained for a period of 2 years after expiration of the contract.
(i) Records on the method of disposal (burial, incineration, etc.) date or dates of disposal, location of the disposal sites, and the types and amounts of pesticides or pesticide active ingredients disposed of by the producer or his contractor. With regard to the disposal of containers accumulated during production, the Agency will consider satisfactory a statement, attested to by a responsible firm official, describing in general terms the method and location of disposal, e.g., all containers are taken periodically to a certain site. Records of deviations from normal practice must be maintained. In addition, any records on the disposal of pesticides or pesticide active ingredients and/or containers specified pursuant to section 19 of the Act and any regulations promulgated thereto shall also be maintained. The above requirements apply to those products bearing label instructions for disposal and to any other products specified under any regulations promulgated pursuant to section 19. These records shall be retained for twenty (20) years or may be forwarded after three (3) years to the Environmental Protection Agency Regional Administrator for maintenance. Notwithstanding these record keeping requirements, whenever any producer of pesticides or pesticide active ingredients is complying with a rule promulgated under the authority of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA) (Pub. L. 94-580, 90 Stat. 2795, October 21, 1976), for the handling or disposal of hazardous wastes, as defined by RCRA or any regulations promulgated thereunder, such producer will no longer be required to maintain records in accordance with this subsection.
(j) Records of any tests conducted on human beings whether performed by the producer himself or authorized and/or paid for by the producer. Such records shall include: The names and addresses of subjects tested, dates of tests, types of tests, written consent of subjects to test, and all information and instructions given to the subjects regarding the nature and purpose of the tests and of any physical and mental health consequences which were reasonably foreseen therefrom, and any adverse effects of the test on the subjects, including any such effects coming to the attention of the producer after completion of the tests. These records shall be retained for twenty (20) years or may be forwarded after three (3) years to the Environmental Protection Agency Regional Administrator for maintenance.
(k) Records containing research data relating to registered pesticides including all test reports submitted to the Agency in support of registration or in support of a tolerance petition,
all
underlying raw data, and interpretations and evaluations thereof, whether in the possession of the producer or in the possession of the independent testing facility or laboratory (if any) which performed such tests on behalf of the producer. These records shall be retained as long as the registration is valid and the producer is in business.
[45 FR 54338, Aug. 15, 1980, as amended at 58 FR 9090, Feb. 18, 1993]
§ 169.3
Inspection.
(a)
Producers.
Any producer of any pesticide, device, or active ingredient used in producing a pesticide which is subject to this Act shall, upon request of any officer or employee of the Agency or of any State or political subdivision, duly designated by the Administrator, furnish or permit such person at all reasonable times to have access to and to copy all records required to be maintained by this part, including records in the possession of an independent testing facility or laboratory which performed tests on behalf of the
producer. Such inspection will be conducted in accordance with procedures detailed in section 8(b) of the Act.
(b) Distributors, carriers, dealers, etc. Any distributor, carrier, dealer, or any other person who sells or offers for sale, delivers or offers for delivery any pesticide, device, or active ingredient used in producing a pesticide which is subject to this Act, shall, upon request of any officer or employee of the Agency or of any State or political subdivision, duly designated by the Administrator, furnish or permit such person at all reasonable times to have access to and copy all records showing the delivery or holding of such pesticide, device, or active ingredient used in producing a pesticide, including the quantity, the date of shipment and receipt, and the name and address of the consignor and consignee, and any guarantee received pursuant to section 12(b)(1) of the Act.
(c)
Confidentiality.
Any record which is subject to the regulations under this part, and which may be confidential, shall be treated in accordance with the provisions of section 10 of the Act. The availability to the public of information provided to, or otherwise obtained by, the Administrator under this part shall be governed by part 2 of this chapter.
(d)
Inability.
(1) In the event of the inability of any person to produce records containing the information required to be maintained, furnished for inspection, or given access to, all other records and information regarding the same shall be provided.
(2) Where no such inability exists and any such person fails to give access to and permit copying of such records as required, such failure shall be deemed a refusal to keep records required or a refusal to allow the inspection of any such records or both.
Pt. 170

# PART 170—WORKER PROTECTION STANDARD

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
170.1
Scope and purpose.
170.2
Implementation and expiration dates.
170.3
Definitions.
170.7
General duties and prohibited actions.
170.9
Violations of this part.

# Subpart B—Standard for Workers
170.102
Applicability of this subpart.
170.103
Exceptions.
170.104
Exemptions.
170.110
Restrictions associated with pesticide applications.
170.112
Entry restrictions.
170.120
Notice of applications.
170.122
Providing specific information about applications.
170.124
Notice of applications to handler employers.
170.130
Pesticide safety training for workers.
170.135
Posted pesticide safety information.
170.150
Decontamination.
170.160
Emergency assistance.

# Subpart C—Standard for Pesticide Handlers
170.202
Applicability of this subpart.
170.203
Exceptions.
170.204
Exemptions.
170.210
Restrictions during applications.
170.222
Providing specific information about applications.
170.224
Notice of applications to agricultural employers.
170.230
Pesticide safety training for handlers.
170.232
Knowledge of labeling and site-specific information.
170.234
Safe operation of equipment.
170.235
Posted pesticide safety information.
170.240
Personal protective equipment.
170.250
Decontamination.
170.260
Emergency assistance.

# Subpart D—General Provisions
170.301
Scope and purpose.
170.303
Applicability of this part.
170.305
Definitions.
170.309
Agricultural employer duties.
170.311
Display requirements for pesticide safety information and pesticide application and hazard information.
170.313
Commercial pesticide handler employer duties.
170.315
Prohibited actions.
170.317
Violations of this part.

# Subpart E—Requirements for Protection of Agricultural Workers
170.401
Training requirements for workers.
170.403
Establishment-specific information for workers.
170.405
Entry restrictions associated with pesticide applications.
170.407
Worker entry restrictions after pesticide applications.
170.409
Oral and posted notification of worker entry restrictions.
170.411
Decontamination supplies for workers.

# Subpart F—Requirements for Protection of Agricultural Pesticide Handlers
170.501
Training requirements for handlers.
170.503
Knowledge of labeling, application-specific, and establishment-specific information for handlers.
170.505
Requirements during applications to protect handlers, workers, and other persons.
170.507
Personal protective equipment.
170.509
Decontamination and eye flushing supplies for handlers.

# Subpart G—Exemptions, Exceptions and Equivalency
170.601
Exemptions.
170.603
Exceptions for entry by workers during restricted-entry intervals.
170.605
Agricultural employer responsibilities to protect workers entering treated areas during a restricted-entry interval.
170.607
Exceptions to personal protective equipment requirements specified on pesticide product labeling.
170.609
Equivalency requests.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 136w.

# Source:
57 FR 38151, Aug. 21, 1992, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 170.1
Scope and purpose.
This part contains a standard designed to reduce the risks of illness or injury resulting from workers' and handlers' occupational exposures to pesticides used in the production of agricultural plants on farms or in nurseries, greenhouses, and forests and also from the accidental exposure of workers and other persons to such pesticides. It requires workplace practices designed to reduce or eliminate exposure to pesticides and establishes procedures for responding to exposure-related emergencies.
§ 170.2
Implementation and expiration dates.
(a)
Implementation date.
Beginning January 2, 2017, the requirements of §§ 170.301 through 170.609 of this part shall apply to any pesticide product that bears the statement “Use this product only in accordance with its labeling and with the Worker Protection Standard, 40 CFR part 170”.
(b)
Expiration date.
Sections 170.1 through 170.260 of this part shall expire on, and will no longer be effective after January 2, 2017.
[80 FR 67556, Nov. 2, 2015]
§ 170.3
Definitions.
Terms used in this part have the same meanings they have in the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended. In addition, the following terms, when used in this part, shall have the following meanings:
Agricultural employer
means any person who hires or contracts for the services of workers, for any type of compensation, to perform activities related to the production of agricultural plants, or any person who is an owner of or is responsible for the management or condition of an agricultural establishment that uses such workers.
Agricultural establishment
means any farm, forest, nursery, or greenhouse.
Agricultural plant
means any plant grown or maintained for commercial or research purposes and includes, but is not limited to, food, feed, and fiber plants; trees; turfgrass; flowers, shrubs; ornamentals; and seedlings.
Chemigation
means the application of pesticides through irrigation systems.
Commercial pesticide handling establishment
means any establishment, other than an agricultural establishment, that:
(1) Employs any person, including a self-employed person, to apply on an agricultural establishment, pesticides used in the production of agricultural plants.
(2) Employs any person, including a self-employed person, to perform on an agricultural establishment, tasks as a crop advisor.
Crop advisor
means any person who is assessing pest numbers or damage, pesticide distribution, or the status or requirements of agricultural plants. The term does not include any person who is performing hand labor tasks.
Early entry
means entry by a worker into a treated area on the agricultural establishment after a pesticide application is complete, but before any restricted-entry interval for the pesticide has expired.
Farm
means any operation, other than a nursery or forest, engaged in the
outdoor production of agricultural plants.
Forest
means any operation engaged in the outdoor production of any agricultural plant to produce wood fiber or timber products.
Fumigant
means any pesticide product that is a vapor or gas, or forms a vapor or gas on application, and whose method of pesticidal action is through the gaseous state.
Greenhouse
means any operation engaged in the production of agricultural plants inside any structure or space that is enclosed with nonporous covering and that is of sufficient size to permit worker entry. This term includes, but is not limited to, polyhouses, mushroom houses, rhubarb houses, and similar structures. It does not include such structures as malls, atriums, conservatories, arboretums, or office buildings where agricultural plants are present primarily for aesthetic or climatic modification.
Hand labor
means any agricultural activity performed by hand or with hand tools that causes a worker to have substantial contact with surfaces (such as plants, plant parts, or soil) that may contain pesticide residues. These activities include, but are not limited to, harvesting, detasseling, thinning, weeding, topping, planting, sucker removal, pruning, disbudding, roguing, and packing produce into containers in the field. Hand labor does not include operating, moving, or repairing irrigation or watering equipment or performing the tasks of crop advisors.
Handler
means any person, including a self-employed person:
(1) Who is employed for any type of compensation by an agricultural establishment or commercial pesticide handling establishment to which subpart C of this part applies and who is:
(i) Mixing, loading, transferring, or applying pesticides.
(ii) Disposing of pesticides or pesticide containers.
(iii) Handling opened containers of pesticides.
(iv) Acting as a flagger.
(v) Cleaning, adjusting, handling, or repairing the parts of mixing, loading, or application equipment that may contain pesticide residues.
(vi) Assisting with the application of pesticides.
(vii) Entering a greenhouse or other enclosed area after the application and before the inhalation exposure level listed in the labeling has been reached or one of the ventilation criteria established by this part (§ 170.110(c)(3)) or in the labeling has been met:
(A) To operate ventilation equipment.
(B) To adjust or remove coverings used in fumigation.
(C) To monitor air levels.
(viii) Entering a treated area outdoors after application of any soil fumigant to adjust or remove soil coverings such as tarpaulins.
(ix) Performing tasks as a crop advisor:
(A) During any pesticide application.
(B) Before the inhalation exposure level listed in the labeling has been reached or one of the ventilation criteria established by this part (§ 170.110(c)(3)) or in the labeling has been met.
(C) During any restricted-entry interval.
(2) The term does not include any person who is only handling pesticide containers that have been emptied or cleaned according to pesticide product labeling instructions or, in the absence of such instructions, have been subjected to triple-rinsing or its equivalent.
Handler employer
means any person who is self-employed as a handler or who employs any handler, for any type of compensation.
Immediate family
includes only spouse, children, stepchildren, foster children, parents, stepparents, foster parents, brothers, and sisters.
Nursery
means any operation engaged in the outdoor production of any agricultural plant to produce cut flowers and ferns or plants that will be used in their entirety in another location. Such plants include, but are not limited to, flowering and foliage plants or trees; tree seedlings; live Christmas trees; vegetable, fruit, and ornamental transplants; and turfgrass produced for sod.
Owner
means any person who has a present possessory interest (fee, leasehold, rental, or other) in an agricultural establishment covered by this part. A person who has both leased such agricultural establishment to another person and granted that same person the right and full authority to manage and govern the use of such agricultural establishment is not an owner for purposes of this part.
Restricted-entry interval
means the time after the end of a pesticide application during which entry into the treated area is restricted.
Treated area
means any area to which a pesticide is being directed or has been directed.
Worker
means any person, including a self-employed person, who is employed for any type of compensation and who is performing activities relating to the production of agricultural plants on an agricultural establishment to which subpart B of this part applies. While persons employed by a commercial pesticide handling establishment are performing tasks as crop advisors, they are not workers covered by the requirements of subpart B of this part.
§ 170.7
General duties and prohibited actions.
(a)
General duties.
The agricultural employer or the handler employer, as appropriate, shall:
(1) Assure that each worker subject to subpart B of this part or each handler subject to subpart C of this part receives the protections required by this part.
(2) Assure that any pesticide to which subpart C of this part applies is used in a manner consistent with the labeling of the pesticide, including the requirements of this part.
(3) Provide, to each person who supervises any worker or handler, information and directions sufficient to assure that each worker or handler receives the protections required by this part. Such information and directions shall specify which persons are responsible for actions required to comply with this part.
(4) Require each person who supervises any worker or handler to assure compliance by the worker or handler with the provisions of this part and to assure that the worker or handler receives the protections required by this part.
(b)
Prohibited actions.
The agricultural employer or the handler employer shall not take any retaliatory action for attempts to comply with this part or any action having the effect of preventing or discouraging any worker or handler from complying or attempting to comply with any requirement of this part.
§ 170.9
Violations of this part.
(a) Under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136
et seq.
) (FIFRA) section 12(a)(2)(G) it is unlawful for any person “to use any registered pesticide in a manner inconsistent with its labeling.” When this part is referenced on a label, users must comply with all of its requirements except those that are inconsistent with product-specific instructions on the labeling. For the purposes of this part, EPA interprets the term “use” to include:
(1) Preapplication activities, including, but not limited to:
(i) Arranging for the application of the pesticide;
(ii) Mixing and loading the pesticide; and
(iii) Making necessary preparations for the application of the pesticide, including responsibilities related to worker notification, training of handlers, decontamination, use and care of personal protective equipment, emergency information, and heat stress management.
(2) Application of the pesticide.
(3) Post-application activities necessary to reduce the risks of illness and injury resulting from handlers' and workers' occupational exposures to pesticide residues during the restricted-entry interval plus 30 days. These activities include, but are not limited to, responsibilities related to worker training, notification, and decontamination.
(4) Other pesticide-related activities, including, but not limited to, providing emergency assistance, transporting or storing pesticides that have been opened, and disposing of excess pesticides, spray mix, equipment wash
waters, pesticide containers, and other pesticide-containing materials.
(b) A person who has a duty under this part, as referenced on the pesticide product label, and who fails to perform that duty, violates FIFRA section 12(a)(2)(G) and is subject to a civil penalty under section 14. A person who knowingly violates section 12(a)(2)(G) is subject to section 14 criminal sanctions.
(c) FIFRA section 14(b)(4) provides that a person is liable for a penalty under FIFRA if another person employed by or acting for that person violates any provision of FIFRA. The term “acting for” includes both employment and contractual relationships.
(d) The requirements of this part, including the decontamination requirements, shall not, for the purposes of section 653(b)(1) of title 29 of the U.S. Code, be deemed to be the exercise of statutory authority to prescribe or enforce standards or regulations affecting the general sanitary hazards addressed by the OSHA Field Sanitation Standard, 29 CFR 1928.110, or other agricultural, nonpesticide hazards.

# Subpart B—Standard for Workers
§ 170.102
Applicability of this subpart.
Except as provided by §§ 170.103 and 170.104, this subpart applies when any pesticide product is used on an agricultural establishment in the production of agricultural plants.
[60 FR 21952, May 3, 1995]
§ 170.103
Exceptions.
Exceptions.
This subpart does not apply when any pesticide is applied on an agricultural establishment in the following circumstances:
(a) For mosquito abatement, Mediterranean fruit fly eradication, or similar wide-area public pest control programs sponsored by governmental entities;
(b) On livestock or other animals, or in or about animal premises;
(c) On plants grown for other than commercial or research purposes, which may include plants in habitations, home fruit and vegetable gardens, and home greenhouses;
(d) On plants that are in ornamental gardens, parks, and public or private lawns and grounds that are intended only for aesthetic purposes or climatic modification;
(e) By injection directly into agricultural plants. Direct injection does not include “hack and squirt,” “frill and spray,” chemigation, soil-incorporation, or soil-injection;
(f) In a manner not directly related to the production of agricultural plants, including, but not limited to, structural pest control, control of vegetation along rights-of-way and in other noncrop areas, and pasture and rangeland use;
(g) For control of vertebrate pests;
(h) As attractants or repellents in traps;
(i) On the harvested portions of agricultural plants or on harvested timber; and
(j) For research uses of unregistered pesticides.
[57 FR 38151, Aug. 21, 1992. Redesignated at 60 FR 21952, May 3, 1995]
§ 170.104
Exemptions.
The workers listed in this section are exempt from the specified provisions of this subpart.
(a)
Owners of agricultural establishments.
(1) The owner of an agricultural establishment is not required to provide to himself or members of his immediate family who are performing tasks related to the production of agricultural plants on their own agricultural establishment the protections of:
(i) Section 170.112(c)(5) through (9).
(ii) Section 170.112(c)(5) through (9) as referenced in §§ 170.112(d)(2)(iii) and 170.112(e).
(iii) Section 170.120.
(iv) Section 170.122.
(v) Section 170.130.
(vi) Section 170.135.
(vii) Section 170.150.
(viii) Section 170.160.
(2) The owner of the agricultural establishment must provide the protections listed in paragraph (a)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section to other workers and other persons who are not members of his immediate family.
(b)
Crop advisors.
(1) Provided that the conditions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section are met, a person who is
certified or licensed as a crop advisor by a program acknowledged as appropriate in writing by EPA or a State or Tribal lead agency for pesticide enforcement, and persons performing crop advising tasks under such qualified crop advisor's direct supervision, are exempt from the provisions of:
(i) Section 170.150.
(ii) Section 170.160.
A person is under the direct supervision of a crop advisor when the crop advisor exerts the supervisory controls set out in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii) and (iv) of this section. Direct supervision does not require that the crop advisor be physically present at all times, but the crop advisor must be readily accessible to the employees at all times.
(2) Conditions of exemption. (i) The certification or licensing program requires pesticide safety training that includes, at least, all the information in § 170.230(c)(4).
(ii) Applies only when performing crop advising tasks in the treated area.
(iii) The crop advisor must make specific determinations regarding the appropriate personal protective equipment, appropriate decontamination supplies, and how to conduct the tasks safely. The crop advisor must convey this information to each person under his direct supervision in a language that the person understands.
(iv) Before entering a treated area, the certified or licensed crop advisor must inform, through an established practice of communication, each person under his direct supervision of the pesticide product and active ingredient(s) applied, method of application, time of application, the restricted entry interval, which tasks to undertake, and how to contact the crop advisor.
[60 FR 21952, May 3, 1995, as amended at 73 FR 75598, Dec. 12, 2008]
§ 170.110
Restrictions associated with pesticide applications.
(a)
Farms and forests.
During the application of any pesticide on a farm or in a forest, the agricultural employer shall not allow or direct any person, other than an appropriately trained and equipped handler, to enter or to remain in the treated area.
(b)
Nurseries.
In a nursery, during any pesticide application described in column A of Table 1 of this paragraph, the agricultural employer shall not allow or direct any person, other than an appropriately trained and equipped handler, to enter or to remain in the area specified in column B of Table 1 of this paragraph. After the application is completed, until the end of any restricted-entry interval, the entry-restricted area is the treated area.
Table 1—Entry-Restricted Areas in Nurseries During Pesticide Applications
A. During Application of a Pesticide:
B. Workers are Prohibited in:
(1)(a) Applied:
Treated area plus 100 feet in all directions on the nursery
(i) Aerially, or
(ii) In an upward direction, or
(iii) Using a spray pressure greater than 150 psi, or
(b) Applied as a:
(i) Fumigant, or
(ii) Smoke, or
(iii) Mist, or
(iv) Fog, or
(v) Aerosol.
(2)(a) Applied downward using:
Treated are plus 25 feet in all directions on the nursery
(i) A height of greater than 12 inches from the planting medium, or
(ii) A fine spray, or
(iii) A spray pressure greater than 40 psi and less than 150 psi.
(b) Not as in 1 or 2(a) above but for which a respiratory protection device is required for application by the product labeling.
(3) Applied otherwise.
Treated area
(c)
Greenhouses.
(1) When a pesticide application described in column A of Table 2 under paragraph (c)(4) of this section takes place in a greenhouse,
the agricultural employer shall not allow or direct any person, other than an appropriately trained and equipped handler, to enter or to remain in the area specified in column B of Table 2 until the time specified in column C of Table 2 has expired.
(2) After the time specified in column C of Table 2 under paragraph (c)(4) of this section has expired, until the expiration of any restricted-entry interval, the agricultural employer shall not allow or direct any worker to enter or to remain in the treated area as specified in column D of Table 2 under paragraph (c)(4) of this section, except as provided in § 170.112.
(3) When column C of Table 2 under paragraph (c)(4) of this section specifies that ventilation criteria must be met, ventilation shall continue until the air concentration is measured to be equal to or less than the inhalation exposure level the labeling requires to be achieved. If no inhalation exposure level is listed on the labeling, ventilation shall continue until after:
(i) Ten air exchanges are completed; or
(ii) Two hours of ventilation using fans or other mechanical ventilating systems; or
(iii) Four hours of ventilation using vents, windows or other passive ventilation; or
(iv) Eleven hours with no ventilation followed by 1 hour of mechanical ventilation; or
(v) Eleven hours with no ventilation followed by 2 hours of passive ventilation; or
(vi) Twenty-four hours with no ventilation.
(4) The following Table 2 applies to paragraphs (c) (1), (2), and (3) of this section.
Table 2—Greenhouse Entry Restrictions Associated With Pesticide Applications
A. When a Pesticide is Applied:
B. Workers are Prohibited in:
C. Until:
D. After the Expiration of Time in Column C Until the Restricted-Entry Interval Expires, the Entry-Restricted Area is:
(1) As a fumigant
Entire greenhouse plus any adjacent structure that cannot be sealed off from the treated area
The ventilation criteria of paragraph (c)(3) of this section are met
No entry restrictions after criteria in column C are met
(2) As a
Entire enclosed area
The ventilation criteria of paragraph (c)(3) of this section are met
Entire enclosed area is the treated area
(i) Smoke, or
(ii) Mist, or
(iii) Fog, or
(iv) Aerosol
(3) Not in 1 or 2 above, and for which a respiratory protection device is required for application by the product labeling
Entire enclosed area
The ventilation criteria of paragraph (c)(3) of this section are met
Treated area
(4) Not in 1, 2, or 3 above, and:
Treated area plus 25 feet in all directions in the enclosed area
Application is complete
Treated area
(i) From a height of greater than 12 in. from the planting medium, or
(ii) As a fine spray, or
(iii) Using a spray pressure greater than 40 psi
(5) Otherwise
Treated area
Application is complete
Treated area
§ 170.112
Entry restrictions.
(a)
General restrictions.
(1) After the application of any pesticide on an agricultural establishment, the agricultural employer shall not allow or direct any worker to enter or to remain
in the treated area before the restricted-entry interval specified on the pesticide labeling has expired, except as provided in this section.
(2) Entry-restricted areas in greenhouses are specified in column D in table 2 under § 170.110(c)(4).
(3) When two or more pesticides are applied at the same time, the restricted-entry interval shall be the longest of the applicable intervals.
(4) The agricultural employer shall assure that any worker who enters a treated area under a restricted-entry interval as permitted by paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section uses the personal protective equipment specified in the product labeling for early-entry workers and follows any other requirements on the pesticide labeling regarding early entry.
(b)
Exception for activities with no contact.
A worker may enter a treated area during a restricted-entry interval if the agricultural employer assures that both of the following are met:
(1) The worker will have no contact with anything that has been treated with the pesticide to which the restricted-entry interval applies, including, but not limited to, soil, water, air, or surfaces of plants; and
(2) No such entry is allowed until any inhalation exposure level listed in the labeling has been reached or any ventilation criteria established by § 170.110(c)(3) or in the labeling have been met.
(c)
Exception for short-term activities.
A worker may enter a treated area during a restricted-entry interval for short-term activities if the agricultural employer assures that the following requirements are met:
(1) No hand labor activity is performed.
(2) The time in treated areas under a restricted-entry interval for any worker does not exceed 1 hour in any 24-hour period.
(3) No such entry is allowed for the first 4 hours following the end of the application, and no such entry is allowed thereafter until any inhalation exposure level listed in the labeling has been reached or any ventilation criteria established by § 170.110(c)(3) or in the labeling have been met.
(4) The personal protective equipment specified on the product labeling for early entry is provided to the worker. Such personal protective equipment shall conform to the following standards:
(i) Personal protective equipment (PPE) means devices and apparel that are worn to protect the body from contact with pesticides or pesticide residues, including, but not limited to, coveralls, chemical-resistant suits, chemical-resistant gloves, chemical-resistant footwear, respiratory protection devices, chemical-resistant aprons, chemical-resistant headgear, and protective eyewear.
(ii) Long-sleeved shirts, short-sleeved shirts, long pants, short pants, shoes, socks, and other items of work clothing are not considered personal protective equipment for the purposes of this section and are not subject to the requirements of this section, although pesticide labeling may require that such work clothing be worn during some activities.
(iii) When “chemical-resistant” personal protective equipment is specified by the product labeling, it shall be made of material that allows no measurable movement of the pesticide being used through the material during use.
(iv) When “waterproof” personal protective equipment is specified by the product labeling, it shall be made of material that allows no measurable movement of water or aqueous solutions through the material during use.
(v) When a “chemical-resistant suit” is specified by the product labeling, it shall be a loose-fitting, one- or two-piece, chemical-resistant garment that covers, at a minimum, the entire body except head, hands, and feet.
(vi) When “coveralls” are specified by the product labeling, they shall be a loose-fitting, one- or two-piece garment, such as a cotton or cotton and polyester coverall, that covers, at a minimum, the entire body except head, hands, and feet. The pesticide product labeling may specify that the coveralls be worn over a layer of clothing. If a chemical-resistant suit is substituted for coveralls, it need not be worn over a layer of clothing.
(vii)(A) Gloves shall be of the type specified on the pesticide product labeling. Gloves made of leather, cotton, or other absorbent materials must not be worn for early-entry activities, unless gloves made of these materials are listed as acceptable for such use on the product labeling. If chemical-resistant gloves with sufficient durability and suppleness are not obtainable, leather gloves may be worn on top of chemical-resistant gloves. However, once leather gloves have been worn for this use, they shall not be worn thereafter for any other purpose, and they shall only be worn over chemical-resistant gloves.
(B) Separable glove liners may be worn beneath chemical-resistant gloves, unless the pesticide product labeling specifically prohibits their use. Separable glove liners are defined as separate glove-like hand coverings made of lightweight material, with or without fingers. Work gloves made from lightweight cotton or poly-type material are considered to be glove liners if worn beneath chemical-resistant gloves. Separable glove liners may not extend outside the chemical-resistant gloves under which they are worn. Chemical-resistant gloves with non-separable absorbent lining materials are prohibited.
(C) If used, separable glove liners must be discarded immediately after a total of no more than 10 hours of use or within 24 hours of when first put on, whichever comes first. The liners must be replaced immediately if directly contacted by pesticide. Used glove liners shall not be reused. Contaminated liners must be disposed of in accordance with any Federal, State, or local regulations.
(viii) When “chemical-resistant footwear” is specified by the product labeling, it shall be one of the following types of footwear: chemical-resistant shoes, chemical-resistant boots, or chemical-resistant shoe coverings worn over shoes or boots. If chemical-resistant footwear with sufficient durability and a tread appropriate for wear in rough terrain is not obtainable for workers, then leather boots may be worn in such terrain.
(ix) When “protective eyewear” is specified by the product labeling, it shall be one of the following types of eyewear: goggles; face shield; safety glasses with front, brow, and temple protection; or a full-face respirator.
(x) When “chemical-resistant headgear” is specified by the product labeling, it shall be either a chemical-resistant hood or a chemical-resistant hat with a wide brim.
(5) The agricultural employer shall assure that the worker, before entering the treated area, either has read the product labeling or has been informed, in a manner that the worker can understand, of all labeling requirements related to human hazards or precautions, first aid, symptoms of poisoning, personal protective equipment specified for early entry, and any other labeling requirements related to safe use.
(6) The agricultural employer shall assure that:
(i) Workers wear the personal protective equipment correctly for its intended purpose and use personal protective equipment according to manufacturer's instructions.
(ii) Before each day of use, all personal protective equipment is inspected for leaks, holes, tears, or worn places, and any damaged equipment is repaired or discarded.
(iii) Personal protective equipment that cannot be cleaned properly is disposed of in accordance with any applicable Federal, State, and local regulations.
(iv) All personal protective equipment is cleaned according to manufacturer's instructions or pesticide product labeling instructions before each day of reuse. In the absence of any such instructions, it shall be washed thoroughly in detergent and hot water.
(v) Before being stored, all clean personal protective equipment is dried thoroughly or is put in a well-ventilated place to dry.
(vi) Personal protective equipment contaminated with pesticides is kept separately and washed separately from any other clothing or laundry.
(vii) Any person who cleans or launders personal protective equipment is informed that such equipment may be contaminated with pesticides, of the potentially harmful effects of exposure to pesticides, and of the correct way(s) to handle and clean personal protective
equipment and to protect themselves when handling equipment contaminated with pesticides.
(viii) All clean personal protective equipment is stored separately from personal clothing and apart from pesticide-contaminated areas.
(ix) Each worker is instructed how to put on, use, and remove the personal protective equipment and is informed about the importance of washing thoroughly after removing personal protective equipment.
(x) Each worker is instructed in the prevention, recognition, and first aid treatment of heat-related illness.
(xi) Workers have a clean place(s) away from pesticide-storage and pesticide-use areas for storing personal clothing not in use; putting on personal protective equipment at the start of any exposure period; and removing personal protective equipment at the end of any exposure period.
(7) When personal protective equipment is required by the labeling of any pesticide for early entry, the agricultural employer shall assure that no worker is allowed or directed to perform the early-entry activity without implementing, when appropriate, measures to prevent heat-related illness.
(8) During any early-entry activity, the agricultural employer shall provide a decontamination site in accordance with § 170.150.
(9) The agricultural employer shall not allow or direct any worker to wear home or to take home personal protective equipment contaminated with pesticides.
(d)
Exception for an agricultural emergency.
(1) An “agricultural emergency” means a sudden occurrence or set of circumstances which the agricultural employer could not have anticipated and over which the agricultural employer has no control, and which requires entry into a treated area during a restricted-entry interval, when no alternative practices would prevent or mitigate a substantial economic loss. A substantial economic loss means a loss in profitability greater than that which would be expected based on the experience and fluctuations of crop yields in previous years. Only losses caused by the agricultural emergency specific to the affected site and geographic area are considered. The contribution of mismanagement cannot be considered in determining the loss.
(2) A worker may enter a treated area under a restricted-entry interval in an agricultural emergency to perform tasks, including hand labor tasks, necessary to mitigate the effects of the agricultural emergency, if the agricultural employer assures that all the following criteria are met:
(i) A State, Tribal, or Federal Agency having jurisdiction declares the existence of circumstances that could cause an agricultural emergency on that agricultural establishment.
(ii) The agricultural employer determines the agricultural establishment is subject to the circumstances declared under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section that result in an agricultural emergency meeting the criteria of paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(iii) The requirements of paragraphs (c) (3) through (9) of this section are met.
(e)
Exception requiring Agency approval.
The Agency may, in accordance with paragraphs (e) (1) through (3) of this section, grant an exception from the requirements of this section. An exception may be withdrawn in accordance with paragraph (e)(6) of this section.
(1)
Exception requiring agency approval.
A request for an exception must be submitted to the Office of Pesticide Programs' Document Processing Desk at the appropriate address as set forth in 40 CFR 150.17(a) or (b) and must be accompanied by two copies of the following information:
(i) The name, address, and telephone number of the submitter.
(ii) The time period for which the exception is requested.
(iii) A description of the crop(s) and specific crop production task(s) for which the exception is requested. Such a description must include an explanation as to the necessity of applying pesticides of a type and at a frequency such that the restricted-entry interval would interfere with necessary and time-sensitive hand labor tasks for the period for which the exception is sought.
(iv) A description of the geographic area for which the exception is requested. If the exception request is for a limited geographic area, the explanation must include a description as to why the circumstances of exposure or economic impact resulting from the prohibition of routine hand labor tasks during the restricted-entry interval are unique to the geographic area named in the exception.
(v) An explanation as to why, for each requested crop-task combination, alternative practices would not be technically or financially viable. Such alternative practices might include: rescheduling the pesticide application or hand labor activity; using a non-chemical pest control alternative; using an alternative to the hand labor tasks, such as machine cultivation; or substituting a pesticide with a shorter restricted-entry interval. This information should include estimates or data on per acre revenue and cost of production for the crop and area for which the exception is requested. These estimates or data should include: the situation prior to implementation of this final rule, the situation after implementation of this final rule if the exception is not granted, the situation after implementation of this final rule if the exception is granted, and specific information on individual factors which cause differences in revenues and costs among the three situations.
(vi) A description or documentation of the safety and feasibility of such an exception, including, but not limited to, the feasibility of performing the necessary hand labor activity while wearing the personal protective equipment required for early entry for the pesticide(s) expected to be applied, the means of mitigating heat-related illness concerns, the period of time required daily per worker to perform the hand labor activity, any suggested methods of reducing the worker's exposure, and any other mitigating factors, such as the availability of running water for routine and emergency decontamination and mechanical devices that would reduce the workers' contact with the treated surfaces. The information should include the costs associated with early-entry, such as decontamination facilities, special information and training for the workers, heat stress avoidance procedures, and provision, inspection, cleaning, and maintenance of personal protective equipment. EPA will not grant exceptions where the costs of early entry equal or exceed the expected loss in value of crop yield or quality.
(2)
Notice of receipt.
(i) When a request for an exception is submitted to the Agency along with all of the information required in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the Agency shall issue a notice in the
Federal Register
stating that an exception is being considered, describing the nature of the exception, and allowing at least 30 days for interested parties to comment.
(ii) If a request for an exception is submitted to the Agency without all of the information required in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the Agency shall return the request to the submitter.
(3)
Exception decision.
EPA will publish in the
Federal Register
its decision whether to grant the request for exception. EPA will base its decision on whether the benefits of the exception outweigh the costs, including the value of the health risks attributable to the exception. If the exception is granted, the notice will state the nature of and reasons for the exception.
(4)
Presumptive denial.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, persons requesting an exception may assume that the exception has been denied if EPA has not issued its decision whether to grant the exception within 9 months from the comment-closure date specified in the
Federal Register
notice in which the Agency announced, in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section, that it would consider the exception.
(ii) Persons requesting an exception may not assume that the request has been denied as provided by paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section if the Agency has taken action to extend its review period for a specified time interval due to the complexity of the exception request or to the number of exception requests concurrently under Agency review. EPA shall state the reason(s) for the delay in issuing a decision on the exception request. A notice of such an
action may be published in the
Federal Register
or persons who requested the exception may be directly notified of the action.
(5)
Agricultural employer duties.
When a worker enters a treated area during a restricted-entry interval under an exception granted under paragraph (e) of this section, the agricultural employer shall assure that the requirements of paragraphs (c) (3) through (9) of this section are met, unless the notice granting the exception specifically indicates otherwise.
(6)
Withdrawing an exception.
An exception may be withdrawn by the Agency at any time if the Agency receives poisoning information or other data that indicate that the health risks imposed by this early-entry exception are unacceptable or if the Agency receives other information that indicates that the exception is no longer necessary or prudent. If the Agency determines that an exception should be withdrawn, it will publish a notice in the
Federal Register,
stating the basis for its determination. Affected parties would then have 30 days to request a hearing on the Agency's determination. The exception, however, would be discontinued as of the date specified by EPA in the notice, which may include any of the 30-day period and the time required for any subsequent hearing process. Thereafter the Agency will decide whether to withdraw the exception and will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
stating its decision.
(7)
List of exceptions granted by EPA.
The following administrative exceptions from the requirements of this section have been granted by EPA. Each exception listed in paragraph (e)(7) of this section contains a reference to the
Federal Register
notice in which EPA has granted the exception and the effective dates of the exception. The terms and conditions of the exception appear in the referenced
Federal Register
notice.
(i) Exception to perform irrigation tasks under specified conditions published in the
Federal Register
of May 3, 1995.
(ii) Exceptions to perform limited contact tasks under specified conditions published in the
Federal Register
of May 3, 1995.
[57 FR 38151, Aug. 21, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 30264, June 10, 1994; 60 FR 21954, May 3, 1995; 62 FR 52003, Oct. 3, 1997; 69 FR 53346, Sept. 1, 2004; 71 FR 35546, June 21, 2006; 73 FR 75598, Dec. 12, 2008]
§ 170.120
Notice of applications.
(a)
Notification to workers of pesticide applications in greenhouses.
The agricultural employer shall notify workers of any pesticide application in the greenhouse in accordance with this paragraph.
(1) All pesticide applications shall be posted in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) If the pesticide product labeling has a statement requiring both the posting of treated areas and oral notification to workers, the agricultural employer shall also provide oral notification of the application to the worker in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(3) Notice need not be given to a worker if the agricultural employer can assure that one of the following is met:
(i) From the start of the application until the end of the application and during any restricted-entry interval, the worker will not enter, work in, remain in, or pass through the greenhouse; or
(ii) The worker applied (or supervised the application of) the pesticide for which the notice is intended and is aware of all information required by paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(b)
Notification to workers on farms, in nurseries, or in forests of pesticide applications.
The agricultural employer shall notify workers of any pesticide application on the farm or in the nursery or forest in accordance with this paragraph.
(1) If the pesticide product labeling has a statement requiring both the posting of treated areas and oral notification to workers, the agricultural employer shall post signs in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and shall provide oral notification of the application to the worker in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) For any pesticide other than those for which the labeling requires both posting and oral notification of applications, the agricultural employer shall give notice of the application to the worker either by the posting of warning signs in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section or orally in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, and shall inform the workers as to which method of notification is in effect.
(3) Notice need not be given to a worker if the agricultural employer can assure that one of the following is met:
(i) From the start of the application until the end of the application and during any restricted-entry interval, the worker will not enter, work in, remain in, or pass through on foot the treated area or any area within
1/4
mile of the treated area; or
(ii) The worker applied (or supervised the application of) the pesticide for which the notice is intended and is aware of all information required by (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(c)
Posted warning signs.
The agricultural employer shall post warning signs in accordance with the following criteria:
(1) The warning sign shall have a background color that contrasts with red. The words “DANGER” and “PELIGRO,” plus “PESTICIDES” and “PESTICIDAS,” shall be at the top of the sign, and the words “KEEP OUT” and “NO ENTRE” shall be at the bottom of the sign. Letters for all words must be clearly legible. A circle containing an upraised hand on the left and a stern face on the right must be near the center of the sign. The inside of the circle must be red, except that the hand and a large portion of the face must be in a shade that contrasts with red. The length of the hand must be at least twice the height of the smallest letters. The length of the face must be only slightly smaller than the hand. Additional information such as the name of the pesticide and the date of application may appear on the warning sign if it does not detract from the appearance of the sign or change the meaning of the required information. A black-and-white example of a warning sign meeting these requirements, other than the size requirements, follows:
EC01MY92.111
(2) The standard sign shall be at least 14 inches by 16 inches with letters at least 1 inch in height. Farms and forests shall use the standard size sign unless a smaller sign is necessary because the treated area is too small to accommodate a sign of this size. In nurseries and greenhouses, the agricultural employer may, at any time, use a sign smaller than the standard size sign. Whenever a small sign is used on any establishment, there are specific posting distances depending on the size of the lettering and symbol on the sign. If a sign is used with DANGER and PELIGRO in letters at least
7/8
inch in height and the remaining letters at least
1/2
inch in height and a red circle
at least 3 inches in diameter containing an upraised hand and a stern face, the signs shall be no further than 50 feet apart. If a sign is used with DANGER and PELIGRO in letters at least
7/16
inch in height and the remaining letters at least
1/4
inch in height and a red circle at least 1
1/2
inches in diameter containing an upraised hand and a stern face, the signs shall be no further than 25 feet apart. A sign with DANGER and PELIGRO in letters less than
7/16
inch in height or with any words in letters less than
1/4
inch in height or a red circle smaller than 1
1/2
inches in diameter containing an upraised hand and a stern face will not satisfy the requirements of the rule. All signs must meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(3) The employer may replace the Spanish portion of the warning sign with a non-English language read by the largest group of workers who do not read English. The replacement sign must be in the same format as the original sign and be visible and legible.
(4) On farms and in forests and nurseries, the signs shall be visible from all usual points of worker entry to the treated area, including at least each access road, each border with any labor camp adjacent to the treated area, and each footpath and other walking route that enters the treated area. When there are no usual points of worker entry, signs shall be posted in the corners of the treated area or in any other location affording maximum visibility.
(5) In greenhouses, the signs shall be posted so they are visible from all usual points of worker entry to the treated area including each aisle or other walking route that enters the treated area. When there are no usual points of worker entry to the treated area, signs shall be posted in the corners of the treated area or in any other location affording maximum visibility.
(6) The signs shall:
(i) Be posted no sooner than 24 hours before the scheduled application of the pesticide.
(ii) Remain posted throughout the application and any restricted-entry interval.
(iii) Be removed within 3 days after the end of the application and any restricted-entry interval and before agricultural-worker entry is permitted, other than entry permitted by § 170.112.
(7) The signs shall remain visible and legible during the time they are posted.
(8) When several contiguous areas are to be treated with pesticides on a rotating or sequential basis, the entire area may be posted. Worker entry, other than entry permitted by § 170.112, is prohibited for the entire area while the signs are posted.
(d)
Oral warnings.
The agricultural employer shall provide oral warnings to workers in a manner that the worker can understand. If a worker will be on the premises during the application, the warning shall be given before the application takes place. Otherwise, the warning shall be given at the beginning of the worker's first work period during which the application is taking place or the restricted-entry interval for the pesticide is in effect. The warning shall consist of:
(1) The location and description of the treated area.
(2) The time during which entry is restricted.
(3) Instructions not to enter the treated area until the restricted-entry interval has expired.
[57 FR 38151, Aug. 21, 1992, as amended at 61 FR 33207, June 26, 1996]
§ 170.122
Providing specific information about applications.
When workers are on an agricultural establishment and, within the last 30 days, a pesticide covered by this subpart has been applied on the establishment or a restricted-entry interval has been in effect, the agricultural employer shall display, in accordance with this section, specific information about the pesticide.
(a)
Location, accessibility, and legibility.
The information shall be displayed in the location specified for the pesticide safety poster in § 170.135(d) and shall be accessible and legible, as specified in § 170.135 (e) and (f).
(b)
Timing.
(1) If warning signs are posted for the treated area before an application, the specific application information for that application shall be posted at the same time or earlier.
(2) The information shall be posted before the application takes place, if workers will be on the establishment
during application. Otherwise, the information shall be posted at the beginning of any worker's first work period.
(3) The information shall continue to be displayed for at least 30 days after the end of the restricted-entry interval (or, if there is no restricted-entry interval, for at least 30 days after the end of the application) or at least until workers are no longer on the establishment, whichever is earlier.
(c)
Required information.
The information shall include:
(1) The location and description of the treated area.
(2) The product name, EPA registration number, and active ingredient(s) of the pesticide.
(3) The time and date the pesticide is to be applied.
(4) The restricted-entry interval for the pesticide.
§ 170.124
Notice of applications to handler employers.
Whenever handlers who are employed by a commercial pesticide handling establishment will be performing pesticide handling tasks on an agricultural establishment, the agricultural employer shall provide to the handler employer, or assure that the handler employer is aware of, the following information concerning any areas on the agricultural establishment that the handler may be in (or may walk within
1/4
mile of) and that may be treated with a pesticide or that may be under a restricted-entry interval while the handler will be on the agricultural establishment:
(a) Specific location and description of any such areas; and
(b) Restrictions on entering those areas.
§ 170.130
Pesticide safety training for workers.
(a)
General requirement
—(1)
Agricultural employer assurance.
The agricultural employer shall assure that each worker, required by this section to be trained, has been trained according to this section during the last 5 years, counting from the end of the month in which the training was completed.
(2)
Requirement for workers performing early-entry activities.
Before a worker enters a treated area on the agricultural establishment during a restricted-entry interval to perform early-entry activities permitted by § 170.112 and contacts anything that has been treated with the pesticide to which the restricted-entry interval applies, including but not limited to, soil, water, or surfaces of plants, the agricultural employer shall assure that the worker has been trained.
(3)
Requirements for other agricultural workers
—(i)
Information before entry.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, before a worker enters any areas on the agricultural establishment where, within the last 30 days a pesticide to which this subpart applies has been applied or the restricted-entry interval for such pesticide has been in effect, the agricultural employer shall assure that the worker has been provided the pesticide safety information specified in paragraph (c) of this section, in a manner that agricultural workers can understand, such as by providing written materials or oral communication or by other means. The agricultural employer must be able to verify compliance with this requirement.
(ii)
Training before the 6th day of entry.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, before the 6th day that a worker enters any areas on the agricultural establishment where, within the last 30 days a pesticide to which this subpart applies has been applied or a restricted-entry interval for such pesticide has been in effect, the agricultural employer shall assure that the worker has been trained.
(b)
Exceptions.
The following persons need not be trained under this section:
(1) A worker who is currently certified as an applicator of restricted-use pesticides under part 171 of this chapter.
(2) A worker who satisfies the training requirements of part 171 of this chapter.
(3) A worker who satisfies the handler training requirements of § 170.230(c).
(4) A worker who is certified or licensed as a crop advisor by a program acknowledged as appropriate in writing by EPA or a State or Tribal lead agency for pesticide enforcement, provided
that a requirement for such certification or licensing is pesticide safety training that includes all the information set out in § 170.230(c)(4).
(c)
Pesticide safety information.
The pesticide safety information required by paragraph (a)(3)(i) shall be presented to workers in a manner that the workers can understand. At a minimum, the following information shall be provided:
(1) Pesticides may be on or in plants, soil, irrigation water, or drifting from nearby applications.
(2) Prevent pesticides from entering your body by:
(i) Following directions and/or signs about keeping out of treated or restricted areas.
(ii) Washing before eating, drinking, using chewing gum or tobacco, or using the toilet.
(iii) Wearing work clothing that protects the body from pesticide residues.
(iv) Washing/showering with soap and water, shampoo hair, and put on clean clothes after work.
(v) Washing work clothes separately from other clothes before wearing them again.
(vi) Washing immediately in the nearest clean water if pesticides are spilled or sprayed on the body. As soon as possible, shower, shampoo, and change into clean clothes.
(3) Further training will be provided within 5 days.
(d)
Training programs.
(1) General pesticide safety information shall be presented to workers either orally from written materials or audiovisually. The information must be presented in a manner that the workers can understand (such as through a translator) using nontechnical terms. The presenter also shall respond to workers' questions.
(2) The person who conducts the training shall meet at least one of the following criteria:
(i) Be currently certified as an applicator of restricted-use pesticides under part 171 of this chapter; or
(ii) Be currently designated as a trainer of certified applicators or pesticide handlers by a State, Federal, or Tribal agency having jurisdiction; or
(iii) Have completed a pesticide safety train-the-trainer program approved by a State, Federal, or Tribal agency having jurisdiction; or
(iv) Satisfy the training requirements in part 171 of this chapter or in § 170.230(c).
(3) Any person who issues an EPA-approved Worker Protection Standard worker training certificate must assure that the worker who receives the training certificate has been trained in accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
(4) The training materials shall convey, at a minimum, the following information:
(i) Where and in what form pesticides may be encountered during work activities.
(ii) Hazards of pesticides resulting from toxicity and exposure, including acute and chronic effects, delayed effects, and sensitization.
(iii) Routes through which pesticides can enter the body.
(iv) Signs and symptoms of common types of pesticide poisoning.
(v) Emergency first aid for pesticide injuries or poisonings.
(vi) How to obtain emergency medical care.
(vii) Routine and emergency decontamination procedures, including emergency eyeflushing techniques.
(viii) Hazards from chemigation and drift.
(ix) Hazards from pesticide residues on clothing.
(x) Warnings about taking pesticides or pesticide containers home.
(xi) Requirements of this subpart designed to reduce the risks of illness or injury resulting from workers' occupational exposure to pesticides, including application and entry restrictions, the design of the warning sign, posting of warning signs, oral warnings, the availability of specific information about applications, and the protection against retaliatory acts.
(e)
Verification of training.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, if the agricultural employer assures that a worker possesses an EPA-approved Worker Protection Standard worker training certificate, then the requirements of paragraph (a) and (c) of this section will have been met.
(2) If the agricultural employer is aware or has reason to know that an EPA-approved Worker Protection Standard worker training certificate has not been issued in accordance with this section, or has not been issued to the worker bearing the certificate, or the training was completed more than 5 years before the beginning of the current month, a worker's possession of that certificate does not meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.
[57 FR 38151, Aug. 21, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 21947, 21952, May 3, 1995; 73 FR 75598, Dec. 12, 2008]
§ 170.135
Posted pesticide safety information.
(a)
Requirement.
When workers are on an agricultural establishment and, within the last 30 days, a pesticide covered by this subpart has been applied on the establishment or a restricted-entry interval has been in effect, the agricultural employer shall display, in accordance with this section, pesticide safety information.
(b)
Pesticide safety poster.
A safety poster must be displayed that conveys, at a minimum, the pesticide safety concepts listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (vii) and (b)(2) of this section. Displays conforming to § 170.311(a)(3) meet the requirements of this paragraph.
(c)
Emergency medical care information.
(1) The name, address, and telephone number of the nearest emergency medical care facility shall be on the safety poster or displayed close to the safety poster. Displays conforming to § 170.311(a)(3)(ix) meet the requirements of this paragraph.
(2) The agricultural employer shall inform workers promptly of any change to the information on emergency medical care facilities.
(d)
Location.
(1) The information shall be displayed in a central location on the farm or in the nursery or greenhouse where it can be readily seen and read by workers.
(2) The information shall be displayed in a location in or near the forest in a place where it can be readily seen and read by workers and where workers are likely to congregate or pass by, such as at a decontamination site or an equipment storage site.
(e)
Accessibility.
Workers shall be informed of the location of the information and shall be allowed access to it.
(f)
Legibility.
The information shall remain legible during the time it is posted.
[57 FR 38151, Aug. 21, 1992, as amended at 80 FR 67556, Nov. 2, 2015]
§ 170.150
Decontamination.
(a)(1)
Requirement.
The agricultural employer must provide decontamination supplies for workers in accordance with this section whenever:
(i) Any worker on the agricultural establishment is performing an activity in the area where a pesticide was applied or a restricted-entry interval (REI) was in effect within the last 30 days, and;
(ii) The worker contacts anything that has been treated with the pesticide, including, but not limited to soil, water, plants, plant surfaces, and plant parts.
(2)
Exception.
The 30-day time period established in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section shall not apply if the only pesticides used in the treated area are products with an REI of 4 hours or less on the label (but not a product without an REI on the label). When workers are in such treated areas, the agricultural employer shall provide decontamination supplies for not less than 7 days following the expiration of any applicable REI.
(b)
General conditions.
(1) The agricultural employer shall provide workers with enough water for routine washing and emergency eyeflushing. At all times when the water is available to workers, the employer shall assure that it is of a quality and temperature that will not cause illness or injury when it contacts the skin or eyes or if it is swallowed.
(2) When water stored in a tank is to be used for mixing pesticides, it shall not be used for decontamination or eyeflushing, unless the tank is equipped with properly functioning valves or other mechanisms that prevent movement of pesticides into the tank.
(3) The agricultural employer shall provide soap and single-use towels in
quantities sufficient to meet worker's needs.
(4) To provide for emergency eyeflushing, the agricultural employer shall assure that at least 1 pint of water is immediately available to each worker who is performing early-entry activities permitted by § 170.112 and for which the pesticide labeling requires protective eyewear. The eyeflush water shall be carried by the early-entry worker, or shall be on the vehicle the early-entry worker is using, or shall be otherwise immediately accessible.
(c)
Location.
(1) The decontamination supplies shall be located together and be reasonably accessible to and not more than
1/4
mile from where workers are working.
(2) For worker activities performed more than
1/4
mile from the nearest place of vehicular access:
(i) The soap, single-use towels, and water may be at the nearest place of vehicular access.
(ii) The agricultural employer may permit workers to use clean water from springs, streams, lakes, or other sources for decontamination at the remote work site, if such water is more accessible than the water located at the nearest place of vehicular access.
(3) The decontamination supplies shall not be maintained in an area being treated with pesticides.
(4) The decontamination supplies shall not be maintained in an area that is under a restricted-entry interval, unless the workers for whom the supplies are provided are performing early-entry activities permitted by § 170.112 and involving contact with treated surfaces and the decontamination supplies would otherwise not be reasonably accessible to those workers.
(d)
Decontamination after early-entry activities.
At the end of any exposure period for workers engaged in early-entry activities permitted by § 170.112 and involving contact with anything that has been treated with the pesticide to which the restricted-entry interval applies, including, but not limited to, soil, water, air, or surfaces of plants, the agricultural employer shall provide, at the site where the workers remove personal protective equipment, soap, clean towels, and a sufficient amount of water so that the workers may wash thoroughly.
[57 FR 38151, Aug. 21, 1992, as amended at 61 FR 33212, June 26, 1996]
§ 170.160
Emergency assistance.
If there is reason to believe that a person who is or has been employed on an agricultural establishment to perform tasks related to the production of agricultural plants has been poisoned or injured by exposure to pesticides used on the agricultural establishment, including, but not limited to, exposures from application, splash, spill, drift, or pesticide residues, the agricultural employer shall:
(a) Make available to that person prompt transportation from the agricultural establishment, including any labor camp on the agricultural establishment, to an appropriate emergency medical facility.
(b) Provide to that person or to treating medical personnel, promptly upon request, any obtainable information on:
(1) Product name, EPA registration number, and active ingredients of any product to which that person might have been exposed.
(2) Antidote, first aid, and other medical information from the product labeling.
(3) The circumstances of application or use of the pesticide on the agricultural establishment.
(4) The circumstances of exposure of that person to the pesticide.

# Subpart C—Standard for Pesticide Handlers
§ 170.202
Applicability of this subpart.
Except as provided by §§ 170.203 and 170.204, this subpart applies when any pesticide is handled for use on an agricultural establishment.
[60 FR 21952, May 3, 1995]
§ 170.203
Exceptions.
Exceptions.
This subpart does not apply when any pesticide is handled for use on an agricultural establishment in the following circumstances:
(a) For mosquito abatement, Mediterranean fruit fly eradication, or similar wide-area public pest control programs sponsored by governmental entities.
(b) On livestock or other animals, or in or about animal premises.
(c) On plants grown for other than commercial or research purposes, which may include plants in habitations, home fruit and vegetable gardens, and home greenhouses.
(d) On plants that are in ornamental gardens, parks, and public or private lawns and grounds and that are intended only for aesthetic purposes or climatic modification.
(e) In a manner not directly related to the production of agricultural plants, including, but not limited to, structural pest control, control of vegetation along rights-of-way and in other noncrop areas, and pasture and rangeland use.
(f) For control of vertebrate pests.
(g) As attractants or repellents in traps.
(h) On the harvested portions of agricultural plants or on harvested timber.
(i) For research uses of unregistered pesticides.
[57 FR 38151, Aug. 21, 1992. Redesignated at 60 FR 21952, May 3, 1995]
§ 170.204
Exemptions.
The handlers listed in this section are exempt from the specified provisions of this subpart.
(a)
Owners of agricultural establishments.
(1) The owner of an agricultural establishment is not required to provide to himself or members of his immediate family who are performing handling tasks on their own agricultural establishment the protections of:
(i) Section 170.210(b) and (c).
(ii) Section 170.222.
(iii) Section 170.230.
(iv) Section 170.232.
(v) Section 170.234.
(vi) Section 170.235.
(vii) Section 170.240(e) through (g).
(viii) Section 170.250.
(ix) Section 170.260.
(2) The owner of the agricultural establishment must provide the protections listed in paragraphs (a)(1) (i) through (ix) of this section to other handlers and other persons who are not members of his immediate family.
(b)
Crop advisors.
(1) Provided that the conditions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section are met, a person who is certified or licensed as a crop advisor by a program acknowledged as appropriate in writing by EPA or a State or Tribal lead agency for pesticide enforcement, and persons performing crop advising tasks under such qualified crop advisor's direct supervision, are exempt from the provisions of:
(i) Section 170.232.
(ii) Section 170.240.
(iii) Section 170.250.
(iv) Section 170.260.
A person is under the direct supervision of a crop advisor when the crop advisor exerts the supervisory controls set out in paragraphs (b)(2)(iv) and (v) of this section. Direct supervision does not require that the crop advisor be physically present at all times, but the crop advisor must be readily accessible to the employees at all times.
(2)
Conditions of exemption.
(i) The certification or licensing program requires pesticide safety training that includes, at least, all the information in § 170.230(c)(4).
(ii) No entry into the treated area occurs until after application ends.
(iii) Applies only when performing crop advising tasks in the treated area.
(iv) The crop advisor must make specific determinations regarding the appropriate PPE, appropriate decontamination supplies, and how to conduct the tasks safely. The crop advisor must convey this information to each person under his direct supervision in a language that the person understands.
(v) Before entering a treated area, the certified or licensed crop advisor must inform, through an established practice of communication, each person under his direct supervision of the pesticide products and active ingredient(s) applied, method of application, time of application, the restricted entry interval, which tasks to undertake, and how to contact the crop advisor.
[60 FR 21953, May 3, 1995, as amended at 73 FR 75599, Dec. 12, 2008]
§ 170.210
Restrictions during applications.
(a)
Contact with workers and other persons.
The handler employer and the handler shall assure that no pesticide is applied so as to contact, either directly or through drift, any worker or other person, other than an appropriately trained and equipped handler.
(b)
Handlers handling highly toxic pesticides.
The handler employer shall assure that any handler who is performing any handling activity with a product that has the skull and crossbones symbol on the front panel of the label is monitored visually or by voice communication at least every 2 hours.
(c)
Fumigant applications in greenhouses.
The handler employer shall assure:
(1) That any handler who handles a fumigant in a greenhouse, including a handler who enters the greenhouse before the acceptable inhalation exposure level or ventilation criteria have been met to monitor air levels or to initiate ventilation, maintains continuous visual or voice contact with another handler.
(2) That the other handler has immediate access to the personal protective equipment required by the fumigant labeling for handlers in the event entry into the fumigated greenhouse becomes necessary for rescue.
§ 170.222
Providing specific information about applications.
When handlers (except those employed by a commercial pesticide handling establishment) are on an agricultural establishment and, within the last 30 days, a pesticide covered by this subpart has been applied on the establishment or a restricted-entry interval has been in effect, the handler employer shall display, in accordance with this section, specific information about the pesticide.
(a)
Location, accessibility, and legibility.
The information shall be displayed in the same location specified for the pesticide safety poster in § 170.235(d) of this part and shall be accessible and legible, as specified in § 170.235(e) and (f) of this part.
(b)
Timing.
(1) If warning signs are posted for the treated area before an application, the specific application information for that application shall be posted at the same time or earlier.
(2) The information shall be posted before the application takes place, if handlers (except those employed by a commercial pesticide handling establishment) will be on the establishment during application. Otherwise, the information shall be posted at the beginning of any such handler's first work period.
(3) The information shall continue to be displayed for at least 30 days after the end of the restricted-entry interval (or, if there is no restricted-entry interval, for at least 30 days after the end of the application) or at least until the handlers are no longer on the establishment, whichever is earlier.
(c)
Required information.
The information shall include:
(1) The location and description of the treated area.
(2) The product name, EPA registration number, and active ingredient(s) of the pesticide.
(3) The time and date the pesticide is to be applied.
(4) The restricted-entry interval for the pesticide.
§ 170.224
Notice of applications to agricultural employers.
Before the application of any pesticide on or in an agricultural establishment, the handler employer shall provide the following information to any agricultural employer for the establishment or shall assure that any agricultural employer is aware of:
(a) Specific location and description of the treated area.
(b) Time and date of application.
(c) Product name, EPA registration number, and active ingredient(s).
(d) Restricted-entry interval.
(e) Whether posting and oral notification are required.
(f) Any other product-specific requirements on the product labeling concerning protection of workers or other persons during or after application.
§ 170.230
Pesticide safety training for handlers.
(a)
Requirement.
Before any handler performs any handling task, the handler employer shall assure that the
handler has been trained in accordance with this section during the last 5 years, counting from the end of the month in which the training was completed.
(b)
Exceptions.
The following persons need not be trained under this section:
(1) A handler who is currently certified as an applicator of restricted-use pesticides under part 171 of this chapter.
(2) A handler who satisfies the training requirements of part 171 of this chapter.
(3) A handler who is certified or licensed as a crop advisor by a program acknowledged as appropriate in writing by EPA or a State or Tribal lead agency for pesticide enforcement, provided that a requirement for such certification or licensing is pesticide safety training that includes all the information set out in § 170.230(c)(4).
(c)
Training programs.
(1) General pesticide safety information shall be presented to handlers either orally from written materials or audiovisually. The information must be presented in a manner that the handlers can understand (such as through a translator). The presenter also shall respond to handlers' questions.
(2) The person who conducts the training shall meet at least one of the following criteria:
(i) Be currently certified as an applicator of restricted-use pesticides under part 171 of this chapter; or
(ii) Be currently designated as a trainer of certified applicators or pesticide handlers by a State, Federal, or Tribal agency having jurisdiction; or
(iii) Have completed a pesticide safety train-the-trainer program approved by a State, Federal, or Tribal agency having jurisdiction.
(3) Any person who issues an EPA-approved Worker Protection Standard handler training certificate must assure that the handler who receives the training certificate has been trained in accordance with paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(4) The pesticide safety training materials must convey, at a minimum, the following information:
(i) Format and meaning of information contained on pesticide labels and in labeling, including safety information such as precautionary statements about human health hazards.
(ii) Hazards of pesticides resulting from toxicity and exposure, including acute and chronic effects, delayed effects, and sensitization.
(iii) Routes by which pesticides can enter the body.
(iv) Signs and symptoms of common types of pesticide poisoning.
(v) Emergency first aid for pesticide injuries or poisonings.
(vi) How to obtain emergency medical care.
(vii) Routine and emergency decontamination procedures.
(viii) Need for and appropriate use of personal protective equipment.
(ix) Prevention, recognition, and first aid treatment of heat-related illness.
(x) Safety requirements for handling, transporting, storing, and disposing of pesticides, including general procedures for spill cleanup.
(xi) Environmental concerns such as drift, runoff, and wildlife hazards.
(xii) Warnings about taking pesticides or pesticide containers home.
(xiii) Requirements of this subpart that must be followed by handler employers for the protection of handlers and other persons, including the prohibition against applying pesticides in a manner that will cause contact with workers or other persons, the requirement to use personal protective equipment, the provisions for training and decontamination, and the protection against retaliatory acts.
(d)
Verification of training.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, if the handler employer assures that a handler possesses an EPA-approved Worker Protection Standard handler training certificate, then the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section will have been met.
(2) If the handler employer is aware or has reason to know that an EPA-approved Worker Protection Standard handler training certificate has not been issued in accordance with this section, or has not been issued to the handler bearing the certificate, or the handler training was completed more than 5 years before the beginning of the current month, a handler's possession of that certificate does not meet
the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.
[57 FR 38151, Aug. 21, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 21953, May 3, 1995]
§ 170.232
Knowledge of labeling and site-specific information.
(a)
Knowledge of labeling information.
(1) The handler employer shall assure that before the handler performs any handling activity, the handler either has read the product labeling or has been informed in a manner the handler can understand of all labeling requirements related to safe use of the pesticide, such as signal words, human hazard precautions, personal protective equipment requirements, first aid instructions, environmental precautions, and any additional precautions pertaining to the handling activity to be performed.
(2) The handler employer shall assure that the handler has access to the product labeling information during handling activities.
(b)
Knowledge of site-specific information.
Whenever a handler who is employed by a commercial pesticide handling establishment will be performing pesticide handling tasks on an agricultural establishment, the handler employer shall assure that the handler is aware of the following information concerning any areas on the agricultural establishment that the handler may be in (or may walk within
1/4
mile of) and that may be treated with a pesticide or that may be under a restricted-entry interval while the handler will be on the agricultural establishment:
(1) Specific location and description of any such areas; and
(2) Restrictions on entering those areas.
§ 170.234
Safe operation of equipment.
(a) The handler employer shall assure that before the handler uses any equipment for mixing, loading, transferring, or applying pesticides, the handler is instructed in the safe operation of such equipment, including, when relevant, chemigation safety requirements and drift avoidance.
(b) The handler employer shall assure that, before each day of use, equipment used for mixing, loading, transferring, or applying pesticides is inspected for leaks, clogging, and worn or damaged parts, and any damaged equipment is repaired or is replaced.
(c) Before allowing any person to repair, clean, or adjust equipment that has been used to mix, load, transfer, or apply pesticides, the handler employer shall assure that pesticide residues have been removed from the equipment, unless the person doing the cleaning, repairing, or adjusting is a handler employed by the agricultural or commercial pesticide handling establishment. If pesticide residue removal is not feasible, the handler employer shall assure that the person who repairs, cleans, or adjusts such equipment is informed:
(1) That such equipment may be contaminated with pesticides.
(2) Of the potentially harmful effects of exposure to pesticides.
(3) Of the correct way to handle such equipment.
§ 170.235
Posted pesticide safety information.
(a)
Requirement.
When handlers (except those employed by a commercial pesticide handling establishment) are on an agricultural establishment and, within the last 30 days, a pesticide covered by this subpart has been applied on the establishment or a restricted-entry interval has been in effect, the handler employer shall display, in accordance with this section, pesticide safety information.
(b)
Pesticide safety poster.
A safety poster must be displayed that conveys, at a minimum, the pesticide safety concepts listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (vii) and (b)(2) of this section. Displays conforming to § 170.311(a)(3) meet the requirements of this paragraph.
(c)
Emergency medical care information.
(1) The name, address, and telephone number of the nearest emergency medical care facility shall be on the safety poster or displayed close to the safety poster. Displays conforming to § 170.311(a)(3)(ix) meet the requirements of this paragraph.
(2) The handler employer shall inform handlers promptly of any change to the information on emergency medical care facilities.
(d)
Location.
(1) The information shall be displayed in a central location on the farm or in the nursery or greenhouse where it can be readily seen and read by handlers.
(2) The information shall be displayed in a location in or near the forest in a place where it can be readily seen and read by handlers and where handlers are likely to congregate or pass by, such as at a decontamination site or an equipment storage site.
(e)
Accessibility.
Handlers shall be informed of the location of the information and shall be allowed access to it.
(f)
Legibility.
The information shall remain legible during the time it is posted.
[57 FR 38151, Aug. 21, 1992, as amended at 80 FR 67556, Nov. 2, 2015]
§ 170.240
Personal protective equipment.
(a)
Requirement.
Any person who performs tasks as a pesticide handler shall use the clothing and personal protective equipment specified on the labeling for use of the product.
(b)
Definition.
(1) Personal protective equipment (PPE) means devices and apparel that are worn to protect the body from contact with pesticides or pesticide residues, including, but not limited to, coveralls, chemical-resistant suits, chemical-resistant gloves, chemical-resistant footwear, respiratory protection devices, chemical-resistant aprons, chemical-resistant headgear, and protective eyewear.
(2) Long-sleeved shirts, short-sleeved shirts, long pants, short pants, shoes, socks, and other items of work clothing are not considered personal protective equipment for the purposes of this section and are not subject to the requirements of this section, although pesticide labeling may require that such work clothing be worn during some activities.
(c)
Provision.
When personal protective equipment is specified by the labeling of any pesticide for any handling activity, the handler employer shall provide the appropriate personal protective equipment in clean and operating condition to the handler.
(1) When “chemical-resistant” personal protective equipment is specified by the product labeling, it shall be made of material that allows no measurable movement of the pesticide being used through the material during use.
(2) When “waterproof” personal protective equipment is specified by the product labeling, it shall be made of material that allows no measurable movement of water or aqueous solutions through the material during use.
(3) When a “chemical-resistant suit” is specified by the product labeling, it shall be a loose-fitting, one- or two-piece chemical-resistant garment that covers, at a minimum, the entire body except head, hands, and feet.
(4) When “coveralls” are specified by the product labeling, they shall be a loose-fitting, one- or two-piece garment, such as a cotton or cotton and polyester coverall, that covers, at a minimum, the entire body except head, hands, and feet. The pesticide product labeling may specify that the coveralls be worn over another layer of clothing.
(5)(i) Gloves shall be of the type specified on the pesticide product labeling. Gloves made of leather, cotton, or other absorbent materials may not be worn while mixing, loading, applying, or otherwise handling pesticides, unless gloves made of these materials are listed as acceptable for such use on the product labeling.
(ii) Separable glove liners may be worn beneath chemical-resistant gloves, unless the pesticide product labeling specifically prohibits their use. Separable glove liners are defined as separate glove-like hand coverings, made of lightweight material, with or without fingers. Work gloves made from lightweight cotton or poly-type material are considered to be glove liners if worn beneath chemical-resistant gloves. Separable glove liners may not extend outside the chemical-resistant gloves under which they are worn. Chemical-resistant gloves with non-separable absorbent lining materials are prohibited.
(iii) If used, separable glove liners must be discarded immediately after a total of no more than 10 hours of use or within 24 hours of when first put on, whichever comes first. The liners must be replaced immediately if directly contacted by pesticide. Used glove liners shall not be reused. Contaminated
liners must be disposed of in accordance with any Federal, State, or local regulations.
(6) When “chemical-resistant footwear” is specified by the product labeling, one of the following types of footwear must be worn:
(i) Chemical-resistant shoes.
(ii) Chemical-resistant boots.
(iii) Chemical-resistant shoe coverings worn over shoes or boots.
(7) When “protective eyewear” is specified by the product labeling, one of the following types of eyewear must be worn:
(i) Goggles.
(ii) Face shield.
(iii) Safety glasses with front, brow, and temple protection.
(iv) Full-face respirator.
(8) When a “chemical-resistant apron” is specified by the product labeling, an apron that covers the front of the body from mid-chest to the knees shall be worn.
(9) When a respirator is specified by the product labeling, it shall be appropriate for the pesticide product used and for the activity to be performed. The handler employer shall assure that the respirator fits correctly.
(10) When “chemical-resistant headgear” is specified by the product labeling, it shall be either a chemical resistant hood or a chemical-resistant hat with a wide brim.
(d)
Exceptions to personal protective equipment specified on product labeling
—(1)
Body protection.
(i) A chemical-resistant suit may be substituted for “coveralls,” and any requirement for an additional layer of clothing beneath is waived.
(ii) A chemical-resistant suit may be substituted for “coveralls” and a chemical-resistant apron.
(2)
Boots.
If chemical-resistant footwear with sufficient durability and a tread appropriate for wear in rough terrain is not obtainable, then leather boots may be worn in such terrain.
(3)
Gloves.
If chemical-resistant gloves with sufficient durability and suppleness are not obtainable, then during handling activities with roses or other plants with sharp thorns, leather gloves may be worn over chemical-resistant glove liners. However, once leather gloves are worn for this use, thereafter they shall be worn only with chemical-resistant liners and they shall not be worn for any other use.
(4)
Closed systems.
If handling tasks are performed using properly functioning systems that enclose the pesticide to prevent it from contacting handlers or other persons, and if such systems are used and are maintained in accordance with that manufacturer's written operating instructions, exceptions to labeling-specified personal protective equipment for the handling activity are permitted as provided in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Persons using a closed system to mix or load pesticides with a signal word of DANGER or WARNING may substitute a long-sleeved shirt, long pants, shoes, socks, chemical-resistant apron, and any protective gloves specified on the labeling for handlers for the labeling-specified personal protective equipment.
(ii) Persons using a closed system to mix or load pesticides other than those in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section or to perform other handling tasks may substitute a long-sleeved shirt, long pants, shoes, and socks for the labeling-specified personal protective equipment.
(iii) Persons using a closed system that operates under pressure shall wear protective eyewear.
(iv) Persons using a closed system shall have all labeling-specified personal protective equipment immediately available for use in an emergency.
(5)
Enclosed cabs.
If handling tasks are performed from inside a cab that has a nonporous barrier which totally surrounds the occupants of the cab and prevents contact with pesticides outside of the cab, exceptions to personal protective equipment specified on the product labeling for that handling activity are permitted as provided in paragraphs (d)(5) (i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) Persons occupying an enclosed cab may substitute a long-sleeved shirt, long pants, shoes, and socks for the labeling-specified personal protective equipment. If a respiratory protection device is specified on the pesticide
product labeling for the handling activity, it must be worn.
(ii) Persons occupying an enclosed cab that has a properly functioning ventilation system which is used and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's written operating instructions and which is declared in writing by the manufacturer or by a governmental agency to provide respiratory protection equivalent to or greater than a dust/mist filtering respirator may substitute a long-sleeved shirt, long pants, shoes, and socks for the labeling-specified personal protective equipment. If a respiratory protection device other than a dust/mist-filtering respirator is specified on the pesticide product labeling, it must be worn.
(iii) Persons occupying an enclosed cab that has a properly functioning ventilation system which is used and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's written operating instructions and which is declared in writing by the manufacturer or by a governmental agency to provide respiratory protection equivalent to or greater than the vapor- or gas-removing respirator specified on pesticide product labeling may substitute a long-sleeved shirt, long pants, shoes, and socks for the labeling-specified personal protective equipment. If an air-supplying respirator or a self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) is specified on the pesticide product labeling, it must be worn.
(iv) Persons occupying an enclosed cab shall have all labeling-specified personal protective equipment immediately available and stored in a chemical-resistant container, such as a plastic bag. They shall wear such personal protective equipment if it is necessary to exit the cab and contact pesticide-treated surfaces in the treated area. Once personal protective equipment is worn in the treated area, it must be removed before reentering the cab.
(6)
Aerial application
—(i)
Use of gloves.
The wearing of chemical-resistant gloves when entering or leaving an aircraft used to apply pesticides is optional, unless such gloves are required on the pesticide product labeling. If gloves are brought into the cockpit of an aircraft that has been used to apply pesticides, the gloves shall be kept in an enclosed container to prevent contamination of the inside of the cockpit.
(ii)
Open cockpit.
Persons occupying an open cockpit shall use the personal protective equipment specified in the product labeling for use during application, except that chemical-resistant footwear need not be worn. A helmet may be substituted for chemical-resistant headgear. A visor may be substituted for protective eyewear.
(iii)
Enclosed cockpit.
Persons occupying an enclosed cockpit may substitute a long-sleeved shirt, long pants, shoes, and socks for labeling-specified personal protective equipment.
(7)
Crop advisors.
Crop advisors entering treated areas while a restricted-entry interval is in effect may wear the personal protective equipment specified on the pesticide labeling for early-entry activities instead of the personal protective equipment specified on the pesticide labeling for handling activities, provided:
(i) Application has been completed for at least 4 hours.
(ii) Any inhalation exposure level listed in the labeling has been reached or any ventilation criteria established by § 170.110(c)(3) or in the labeling have been met.
(e)
Use of personal protective equipment.
(1) The handler employer shall assure that personal protective equipment is used correctly for its intended purpose and is used according to the manufacturer's instructions.
(2) The handler employer shall assure that, before each day of use, all personal protective equipment is inspected for leaks, holes, tears, or worn places, and any damaged equipment is repaired or discarded.
(f)
Cleaning and maintenance.
(1) The handler employer shall assure that all personal protective equipment is cleaned according to the manufacturer's instructions or pesticide product labeling instructions before each day of reuse. In the absence of any such instructions, it shall be washed thoroughly in detergent and hot water.
(2) If any personal protective equipment cannot be cleaned properly, the handler employer shall dispose of the personal protective equipment in accordance with any applicable Federal,
State, and local regulations. Coveralls or other absorbent materials that have been drenched or heavily contaminated with an undiluted pesticide that has the signal word DANGER or WARNING on the label shall be not be reused.
(3) The handler employer shall assure that contaminated personal protective equipment is kept separately and washed separately from any other clothing or laundry.
(4) The handler employer shall assure that all clean personal protective equipment shall be either dried thoroughly before being stored or shall be put in a well ventilated place to dry.
(5) The handler employer shall assure that all personal protective equipment is stored separately from personal clothing and apart from pesticide-contaminated areas.
(6) The handler employer shall assure that when dust/mist filtering respirators are used, the filters shall be replaced:
(i) When breathing resistance becomes excessive.
(ii) When the filter element has physical damage or tears.
(iii) According to manufacturer's recommendations or pesticide product labeling, whichever is more frequent.
(iv) In the absence of any other instructions or indications of service life, at the end of each day's work period.
(7) The handler employer shall assure that when gas- or vapor-removing respirators are used, the gas- or vapor-removing canisters or cartridges shall be replaced:
(i) At the first indication of odor, taste, or irritation.
(ii) According to manufacturer's recommendations or pesticide product labeling, whichever is more frequent.
(iii) In the absence of any other instructions or indications of service life, at the end of each day's work period.
(8) The handler employer shall inform any person who cleans or launders personal protective equipment:
(i) That such equipment may be contaminated with pesticides.
(ii) Of the potentially harmful effects of exposure to pesticides.
(iii) Of the correct way(s) to clean personal protective equipment and to protect themselves when handling such equipment.
(9) The handler employer shall assure that handlers have a clean place(s) away from pesticide storage and pesticide use areas where they may:
(i) Store personal clothing not in use.
(ii) Put on personal protective equipment at the start of any exposure period.
(iii) Remove personal protective equipment at the end of any exposure period.
(10) The handler employer shall not allow or direct any handler to wear home or to take home personal protective equipment contaminated with pesticides.
(g)
Heat-related illness.
When the use of personal protective equipment is specified by the labeling of any pesticide for the handling activity, the handler employer shall assure that no handler is allowed or directed to perform the handling activity unless appropriate measures are taken, if necessary, to prevent heat-related illness.
[57 FR 38151, Aug. 21, 1992, as amended at 69 FR 53346, Sept. 1, 2004]
§ 170.250
Decontamination.
(a)
Requirement.
During any handling activity, the handler employer shall provide for handlers, in accordance with this section, decontamination supplies for washing off pesticides and pesticide residues.
(b)
General conditions.
(1) The handler employer shall provide handlers with enough water for routine washing, for emergency eyeflushing, and for washing the entire body in case of an emergency. At all times when the water is available to handlers, the handler employer shall assure that it is of a quality and temperature that will not cause illness or injury when it contacts the skin or eyes or if it is swallowed.
(2) When water stored in a tank is to be used for mixing pesticides, it shall not be used for decontamination or eye flushing, unless the tank is equipped with properly functioning valves or other mechanisms that prevent movement of pesticides into the tank.
(3) The handler employer shall provide soap and single-use towels in quantities sufficient to meet handlers' needs.
(4) The handler employer shall provide one clean change of clothing, such as coveralls, for use in an emergency.
(c)
Location.
The decontamination supplies shall be located together and be reasonably accessible to and not more than
1/4
mile from each handler during the handling activity.
(1)
Exception for mixing sites.
For mixing activities, decontamination supplies shall be at the mixing site.
(2)
Exception for pilots.
Decontamination supplies for a pilot who is applying pesticides aerially shall be in the airplaine or at the aircraft loading site.
(3)
Exception for handling pesticides in remote areas.
When handling activities are performed more than
1/4
mile from the nearest place of vehicular access:
(i) The soap, single-use towels, clean change of clothing, and water may be at the nearest place of vehicular access.
(ii) The handler employer may permit handlers to use clean water from springs, streams, lakes, or other sources for decontamination at the remote work site, if such water is more accessible than the water located at the nearest place of vehicular access.
(4)
Decontamination supplies in treated areas.
The decontamination supplies shall not be in an area being treated with pesticides or in an area under a restricted-entry interval, unless:
(i) The decontamination supplies are in the area where the handler is performing handling activities;
(ii) The soap, single-use towels, and clean change of clothing are in enclosed containers; and
(iii) The water is running tap water or is enclosed in a container.
(d)
Emergency eyeflushing.
To provide for emergency eyeflushing, the handler employer shall assure that at least 1 pint of water is immediately available to each handler who is performing tasks for which the pesticide labeling requires protective eyewear. The eyeflush water shall be carried by the handler, or shall be on the vehicle or aircraft the handler is using, or shall be otherwise immediately accessible.
(e)
Decontamination after handling activities.
At the end of any exposure period, the handler employer shall provide at the site where handlers remove personal protective equipment, soap, clean towels, and a sufficient amount of water so that the handlers may wash thoroughly.
[57 FR 38151, Aug. 21, 1992, as amended at 61 FR 33213, June 26, 1996]
§ 170.260
Emergency assistance.
If there is reason to believe that a person who is or has been employed by an agricultural establishment or commercial pesticide handling establishment to perform pesticide handling tasks has been poisoned or injured by exposure to pesticides as a result of that employment, including, but not limited to, exposures from handling tasks or from application, splash, spill, drift, or pesticide residues, the handler employer shall:
(a) Make available to that person prompt transportation from the place of employment or the handling site to an appropriate emergency medical facility.
(b) Provide to that person or to treating medical personnel, promptly upon request, any obtainable information on:
(1) Product name, EPA registration number, and active ingredients of any product to which that person might have been exposed.
(2) Antidote, first aid, and other medical information from the product labeling.
(3) The circumstances of handling of the pesticide.
(4) The circumstances of exposure of that person to the pesticide.

# Subpart D—General Provisions

# Source:
80 FR 67557, Nov. 2, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 170.301
Scope and purpose.
This regulation is primarily intended to reduce the risks of illness or injury to workers and handlers resulting from occupational exposures to pesticides used in the production of agricultural plants on agricultural establishments. It requires agricultural employers and commercial pesticide handler employers to provide specific information and protections to workers, handlers and other persons when pesticides are used on agricultural establishments in the
production of agricultural plants. It also requires handlers to wear the labeling-specified clothing and personal protective equipment when performing handler activities, and to take measures to protect workers and other persons during pesticide applications.
§ 170.303
Applicability of this part.
(a) This regulation applies whenever a pesticide product bearing a label requiring compliance with this part is used in the production of agricultural plants on an agricultural establishment, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b) This regulation does not apply when a pesticide product bearing a label requiring compliance with this part is used on an agricultural establishment in any of the following circumstances:
(1) As part of government-sponsored public pest control programs over which the owner, agricultural employer and handler employer have no control, such as mosquito abatement and Mediterranean fruit fly eradication programs.
(2) On plants other than agricultural plants, which may include plants in home fruit and vegetable gardens and home greenhouses, and permanent plantings for ornamental purposes, such as plants that are in ornamental gardens, parks, public or private landscaping, lawns or other grounds that are intended only for aesthetic purposes or climatic modification.
(3) For control of vertebrate pests, unless directly related to the production of an agricultural plant.
(4) As attractants or repellents in traps.
(5) On the harvested portions of agricultural plants or on harvested timber.
(6) For research uses of unregistered pesticides.
(7) On pasture and rangeland where the forage will not be harvested for hay.
(8) In a manner not directly related to the production of agricultural plants, including, but not limited to structural pest control and control of vegetation in non-crop areas.
(c) Where a pesticide product's labeling-specific directions for use or other labeling requirements are inconsistent with requirements of this part, users must comply with the pesticide product labeling, except as provided for in §§ 170.601, 170.603 and 170.607.
§ 170.305
Definitions.
Terms used in this part have the same meanings they have in the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended. In addition, the following terms, when used in this part, shall have the following meanings:
Agricultural employer
means any person who is an owner of, or is responsible for the management or condition of, an agricultural establishment, and who employs any worker or handler.
Agricultural establishment
means any farm, forest operation, or nursery engaged in the outdoor or enclosed space production of agricultural plants. An establishment that is not primarily agricultural is an agricultural establishment if it produces agricultural plants for transplant or use (in part or their entirety) in another location instead of purchasing the agricultural plants.
Agricultural plant
means any plant, or part thereof, grown, maintained, or otherwise produced for commercial purposes, including growing, maintaining or otherwise producing plants for sale or trade, for research or experimental purposes, or for use in part or their entirety in another location. Agricultural plant includes, but is not limited to, grains, fruits and vegetables; wood fiber or timber products; flowering and foliage plants and trees; seedlings and transplants; and turf grass produced for sod. Agricultural plant does not include pasture or rangeland used for grazing.
Application exclusion zone
means the area surrounding the point(s) of pesticide discharge from the application equipment that must generally be free of all persons during pesticide applications.
Chemigation
means the application of pesticides through irrigation systems.
Closed system
means an engineering control used to protect handlers from pesticide exposure hazards when mixing and loading pesticides.
Commercial pesticide handler employer
means any person, other than an agricultural employer, who employs any
handler to perform handler activities on an agricultural establishment. A labor contractor who does not provide pesticide application services or supervise the performance of handler activities, but merely employs laborers who perform handler activities at the direction of an agricultural or handler employer, is not a commercial pesticide handler employer.
Commercial pesticide handling establishment
means any enterprise, other than an agricultural establishment, that provides pesticide handler or crop advising services to agricultural establishments.
Crop advisor
means any person who is assessing pest numbers, damage, pesticide distribution, or the status or requirements of agricultural plants.
Designated representative
means any persons designated in writing by a worker or handler to exercise a right of access on behalf of the worker or handler to request and obtain a copy of the pesticide application and hazard information required by § 170.309(h) in accordance with § 170.311(b) of this part.
Early entry
means entry by a worker into a treated area on the agricultural establishment after a pesticide application is complete, but before any restricted-entry interval for the pesticide has expired.
Employ
means to obtain, directly or through a labor contractor, the services of a person in exchange for a salary or wages, including piece-rate wages, without regard to who may pay or who may receive the salary or wages. It includes obtaining the services of a self-employed person, an independent contractor, or a person compensated by a third party, except that it does not include an agricultural employer obtaining the services of a handler through a commercial pesticide handler employer or a commercial pesticide handling establishment.
Enclosed cab
means a cab with a nonporous barrier that totally surrounds the occupant(s) of the cab and prevents dermal contact with pesticides that are being applied outside of the cab.
Enclosed space production
means production of an agricultural plant indoors or in a structure or space that is covered in whole or in part by any nonporous covering and that is large enough to permit a person to enter.
Fumigant
means any pesticide product that is a vapor or gas, or forms a vapor or gas upon application, and whose pesticidal action is achieved through the gaseous or vapor state.
Hand labor
means any agricultural activity performed by hand or with hand tools that causes a worker to have substantial contact with plants, plant parts, or soil and other surfaces that may contain pesticide residues, except that hand labor does not include operating, moving, or repairing irrigation or watering equipment or performing crop advisor tasks.
Handler
means any person, including a self-employed person, who is employed by an agricultural employer or commercial pesticide handler employer and performs any of the following activities:
(1) Mixing, loading, or applying pesticides.
(2) Disposing of pesticides.
(3) Handling opened containers of pesticides, emptying, triple-rinsing, or cleaning pesticide containers according to pesticide product labeling instructions, or disposing of pesticide containers that have not been cleaned. The term does not include any person who is only handling unopened pesticide containers or pesticide containers that have been emptied or cleaned according to pesticide product labeling instructions.
(4) Acting as a flagger.
(5) Cleaning, adjusting, handling, or repairing the parts of mixing, loading, or application equipment that may contain pesticide residues.
(6) Assisting with the application of pesticides.
(7) Entering an enclosed space after the application of a pesticide and before the inhalation exposure level listed in the labeling has been reached or one of the ventilation criteria established by § 170.405(b)(3) or the labeling has been met to operate ventilation equipment, monitor air levels, or adjust or remove coverings used in fumigation.
(8) Entering a treated area outdoors after application of any soil fumigant
during the labeling-specified entry-restricted period to adjust or remove coverings used in fumigation.
(9) Performing tasks as a crop advisor during any pesticide application or restricted-entry interval, or before the inhalation exposure level listed in the pesticide product labeling has been reached or one of the ventilation criteria established by § 170.405(b)(3) or the pesticide product labeling has been met.
Handler employer
means any person who is self-employed as a handler or who employs any handler.
Immediate family
is limited to the spouse, parents, stepparents, foster parents, father-in-law, mother-in-law, children, stepchildren, foster children, sons-in-law, daughters-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren, brothers, sisters, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, and first cousins. “First cousin” means the child of a parent's sibling,
i.e.,
the child of an aunt or uncle.
Labor contractor
means a person, other than a commercial pesticide handler employer, who employs workers or handlers to perform tasks on an agricultural establishment for an agricultural employer or a commercial pesticide handler employer.
Outdoor production
means production of an agricultural plant in an outside area that is not enclosed or covered in any way that would obstruct the natural air flow.
Owner
means any person who has a present possessory interest (e.g., fee, leasehold, rental, or other) in an agricultural establishment. A person who has both leased such agricultural establishment to another person and granted that same person the right and full authority to manage and govern the use of such agricultural establishment is not an owner for purposes of this part.
Personal protective equipment
means devices and apparel that are worn to protect the body from contact with pesticides or pesticide residues, including, but not limited to, coveralls, chemical-resistant suits, chemical-resistant gloves, chemical-resistant footwear, respirators, chemical-resistant aprons, chemical-resistant headgear, and protective eyewear.
Restricted-entry interval
means the time after the end of a pesticide application during which entry into the treated area is restricted.
Safety data sheet
has the same meaning as the definition at 29 CFR 1900.1200(c).
Treated area
means any area to which a pesticide is being directed or has been directed.
Use, as in “to use a pesticide”
means any of the following:
(1) Pre-application activities, including, but not limited to:
(i) Arranging for the application of the pesticide.
(ii) Mixing and loading the pesticide.
(iii) Making necessary preparations for the application of the pesticide, including responsibilities related to worker notification, training of workers or handlers, providing decontamination supplies, providing pesticide safety information and pesticide application and hazard information, use and care of personal protective equipment, providing emergency assistance, and heat stress management.
(2) Application of the pesticide.
(3) Post-application activities intended to reduce the risks of illness and injury resulting from handlers' and workers' occupational exposures to pesticide residues during and after the restricted-entry interval, including responsibilities related to worker notification, training of workers or early-entry workers, providing decontamination supplies, providing pesticide safety information and pesticide application and hazard information, use and care of personal protective equipment, providing emergency assistance, and heat stress management.
(4) Other pesticide-related activities, including, but not limited to, transporting or storing pesticides that have been opened, cleaning equipment, and disposing of excess pesticides, spray mix, equipment wash waters, pesticide containers, and other pesticide-containing materials.
Worker
means any person, including a self-employed person, who is employed and performs activities directly relating to the production of agricultural plants on an agricultural establishment.
Worker housing area
means any place or area of land on or near an agricultural establishment where housing or space for housing is provided for workers or handlers by an agricultural employer, owner, labor contractor, or any other person responsible for the recruitment or employment of agricultural workers.
[80 FR 67557, Nov. 2, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 68781, Oct. 30, 2020]
§ 170.309
Agricultural employer duties.
Agricultural employers must:
(a) Ensure that any pesticide is used in a manner consistent with the pesticide product labeling, including the requirements of this part, when applied on the agricultural establishment.
(b) Ensure that each worker and handler subject to this part receives the protections required by this part.
(c) Ensure that any handler and any early entry worker is at least 18 years old.
(d) Provide to each person, including labor contractors, who supervises any workers or handlers information and directions sufficient to ensure that each worker and handler receives the protections required by this part. Such information and directions must specify the tasks for which the supervisor is responsible in order to comply with the provisions of this part.
(e) Require each person, including labor contractors, who supervises any workers or handlers to provide sufficient information and directions to each worker and handler to ensure that they can comply with the provisions of this part.
(f) Provide emergency assistance in accordance with this paragraph. If there is reason to believe that a worker or handler has experienced a potential pesticide exposure during his or her employment on the agricultural establishment or shows symptoms similar to those associated with acute exposure to pesticides during or within 72 hours after his or her employment on the agricultural establishment, and needs emergency medical treatment, the agricultural employer must do all of the following promptly after learning of the possible poisoning or injury:
(1) Make available to that person transportation from the agricultural establishment, including any worker housing area on the establishment, to an operating medical care facility capable of providing emergency medical treatment to a person exposed to pesticides.
(2) Provide all of the following information to the treating medical personnel:
(i) Copies of the applicable safety data sheet(s) and the product name(s), EPA registration number(s) and active ingredient(s) for each pesticide product to which the person may have been exposed.
(ii) The circumstances of application or use of the pesticide on the agricultural establishment.
(iii) The circumstances that could have resulted in exposure to the pesticide.
(g) Ensure that workers or other persons employed by the agricultural establishment do not clean, repair, or adjust pesticide application equipment, unless trained as a handler under § 170.501. Before allowing any person not directly employed by the agricultural establishment to clean, repair, or adjust equipment that has been used to mix, load, transfer, or apply pesticides, the agricultural employer must provide all of the following information to such person:
(1) Pesticide application equipment may be contaminated with pesticides.
(2) The potentially harmful effects of exposure to pesticides.
(3) Procedures for handling pesticide application equipment and for limiting exposure to pesticide residues.
(4) Personal hygiene practices and decontamination procedures for preventing pesticide exposures and removing pesticide residues.
(h) Display, maintain, and provide access to pesticide safety information and pesticide application and hazard information in accordance with § 170.311 if workers or handlers are on the establishment and within the last 30 days a pesticide product has been used or a restricted-entry interval for such pesticide has been in effect on the establishment.
(i) Ensure that before a handler uses any equipment for mixing, loading, transferring, or applying pesticides,
the handler is instructed in the safe operation of such equipment.
(j) Ensure that before each day of use, equipment used for mixing, loading, transferring, or applying pesticides is inspected for leaks, clogging, and worn or damaged parts, and any damaged equipment is repaired or replaced.
(k) Ensure that whenever handlers employed by a commercial pesticide handling establishment will be on an agricultural establishment, the handler employer is provided information about, or is aware of, the specific location and description of any treated areas on the agricultural establishment where a restricted-entry interval is in effect that the handler may be in (or may walk within
1/4
mile of), and any restrictions on entering those areas.
(l) Ensure that workers do not enter any area on the agricultural establishment where a pesticide has been applied until the applicable pesticide application and hazard information for each pesticide product applied to that area is displayed in accordance with § 170.311(b), and until after the restricted-entry interval has expired and all treated area warning signs have been removed or covered, except for entry permitted by § 170.603 of this part.
(m) Provide any records or other information required by this part for inspection and copying upon request by an employee of EPA or any duly authorized representative of a Federal, State or Tribal government agency responsible for pesticide enforcement.
§ 170.311
Display requirements for pesticide safety information and pesticide application and hazard information.
(a)
Display of Pesticide Safety Information.
Whenever pesticide safety information and pesticide application and hazard information are required to be provided under § 170.309(h), pesticide safety information must be displayed in accordance with this paragraph.
(1)
General.
The pesticide safety information must be conveyed in a manner that workers and handlers can understand.
(2)
Content prior to January 1, 2018.
Prior to January 1, 2018, the safety information must include all of the following points:
(i) Help keep pesticides from entering your body. Avoid getting on your skin or into your body any pesticides that may be on plants and soil, in irrigation water, or drifting from nearby applications.
(ii) Wash before eating, drinking, using chewing gum or tobacco, or using the toilet.
(iii) Wear work clothing that protects the body from pesticide residues (long-sleeved shirts, long pants, shoes and socks, and a hat or scarf).
(iv) Wash or shower with soap and water, shampoo hair, and put on clean clothes after work.
(v) Wash work clothes separately from other clothes before wearing them again.
(vi) Wash immediately in the nearest clean water if pesticides are spilled or sprayed on the body. As soon as possible, shower, shampoo, and change into clean clothes.
(vii) Follow directions about keeping out of treated or restricted areas.
(viii) The name, address, and telephone number of a nearby operating medical care facility capable of providing emergency medical treatment. This information must be clearly identified as emergency medical contact information on the display.
(ix) There are Federal rules to protect workers and handlers, including a requirement for safety training.
(3)
Content after January 1, 2018.
After January 1, 2018, the pesticide safety information must include all of the points in § 170.311(a)(3)(i)-(x) instead of the points listed in § 170.311(a)(2)(i)-(ix).
(i) Avoid getting on the skin or into the body any pesticides that may be on or in plants, soil, irrigation water, tractors, and other equipment, on used personal protective equipment, or drifting from nearby applications.
(ii) Wash before eating, drinking, using chewing gum or tobacco, or using the toilet.
(iii) Wear work clothing that protects the body from pesticide residues (long-sleeved shirts, long pants, shoes and socks, and a hat or scarf).
(iv) Wash or shower with soap and water, shampoo hair, and put on clean clothes after work.
(v) Wash work clothes separately from other clothes before wearing them again.
(vi) If pesticides are spilled or sprayed on the body use decontamination supplies to wash immediately, or rinse off in the nearest clean water, including springs, streams, lakes or other sources if more readily available than decontamination supplies, and as soon as possible, wash or shower with soap and water, shampoo hair, and change into clean clothes.
(vii) Follow directions about keeping out of treated areas and application exclusion zones.
(viii) Instructions to employees to seek medical attention as soon as possible if they believe they have been poisoned, injured or made ill by pesticides.
(ix) The name, address, and telephone number of a nearby operating medical care facility capable of providing emergency medical treatment. This information must be clearly identified as emergency medical contact information on the display.
(x) The name, address and telephone number of the State or Tribal pesticide regulatory agency.
(4)
Changes to pesticide safety information.
The agricultural employer must update the pesticide safety information display within 24 hours of notice of any changes to the information required in § 170.311(a)(2)(viii) or 170.311(a)(3)(ix).
(5)
Location.
The pesticide safety information must be displayed at each of the following sites on the agricultural establishment:
(i) The site selected pursuant to § 170.311(b)(2) for display of pesticide application and hazard information.
(ii) Anywhere that decontamination supplies must be provided on the agricultural establishment pursuant to § 170.411, § 170.509 or § 170.605, but only when the decontamination supplies are located at permanent sites or being provided at locations and in quantities to meet the requirements for 11 or more workers or handlers.
(6)
Accessibility.
When pesticide safety information is required to be displayed, workers and handlers must be allowed access to the pesticide safety information at all times during normal work hours.
(7)
Legibility.
The pesticide safety information must remain legible at all times when the information is required to be displayed.
(b)
Keeping and displaying pesticide application and hazard information.
Whenever pesticide safety information and pesticide application and hazard information is required to be provided under § 170.309(h), pesticide application and hazard information for any pesticides that are used on the agricultural establishment must be displayed, retained, and made accessible in accordance with this paragraph.
(1)
Content.
The pesticide application and hazard information must include all of the following information for each pesticide product applied:
(i) A copy of the safety data sheet.
(ii) The name, EPA registration number, and active ingredient(s) of the pesticide product.
(iii) The crop or site treated and the location and description of the treated area.
(iv) The date(s) and times the application started and ended.
(v) The duration of the applicable labeling-specified restricted-entry interval for that application.
(2)
Location.
The pesticide application and hazard information must be displayed at a place on the agricultural establishment where workers and handlers are likely to pass by or congregate and where it can be readily seen and read.
(3)
Accessibility.
When the pesticide application and hazard information is required to be displayed, workers and handlers must be allowed access to the location of the information at all times during normal work hours.
(4)
Legibility.
The pesticide application and hazard information must remain legible at all times when the information is required to be displayed.
(5)
Timing.
The pesticide application and hazard information for each pesticide product applied must be displayed no later than 24 hours after the end of the application of the pesticide. The pesticide application and hazard information must be displayed continuously from the beginning of the display period until at least 30 days after the end of the last applicable restricted-
entry interval, or until workers or handlers are no longer on the establishment, whichever is earlier.
(6)
Record retention.
Whenever pesticide safety information and pesticide application and hazard information is required to be displayed in accordance with this paragraph (b), the agricultural employer must retain the pesticide application and hazard information described in § 170.311(b)(1) on the agricultural establishment for two years after the date of expiration of the restricted-entry interval applicable to the pesticide application conducted.
(7)
Access to pesticide application and hazard information by a worker or handler.
(i) If a person is or was employed as a worker or handler by an establishment during the period that particular pesticide application and hazard information was required to be displayed and retained for two years in accordance with §§ 170.311(b)(5) and 170.311(b)(6), and the person requests a copy of such application and/or hazard information, or requests access to such application and/or hazard information after it is no longer required to be displayed, the agricultural employer must provide the worker or handler with a copy of or access to all of the requested information within 15 days of the receipt of any such request. The worker or handler may make the request orally or in writing.
(ii) Whenever a record has been previously provided without cost to a worker or handler or their designated representative, the agricultural employer may charge reasonable, non-discriminatory administrative costs (
i.e.,
search and copying expenses but not including overhead expenses) for a request by the worker or handler for additional copies of the record.
(8) Access to pesticide application and hazard information by treating medical personnel.
Any treating medical personnel, or any person acting under the supervision of treating medical personnel, may request, orally or in writing, access to or a copy of any information required to be retained for two years by § 170.311(b)(6) in order to inform diagnosis or treatment of a worker or handler who was employed on the establishment during the period that the information was required to be displayed. The agricultural employer must promptly provide a copy of or access to all of the requested information applicable to the worker's or handler's time of employment on the establishment after receipt of the request.
(9)
Access to pesticide application and hazard information by a designated representative.
(i) Any worker's or handler's designated representative may request access to or a copy of any information required to be retained for two years by § 170.311(b)(6) on behalf of a worker or handler employed on the establishment during the period that the information was required to be displayed. The agricultural employer must provide access to or a copy of the requested information applicable to the worker's or handler's time of employment on the establishment within 15 days after receiving any such request, provided the request meets the requirements specified in § 170.311(b)(9)(ii).
(ii) A request by a designated representative for access to or a copy of any pesticide application and/or hazard information must be in writing and must contain all of the following:
(A) The name of the worker or handler being represented.
(B) A description of the specific information being requested. The description should include the dates of employment of the worker or handler, the date or dates for which the records are requested, type of work conducted by the worker or handler (e.g., planting, harvesting, applying pesticides, mixing or loading pesticides) during the period for which the records are requested, and the specific application and/or hazard information requested.
(C) A written statement clearly designating the representative to request pesticide application and hazard information on the worker's or handler's behalf, bearing the worker's or handler's printed name and signature, the date of the designation, and the printed name and contact information for the designated representative.
(D) If the worker or handler requests that the pesticide application and/or the hazard information be sent, direction for where to send the information (e.g., mailing address or email address).
(iii) If the written request from a designated representative contains all of the necessary information specified in § 170.313(b)(9)(ii), the employer must provide a copy of or access to all of the requested information applicable to the worker's or handler's time of employment on the establishment to the designated representative within 15 days of receiving the request.
(iv) Whenever a record has been previously provided without cost to a worker or handler or their designated representative, the agricultural employer may charge reasonable, non-discriminatory administrative costs (
i.e.,
search and copying expenses but not including overhead expenses) for a request by the designated representative for additional copies of the record.
§ 170.313
Commercial pesticide handler employer duties.
Commercial pesticide handler employers must:
(a) Ensure that any pesticide is used in a manner consistent with the pesticide product labeling, including the requirements of this part, when applied on an agricultural establishment by a handler employed by the commercial pesticide handling establishment.
(b) Ensure each handler employed by the commercial pesticide handling establishment and subject to this part receives the protections required by this part.
(c) Ensure that any handler employed by the commercial pesticide handling establishment is at least 18 years old.
(d) Provide to each person, including labor contractors, who supervises any handlers employed by the commercial pesticide handling establishment, information and directions sufficient to ensure that each handler receives the protections required by this part. Such information and directions must specify the tasks for which the supervisor is responsible in order to comply with the provisions of this part.
(e) Require each person, including labor contractors, who supervises any handlers employed by the commercial pesticide handling establishment, to provide sufficient information and directions to each handler to ensure that the handler can comply with the provisions of this part.
(f) Ensure that before any handler employed by the commercial pesticide handling establishment uses any equipment for mixing, loading, transferring, or applying pesticides, the handler is instructed in the safe operation of such equipment.
(g) Ensure that, before each day of use, equipment used by their employees for mixing, loading, transferring, or applying pesticides is inspected for leaks, obstructions, and worn or damaged parts, and any damaged equipment is repaired or is replaced.
(h) Ensure that whenever a handler who is employed by a commercial pesticide handling establishment will be on an agricultural establishment, the handler is provided information about, or is aware of, the specific location and description of any treated areas where a restricted-entry interval is in effect, and the restrictions on entering those areas.
(i) Provide the agricultural employer all of the following information before the application of any pesticide on an agricultural establishment:
(1) Specific location(s) and description of the area(s) to be treated.
(2) The date(s) and start and estimated end times of application.
(3) Product name, EPA registration number, and active ingredient(s).
(4) The labeling-specified restricted-entry interval applicable for the application.
(5) Whether posting, oral notification or both are required under § 170.409.
(6) Any restrictions or use directions on the pesticide product labeling that must be followed for protection of workers, handlers, or other persons during or after application.
(j) If there are any changes to the information provided in § 170.313(i)(1), § 170.313(i)(4), § 170.313(i)(5), § 170.313(i)(6) or if the start time for the application will be earlier than originally forecasted or scheduled, ensure that the agricultural employer is provided updated information prior to the application. If there are any changes to any other information provided pursuant to § 170.313(i), the commercial pesticide handler employer must provide updated information to the agricultural employer within two hours after completing the application. Changes to the
estimated application end time of less than one hour need not be reported to the agricultural employer.
(k) Provide emergency assistance in accordance with this paragraph. If there is reason to believe that a handler employed by the commercial pesticide handling establishment has experienced a potential pesticide exposure during his or her employment by the commercial pesticide handling establishment or shows symptoms similar to those associated with acute exposure to pesticides during or within 72 hours after his or her employment by the commercial pesticide handling establishment, and needs emergency medical treatment, the commercial pesticide handler employer must do all of the following promptly after learning of the possible poisoning or injury:
(1) Make available to that person transportation from the commercial pesticide handling establishment, or any agricultural establishment on which that handler may be working on behalf of the commercial pesticide handling establishment, to an operating medical care facility capable of providing emergency medical treatment to a person exposed to pesticides.
(2) Provide all of the following information to the treating medical personnel:
(i) Copies of the applicable safety data sheet(s) and the product name(s), EPA registration number(s) and active ingredient(s) for each pesticide product to which the person may have been exposed.
(ii) The circumstances of application or use of the pesticide.
(iii) The circumstances that could have resulted in exposure to the pesticide.
(l) Ensure that persons directly employed by the commercial pesticide handling establishment do not clean, repair, or adjust pesticide application equipment, unless trained as a handler under § 170.501. Before allowing any person not directly employed by the commercial pesticide handling establishment to clean, repair, or adjust equipment that has been used to mix, load, transfer, or apply pesticides, the commercial pesticide handler employer must provide all of the following information to such persons:
(1) Notice that the pesticide application equipment may be contaminated with pesticides.
(2) The potentially harmful effects of exposure to pesticides.
(3) Procedures for handling pesticide application equipment and for limiting exposure to pesticide residues.
(4) Personal hygiene practices and decontamination procedures for preventing pesticide exposures and removing pesticide residues.
(m) Provide any records or other information required by this part for inspection and copying upon request by an employee of EPA or any duly authorized representative of a Federal, State or Tribal government agency responsible for pesticide enforcement.
§ 170.315
Prohibited actions.
No agricultural employer, commercial pesticide handler employer, or other person involved in the use of a pesticide to which this part applies, shall intimidate, threaten, coerce, or discriminate against any worker or handler for complying with or attempting to comply with this part, or because the worker or handler provided, caused to be provided or is about to provide information to the employer or the EPA or any duly authorized representative of a Federal, State or Tribal government regarding conduct that the worker or handler reasonably believes violates this part, has made a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing concerning compliance with this part, or has objected to, or refused to participate in, any activity, policy, practice, or assigned task that the worker or handler reasonably believed to be in violation of this part. Any such intimidation, threat, coercion, or discrimination violates FIFRA section 12(a)(2)(G), 7 U.S.C. 136j(a)(2)(G).
§ 170.317
Violations of this part.
(a) Under FIFRA section 12(a)(2)(G), it is unlawful for any person “to use any registered pesticide in a manner inconsistent with its labeling.” When this part is referenced on a label, users
must comply with all of its requirements, except those that are inconsistent with product-specific instructions on the pesticide product labeling, except as provided for in §§ 170.601, 170.603 and 170.607.
(b) A person who has a duty under this part, as referenced on the pesticide product labeling, and who fails to perform that duty, violates FIFRA section 12(a)(2)(G) and is subject to a civil penalty under section 14. A person who knowingly violates section 12(a)(2)(G) is subject to section 14 criminal sanctions.
(c) FIFRA section 14(b)(4) provides that a person is liable for a penalty under FIFRA if another person employed by or acting for that person violates any provision of FIFRA. The term “acting for” includes both employment and contractual relationships, including, but not limited to, labor contractors.
(d) The requirements of this part, including the decontamination requirements, must not, for the purposes of section 653(b)(1) of Title 29 of the U.S. Code, be deemed to be the exercise of statutory authority to prescribe or enforce standards or regulations affecting the general sanitary hazards addressed by the OSHA Field Sanitation Standard, 29 CFR 1928.110, or other agricultural non-pesticide hazards.

# Subpart E—Requirements for Protection of Agricultural Workers

# Source:
80 FR 67562, Nov. 2, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 170.401
Training requirements for workers.
(a)
General requirement.
Before any worker performs any task in a treated area on an agricultural establishment where within the last 30 days a pesticide product has been used or a restricted-entry interval for such pesticide has been in effect, the agricultural employer must ensure that each worker has been trained in accordance with this section within the last 12 months, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Exceptions.
The following workers need not be trained under this section:
(1) A worker who is currently certified as an applicator of restricted use pesticides under part 171 of this chapter.
(2) A worker who has satisfied the handler training requirements in § 170.501.
(3) A worker who is certified or licensed as a crop advisor by a program acknowledged as appropriate in writing by EPA or the State or Tribal agency responsible for pesticide enforcement, provided that such certification or licensing requires pesticide safety training that includes all the topics in § 170.501(c)(2) or § 170.501(c)(3) as applicable depending on the date of training.
(c)
Training programs.
(1) Pesticide safety training must be presented to workers either orally from written materials or audio-visually, at a location that is reasonably free from distraction and conducive to training. All training materials must be EPA-approved. The training must be presented in a manner that the workers can understand, such as through a translator. The training must be conducted by a person who meets the worker trainer requirements of paragraph (c)(4) of this section, and who must be present during the entire training program and must respond to workers' questions.
(2) The training must include, at a minimum, all of the following topics:
(i) Where and in what form pesticides may be encountered during work activities.
(ii) Hazards of pesticides resulting from toxicity and exposure, including acute and chronic effects, delayed effects, and sensitization.
(iii) Routes through which pesticides can enter the body.
(iv) Signs and symptoms of common types of pesticide poisoning.
(v) Emergency first aid for pesticide injuries or poisonings.
(vi) How to obtain emergency medical care.
(vii) Routine and emergency decontamination procedures, including emergency eye flushing techniques.
(viii) Hazards from chemigation and drift.
(ix) Hazards from pesticide residues on clothing.
(x) Warnings about taking pesticides or pesticide containers home.
(xi) Requirements of this subpart designed to reduce the risks of illness or injury resulting from workers' occupational exposure to pesticides, including application and entry restrictions, the design of the warning sign, posting of warning signs, oral warnings, the availability of specific information about applications, and the protection against retaliatory acts.
(3) EPA intends to make available to the public training materials that may be used to conduct training conforming to the requirements of this section. Within 180 days after a notice of availability of such training materials appears in the
Federal Register,
but no earlier than January 1, 2018, training programs required under this section must include, at a minimum, all of the topics listed in § 170.401(c)(3)(i)-(xxiii) instead of the topics listed in § 170.401(c)(2)(i)-(xi).
(i) The responsibility of agricultural employers to provide workers and handlers with information and protections designed to reduce work-related pesticide exposures and illnesses. This includes ensuring workers and handlers have been trained on pesticide safety, providing pesticide safety and application and hazard information, decontamination supplies and emergency medical assistance, and notifying workers of restrictions during applications and on entering pesticide treated areas. A worker or handler may designate in writing a representative to request access to pesticide application and hazard information.
(ii) How to recognize and understand the meaning of the posted warning signs used for notifying workers of restrictions on entering pesticide treated areas on the establishment.
(iii) How to follow directions and/or signs about keeping out of pesticide treated areas subject to a restricted-entry interval and application exclusion zones.
(iv) Where and in what forms pesticides may be encountered during work activities, and potential sources of pesticide exposure on the agricultural establishment. This includes exposure to pesticide residues that may be on or in plants, soil, tractors, application and chemigation equipment, or used personal protective equipment, and that pesticides may drift through the air from nearby applications or be in irrigation water.
(v) Potential hazards from toxicity and exposure that pesticides present to workers and their families, including acute and chronic effects, delayed effects, and sensitization.
(vi) Routes through which pesticides can enter the body.
(vii) Signs and symptoms of common types of pesticide poisoning.
(viii) Emergency first aid for pesticide injuries or poisonings.
(ix) Routine and emergency decontamination procedures, including emergency eye flushing techniques, and if pesticides are spilled or sprayed on the body to use decontamination supplies to wash immediately or rinse off in the nearest clean water, including springs, streams, lakes or other sources if more readily available than decontamination supplies, and as soon as possible, wash or shower with soap and water, shampoo hair, and change into clean clothes.
(x) How and when to obtain emergency medical care.
(xi) When working in pesticide treated areas, wear work clothing that protects the body from pesticide residues and wash hands before eating, drinking, using chewing gum or tobacco, or using the toilet.
(xii) Wash or shower with soap and water, shampoo hair, and change into clean clothes as soon as possible after working in pesticide treated areas.
(xiii) Potential hazards from pesticide residues on clothing.
(xiv) Wash work clothes before wearing them again and wash them separately from other clothes.
(xv) Do not take pesticides or pesticide containers used at work to your home.
(xvi) Safety data sheets provide hazard, emergency medical treatment and other information about the pesticides used on the establishment they may come in contact with. The responsibility of agricultural employers to do all of the following:
(A) Display safety data sheets for all pesticides used on the establishment.
(B) Provide workers and handlers information about the location of the
safety data sheets on the establishment.
(C) Provide workers and handlers unimpeded access to safety data sheets during normal work hours.
(xvii) The rule prohibits agricultural employers from allowing or directing any worker to mix, load or apply pesticides or assist in the application of pesticides unless the worker has been trained as a handler.
(xviii) The responsibility of agricultural employers to provide specific information to workers before directing them to perform early-entry activities. Workers must be 18 years old to perform early-entry activities.
(xix) Potential hazards to children and pregnant women from pesticide exposure.
(xx) Keep children and nonworking family members away from pesticide treated areas.
(xxi) After working in pesticide treated areas, remove work boots or shoes before entering your home, and remove work clothes and wash or shower before physical contact with children or family members.
(xxii) How to report suspected pesticide use violations to the State or Tribal agency responsible for pesticide enforcement.
(xxiii) The rule prohibits agricultural employers from intimidating, threatening, coercing, or discriminating against any worker or handler for complying with or attempting to comply with the requirements of this rule, or because the worker or handler provided, caused to be provided or is about to provide information to the employer or the EPA or its agents regarding conduct that the employee reasonably believes violates this part, and/or made a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing concerning compliance with this rule.
(4) The person who conducts the training must meet one of the following criteria:
(i) Be designated as a trainer of certified applicators, handlers or workers by EPA or the State or Tribal agency responsible for pesticide enforcement.
(ii) Have completed an EPA-approved pesticide safety train-the-trainer program for trainers of workers.
(iii) Be currently certified as an applicator of restricted use pesticides under part 171 of this chapter.
(d)
Recordkeeping.
(1) For each worker required to be trained under paragraph (a), the agricultural employer must maintain on the agricultural establishment, for two years from the date of the training, a record documenting each worker's training including all of the following:
(i) The trained worker's printed name and signature.
(ii) The date of the training.
(iii) Information identifying which EPA-approved training materials were used.
(iv) The trainer's name and documentation showing that the trainer met the requirements of § 170.401(c)(4) at the time of training.
(v) The agricultural employer's name.
(2) An agricultural employer who provides, directly or indirectly, training required under paragraph (a) must provide to the worker upon request a copy of the record of the training that contains the information required under § 170.401(d)(1).
§ 170.403
Establishment-specific information for workers.
Before any worker performs any activity in a treated area on an agricultural establishment where within the last 30 days a pesticide product has been used, or a restricted-entry interval for such pesticide has been in effect, the agricultural employer must ensure that the worker has been informed of, in a manner the worker can understand, all of the following establishment-specific information:
(a) The location of pesticide safety information required by § 170.311(a).
(b) The location of pesticide application and hazard information required by § 170.311(b).
(c) The location of decontamination supplies required by § 170.411.
§ 170.405
Entry restrictions associated with pesticide applications.
(a)
Outdoor production pesticide applications.
(1) The application exclusion zone is defined as follows:
(i) The application exclusion zone is the area that extends 100 feet horizontally from the point(s) of pesticide discharge from the application equipment in all directions during application when the pesticide is applied by any of the following methods:
(A) Aerially.
(B) Air blast or air-propelled applications.
(C) As a fumigant, smoke, mist, or fog.
(D) As a spray using nozzles or nozzle configurations which produce a droplet size of smaller than medium, in accordance with the meaning given to “medium” in ANSI/ASAE S572, ANSI/ASAE S572.1, ANSI/ASAE S572.2, or ANSI/ASAE S572.3 (all incorporated by reference, see paragraph (c) of this section).
(ii) The application exclusion zone is the area that extends 25 feet horizontally from the point(s) of pesticide discharge from the application equipment in all directions during application when the pesticide is sprayed from a height of greater than 12 inches from the soil surface or planting medium using nozzles or nozzle configurations which produce a droplet size of medium or larger in accordance with the meaning given to “medium” in ANSI/ASAE S572, ANSI/ASAE S572.1, ANSI/ASAE S572.2, or ANSI/ASAE S572.3 (all incorporated by reference, see paragraph (c) of this section), and not as in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.
(iii) There is no application exclusion zone when the pesticide is applied in a manner other than those covered in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(2) During any outdoor production pesticide application, the agricultural employer must not allow or direct any worker or other person to enter or to remain in the treated area or an application exclusion zone that is within the boundaries of the establishment until the application is complete, except for:
(i) Appropriately trained and equipped handlers involved in the application, and
(ii) Owners of the agricultural establishment and their immediate family members who remain inside closed buildings, housing, or shelters under the conditions specified in § 170.601(a)(1)(vi).
(3) After the application is complete, the area subject to the labeling-specified restricted-entry interval and the post-application entry restrictions specified in § 170.407 is the treated area.
(b)
Enclosed space production pesticide applications.
(1) During any enclosed space production pesticide application described in column A of table 1 to paragraph (b) of this section, the agricultural employer must not allow or direct any worker or other person, other than an appropriately trained and equipped handler involved in the application, to enter or to remain in the area specified in column B of table 1 to paragraph (b) of this section during the application and until the time specified in column C of table 1 to paragraph (b) of this section has expired.
(2) After the time specified in column C of table 1 to paragraph (b) of this section has expired, the area subject to the labeling-specified restricted-entry interval and the post-application entry restrictions specified in § 170.407 is the area specified in column D of table 1 to paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) When column C of table 1 to paragraph (b) of this section specifies that ventilation criteria must be met, ventilation must continue until the air concentration is measured to be equal to or less than the inhalation exposure level required by the labeling. If no inhalation exposure level is listed on the labeling, ventilation must continue until after one of the following conditions is met:
(i) Ten air exchanges are completed.
(ii) Two hours of ventilation using fans or other mechanical ventilating systems.
(iii) Four hours of ventilation using vents, windows, or other passive ventilation.
(iv) Eleven hours with no ventilation followed by one hour of mechanical ventilation.
(v) Eleven hours with no ventilation followed by two hours of passive ventilation.
(vi) Twenty-four hours with no ventilation.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
b
)—Entry Restrictions During Enclosed Space Production Pesticide Applications
A. When a pesticide is applied:
B. Workers and other persons, other than appropriately trained and equipped handlers, are prohibited in:
C. Until:
D. After the expiration of time specified in column C, the area subject to the restricted-entry interval is:
1. As a fumigant
Entire enclosed space plus any adjacent structure or area that cannot be sealed off from the treated area
The ventilation criteria of paragraph (b)(3) of this section are met
No post-application entry restrictions required by § 170.407 after criteria in column C are met.
2. As a Smoke; Mist; Fog; or Spray using a spray quality (droplet spectrum) of smaller than medium, in accordance with the meaning given to “medium” by the American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers in ANSI/ASAE S572, ANSI/ASAE S572.1, ANSI/ASAE S572.2, or ANSI/ASAE S572.3 (all incorporated by reference, see § paragraph (c) of this section)
Entire enclosed space
The ventilation criteria of paragraph (b)(3) of this section are met
Entire enclosed space.
3. Not as in entry 1 or 2 of this table, and for which a respiratory protection device is required for application by the pesticide product labeling
Entire enclosed space
The ventilation criteria of paragraph (b)(3) of this section are met
Treated area.
4. Not as in entry 1, 2, or 3 of this table, and From a height of greater than 12 inches from the planting medium; or As a spray using a spray quality (droplet spectrum) of medium or larger in accordance with the meaning given to “medium” by the American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers in ANSI/ASAE S572, ANSI/ASAE S572.1, ANSI/ASAE S572.2, or ANSI/ASAE S572.3 (all incorporated by reference, see § 170.405(c))
Treated area plus 25 feet in all directions of the treated area, but not outside the enclosed space
Application is complete
Treated area.
5. Otherwise
Treated area
Application is complete
Treated area.
(c)
Incorporation by reference.
The material listed in this paragraph (c) is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact EPA at: OPP Docket, Environmental Protection Agency Docket Center (EPA/DC), West William Jefferson Clinton Bldg., Rm. 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC. The EPA/DC Public Reading Room hours of operation are 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays. The telephone number of the EPA/DC Public Reading room and the OPP Docket is (202) 566-1744. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
The material may be obtained from the American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers, 2950 Niles Road, St. Joseph, MI 49085, (269) 429-0300,
https://www.asabe.org.
(1) ANSI/ASAE S572 FEB2004, Spray Nozzle Classification by Droplet Spectra, reaffirmed February 2004 (ANSI/ASAE S572).
(2) ANSI/ASAE S572.1 MAR2009 (R2017), Spray Nozzle Classification by Droplet Spectra, reaffirmed December 2017 (ANSI/ASAE S572.1).
(3) ANSI/ASAE S572.2 JUL2018, Spray Nozzle Classification by Droplet Spectra, ANSI approved July 2018 (ANSI/ASAE S572.2).
(4) ANSI/ASAE S572.3, Spray Nozzle Classification by Droplet Spectra, ANSI approved February 2020 (ANSI/ASAE S572.3).
[80 FR 67562, Nov. 2, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 68781, Oct. 30, 2020; 89 FR 80786, Oct. 4, 2024]
§ 170.407
Worker entry restrictions after pesticide applications.
(a) After the application of any pesticide to an area of outdoor production, the agricultural employer must not allow or direct any worker to enter or to remain in the treated area before the restricted-entry interval specified on the pesticide product labeling has expired and all treated area warning signs have been removed or covered, except for early-entry activities permitted by § 170.603.
(b) After the application of any pesticide to an area of enclosed space production, the agricultural employer must not allow or direct any worker to enter or to remain in the areas specified in column D of the Table in § 170.405(b)(4), before the restricted-entry interval specified on the pesticide product labeling has expired and all treated area warning signs have been removed or covered, except for early-entry activities permitted by § 170.603.
(c) When two or more pesticides are applied to a treated area at the same time, the applicable restricted-entry interval is the longest of all applicable restricted-entry intervals.
§ 170.409
Oral and posted notification of worker entry restrictions.
(a)
General Requirement.
The agricultural employer must notify workers of all entry restrictions required by §§ 170.405 and 170.407 in accordance with this section.
(1
) Type of notification required
—(i)
Double notification.
If the pesticide product labeling has a statement requiring both the posting of treated areas and oral notification to workers, the agricultural employer must post signs in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section and must also provide oral notification of the application to workers in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(ii)
Outdoor production areas subject to restricted-entry intervals greater than 48 hours.
If a pesticide with product labeling that requires a restricted-entry interval greater than 48 hours is applied to an outdoor production area, the agricultural employer must notify workers of the application by posting warning signs in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(iii)
Outdoor production areas subject to restricted-entry intervals equal to or less than 48 hours.
If a pesticide with product labeling that requires a restricted-entry interval equal to or less than 48 hours is applied to an outdoor production area, the agricultural employer must notify workers of the application either by posting warning signs in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section or by providing workers with an oral warning in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(iv)
Enclosed space production areas subject to restricted-entry intervals greater than four hours.
If a pesticide with product labeling that requires a restricted-entry interval greater than four hours is applied to an enclosed space production area, the agricultural employer must notify workers of the application by posting warning signs in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(v)
Enclosed space production areas subject to restricted-entry intervals equal to or less than four hours.
If a pesticide with product labeling that requires a restricted-entry interval equal to or less than four hours is applied to an enclosed space production area, the agricultural employer must notify workers of the application either by posting warning signs in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section or by providing workers with an oral warning in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Exceptions.
Notification does not need to be given to a worker if the agricultural employer can ensure that one of the following is met:
(i) From the start of the application in an enclosed space production area until the end of any restricted-entry interval, the worker will not enter any part of the entire enclosed structure or space.
(ii) From the start of the application to an outdoor production area until the end of any restricted-entry interval, the worker will not enter, work in, remain in, or pass on foot through the treated area or any area within
1/4
mile of the treated area on the agricultural establishment.
(iii) The worker was involved in the application of the pesticide as a handler, and is aware of all information required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(b)
Requirements for posted warning signs.
If notification by posted warning signs is required pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the agricultural employer must, unless otherwise prescribed by the label, ensure that all warning signs meet the requirements of this paragraph. When several contiguous areas are to be treated with pesticides on a rotating or sequential basis, the entire area may be posted. Worker entry is prohibited for the entire area while the signs are posted, except for entry permitted by § 170.603 of this part.
(1)
General.
The warning signs must meet all of the following requirements:
(i) Be one of the three sizes specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section and comply with the posting placement and spacing requirements applicable to that sign size.
(ii) Be posted prior to but no earlier than 24 hours before the scheduled application of the pesticide.
(iii) Remain posted throughout the application and any restricted-entry interval.
(iv) Be removed or covered within three days after the end of the application or any restricted-entry interval, whichever is later, except that signs may remain posted after the restricted-entry interval has expired as long as all of the following conditions are met:
(A) The agricultural employer instructs any workers on the establishment that may come within
1/4
mile of the treated area not to enter that treated area while the signs are posted.
(B) The agricultural employer ensures that workers do not enter the treated area while the signs remain posted, other than entry permitted by § 170.603 of this part.
(v) Remain visible and legible during the time they are required to be posted.
(2)
Content.
(i) The warning sign must have a white background. The words “DANGER” and “PELIGRO,” plus “PESTICIDES” and “PESTICIDAS,” must be at the top of the sign, and the words “KEEP OUT” and “NO ENTRE” must be at the bottom of the sign. Letters for all words must be clearly legible. A circle containing an upraised hand on the left and a stern face on the right must be near the center of the sign. The inside of the circle must be red, except that the hand and a large portion of the face must be in white. The length of the hand must be at least twice the height of the smallest letters. The length of the face must be only slightly smaller than the hand. Additional information such as the name of the pesticide and the date of application may appear on the warning sign if it does not detract from the size and appearance of the sign or change the meaning of the required information. An example of a warning sign meeting these requirements, other than the size and color requirements, follows:
ER02NO15.000
(ii) The agricultural employer may replace the Spanish language portion of the warning sign with equivalent terms in an alternative non-English language if that alternative language is the language read by the largest group of workers at that agricultural establishment who do not read English. The alternative language sign must be in the same format as the original sign and conform to all other requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.
(3)
Size and posting.
(i) The standard sign must be at least 14 inches by 16 inches with letters at least one inch in height.
(ii) When posting an outdoor production area using the standard sign, the signs must be visible from all reasonably expected points of worker entry to the treated area, including at least each access road, each border with any worker housing area within 100 feet of the treated area and each footpath and other walking route that enters the treated area. Where there are no reasonably expected points of worker entry, signs must be posted in the corners of the treated area or in any other location affording maximum visibility.
(iii) When posting an enclosed space production area using the standard sign and the entire structure or space is subject to the labeling-specified restricted-entry interval and the post-application entry restrictions specified in § 170.407, the signs must be posted so they are visible from all reasonably expected points of worker entry to the structure or space. When posting treated areas in enclosed space production using the standard sign and the treated area only comprises a subsection of the structure or space, the signs must be posted so they are visible from all reasonably expected points of worker entry to the treated area including each aisle or other walking route that enters the treated area. Where there are no reasonably expected points of worker entry to the treated area, signs must be posted in the corners of the treated area or in any other location affording maximum visibility.
(iv) If a smaller warning sign is used with “DANGER” and “PELIGRO” in letters at least 7/8 inch in height and
the remaining letters at least 1/2 inch in height and a red circle at least three inches in diameter containing an upraised hand and a stern face, the signs must be posted no farther than 50 feet apart around the perimeter of the treated area in addition to the locations specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii) or (b)(3)(iii) of this section.
(v) If a smaller sign is used with “DANGER” and “PELIGRO” in letters at least 7/16 inch in height and the remaining letters at least 1/4 inch in height and a red circle at least one and a half inches in diameter containing an upraised hand and a stern face, the signs must be posted no farther than 25 feet apart around the perimeter of the treated area in addition to the locations specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii) or (b)(3)(iii) of this section.
(vi) A sign with “DANGER” and “PELIGRO” in letters less than 7/16 inch in height or with any words in letters less than 1/4 inch in height or a red circle smaller than one and a half inches in diameter containing an upraised hand and a stern face will not satisfy the requirements of the rule.
(c)
Oral warnings
—
Requirement.
If oral notification is required pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the agricultural employer must provide oral warnings to workers in a manner that the workers can understand. If a worker will be on the establishment when an application begins, the warning must be given before the application begins. If a worker arrives on the establishment while an application is taking place or a restricted-entry interval for a pesticide application is in effect, the warning must be given at the beginning of the worker's work period. The warning must include all of the following:
(1) The location(s) and description of any treated area(s) subject to the entry restrictions during and after application specified in §§ 170.405 and 170.407.
(2) The dates and times during which entry is restricted in any treated area(s) subject to the entry restrictions during and after application specified in §§ 170.405 and 170.407.
(3) Instructions not to enter the treated area or an application exclusion zone during application, and that entry to the treated area is not allowed until the restricted-entry interval has expired and all treated area warning signs have been removed or covered, except for entry permitted by § 170.603 of this part.
§ 170.411
Decontamination supplies for workers.
(a)
Requirement.
The agricultural employer must provide decontamination supplies for routine washing and emergency decontamination in accordance with this section for any worker on an agricultural establishment who is performing an activity in an area where a pesticide was applied and who contacts anything that has been treated with the pesticide, including, but not limited to, soil, water, and plants.
(b)
Materials and quantities.
The decontamination supplies required in paragraph (a) of this section must include at least 1 gallon of water per worker at the beginning of each worker's work period for routine washing and emergency decontamination, soap, and single-use towels. The supplies must meet all of the following requirements:
(1)
Water.
At all times when this part requires agricultural employers to make water available to workers, the agricultural employer must ensure that it is of a quality and temperature that will not cause illness or injury when it contacts the skin or eyes or if it is swallowed. If a water source is used for mixing pesticides, it must not be used for decontamination, unless equipped with properly functioning valves or other mechanisms that prevent contamination of the water with pesticides, such as anti-backflow siphons, one-way or check valves, or an air gap sufficient to prevent contamination.
(2)
Soap and single-use towels.
The agricultural employer must provide soap and single-use towels for drying in quantities sufficient to meet the workers' reasonable needs. Hand sanitizing gels and liquids or wet towelettes do not meet the requirement for soap. Wet towelettes do not meet the requirement for single-use towels.
(c)
Timing.
(1) If any pesticide with a restricted-entry interval greater than four hours was applied, the decontamination supplies must be provided
from the time workers first enter the treated area until at least 30 days after the restricted-entry interval expires.
(2) If the only pesticides applied in the treated area are products with restricted-entry intervals of four hours or less, the decontamination supplies must be provided from the time workers first enter the treated area until at least seven days after the restricted-entry interval expires.
(d)
Location.
The decontamination supplies must be located together outside any treated area or area subject to a restricted-entry interval, and must be reasonably accessible to the workers. The decontamination supplies must not be more than
1/4
mile from where workers are working, except that where workers are working more than
1/4
mile from the nearest place of vehicular access or more than
1/4
mile from any non-treated area, the decontamination supplies may be at the nearest place of vehicular access outside any treated area or area subject to a restricted-entry interval.

# Subpart F—Requirements for Protection of Agricultural Pesticide Handlers

# Source:
80 FR 67567, Nov. 2, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 170.501
Training requirements for handlers.
(a)
General requirement.
Before any handler performs any handler activity involving a pesticide product, the handler employer must ensure that the handler has been trained in accordance with this section within the last 12 months, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Exceptions.
The following handlers need not be trained under this section:
(1) A handler who is currently certified as an applicator of restricted use pesticides under part 171 of this chapter.
(2) A handler who is certified or licensed as a crop advisor by a program acknowledged as appropriate in writing by EPA or the State or Tribal agency responsible for pesticide enforcement, provided that a requirement for such certification or licensing is pesticide safety training that includes all the topics set out in § 170.501(c)(2) or § 170.501(c)(3) as applicable depending on the date of training.
(c)
Training programs.
(1) Pesticide safety training must be presented to handlers either orally from written materials or audio-visually, at a location that is reasonably free from distraction and conducive to training. All training materials must be EPA-approved. The training must be presented in a manner that the handlers can understand, such as through a translator. The training must be conducted by a person who meets the handler trainer requirements of paragraph (c)(4) of this section, and who must be present during the entire training program and must respond to handlers' questions.
(2) The pesticide safety training materials must include, at a minimum, all of the following topics:
(i) Format and meaning of information contained on pesticide labels and in labeling, including safety information such as precautionary statements about human health hazards.
(ii) Hazards of pesticides resulting from toxicity and exposure, including acute and chronic effects, delayed effects, and sensitization.
(iii) Routes by which pesticides can enter the body.
(iv) Signs and symptoms of common types of pesticide poisoning.
(v) Emergency first aid for pesticide injuries or poisonings.
(vi) How to obtain emergency medical care.
(vii) Routine and emergency decontamination procedures.
(viii) Need for and appropriate use of personal protective equipment.
(ix) Prevention, recognition, and first aid treatment of heat-related illness.
(x) Safety requirements for handling, transporting, storing, and disposing of pesticides, including general procedures for spill cleanup.
(xi) Environmental concerns such as drift, runoff, and wildlife hazards.
(xii) Warnings about taking pesticides or pesticide containers home.
(xiii) Requirements of this subpart that must be followed by handler employers for the protection of handlers and other persons, including the prohibition against applying pesticides in a manner that will cause contact with
workers or other persons, the requirement to use personal protective equipment, the provisions for training and decontamination, and the protection against retaliatory acts.
(3) EPA intends to make available to the public training materials that may be used to conduct training conforming to the requirements of this section. Within 180 days after a notice of availability of such training materials appears in the
Federal Register,
but no earlier than January 1, 2018, training programs required under this section must include, at a minimum, all of the topics listed in § 170.501(c)(3)(i)-(xiv) instead of the points listed in § 170.501(c)(2)(i)-(xiii).
(i) All the topics required by § 170.401(c)(3).
(ii) Information on proper application and use of pesticides.
(iii) Handlers must follow the portions of the labeling applicable to the safe use of the pesticide.
(iv) Format and meaning of information contained on pesticide labels and in labeling applicable to the safe use of the pesticide.
(v) Need for and appropriate use and removal of all personal protective equipment.
(vi) How to recognize, prevent, and provide first aid treatment for heat-related illness.
(vii) Safety requirements for handling, transporting, storing, and disposing of pesticides, including general procedures for spill cleanup.
(viii) Environmental concerns, such as drift, runoff, and wildlife hazards.
(ix) Handlers must not apply pesticides in a manner that results in contact with workers or other persons.
(x) The responsibility of handler employers to provide handlers with information and protections designed to reduce work-related pesticide exposures and illnesses. This includes providing, cleaning, maintaining, storing, and ensuring proper use of all required personal protective equipment; providing decontamination supplies; and providing specific information about pesticide use and labeling information.
(xi) Handlers must suspend a pesticide application if workers or other persons are in the application exclusion zone and must not resume the application while workers or other persons remain in the application exclusion zone, except for appropriately trained and equipped handlers involved in the application, and the owner(s) of the agricultural establishment and members of their immediate families who remain inside closed buildings, housing, or shelters, provided that the handlers have been expressly instructed by the owner(s) of the agricultural establishment that only immediate family members remain inside those closed buildings, housing, or shelters and that the application should proceed despite the presence of the owner(s) or their immediate family members inside those closed buildings, housing, or shelters.
(xii) Handlers must be at least 18 years old.
(xiii) The responsibility of handler employers to ensure handlers have received respirator fit-testing, training and medical evaluation if they are required to wear a respirator by the product labeling.
(xiv) The responsibility of agricultural employers to post treated areas as required by this rule.
(4) The person who conducts the training must have one of the following qualifications:
(i) Be designated as a trainer of certified applicators or pesticide handlers by EPA or the State or Tribal agency responsible for pesticide enforcement.
(ii) Have completed an EPA-approved pesticide safety train-the-trainer program for trainers of handlers.
(iii) Be currently certified as an applicator of restricted use pesticides under part 171 of this chapter.
(d)
Recordkeeping.
(1) Handler employers must maintain records of training for handlers employed by their establishment for two years after the date of the training. The records must be maintained on the establishment and must include all of the following information:
(i) The trained handler's printed name and signature.
(ii) The date of the training.
(iii) Information identifying which EPA-approved training materials were used.
(iv) The trainer's name and documentation showing that the trainer
met the requirements of § 170.501(c)(4) at the time of training.
(v) The handler employer's name.
(2) The handler employer must, upon request by a handler trained on the establishment, provide to the handler a copy of the record of the training that contains the information required under § 170.501(d)(1).
[80 FR 67567, Nov. 2, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 68781, Oct. 30, 2020; 89 FR 80787, Oct. 4, 2024]
§ 170.503
Knowledge of labeling, application-specific, and establishment-specific information for handlers.
(a)
Knowledge of labeling and application-specific information.
(1) The handler employer must ensure that before any handler performs any handler activity involving a pesticide product, the handler either has read the portions of the labeling applicable to the safe use of the pesticide or has been informed in a manner the handler can understand of all labeling requirements and use directions applicable to the safe use of the pesticide.
(2) The handler employer must ensure that the handler has access to the applicable product labeling at all times during handler activities.
(3) The handler employer must ensure that the handler is aware of requirements for any entry restrictions, application exclusion zones and restricted-entry intervals as described in §§ 170.405 and 170.407 that may apply based on the handler's activity.
(b)
Knowledge of establishment-specific information.
Before any handler performs any handler activity on an agricultural establishment where within the last 30 days a pesticide product has been used, or a restricted-entry interval for such pesticide has been in effect, the handler employer must ensure that the handler has been informed, in a manner the handler can understand, all of the following establishment-specific information:
(1) The location of pesticide safety information required by § 170.311(a).
(2) The location of pesticide application and hazard information required by § 170.311(b).
(3) The location of decontamination supplies required by § 170.509.
§ 170.505
Requirements during applications to protect handlers, workers, and other persons.
(a)
Prohibition from contacting workers and other persons with pesticides during application.
The handler employer and the handler must ensure that no pesticide is applied so as to contact, directly or through drift, any worker or other person, other than an appropriately trained and equipped handler involved in the application.
(b)
Suspending applications.
(1) Any handler performing a pesticide application must immediately suspend the pesticide application if any worker or other person is in an application exclusion zone described in § 170.405(a)(1) or the area specified in column B of table 1 to paragraph (b) of § 170.405, except for:
(i) Appropriately trained and equipped handlers involved in the application, and
(ii) The owner(s) of the agricultural establishment and members of their immediate families who remain inside closed buildings, housing, or shelters, provided that the handlers have been expressly instructed by the owner(s) of the agricultural establishment that only immediate family members remain inside those closed buildings, housing, or shelters and that the application should proceed despite the presence of the owner(s) or their immediate family members inside those closed buildings, housing, or shelters.
(2) A handler must not resume a suspended pesticide application while any workers or other persons remain in an application exclusion zone described in § 170.405(a)(1) or the area specified in column B of table 1 to paragraph (b) of § 170.405, except for:
(i) Appropriately trained and equipped handlers involved in the application, and
(ii) The owner(s) of the agricultural establishment and members of their immediate families who remain inside closed buildings, housing, or shelters, provided that the handlers have been expressly instructed by the owner(s) of the agricultural establishment that only immediate family members remain inside those closed buildings,
housing, or shelters and that the application should proceed despite the presence of the owner(s) or their immediate family members inside those closed buildings, housing, or shelters.
(c)
Handlers using highly toxic pesticides.
The handler employer must ensure that any handler who is performing any handler activity with a pesticide product that has the skull-and-crossbones symbol on the front panel of the pesticide product label is monitored visually or by voice communication at least every two hours.
(d)
Fumigant applications in enclosed space production.
The handler employer must ensure all of the following:
(1) Any handler in an enclosed space production area during a fumigant application maintains continuous visual or voice contact with another handler stationed immediately outside of the enclosed space.
(2) The handler stationed outside the enclosed space has immediate access to and uses the personal protective equipment required by the fumigant labeling for applicators in the event that entry becomes necessary for rescue.
[80 FR 67567, Nov. 2, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 68781, Oct. 30, 2020; 89 FR 80787, Oct. 4, 2024]
§ 170.507
Personal protective equipment.
(a)
Handler responsibilities.
Any person who performs handler activities involving a pesticide product must use the clothing and personal protective equipment specified on the pesticide product labeling for use of the product, except as provided in § 170.607 of this part.
(b)
Employer responsibilities for providing personal protective equipment.
The handler employer must provide to the handler the personal protective equipment required by the pesticide product labeling in accordance with this section. The handler employer must ensure that the personal protective equipment is clean and in proper operating condition. For the purposes of this section, long-sleeved shirts, short-sleeved shirts, long pants, short pants, shoes, and socks are not considered personal protective equipment, although such work clothing must be worn if required by the pesticide product labeling.
(1) If the pesticide product labeling requires that “chemical-resistant” personal protective equipment be worn, it must be made of material that allows no measurable movement of the pesticide being used through the material during use.
(2) If the pesticide product labeling requires that “waterproof” personal protective equipment be worn, it must be made of material that allows no measurable movement of water or aqueous solutions through the material during use.
(3) If the pesticide product labeling requires that a “chemical-resistant suit” be worn, it must be a loose-fitting, one- or two-piece chemical-resistant garment that covers, at a minimum, the entire body except head, hands, and feet.
(4) If the pesticide product labeling requires that “coveralls” be worn, they must be loose-fitting, one- or two-piece garments that cover, at a minimum, the entire body except head, hands, and feet.
(5) Gloves must be the type specified on the pesticide product labeling.
(i) Gloves made of leather, cotton, or other absorbent materials may not be worn while performing handler activities unless gloves made of these materials are listed as acceptable for such use on the pesticide product labeling.
(ii) Separable glove liners may be worn beneath chemical-resistant gloves, unless the pesticide product labeling specifically prohibits their use. Separable glove liners are defined as separate glove-like hand coverings, made of lightweight material, with or without fingers. Work gloves made from lightweight cotton or poly-type material are considered to be glove liners if worn beneath chemical-resistant gloves. Separable glove liners may not extend outside the chemical-resistant gloves under which they are worn. Chemical-resistant gloves with non-separable absorbent lining materials are prohibited.
(iii) If used, separable glove liners must be discarded immediately after a total of no more than 10 hours of use or within 24 hours of when first put on, whichever comes first. The liners must be replaced immediately if directly
contacted by pesticide. Used glove liners must not be reused. Contaminated liners must be disposed of in accordance with any Federal, State, or local regulations.
(6) If the pesticide product labeling requires that “chemical-resistant footwear” be worn, one of the following types of footwear must be worn:
(i) Chemical-resistant shoes.
(ii) Chemical-resistant boots.
(iii) Chemical-resistant shoe coverings worn over shoes or boots.
(7) If the pesticide product labeling requires that “protective eyewear” be worn, one of the following types of eyewear must be worn:
(i) Goggles.
(ii) Face shield.
(iii) Safety glasses with front, brow, and temple protection.
(iv) Full-face respirator.
(8) If the pesticide product labeling requires that a “chemical-resistant apron” be worn, a chemical-resistant apron that covers the front of the body from mid-chest to the knees must be worn.
(9) If the pesticide product labeling requires that “chemical-resistant headgear” be worn, it must be either a chemical-resistant hood or a chemical-resistant hat with a wide brim.
(10) The respirator specified by the pesticide product labeling must be used. Whenever a respirator is required by the pesticide product labeling, the handler employer must ensure that the requirements of paragraphs (b)(10)(i) through (iii) of this section are met before the handler performs any handler activity where the respirator is required to be worn. The handler employer must maintain for two years, on the establishment, records documenting the completion of the requirements of paragraphs (b)(10)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Handler employers must provide handlers with fit testing using the respirator specified on the pesticide product labeling in a manner that conforms to the provisions of 29 CFR 1910.134.
(ii) Handler employers must provide handlers with training in the use of the respirator specified on the pesticide product labeling in a manner that conforms to the provisions of 29 CFR 1910.134(k)(1)(i) through(vi).
(iii) Handler employers must provide handlers with a medical evaluation by a physician or other licensed health care professional that conforms to the provisions of 29 CFR 1910.134 to ensure the handler's physical ability to safely wear the respirator specified on the pesticide product labeling.
(c)
Use of personal protective equipment.
(1) The handler employer must ensure that personal protective equipment is used correctly for its intended purpose and is used according to the manufacturer's instructions.
(2) The handler employer must ensure that, before each day of use, all personal protective equipment is inspected for leaks, holes, tears, or worn places, and any damaged equipment is repaired or discarded.
(d)
Cleaning and maintenance.
(1) The handler employer must ensure that all personal protective equipment is cleaned according to the manufacturer's instructions or pesticide product labeling instructions before each day of reuse. In the absence of any such instructions, it must be washed thoroughly in detergent and hot water.
(2) If any personal protective equipment cannot or will not be cleaned properly, the handler employer must ensure the contaminated personal protective equipment is made unusable as apparel or is made unavailable for further use by employees or third parties. The contaminated personal protective equipment must be disposed of in accordance with any applicable laws or regulations. Coveralls or other absorbent materials that have been drenched or heavily contaminated with a pesticide that has the signal word “DANGER” or “WARNING” on the label must not be reused and must be disposed of as specified in this paragraph. Handler employers must ensure that any person who handles contaminated personal protective equipment described in this paragraph wears the gloves specified on the pesticide product labeling for mixing and loading the product(s) comprising the contaminant(s) on the equipment. If two or more pesticides are included in the contaminants, the gloves worn must meet the requirements for mixing and loading all of the pesticide products.
(3) The handler employer must ensure that contaminated personal protective equipment is kept separate from non-contaminated personal protective equipment, other clothing or laundry and washed separately from any other clothing or laundry.
(4) The handler employer must ensure that all washed personal protective equipment is dried thoroughly before being stored or reused.
(5) The handler employer must ensure that all clean personal protective equipment is stored separately from personal clothing and apart from pesticide-contaminated areas.
(6) The handler employer must ensure that when filtering facepiece respirators are used, they are replaced when one of the following conditions is met:
(i) When breathing resistance becomes excessive.
(ii) When the filter element has physical damage or tears.
(iii) According to manufacturer's recommendations or pesticide product labeling, whichever is more frequent.
(iv) In the absence of any other instructions or indications of service life, at the end of eight hours of cumulative use.
(7) The handler employer must ensure that when gas- or vapor-removing respirators are used, the gas- or vapor-removing canisters or cartridges are replaced before further respirator use when one of the following conditions is met:
(i) At the first indication of odor, taste, or irritation.
(ii) When the maximum use time is reached as determined by a change schedule conforming to the provisions of 29 CFR 1910.134(d)(3)(iii)(B)(2).
(iii) When breathing resistance becomes excessive.
(iv) When required according to manufacturer's recommendations or pesticide product labeling instructions, whichever is more frequent.
(v) In the absence of any other instructions or indications of service life, at the end of eight hours of cumulative use.
(8) The handler employer must inform any person who cleans or launders personal protective equipment of all the following:
(i) That such equipment may be contaminated with pesticides and there are potentially harmful effects from exposure to pesticides.
(ii) The correct way(s) to clean personal protective equipment and how to protect themselves when handling such equipment.
(iii) Proper decontamination procedures that should be followed after handling contaminated personal protective equipment.
(9) The handler employer must ensure that handlers have a place(s) away from pesticide storage and pesticide use areas where they may do all of the following:
(i) Store personal clothing not worn during handling activities.
(ii) Put on personal protective equipment at the start of any exposure period.
(iii) Remove personal protective equipment at the end of any exposure period.
(10) The handler employer must not allow or direct any handler to wear home or to take home employer-provided personal protective equipment contaminated with pesticides.
(e)
Heat-related illness.
Where a pesticide's labeling requires the use of personal protective equipment for a handler activity, the handler employer must take appropriate measures to prevent heat-related illness.
§ 170.509
Decontamination and eye flushing supplies for handlers.
(a)
Requirement.
The handler employer must provide decontamination and eye flushing supplies in accordance with this section for any handler that is performing any handler activity or removing personal protective equipment at the place for changing required by § 170.507(d)(9).
(b)
General conditions.
The decontamination supplies required in paragraph (a) of this section must include: at least three gallons of water per handler at the beginning of each handler's work period for routine washing and potential emergency decontamination; soap; single-use towels; and clean clothing for use in an emergency. The decontamination and eye flushing supplies required in paragraph (a) of this
section must meet all of the following requirements:
(1)
Water.
At all times when this section requires handler employers to make water available to handlers for routine washing, emergency decontamination or eye flushing, the handler employer must ensure that it is of a quality and temperature that will not cause illness or injury when it contacts the skin or eyes or if it is swallowed. If a water source is used for mixing pesticides, it must not be used for decontamination or eye flushing supplies, unless equipped with properly functioning valves or other mechanisms that prevent contamination of the water with pesticides, such as anti-backflow siphons, one-way or check valves, or an air gap sufficient to prevent contamination.
(2)
Soap and single-use towels.
The handler employer must provide soap and single-use towels for drying in quantities sufficient to meet the handlers' needs. Hand sanitizing gels and liquids or wet towelettes do not meet the requirement for soap. Wet towelettes do not meet the requirement for single-use towels.
(3)
Clean change of clothing.
The handler employer must provide one clean change of clothing, such as coveralls, for use in an emergency.
(c)
Location.
The decontamination supplies must be located together outside any treated area or area subject to a restricted-entry interval, and must be reasonably accessible to each handler during the handler activity. The decontamination supplies must not be more than 1/4 mile from the handler, except that where the handler activity is more than 1/4 mile from the nearest place of vehicular access or more than 1/4 mile from any non-treated area, the decontamination supplies may be at the nearest place of vehicular access outside any treated area or area subject to a restricted-entry interval.
(1)
Mixing sites.
Decontamination supplies must be provided at any mixing site.
(2)
Exception for pilots.
Decontamination supplies for a pilot who is applying pesticides aerially must be in the aircraft or at the aircraft loading site.
(3)
Exception for treated areas.
The decontamination supplies must be outside any treated area or area subject to a restricted-entry interval, unless the soap, single-use towels, water and clean change of clothing are protected from pesticide contamination in closed containers.
(d)
Emergency eye-flushing.
(1) Whenever a handler is mixing or loading a pesticide product whose labeling requires protective eyewear for handlers, or is mixing or loading any pesticide using a closed system operating under pressure, the handler employer must provide at each mixing/loading site immediately available to the handler, at least one system that is capable of delivering gently running water at a rate of least 0.4 gallons per minute for at least 15 minutes, or at least six gallons of water in containers suitable for providing a gentle eye-flush for about 15 minutes.
(2) Whenever a handler is applying a pesticide product whose labeling requires protective eyewear for handlers, the handler employer must provide at least one pint of water per handler in portable containers that are immediately available to each handler.

# Subpart G—Exemptions, Exceptions and Equivalency

# Source:
80 FR 67570, Nov. 2, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 170.601
Exemptions.
(a)
Exemption for owners of agricultural establishments and their immediate families.
(1) On any agricultural establishment where a majority of the establishment is owned by one or more members of the same immediate family, the owner(s) of the establishment (and, where specified in the following, certain handlers) are not required to provide the protections of the following provisions to themselves or members of their immediate family when they are performing handling activities or tasks related to the production of agricultural plants that would otherwise be covered by this part on their own agricultural establishment.
(i) Section 170.309(c).
(ii) Section 170.309(f) through (j).
(iii) Section 170.311.
(iv) Section 170.401.
(v) Section 170.403.
(vi) Sections 170.405(a)(2) and 170.505(b), but only in regard to owner(s) of the establishment and their immediate family members who remain inside closed buildings, housing, or shelters. This exception also applies to handlers (regardless of whether they are immediate family members) who have been expressly instructed by the owner(s) of the establishment that:
(A) Only the owner(s) or their immediate family members remain inside the closed building, housing, or shelter, and
(B) The application should proceed despite the presence of the owner(s) or their immediate family members remaining inside the closed buildings, housing, or shelters.
(vii) Section 170.409.
(viii) Sections 170.411 and 170.509.
(ix) Section 170.501.
(x) Section 170.503.
(xi) Section 170.505(c) and (d).
(xii) Section 170.507(c) through (e).
(xiii) Section 170.605(a) through (c), and (e) through (j).
(2) The owners of agricultural establishments must provide all of the applicable protections required by this part for any employees or other persons on the establishment that are not members of their immediate family.
(b) Exemption for certified crop advisors.
Certified crop advisors may make their own determination for the appropriate personal protective equipment for entry into a treated area during a restricted-entry interval and substitute their self-determined set of personal protective equipment for the labeling-required personal protective equipment, and the requirements of §§ 170.309(e), 170.309(f), 170.313(k), 170.503(a), 170.507 and 170.509 of this part do not apply to certified crop advisors provided the application is complete and all of the following conditions are met:
(1) The crop advisor is certified or licensed as a crop advisor by a program acknowledged as appropriate in writing by EPA or a State or Tribal agency responsible for pesticide enforcement.
(2) The certification or licensing program requires pesticide safety training that includes all the information in § 170.501(c)(2) or § 170.501(c)(3) as applicable depending on the date of training.
(3) The crop advisor who enters a treated area during a restricted-entry interval only performs crop advising tasks while in the treated area.
[80 FR 67570, Nov. 2, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 68782, Oct. 30, 2020; 89 FR 80787, Oct. 4, 2024]
§ 170.603
Exceptions for entry by workers during restricted-entry intervals.
An agricultural employer may direct workers to enter treated areas where a restricted-entry interval is in effect to perform certain activities as provided in this section, provided that the agricultural employer ensures all of the applicable conditions of this section and § 170.605 of this part are met.
(a)
Exception for activities with no contact.
A worker may enter a treated area during a restricted-entry interval if the agricultural employer ensures that all of the following conditions are met:
(1) The worker will have no contact with anything that has been treated with the pesticide to which the restricted-entry interval applies, including, but not limited to, soil, water, air, or surfaces of plants. This exception does not allow workers to perform any activities that involve contact with treated surfaces even if workers are wearing personal protective equipment.
(2) No such entry is allowed until any inhalation exposure level listed in the pesticide product labeling has been reached or any ventilation criteria required by § 170.405(b)(3) or the pesticide product labeling have been met.
(b)
Exception for short-term activities.
A worker may enter a treated area during a restricted-entry interval for short-term activities, if the agricultural employer ensures that all of the following requirements are met:
(1) No hand labor activity is performed.
(2) The time in treated areas where a restricted-entry interval is in effect does not exceed one hour in any 24-hour period for any worker.
(3) No such entry is allowed during the first 4 hours after the application ends.
(4) No such entry is allowed until any inhalation exposure level listed in the pesticide product labeling has been
reached or any ventilation criteria required by § 170.405(b)(3) or the pesticide product labeling have been met.
(c)
Exception for an agricultural emergency.
(1) An agricultural emergency means a sudden occurrence or set of circumstances that the agricultural employer could not have anticipated and over which the agricultural employer has no control, that requires entry into a treated area during a restricted-entry interval, and when no alternative practices would prevent or mitigate a substantial economic loss. A substantial economic loss means a loss in profitability greater than that which would be expected based on the experience and fluctuations of crop yields in previous years. Only losses caused by the agricultural emergency specific to the affected site and geographic area are considered. Losses resulting from mismanagement cannot be included when determining whether a loss is substantial.
(2) A worker may enter a treated area where a restricted-entry interval is in effect in an agricultural emergency to perform tasks necessary to mitigate the effects of the agricultural emergency, including hand labor tasks, if the agricultural employer ensures that all the following criteria are met:
(i) The State department of agriculture, or the State or Tribal agency responsible for pesticide enforcement declares an agricultural emergency that applies to the treated area, or agricultural employer has determined that the circumstances within the treated area are the same as circumstances the State department of agriculture, or the State or Tribal agency responsible for pesticide enforcement has previously determined would constitute an agricultural emergency.
(ii) The agricultural employer determines that the agricultural establishment is subject to the circumstances that result in an agricultural emergency meeting the criteria of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(iii) If the labeling of any pesticide product applied to the treated area requires workers to be notified of the location of treated areas by both posting and oral notification, then the agricultural employer must ensure that no individual worker spends more than four hours out of any 24-hour period in treated areas where such a restricted-entry interval is in effect.
(iv) No such entry is allowed during the first 4 hours after the application ends.
(v) No such entry is allowed until any inhalation exposure level listed in the pesticide product labeling has been reached or any ventilation criteria required by § 170.405(b)(3) or the pesticide product labeling have been met.
(d)
Exceptions for limited contact and irrigation activities.
A worker may enter a treated area during a restricted-entry interval for limited contact or irrigation activities, if the agricultural employer ensures that all of the following requirements are met:
(1) No hand labor activity is performed.
(2) No worker is allowed in the treated area for more than eight hours in a 24-hour period.
(3) No such entry is allowed during the first 4 hours after the application ends.
(4) No such entry is allowed until any inhalation exposure level listed in the pesticide product labeling has been reached or any ventilation criteria required by § 170.405(b)(3) or the pesticide product labeling have been met.
(5) The task is one that, if not performed before the restricted-entry interval expires, would cause substantial economic loss, and there are no alternative tasks that would prevent substantial loss.
(6) With the exception of irrigation tasks, the need for the task could not have been foreseen.
(7) The worker has no contact with pesticide-treated surfaces other than minimal contact with feet, lower legs, hands, and forearms.
(8) The labeling of the pesticide product that was applied does not require that workers be notified of the location of treated areas by both posting and oral notification.
§ 170.605
Agricultural employer responsibilities to protect workers entering treated areas during a restricted-entry interval.
If an agricultural employer directs a worker to perform activities in a treated area where a restricted-entry interval is in effect, all of the following requirements must be met:
(a) The agricultural employer must ensure that the worker is at least 18 years old.
(b) Prior to early entry, the agricultural employer must provide to each early-entry worker the information described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of this section. The information must be provided orally in a manner that the worker can understand.
(1) Location of early-entry area where work activities are to be performed.
(2) Pesticide(s) applied.
(3) Dates and times that the restricted-entry interval begins and ends.
(4) Which exception in § 170.603 is the basis for the early entry, and a description of tasks that may be performed under the exception.
(5) Whether contact with treated surfaces is permitted under the exception.
(6) Amount of time the worker is allowed to remain in the treated area.
(7) Personal protective equipment required by the pesticide product labeling for early entry.
(8) Location of the pesticide safety information required by § 170.311(a) and the location of the decontamination supplies required by § 170.605(h).
(c) Prior to early entry, the agricultural employer must ensure that each worker either has read the applicable pesticide product labeling or has been informed, in a manner that the worker can understand, of all labeling requirements and statements related to human hazards or precautions, first aid, and user safety.
(d) The agricultural employer must ensure that each worker who enters a treated area during a restricted-entry interval is provided the personal protective equipment specified in the pesticide product labeling for early entry. The agricultural employer must ensure that the worker uses the personal protective equipment as intended according to manufacturer's instructions and follows any other applicable requirements on the pesticide product labeling. Personal protective equipment must conform to the standards in § 170.507(b)(1) through (9).
(e) The agricultural employer must maintain the personal protective equipment in accordance with § 170.507(c) and (d).
(f) The agricultural employer must ensure that no worker is allowed or directed to wear personal protective equipment without implementing measures sufficient to prevent heat-related illness and that each worker is instructed in the prevention, recognition, and first aid treatment of heat-related illness.
(g) The agricultural employer must instruct each worker on the proper use and removal of the personal protective equipment, and as appropriate, on its cleaning, maintenance and disposal. The agricultural employer must not allow or direct any worker to wear home or to take home employer-provided personal protective equipment contaminated with pesticides.
(h) During any early-entry activity, the agricultural employer must provide decontamination supplies in accordance with § 170.509, except the decontamination supplies must be outside any area being treated with pesticides or subject to a restricted-entry interval, unless the decontamination supplies would otherwise not be reasonably accessible to workers performing early-entry tasks.
(i) If the pesticide product labeling of the product applied requires protective eyewear, the agricultural employer must provide at least one pint of water per worker in portable containers for eyeflushing that is immediately available to each worker who is performing early-entry activities.
(j) At the end of any early-entry activities the agricultural employer must provide, at the site where the workers remove personal protective equipment, soap, single-use towels and at least three gallons of water per worker so that the workers may wash thoroughly.
§ 170.607
Exceptions to personal protective equipment requirements specified on pesticide product labeling.
(a)
Body protection.
(1) A chemical-resistant suit may be substituted for coveralls. If a chemical-resistant suit is substituted for coveralls, any labeling requirement for an additional layer of clothing beneath the coveralls is waived.
(2) A chemical-resistant suit may be substituted for coveralls and a chemical-resistant apron.
(b)
Boots.
If chemical-resistant footwear with sufficient durability and a tread appropriate for wear in rough terrain is not obtainable, then leather boots may be worn in such terrain.
(c)
Gloves.
If chemical-resistant gloves with sufficient durability and suppleness are not obtainable, then during activities with plants with sharp thorns, leather gloves may be worn over chemical-resistant glove liners. However, once leather gloves are worn for this use, thereafter they must be worn only with chemical-resistant liners and they must not be worn for any other use.
(d)
Closed systems.
(1) When pesticides are being mixed or loaded using a closed system that meets all of the requirements in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, and the handler employer meets the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the following exceptions to labeling-specified personal protective equipment are permitted:
(i) Handlers using a closed system to mix or load pesticides with a signal word of “DANGER” or “WARNING” may substitute a long-sleeved shirt, long pants, shoes and socks, chemical-resistant apron, protective eyewear, and any protective gloves specified on the labeling for handlers for the labeling-specified personal protective equipment.
(ii) Handlers using a closed system to mix or load pesticides other than those specified in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section may substitute protective eyewear, long-sleeved shirt, long pants, and shoes and socks for the labeling-specified personal protective equipment.
(2) The exceptions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section apply only in the following situations:
(i) Where the closed system removes the pesticide from its original container and transfers the pesticide product through connecting hoses, pipes and couplings that are sufficiently tight to prevent exposure of handlers to the pesticide product, except for the negligible escape associated with normal operation of the system.
(ii) When loading intact, sealed, water soluble packaging into a mixing tank or system. If the integrity of a water soluble packaging is compromised (for example, if the packaging is dissolved, broken, punctured, torn, or in any way allows its contents to escape), it is no longer a closed system and the labeling-specified personal protective equipment must be worn.
(3) The exceptions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section apply only where the handler employer has satisfied the requirements of § 170.313 and all of the following conditions:
(i) Each closed system must have written operating instructions that are clearly legible and include: Operating procedures for use, including the safe removal of a probe; maintenance, cleaning and repair; known restrictions or limitations relating to the system, such as incompatible pesticides, sizes (or types) of containers or closures that cannot be handled by the system; any limits on the ability to measure a pesticide; and special procedures or limitations regarding partially-filled containers.
(ii) The written operating instructions for the closed system must be available at the mixing or loading site and must be made available to any handlers who use the system.
(iii) Any handler operating the closed system must be trained in its use and operate the closed system in accordance with its written operating instructions.
(iv) The closed system must be cleaned and maintained as specified in the written operating instructions and as needed to make sure the system functions properly.
(v) All personal protective equipment specified in the pesticide product labeling is immediately available to the handler for use in an emergency.
(vi) Protective eyewear must be worn when using closed systems operating under pressure.
(e)
Enclosed cabs.
(1) If a handler applies a pesticide from inside a vehicle's enclosed cab, and if the conditions listed in paragraph (e)(2) of this section are met, exceptions to the personal protective equipment requirements specified on the product labeling for applicators are permitted as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(2) All of the personal protective equipment required by the pesticide product labeling for applicators must be immediately available and stored in a sealed container to prevent contamination. Handlers must wear the applicator personal protective equipment required by the pesticide product labeling if they exit the cab within a treated area during application or when a restricted-entry interval is in effect. Once personal protective equipment is worn in a treated area, it must be removed before reentering the cab to prevent contamination of the cab.
(3) Handlers may substitute a long-sleeved shirt, long pants, shoes and socks for the labeling-specified personal protective equipment for skin and eye protection. If a filtering facepiece respirator (NIOSH approval number prefix TC-84A) or dust/mist filtering respirator is required by the pesticide product labeling for applicators, then that respirator need not be worn inside the enclosed cab if the enclosed cab has a properly functioning air ventilation system which is used and maintained in accordance with the manufacture's written operating instructions. If any other type of respirator is required by the pesticide labeling for applicators, then that respirator must be worn.
(f)
Aerial applications
—(1)
Use of gloves.
The wearing of chemical-resistant gloves when entering or leaving an aircraft used to apply pesticides is optional, unless such gloves are required on the pesticide product labeling. If gloves are brought into the cockpit of an aircraft that has been used to apply pesticides, the gloves shall be kept in an enclosed container to prevent contamination of the inside of the cockpit.
(2)
Open cockpit.
Handlers applying pesticides from an open cockpit aircraft must use the personal protective equipment specified in the pesticide product labeling for use during application, except that chemical-resistant footwear need not be worn. A helmet may be substituted for chemical-resistant headgear. A helmet with a face shield lowered to cover the face may be substituted for protective eyewear.
(3)
Enclosed cockpit.
Persons occupying an enclosed cockpit may substitute a long-sleeved shirt, long pants, shoes, and socks for labeling-specified personal protective equipment.
(g)
Crop advisors.
(1) Provided the conditions of paragraphs (g)(2) through (g)(4) of this section are met, crop advisors and their employees entering treated areas to perform crop advising tasks while a restricted-entry interval is in effect may substitute either of the following sets of personal protective equipment for the personal protective equipment specified on the pesticide labeling for handler activities:
(i) The personal protective equipment specified on the pesticide product labeling for early entry.
(ii) Coveralls, shoes plus socks and chemical-resistant gloves made of any waterproof material, and eye protection if the pesticide product labeling applied requires protective eyewear for handlers.
(2) The application has been complete for at least four hours.
(3) No such entry is allowed until any inhalation exposure level listed in the pesticide product labeling has been reached or any ventilation criteria required by § 170.405(b)(3) or the pesticide product labeling have been met.
(4) The crop advisor or crop advisor employee who enters a treated area during a restricted-entry interval only performs crop advising tasks while in the treated area.
§ 170.609
Equivalency requests.
(a) States and Tribes that have promulgated worker protection regulations to protect agricultural workers and pesticide handlers from occupational pesticide exposure effective
prior to January 1, 2016, have the option of requesting authority to continue implementing any provision(s) of the State's or Tribe's existing regulations that provides equivalent or greater protection in lieu of implementing any similar provision(s) in this part.
(b) States or Tribes must submit requests for the authority to continue implementing State or Tribal regulation provision(s) in lieu of any similar provision(s) in this part by
June 29, 2016.
The request must be in the form of a letter from the State or Tribe to EPA that includes all of the following:
(1) Identification of the provision(s) of this part for which the State or Tribe is requesting regulatory equivalency.
(2) Appropriate documentation establishing that the pertinent State or Tribal worker protection provision(s) provides environmental and human health protection that meets or exceeds the protections provided by the identified provision(s) in this part.
(3) Identification of any additional modifications to existing State or Tribal regulations that would be necessary in order to provide environmental and human health protection that meets or exceeds the similar provisions of this part, and an estimated timetable for the State or Tribe to effect these changes.
(4) The expected economic impact of requiring compliance with the requirement(s) of this part in comparison with compliance with the State or Tribal requirement(s), and an explanation of why it is important that employers subject to the State or Tribal authority comply with the State or Tribal requirement(s) in lieu of similar provision(s) in this part.
(5) The signature of the designated representative of the State or Tribal agency responsible for pesticide enforcement.
(c) EPA's Office of Pesticide Programs will review the State's or Tribe's letter and supporting materials and determine whether the State or Tribal provision(s) provide environmental and human health protection that meets or exceeds the comparable provision(s) of this part.
(d) EPA's Office of Pesticide Programs will inform the State or Tribe of its determination through a letter. The letter will either:
(1) Authorize the State or Tribe to continue implementing its worker protection regulatory provision(s) in lieu of the comparable provision(s) of this part; or
(2) Deny the State or Tribe authorization to continue implementing its worker protection regulatory provision(s) in lieu of the comparable provision(s) of this part and detail any reasons for declining authorization.
(e)
Subsequent revisions.
Any State or Tribe that has received authorization from EPA through the process outlined in this section to continue implementing its State or Tribal worker protection regulatory provision(s) must inform EPA by letter within six months of any revision to the State or Tribal worker protection laws or regulations. The letter must contain the same information outlined in paragraph (b) of this section. The State or Tribe may continue implementing provisions of its worker protection regulations identified under paragraph (b) of this section unless and until EPA informs the State or Tribe through a letter that EPA has determined that the State's or Tribe's worker protection regulations no longer provide environmental and human health protection that meets or exceeds the comparable provision(s) of this part based on the revisions.
Pt. 171

# PART 171—CERTIFICATION OF PESTICIDE APPLICATORS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
171.1
Scope.
171.3
Definitions.
171.5
Effective date.

# Subpart B—Certification Requirements for Applicators of Restricted Use Pesticides
171.101
Commercial applicator certification categories.
171.103
Standards for certification of commercial applicators.
171.105
Standards for certification of private applicators.
171.107
Standards for recertification of certified applicators.

# Subpart C—Supervision of Noncertified Applicators
171.201
Requirements for direct supervision of noncertified applicators by certified applicators.

# Subpart D—Certification Plans
171.301
General.
171.303
Requirements for State certification plans.
171.305
Requirements for Federal agency certification plans.
171.307
Certification of applicators in Indian country.
171.309
Modification and withdrawal of approval of certification plans.
171.311
EPA-administered applicator certification programs.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 136-136y.

# Source:
39 FR 36449, Oct. 9, 1974, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 171.1
Scope.
(a) This part establishes Federal standards for the certification and recertification of applicators of restricted use pesticides, and requirements for pesticide applicator certification plans administered by State, Tribal, and Federal agencies. The standards address the requirements for certification and recertification of applicators using restricted use pesticides, requirements for certified applicators supervising the use of restricted use pesticides by noncertified applicators, and requirements for noncertified persons using restricted use pesticides under the direct supervision of a certified applicator.
(b) A person is a certified applicator for purposes of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), 7 U.S.C. 136
et seq.,
only if the person holds a certification issued pursuant to a plan approved in accordance with this part and currently valid in the pertinent jurisdiction. As provided in FIFRA section 12(a)(2)(F), it is unlawful for any person to make available for use or to use any pesticide classified for restricted use other than in accordance with the requirements of this part.
[82 FR 1028, Jan. 4, 2017]
§ 171.3
Definitions.
Terms used in this part have the same meanings they have in FIFRA and 40 CFR part 152. In addition, the following terms have the meaning specified in this section when used in this part:
Agricultural commodity
means any plant, fungus, or algae, or part thereof, or any animal or animal product, produced by a person (including, but not limited to, farmers, ranchers, vineyardists, plant propagators, Christmas tree growers, aquaculturists, floriculturists, orchardists, foresters, or other comparable persons) primarily for sale, consumption, propagation, or other use by man or animals.
Agency
means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), unless otherwise specified.
Application
and
applying
means the dispersal of a pesticide on, in, at, or directed toward a target site.
Applicator
means any individual using a restricted use pesticide. An applicator may be certified as a commercial or private applicator as defined in FIFRA or may be a noncertified applicator as defined in this part.
Calibration
means measurement of dispersal or output of application equipment and adjustment of such equipment to establish a specific rate of dispersal and, if applicable, droplet or particle size of a pesticide, and/or equalized dispersal pattern.
Certification
means a certifying authority's issuance, pursuant to this part, of authorization to a person to use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides.
Certifying authority
means the Agency, or a State, Tribal, or Federal agency that issues restricted use pesticide applicator certifications pursuant to a certification plan approved by the Agency under this part.
Compatibility
means the extent to which a pesticide can be combined with other chemicals without causing undesirable results.
Competency
means having the practical knowledge, skills, experience, and judgment necessary to perform functions associated with restricted use pesticide application without causing unreasonable adverse effects, where the
nature and degree of competency required relate directly to the nature of the activity and the degree of independent responsibility.
Dealership
means any establishment owned or operated by a restricted use pesticide retail dealer where restricted use pesticides are distributed or sold.
Fumigant
means a restricted use pesticide that bears labeling designating it as a fumigant.
Fumigation
means the use of a fumigant.
Immediate family
means familial relationships limited to the spouse, parents, stepparents, foster parents, father-in-law, mother-in-law, children, stepchildren, foster children, sons-in-law, daughters-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren, brothers, sisters, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, and first cousins. “First cousin” means the child of a parent's sibling,
i.e.,
the child of an aunt or uncle.
Indian country
means:
(1) All land within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States Government, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent, and, including rights-of-way running through the reservation.
(2) All dependent Indian communities within the borders of the United States whether within the original or subsequently acquired territory thereof, and whether within or without the limits of a State.
(3) All Indian allotments, the Indian titles to which have not been extinguished, including rights-of-way running through the same.
Indian Tribe
or
Tribe
means any Indian or Alaska Native Tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community included in the list of Tribes published by the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act.
Mishap
means an event that adversely affects man or the environment and that is related to the use or presence of a pesticide, whether the event was unexpected or intentional.
Nontarget organism
means any plant, animal or other organism other than the target pests that a pesticide is intended to affect.
Noncertified applicator
means any person who is not certified in accordance with this part to use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides in the category appropriate to the type of application being conducted in the pertinent jurisdiction, but who is using restricted use pesticides under the direct supervision of a person certified as a commercial or private applicator in accordance with this part.
Ornamental
means trees, shrubs, flowers, and other plantings intended primarily for aesthetic purposes in and around habitations, buildings and surrounding grounds, including residences, parks, streets, and commercial, industrial, and institutional buildings.
Personal protective equipment
means devices and apparel that are worn to protect the body from contact with pesticides or pesticide residues, including, but not limited to, coveralls, chemical-resistant suits, chemical-resistant gloves, chemical-resistant footwear, respirators, chemical-resistant aprons, chemical-resistant headgear, and protective eyewear.
Practical knowledge
means the possession of pertinent facts and comprehension sufficient to properly perform functions associated with use of restricted use pesticides, including properly responding to reasonably foreseeable problems and situations.
Principal place of business
means the principal location, either residence or office, where a person conducts a business that involves the use of restricted use pesticides. A person who applies restricted use pesticides in more than one State or area of Indian country may designate a location within a State or area of Indian country as its principal place of business for that State or area of Indian country.
Regulated pest
means a particular species of pest specifically subject to Tribal, State or Federal regulatory restrictions, regulations, or control procedures intended to protect the hosts, man and/or the environment.
Restricted use pesticide
means a pesticide that is classified for restricted use under the provisions of section 3(d) of FIFRA and 40 CFR part 152, subpart I.
Restricted use pesticide retail dealer
means any person who distributes or
sells restricted use pesticides to any person, excluding transactions solely between persons who are pesticide producers, registrants, wholesalers, or retail sellers, acting only in those capacities.
Toxicity
means the property of a pesticide that refers to the degree to which the pesticide, and its degradates and metabolites, are able to cause an adverse physiological effect on an organism.
Use, as in “to use a pesticide”
means any of the following:
(1) Pre-application activities involving mixing and loading the pesticide.
(2) Applying the pesticide, including, but not limited to, supervising the use of a pesticide by a noncertified applicator.
(3) Other pesticide-related activities, including, but not limited to, transporting or storing pesticide containers that have been opened, cleaning equipment, and disposing of excess pesticides, spray mix, equipment wash waters, pesticide containers, and other pesticide-containing materials.
Use-specific instructions
means the information and requirements specific to a particular pesticide product or work site that an applicator needs in order to use the pesticide in accordance with applicable requirements and without causing unreasonable adverse effects.
[82 FR 1028, Jan. 4, 2017]
§ 171.5
Effective date.
(a) This part is effective March 6, 2017. Certification plans approved by EPA before the effective date remain approved except as provided in §§ 171.5(b)-(d) and 171.309.
(b)
Status of certification plans approved before effective date.
A certification plan approved by EPA before March 6, 2017 remains approved until March 4, 2020, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section and § 171.309.
(c)
Extension of an existing plan during EPA review of proposed revisions.
If by March 4, 2020, a certifying authority has submitted to EPA a proposed modification of its certification plan pursuant to subpart D of this part, its certification plan approved by EPA before March 6, 2017 will remain in effect until EPA has approved or rejected the modified plan pursuant to § 171.309(a)(4) or November 4, 2023, whichever is earlier, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section and § 171.309(b).
(d)
Extension of an existing plan after EPA has approved a revised plan.
Where EPA has approved a certifying authority's modified certification plan pursuant to § 171.309(a)(4), the certification plan approved by EPA before March 6, 2017 shall remain in effect as specified in EPA's approval of the modified certification plan.
(e) States, Tribes, or Federal agencies that do not have an EPA-approved certification plan in effect may submit to EPA for review and approval a certification plan that meets or exceeds all of the applicable requirements of this part any time.
[82 FR 1029, Jan. 4, 2017, as amended at 86 FR 71838, Dec. 20, 2021; 87 FR 50965, Aug. 19, 2022]

# Subpart B—Certification Requirements for Applicators of Restricted Use Pesticides

# Source:
82 FR 1029, Jan. 4, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 171.101
Commercial applicator certification categories.
Certification categories.
Categories of commercial applicators using or supervising the use of restricted use pesticides are identified below.
(a)
Agricultural pest control
—(1)
Crop pest control.
This category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides in production of agricultural commodities, including but not limited to grains, vegetables, small fruits, tree fruits, peanuts, tree nuts, tobacco, cotton, feed and forage crops including grasslands, and non-crop agricultural lands.
(2)
Livestock pest control.
This category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides on animals or to places on or in which animals are confined. Certification in this category alone is not sufficient to authorize the purchase, use, or supervision of use of products for predator control listed in paragraphs (k) and (l) of this section.
(b)
Forest pest control.
This category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides in forests, forest nurseries and forest seed production.
(c)
Ornamental and turf pest control.
This category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides to control pests in the maintenance and production of ornamental plants and turf.
(d)
Seed treatment.
This category applies to commercial applicators using or supervising the use of restricted use pesticides on seeds in seed treatment facilities.
(e)
Aquatic pest control.
This category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of any restricted use pesticide purposefully applied to standing or running water, excluding applicators engaged in public health related activities included in as specified in paragraph (h) of this section.
(f)
Right-of-way pest control.
This category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides in the maintenance of roadsides, powerlines, pipelines, and railway rights-of-way, and similar areas.
(g)
Industrial, institutional, and structural pest control.
This category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides in, on, or around the following: Food handling establishments, packing houses, and food-processing facilities; human dwellings; institutions, such as schools, hospitals and prisons; and industrial establishments, including manufacturing facilities, warehouses, grain elevators, and any other structures and adjacent areas, public or private, for the protection of stored, processed, or manufactured products.
(h)
Public health pest control.
This category applies to State, Tribal, Federal or other governmental employees and contractors who use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides in government-sponsored public health programs for the management and control of pests having medical and public health importance.
(i)
Regulatory pest control.
This category applies to State, Tribal, Federal, or other local governmental employees and contractors who use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides in government-sponsored programs for the control of regulated pests. Certification in this category does not authorize the purchase, use, or supervision of use of products for predator control listed in paragraphs (k) and (l) of this section.
(j)
Demonstration and research.
This category applies to individuals who demonstrate to the public the proper use and techniques of application of restricted use pesticides or supervise such demonstration and to persons conducting field research with restricted use pesticides, and in doing so, use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides. This includes such individuals as extension specialists and county agents, commercial representatives demonstrating restricted use pesticide products, individuals demonstrating application or pest control methods used in public or private programs, and State, Federal, commercial, and other persons conducting field research on or involving restricted use pesticides.
(k)
Sodium cyanide predator control.
This pest control category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of sodium cyanide in a mechanical ejection device to control regulated predators.
(l)
Sodium fluoroacetate predator control.
This pest control category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of sodium fluoroacetate in a protective collar to control regulated predators.
(m)
Soil fumigation.
This category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of a restricted use pesticide to fumigate soil.
(n)
Non-soil fumigation.
This category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of a restricted use pesticide to fumigate anything other than soil.
(o)
Aerial pest control.
This category applies to commercial applicators who use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides applied by fixed or rotary wing aircraft.
§ 171.103
Standards for certification of commercial applicators.
(a)
Determination of competency.
To be determined to have the necessary competency in the use and handling of restricted use pesticides by a State, Tribe, or Federal agency, a commercial applicator must receive a passing score on a written examination that meets the standards specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and any related performance testing that is required by the State, Tribe, or Federal agency. Examinations and any alternate methods employed by the certifying authority to determine applicator competency must include the core standards applicable to all categories (paragraph (c) of this section) and the standards applicable to each category in which an applicator seeks certification (paragraph (d) of this section). Certification processes must meet all of the following criteria:
(1)
Commercial applicator minimum age.
A commercial applicator must be at least 18 years old.
(2)
Examination standards.
The certifying authority must ensure that examinations conform to all of the following standards:
(i) The examination must be presented and answered in writing.
(ii) The examination must be proctored by an individual designated by the certifying authority and who is not seeking certification at any examination session that he or she is proctoring.
(iii) Each person seeking certification must present at the time of examination valid, government-issued photo identification or other form of similarly reliable identification authorized by the certifying authority as proof of identity and age to be eligible for certification.
(iv) Candidates must be monitored throughout the examination period.
(v) Candidates must be instructed in examination procedures before beginning the examination.
(vi) Examinations must be kept secure before, during, and after the examination period so that only the candidates have access to the examination, and candidates have access only in the presence of the proctor.
(vii) Candidates must not have verbal or non-verbal communication with anyone other than the proctor during the examination period.
(viii) No portion of the examination or any associated reference materials described in paragraph (a)(2)(ix) of this section may be copied or retained by any person other than a person authorized by the certifying authority to copy or retain the examination or any associated reference materials described in paragraph (a)(2)(ix) of this section.
(ix) The only reference materials used during the examination are those that are approved by the certifying authority and provided and collected by the proctor.
(x) Reference materials provided to examinees are reviewed after the examination is complete to ensure that no portion of the reference material has been removed, altered, or destroyed.
(xi) The proctor reports to the certifying authority any examination administration inconsistencies or irregularities, including but not limited to cheating, use of unauthorized materials, and attempts to copy or retain the examination.
(xii) The examination must be conducted in accordance with any other requirements of the certifying authority related to examination administration.
(xiii) The certifying authority must notify each candidate of the results of his or her examination.
(b)
Additional methods of determining competency.
In addition to written examination requirements for determining competency, a certifying authority may employ additional methods for determining applicator competency, such as performance testing. Any such additional methods must be specified in the certifying authority's Agency-approved certification plan and must comply with the applicable standards in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Core standards for all categories of certified commercial applicators.
Persons seeking certification as commercial applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of the principles and practices of pest control and proper and effective use of restricted use pesticides by passing a written examination.
Written examinations for all commercial applicators must address all of the following areas of competency:
(1)
Label and labeling comprehension.
Familiarity with pesticide labels and labeling and their functions, including all of the following:
(i) The general format and terminology of pesticide labels and labeling.
(ii) Understanding instructions, warnings, terms, symbols, and other information commonly appearing on pesticide labels and labeling.
(iii) Understanding that it is a violation of Federal law to use any registered pesticide in a manner inconsistent with its labeling.
(iv) Understanding labeling requirements that a certified applicator must be physically present at the site of the application.
(v) Understanding labeling requirements for supervising noncertified applicators working under the direct supervision of a certified applicator.
(vi) Understanding that applicators must comply with all use restrictions and directions for use contained in pesticide labels and labeling, including being certified in the certification category appropriate to the type and site of the application.
(vii) Understanding the meaning of product classification as either general or restricted use and that a product may be unclassified.
(viii) Understanding and complying with product-specific notification requirements.
(ix) Recognizing and understanding the difference between mandatory and advisory labeling language.
(2)
Safety.
Measures to avoid or minimize adverse health effects, including all of the following:
(i) Understanding the different natures of the risks of acute toxicity and chronic toxicity, as well as the long-term effects of pesticides.
(ii) Understanding that a pesticide's risk is a function of exposure and the pesticide's toxicity.
(iii) Recognition of likely ways in which dermal, inhalation, and oral exposure may occur.
(iv) Common types and causes of pesticide mishaps.
(v) Precautions to prevent injury to applicators and other individuals in or near treated areas.
(vi) Need for, and proper use of, protective clothing and personal protective equipment.
(vii) Symptoms of pesticide poisoning.
(viii) First aid and other procedures to be followed in case of a pesticide mishap.
(ix) Proper identification, storage, transport, handling, mixing procedures, and disposal methods for pesticides and used pesticide containers, including precautions to be taken to prevent children from having access to pesticides and pesticide containers.
(3)
Environment.
The potential environmental consequences of the use and misuse of pesticides, including the influence of all of the following:
(i) Weather and other indoor and outdoor climatic conditions.
(ii) Types of terrain, soil, or other substrate.
(iii) Presence of fish, wildlife, and other non-target organisms.
(iv) Drainage patterns.
(4)
Pests.
The proper identification and effective control of pests, including all of the following:
(i) The importance of correctly identifying target pests and selecting the proper pesticide product(s) for effective pest control.
(ii) Verifying that the labeling does not prohibit the use of the product to control the target pest(s).
(5)
Pesticides.
Characteristics of pesticides, including all of the following:
(i) Types of pesticides.
(ii) Types of formulations.
(iii) Compatibility, synergism, persistence, and animal and plant toxicity of the formulations.
(iv) Hazards and residues associated with use.
(v) Factors that influence effectiveness or lead to problems such as pesticide resistance.
(vi) Dilution procedures.
(6)
Equipment.
Application equipment, including all of the following:
(i) Types of equipment and advantages and limitations of each type.
(ii) Use, maintenance, and calibration procedures.
(7)
Application methods.
Selecting appropriate application methods, including all of the following:
(i) Methods used to apply various forms and formulations of pesticides.
(ii) Knowledge of which application method to use in a given situation and that use of a fumigant, aerial application, sodium cyanide, or sodium fluoroacetate requires additional certification.
(iii) How selection of application method and use of a pesticide may result in proper use, unnecessary or ineffective use, and misuse.
(iv) Prevention of drift and pesticide loss into the environment.
(8)
Laws and regulations.
Knowledge of all applicable State, Tribal, and Federal laws and regulations.
(9)
Responsibilities of supervisors of noncertified applicators.
Knowledge of the responsibilities of certified applicators supervising noncertified applicators, including all of the following:
(i) Understanding and complying with requirements in § 171.201 of this part for certified commercial applicators who supervise noncertified applicators using restricted use pesticides.
(ii) The recordkeeping requirements of pesticide safety training for noncertified applicators who use restricted use pesticides under the direct supervision of a certified applicator.
(iii) Providing use-specific instructions to noncertified applicators using restricted use pesticides under the direct supervision of a certified applicator.
(iv) Explaining pertinent State, Tribal, and Federal laws and regulations to noncertified applicators who use restricted use pesticides under the direct supervision of a certified applicator.
(10)
Professionalism.
Understanding the importance of all of the following:
(i) Maintaining chemical security for restricted use pesticides.
(ii) How to communicate information about pesticide exposures and risks with customers and the public.
(iii) Appropriate product stewardship for certified applicators.
(d)
Specific standards of competency for each category of commercial applicators.
In addition to satisfying the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, to be certified as commercial applicators, persons must demonstrate through written examinations practical knowledge of the principles and practices of pest control and proper and effective use of restricted use pesticides for each category for which they intend to apply restricted use pesticides, except as provided at §§ 171.303(a)(4) and 171.305(a)(5). The minimum competency standards for each category are listed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (15) of this section. Examinations for each category of certification listed in § 171.101 must be based on the standards of competency specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (15) of this section and examples of problems and situations appropriate to the particular category in which the applicator is seeking certification.
(1)
Agricultural pest control.
(i)
Crop pest control.
Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of crops, grasslands, and non-crop agricultural lands and the specific pests of those areas on which they may be using restricted use pesticides. The importance of such competency is amplified by the extensive areas involved, the quantities of pesticides needed, and the ultimate use of many commodities as food and feed. The required knowledge includes pre-harvest intervals, restricted entry intervals, phytotoxicity, potential for environmental contamination such as soil and water problems, non-target injury, and other problems resulting from the use of restricted use pesticides in agricultural areas. The required knowledge also includes the potential for phytotoxicity due to a wide variety of plants to be protected, for drift, for persistence beyond the intended period of pest control, and for non-target exposures.
(ii)
Livestock pest control.
Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of such animals and their associated pests. The required knowledge includes specific pesticide toxicity and residue potential, and the hazards associated with such factors as formulation, application techniques, age of animals, stress, and extent of treatment.
(2)
Forest pest control.
Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of types of forests, forest nurseries, and seed production within the jurisdiction of the certifying authority and the
pests involved. The required knowledge includes the cyclic occurrence of certain pests and specific population dynamics as a basis for programming pesticide applications, the relevant organisms causing harm and their vulnerability to the pesticides to be applied, how to determine when pesticide use is proper, selection of application method and proper use of application equipment to minimize non-target exposures, and appropriate responses to meteorological factors and adjacent land use. The required knowledge also includes the potential for phytotoxicity due to a wide variety of plants to be protected, for drift, for persistence beyond the intended period of pest control, and for non-target exposures.
(3)
Ornamental and turf pest control.
Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of pesticide problems associated with the production and maintenance of ornamental plants and turf. The required knowledge includes the potential for phytotoxicity due to a wide variety of plants to be protected, for drift, for persistence beyond the intended period of pest control, and for non-target exposures. Because of the frequent proximity of human habitations to application activities, applicators in this category must demonstrate practical knowledge of application methods that will minimize or prevent hazards to humans, pets, and other domestic animals.
(4)
Seed treatment.
Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge including recognizing types of seeds to be treated, the effects of carriers and surface active agents on pesticide binding and germination, the hazards associated with handling, sorting and mixing, and misuse of treated seed, the importance of proper application techniques to avoid harm to non-target organisms, and the proper disposal of unused treated seeds.
(5)
Aquatic pest control.
Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of the characteristics of various aquatic use situations, the potential for adverse effects on non-target plants, fish, birds, beneficial insects and other organisms in the immediate aquatic environment and downstream, and the principles of limited area application.
(6)
Right-of-way pest control.
Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of the types of environments (terrestrial and aquatic) traversed by rights-of-way, recognition of target pests, and techniques to minimize non-target exposure, runoff, drift, and excessive foliage destruction. The required knowledge also includes the potential for phytotoxicity due to a wide variety of plants and pests to be controlled, and for persistence beyond the intended period of pest control.
(7)
Industrial, institutional, and structural pest control.
Applicators must demonstrate a practical knowledge of industrial, institutional, and structural pests, including recognizing those pests and signs of their presence, their habitats, their life cycles, biology, and behavior as it may be relevant to problem identification and control. Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of types of formulations appropriate for control of industrial, institutional and structural pests, and methods of application that avoid contamination of food, minimize damage to and contamination of areas treated, minimize acute and chronic exposure of people and pets, and minimize environmental impacts of outdoor applications.
(8)
Public health pest control.
Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of pests that are important vectors of disease, including recognizing the pests and signs of their presence, their habitats, their life cycles, biology and behavior as it may be relevant to problem identification and control. The required knowledge also includes how to minimize damage to and contamination of areas treated, acute and chronic exposure of people and pets, and non-target exposures.
(9)
Regulatory pest control.
Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of regulated pests, applicable laws relating to quarantine and other regulation of regulated pests, and the potential impact on the environment of restricted use pesticides used in suppression and eradication programs. They must demonstrate knowledge of factors influencing introduction, spread, and population dynamics of regulated pests.
(10)
Demonstration and research.
Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of the potential problems, pests, and population levels reasonably expected to occur in a demonstration situation and the effects of restricted use pesticides on target and non-target organisms. In addition, they must demonstrate competency in each pest control category applicable to their demonstrations.
(11)
Sodium cyanide predator control.
Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of mammalian predator pests, including recognizing those pests and signs of their presence, their habitats, their life cycles, biology, and behavior as it may be relevant to pest identification and control. Applicators must demonstrate comprehension of all laws and regulations applicable to the use of mechanical ejection devices for sodium cyanide, including the restrictions on the use of sodium cyanide products ordered by the EPA Administrator. . Applicators must also demonstrate practical knowledge and understanding of all of the specific use restrictions for sodium cyanide devices, including safe handling and proper placement of the capsules and device, proper use of the antidote kit, notification to medical personnel before use of the device, conditions of and restrictions on when and where devices can be used, requirements to consult U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service maps before use to avoid affecting endangered species, maximum density of devices, provisions for supervising and monitoring applicators, required information exchange in locations where more than one agency is authorized to place devices, and specific requirements for recordkeeping, monitoring, field posting, proper storage, and disposal of damaged or used sodium cyanide capsules.
(12)
Sodium fluoroacetate predator control.
Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of mammalian predator pests, including recognizing those pests and signs of their presence, their habitats, their life cycles, biology, and behavior as it may be relevant to pest identification and control. Applicators must demonstrate comprehension of all laws and regulations applicable to the use of sodium fluoroacetate products, including the restrictions on the use of sodium fluoroacetate products ordered by the EPA Administrator. Applicators must also demonstrate practical knowledge and understanding of the specific use restrictions for sodium fluoroacetate in the livestock protection collar, including where and when sodium fluoroacetate products can be used, safe handling and placement of collars, and practical treatment of sodium fluoroacetate poisoning in humans and domestic animals. Applicators must also demonstrate practical knowledge and understanding of specific requirements for field posting, monitoring, recordkeeping, proper storage of collars, disposal of punctured or leaking collars, disposal of contaminated animal remains, vegetation, soil, and clothing, and reporting of suspected and actual poisoning, mishap, or injury to threatened or endangered species, humans, domestic animals, or non-target wild animals.
(13)
Soil fumigation.
Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of the pest problems and pest control practices associated with performing soil fumigation applications, including all the following:
(i)
Label and labeling comprehension.
Familiarity with the pesticide labels and labeling for products used to perform soil fumigation, including all of the following:
(A) Labeling requirements specific to soil fumigants.
(B) Requirements for certified applicators of fumigants, fumigant handlers and permitted fumigant handler activities, and the safety information that certified applicators must provide to noncertified applicators using fumigants under their direct supervision.
(C) Entry-restricted periods for tarped and untarped field application scenarios.
(D) Recordkeeping requirements.
(E) Labeling provisions unique to fumigant products containing certain active ingredients.
(ii)
Safety.
Measures to minimize adverse health effects, including all of the following:
(A) Understanding how certified applicators, noncertified applicators
using fumigants under direct supervision of certified applicators, field workers, and bystanders can become exposed to fumigants.
(B) Common problems and mistakes that can result in direct exposure to fumigants.
(C) Signs and symptoms of human exposure to fumigants.
(D) Air concentrations of a fumigant that require that applicators wear respirators or exit the work area entirely.
(E) Steps to take if a fumigant applicator experiences sensory irritation.
(F) Understanding air monitoring, when it is required, and where and when to take samples.
(G) Buffer zones, including procedures for buffer zone monitoring and who is permitted to be in a buffer zone.
(H) First aid measures to take in the event of exposure to a soil fumigant.
(I) Labeling requirements for transportation, storage, spill clean up, and emergency response for soil fumigants, including safe disposal of containers and contaminated soil, and management of empty containers.
(iii)
Soil fumigant chemical characteristics.
Characteristics of soil fumigants, including all of the following:
(A) Chemical characteristics of soil fumigants.
(B) Specific human exposure concerns for soil fumigants.
(C) How soil fumigants change from a liquid or solid to a gas.
(D) How soil fumigants disperse in the application zone.
(E) Compatibility concerns for tanks, hoses, tubing, and other equipment.
(iv)
Application.
Selecting appropriate application methods and timing, including all of the following:
(A) Application methods, including but not limited to water-run and non-water- run applications, and equipment commonly used for each soil fumigant.
(B) Site characteristics that influence fumigant exposure.
(C) Understanding temperature inversions and their impact on soil fumigant application.
(D) Weather conditions that could impact timing of soil fumigant application, such as air stability, air temperature, humidity, and wind currents, and labeling statements limiting applications during specific weather conditions.
(E) Conducting pre-application inspection of application equipment.
(F) Understanding the purpose and methods of soil sealing, including the factors that determine which soil sealing method to use.
(G) Understanding the use of tarps, including the range of tarps available, how to seal tarps, and labeling requirements for tarp removal, perforation, and repair.
(H) Calculating the amount of product required for a specific treatment area.
(I) Understanding the basic techniques for calibrating soil fumigant application equipment.
(v)
Soil and pest factors.
Soil and pest factors that influence fumigant activity, including all of the following:
(A) Influence of soil factors on fumigant volatility and movement within the soil profile.
(B) Factors that influence gaseous movement through the soil profile and into the air.
(C) Soil characteristics, including how soil characteristics affect the success of a soil fumigant application, assessing soil moisture, and correcting for soil characteristics that could hinder a successful soil fumigant application.
(D) Identifying pests causing the damage and verifying they can be controlled with soil fumigation.
(E) Understanding the relationship between pest density and application rate.
(F) The importance of proper application depth and timing.
(vi)
Personal protective equipment.
Understanding what personal protective equipment is necessary and how to use it properly, including all of the following:
(A) Following labeling directions for required personal protective equipment.
(B) Selecting, inspecting, using, caring for, replacing, and disposing of personal protective equipment.
(C) Understanding the types of respirators required when using specific soil fumigants and how to use them properly, including medical evaluation,
fit testing, and required replacement of cartridges and canisters.
(D) Labeling requirements and other laws applicable to medical evaluation for respirator use, fit tests, training, and recordkeeping.
(vii)
Fumigant management plans and post-application summaries.
Information about fumigant management plans, including all of the following:
(A) When a fumigant management plan must be in effect, how long it must be kept on file, where it must be kept during the application, and who must have access to it.
(B) The elements of a fumigant management plan and resources available to assist the applicator in preparing a fumigant management plan.
(C) The person responsible for verifying that a fumigant management plan is accurate.
(D) The elements, purpose and content of a post-application summary, who must prepare it, and when it must be completed.
(viii)
Buffer zones and posting requirements.
Understanding buffer zones and posting requirements, including all of the following:
(A) Buffer zones and the buffer zone period.
(B) Identifying who is allowed in a buffer zone during the buffer zone period and who is prohibited from being in a buffer zone during the buffer zone period.
(C) Using the buffer zone table from the labeling to determine the size of the buffer zone.
(D) Factors that determine the buffer zone credits for application scenarios and calculating buffer zones using credits.
(E) Distinguishing buffer zone posting and treated area posting, including the pre-application and post-application posting timeframes for each.
(F) Proper choice and placement of warning signs.
(14)
Non-soil fumigation.
Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of the pest problems and pest control practices associated with performing fumigation applications of restricted use pesticides to sites other than soil, including all the following:
(i)
Label
labeling comprehension.
Familiarity with the pesticide labels and labeling for products used to perform non-soil fumigation, including labeling requirements specific to non-soil fumigants.
(ii)
Safety.
Measures to minimize adverse health effects, including all of the following:
(A) Understanding how certified applicators, noncertified applicators using fumigants under direct supervision of certified applicators, and bystanders can become exposed to fumigants.
(B) Common problems and mistakes that can result in direct exposure to fumigants.
(C) Signs and symptoms of human exposure to fumigants.
(D) Air concentrations of a fumigant that require applicators to wear respirators or to exit the work area entirely.
(E) Steps to take if a fumigant applicator experiences sensory irritation.
(F) Understanding air monitoring, when it is required, and where and when to take samples.
(G) Buffer zones, including procedures for buffer zone monitoring and who is permitted to be in a buffer zone.
(H) First aid measures to take in the event of exposure to a fumigant.
(I) Labeling requirements for transportation, storage, spill clean up, and emergency response for non-soil fumigants, including safe disposal of containers and contaminated materials, and management of empty containers.
(iii)
Non-soil fumigant chemical characteristics.
Characteristics of non-soil fumigants, including all of the following:
(A) Chemical characteristics of non-soil fumigants.
(B) Specific human exposure concerns for non-soil fumigants.
(C) How fumigants change from a liquid or solid to a gas.
(D) How fumigants disperse in the application zone.
(E) Compatibility concerns for tanks, hoses, tubing, and other equipment.
(iv)
Application.
Selecting appropriate application methods and timing, including all of the following:
(A) Application methods and equipment commonly used for non-soil fumigation.
(B) Site characteristics that influence fumigant exposure.
(C) Conditions that could impact timing of non-soil fumigant application, such as air stability, air temperature, humidity, and wind currents, and labeling statements limiting applications under specific conditions.
(D) Conducting pre-application inspection of application equipment and the site to be fumigated.
(E) Understanding the purpose and methods of sealing the area to be fumigated, including the factors that determine which sealing method to use.
(F) Calculating the amount of product required for a specific treatment area.
(G) Understanding the basic techniques for calibrating non-soil fumigant application equipment.
(H) Understanding when and how to conduct air monitoring and when it is required.
(v)
Pest factors.
Pest factors that influence fumigant activity, including all of the following:
(A) Influence of pest factors on fumigant volatility.
(B) Factors that influence gaseous movement through the area being fumigated and into the air.
(C) Identifying pests causing the damage and verifying they can be controlled with fumigation.
(D) Understanding the relationship between pest density and application rate.
(E) The importance of proper application rate and timing.
(vi)
Personal protective equipment.
Understanding what personal protective equipment is necessary and how to use it properly, including all of the following:
(A) Following labeling directions for required personal protective equipment.
(B) Selecting, inspecting, using, caring for, replacing, and disposing of personal protective equipment.
(C) Understanding the types of respirators required when using specific non-soil fumigants and how to use them properly, including medical evaluation, fit testing, and required replacement of cartridges and canisters.
(D) Labeling requirements and other laws applicable to medical evaluation for respirator use, fit tests, training, and recordkeeping.
(vii)
Fumigant management plans and post-application summaries.
Information about fumigant management plans and when they are required, including all of the following:
(A) When a fumigant management plan must be in effect, how long it must be kept on file, where it must be kept during the application, and who must have access to it.
(B) The elements of a fumigant management plan and resources available to assist the applicator in preparing a fumigant management plan.
(C) The person responsible for verifying that a fumigant management plan is accurate.
(D) The elements, purpose and content of a post-application summary, who must prepare it, and when it must be completed.
(viii)
Posting requirements.
Understanding posting requirements, including all of the following:
(A) Understanding who is allowed in an area being fumigated or after fumigation and who is prohibited from being in such areas.
(B) Distinguishing fumigant labeling-required posting and treated area posting, including the pre-application and post-application posting timeframes for each.
(C) Proper choice and placement of warning signs.
(15)
Aerial pest control.
Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of the pest problems and pest control practices associated with performing aerial application of restricted use pesticides, including all the following:
(i)
Labeling.
Labeling requirements and restrictions specific to aerial application of pesticides including:
(A) Spray volumes.
(B) Buffers and no-spray zones.
(C) Weather conditions specific to wind and inversions.
(ii)
Application equipment.
Understand how to choose and maintain aerial application equipment, including all of the following:
(A) The importance of inspecting application equipment to ensure it is in proper operating condition prior to beginning an application.
(B) Selecting proper nozzles to ensure appropriate pesticide dispersal and to minimize drift.
(C) Knowledge of the components of an aerial pesticide application system, including pesticide hoppers, tanks, pumps, and types of nozzles.
(D) Interpreting a nozzle flow rate chart.
(E) Determining the number of nozzles for intended pesticide output using nozzle flow rate chart, aircraft speed, and swath width.
(F) How to ensure nozzles are placed to compensate for uneven dispersal due to uneven airflow from wingtip vortices, helicopter rotor turbulence, and aircraft propeller turbulence.
(G) Where to place nozzles to produce the appropriate droplet size.
(H) How to maintain the application system in good repair, including pressure gauge accuracy, filter cleaning according to schedule, and checking nozzles for excessive wear.
(I) How to calculate required and actual flow rates.
(J) How to verify flow rate using fixed timing, open timing, known distance, or a flow meter.
(K) When to adjust and calibrate application equipment.
(iii)
Application considerations.
The applicator must demonstrate knowledge of factors to consider before and during application, including all of the following:
(A) Weather conditions that could impact application by affecting aircraft engine power, take-off distance, and climb rate, or by promoting spray droplet evaporation.
(B) How to determine wind velocity, direction, and air density at the application site.
(C) The potential impact of thermals and temperature inversions on aerial pesticide application.
(iv)
Minimizing drift.
The applicator must demonstrate knowledge of methods to minimize off-target pesticide movement, including all of the following:
(A) How to determine drift potential of a product using a smoke generator.
(B) How to evaluate vertical and horizontal smoke plumes to assess wind direction, speed, and concentration.
(C) Selecting techniques that minimize pesticide movement out of the area to be treated.
(D) Documenting special equipment configurations or flight patterns used to reduce off-target pesticide drift.
(v)
Performing aerial application.
The applicator must demonstrate competency in performing an aerial pesticide application, including all of the following:
(A) Selecting a flight altitude that minimizes streaking and off-target pesticide drift.
(B) Choosing a flight pattern that ensures applicator and bystander safety and proper application.
(C) The importance of engaging and disengaging spray precisely when entering and exiting a predetermined swath pattern.
(D) Tools available to mark swaths, such as global positioning systems and flags.
(E) Recordkeeping requirements for aerial pesticide applications including application conditions if applicable.
(e)
Exceptions.
The requirements in § 171.103(a)-(d) of this part do not apply to the following persons:
(1) Persons conducting laboratory research involving restricted use pesticides.
(2) Doctors of Medicine and Doctors of Veterinary Medicine applying restricted use pesticides to patients during the course of the ordinary practice of those professions.
§ 171.105
Standards for certification of private applicators.
(a)
General private applicator certification.
Before using or supervising the use of a restricted use pesticide as a private applicator, a person must be certified by an appropriate certifying authority as having the necessary competency to use restricted use pesticides for pest control in the production of agricultural commodities, which includes the ability to read and understand pesticide labeling. Certification in this general private applicator certification category alone is not sufficient to authorize the purchase, use, or supervision of use of the restricted use pesticide products in the categories listed in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section. Persons seeking certification as private applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of the principles and practices of pest
control associated with the production of agricultural commodities and effective use of restricted use pesticides, including all of the following:
(1)
Label and labeling comprehension.
Familiarity with pesticide labels and labeling and their functions, including all of the following:
(i) The general format and terminology of pesticide labels and labeling.
(ii) Understanding instructions, warnings, terms, symbols, and other information commonly appearing on pesticide labels and labeling.
(iii) Understanding that it is a violation of Federal law to use any registered pesticide in a manner inconsistent with its labeling.
(iv) Understanding when a certified applicator must be physically present at the site of the application based on labeling requirements.
(v) Understanding labeling requirements for supervising noncertified applicators working under the direct supervision of a certified applicator.
(vi) Understanding that applicators must comply with all use restrictions and directions for use contained in pesticide labels and labeling, including being certified in the appropriate category to use restricted use pesticides for fumigation or aerial application, or predator control devices containing sodium cyanide or sodium fluoroacetate, if applicable.
(vii) Understanding the meaning of product classification as either general or restricted use, and that a product may be unclassified.
(viii) Understanding and complying with product-specific notification requirements.
(ix) Recognizing and understanding the difference between mandatory and advisory labeling language.
(2)
Safety.
Measures to avoid or minimize adverse health effects, including all of the following:
(i) Understanding the different natures of the risks of acute toxicity and chronic toxicity, as well as the long-term effects of pesticides.
(ii) Understanding that a pesticide's risk is a function of exposure and the pesticide's toxicity.
(iii) Recognition of likely ways in which dermal, inhalation, and oral exposure may occur.
(iv) Common types and causes of pesticide mishaps.
(v) Precautions to prevent injury to applicators and other individuals in or near treated areas.
(vi) Need for, and proper use of, protective clothing and personal protective equipment.
(vii) Symptoms of pesticide poisoning.
(viii) First aid and other procedures to be followed in case of a pesticide mishap.
(ix) Proper identification, storage, transport, handling, mixing procedures, and disposal methods for pesticides and used pesticide containers, including precautions to be taken to prevent children from having access to pesticides and pesticide containers.
(3)
Environment.
The potential environmental consequences of the use and misuse of pesticides, including the influence of the following:
(i) Weather and other climatic conditions.
(ii) Types of terrain, soil, or other substrate.
(iii) Presence of fish, wildlife, and other non-target organisms.
(iv) Drainage patterns.
(4)
Pests.
The proper identification and effective control of pests, including all of the following:
(i) The importance of correctly identifying target pests and selecting the proper pesticide product(s).
(ii) Verifying that the labeling does not prohibit the use of the product to control the target pest(s).
(5)
Pesticides.
Characteristics of pesticides, including all of the following:
(i) Types of pesticides.
(ii) Types of formulations.
(iii) Compatibility, synergism, persistence, and animal and plant toxicity of the formulations.
(iv) Hazards and residues associated with use.
(v) Factors that influence effectiveness or lead to problems such as pesticide resistance.
(vi) Dilution procedures.
(6)
Equipment.
Application equipment, including all of the following:
(i) Types of equipment and advantages and limitations of each type.
(ii) Uses, maintenance, and calibration procedures.
(7)
Application methods.
Selecting appropriate application methods, including all of the following:
(i) Methods used to apply various forms and formulations of pesticides.
(ii) Knowledge of which application method to use in a given situation and that use of a fumigant, aerial application, or predator control device containing sodium cyanide or sodium fluoroacetate requires additional certification.
(iii) How selection of application method and use of a pesticide may result in proper use, unnecessary or ineffective use, and misuse.
(iv) Prevention of drift and pesticide loss into the environment.
(8)
Laws and regulations.
Knowledge of all applicable State, Tribal, and Federal laws and regulations, including understanding the Worker Protection Standard in 40 CFR part 170 and the circumstances where compliance is required.
(9)
Responsibilities for supervisors of noncertified applicators.
Certified applicator responsibilities related to supervision of noncertified applicators, including all of the following:
(i) Understanding and complying with requirements in § 171.201 of this part for private applicators who supervise noncertified applicators using restricted use pesticides.
(ii) Providing use-specific instructions to noncertified applicators using restricted use pesticides under the direct supervision of a certified applicator.
(iii) Explaining appropriate State, Tribal, and Federal laws and regulations to noncertified applicators working under the direct supervision of a certified applicator.
(10)
Stewardship.
Understanding the importance of all of the following:
(i) Maintaining chemical security for restricted use pesticides.
(ii) How to communicate information about pesticide exposures and risks with agricultural workers and handlers and other persons.
(11)
Agricultural pest control.
Practical knowledge of pest control applications to agricultural commodities including all of the following:
(i) Specific pests of relevant agricultural commodities.
(ii) How to avoid contamination of ground and surface waters.
(iii) Understanding pre-harvest and restricted entry intervals and entry-restricted periods and areas.
(iv) Understanding specific pesticide toxicity and residue potential when pesticides are applied to animal or animal product agricultural commodities.
(v) Relative hazards associated with using pesticides on animals or places in which animals are confined based on formulation, application technique, age of animal, stress, and extent of treatment.
(b)
Sodium cyanide predator control.
In addition to satisfying the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section, in order to use sodium cyanide in a mechanical ejection device, private applicators must demonstrate comprehension of all laws and regulations applicable to the use of mechanical ejection devices for sodium cyanide, including the restrictions on the use of sodium cyanide products ordered by the EPA Administrator. Applicators must also demonstrate practical knowledge and understanding of all of the specific use restrictions for sodium cyanide devices, including safe handling and proper placement of the capsules and device, proper use of the antidote kit, notification to medical personnel before use of the device, conditions of and restrictions on where devices can be used, requirements to consult U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service maps before use to avoid affecting endangered species, maximum density of devices, provisions for supervising and monitoring applicators, required information exchange in locations where more than one agency is authorized to place devices, and specific requirements for recordkeeping, monitoring, field posting, proper storage, and disposal of damaged or used sodium cyanide capsules.
(c)
Sodium fluoroacetate predator control.
In addition to satisfying the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section, in order to use sodium fluoroacetate, private applicators must demonstrate comprehension of all laws and regulations applicable to the use of sodium fluoroacetate products, including the restrictions on the use of sodium fluoroacetate products ordered by
the EPA Administrator. Applicators must also demonstrate practical knowledge and understanding of the specific use restrictions for sodium fluoroacetate in the livestock protection collar, including where and when sodium fluoroacetate products can be used, safe handling and placement of collars, and practical treatment of sodium fluoroacetate poisoning in humans and domestic animals. Applicators must also demonstrate practical knowledge and understanding of specific requirements for field posting, monitoring, recordkeeping, proper storage of collars, disposal of punctured or leaking collars, disposal of contaminated animal remains, vegetation, soil, and clothing, and reporting of suspected and actual poisoning, mishap, or injury to threatened or endangered species, humans, domestic animals, or non-target wild animals.
(d)
Soil fumigation.
In addition to satisfying the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section, private applicators that use or supervise the use of a restricted use pesticide to fumigate soil must demonstrate practical knowledge of the pest problems and pest control practices associated with performing soil fumigant applications, including all the following:
(1)
Label and labeling comprehension.
Familiarity with the pesticide labels and labeling for products used to perform soil fumigation, including all of the following:
(i) Labeling requirements specific to soil fumigants.
(ii) Requirements for certified applicators of fumigants, fumigant handlers and permitted fumigant handler activities, and the safety information that certified applicators must provide to noncertified applicators using fumigants under the direct supervision of certified applicators.
(iii) Entry-restricted period for different tarped and untarped field application scenarios.
(iv) Recordkeeping requirements imposed by product labels and labeling.
(v) Labeling provisions unique to products containing certain active ingredients.
(vi) Labeling requirements for fumigant management plans, such as when a fumigant management plan must be in effect, how long it must be kept on file, where it must be kept during the application, and who must have access to it; the elements of a fumigant management plan and resources available to assist the applicator in preparing a fumigant management plan; the person responsible for verifying that a fumigant management plan is accurate; and the elements, purpose and content of a post-application summary, who must prepare it, and when it must be completed.
(2)
Safety.
Measures to minimize adverse health effects, including all of the following:
(i) Understanding how certified applicators, noncertified applicators using fumigants under the direct supervision of certified applicators, field workers, and bystanders can become exposed to fumigants.
(ii) Common problems and mistakes that can result in direct exposure to fumigants.
(iii) Signs and symptoms of human exposure to fumigants.
(iv) Air concentrations of a fumigant that require applicators to wear respirators or to exit the work area entirely.
(v) Steps to take if a fumigant applicator experiences sensory irritation.
(vi) Understanding air monitoring, when it is required, and where and when to take samples.
(vii) Buffer zones, including procedures for buffer zone monitoring and who is permitted to be in a buffer zone.
(viii) First aid measures to take in the event of exposure to a soil fumigant.
(ix) Labeling requirements for transportation, storage, spill cleanup, and emergency response for soil fumigants, including safe disposal of containers and contaminated soil, and management of empty containers.
(3)
Soil fumigant chemical characteristics.
Characteristics of soil fumigants, including all of the following:
(i) Chemical characteristics of soil fumigants.
(ii) Specific human exposure concerns for soil fumigants.
(iii) How soil fumigants change from a liquid or solid to a gas.
(iv) How soil fumigants disperse in the application zone.
(v) Compatibility concerns for tanks, hoses, tubing, and other equipment.
(4)
Application.
Selecting appropriate application methods and timing, including all of the following:
(i) Application methods, including but not limited to water-run and non-water-run applications, and equipment commonly used for each soil fumigant.
(ii) Site characteristics that influence fumigant exposure.
(iii) Understanding temperature inversions and their impact on soil fumigant application.
(iv) Weather conditions that could impact timing of soil fumigant application, such as air stability, air temperature, humidity, and wind currents, and labeling statements limiting applications during specific weather conditions.
(v) Conducting pre-application inspection of application equipment.
(vi) Understanding the purpose and methods of soil sealing, including the factors that determine which soil sealing method to use.
(vii) Understanding the use of tarps, including the range of tarps available, how to seal tarps, and labeling requirements for tarp removal, perforation, and repair.
(viii) Calculating the amount of product required for a specific treatment area.
(ix) Understanding the basic techniques for calibrating soil fumigant application equipment.
(5)
Soil and pest factors.
Soil and pest factors that influence fumigant activity, including all of the following:
(i) Influence of soil factors on fumigant volatility and movement within the soil profile.
(ii) Factors that influence gaseous movement through the soil profile and into the air.
(iii) Soil characteristics, including how soil characteristics affect the success of a soil fumigant application, assessing soil moisture, and correcting for soil characteristics that could hinder a successful soil fumigant application.
(iv) Identifying pests causing the damage and verifying they can be controlled with soil fumigation.
(v) Understanding the relationship between pest density and application rate.
(vi) The importance of proper application depth and timing.
(6)
Personal protective equipment.
Understanding what personal protective equipment is necessary and how to use it properly, including all of the following:
(i) Following labeling directions for required personal protective equipment.
(ii) Selecting, inspecting, using, caring for, replacing, and disposing of personal protective equipment.
(iii) Understanding the types of respirators required when using specific soil fumigants and how to use them properly, including medical evaluation, fit testing, and required replacement of cartridges and canisters.
(iv) Labeling requirements and other laws applicable to medical evaluation for respirator use, fit tests, training, and recordkeeping.
(7)
Fumigant management plans and post-application summaries.
Information about fumigant management plans, including all of the following:
(i) When a fumigant management plan must be in effect, how long it must be kept on file, where it must be kept during the application, and who must have access to it.
(ii) The elements of a fumigant management plan and resources available to assist the applicator in preparing a fumigant management plan.
(iii) The person responsible for verifying that a fumigant management plan is accurate.
(iv) The elements, purpose and content of a post-application summary, who must prepare it, and when it must be completed.
(8)
Buffer zones and posting requirements.
Understanding buffer zones and posting requirements, including all of the following:
(i) Buffer zones and the buffer zone period.
(ii) Identifying who may be in a buffer zone during the buffer zone period and who is prohibited from being in a buffer zone during the buffer zone period.
(iii) Using the buffer zone table from the labeling to determine the size of the buffer zone.
(iv) Factors that determine the buffer zone credits for application scenarios and calculating buffer zones using credits.
(v) Distinguishing buffer zone posting and treated area posting, including the pre-application and post-application posting timeframes for each.
(vi) Proper choice and placement of warning signs.
(e)
Non-soil fumigation.
In addition to satisfying the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section, private applicators that use or supervise the use of a restricted use pesticide to fumigate anything other than soil must demonstrate practical knowledge of the pest problems and pest control practices associated with performing fumigation applications to sites other than soil, including all the following:
(1)
Label and labeling comprehension.
Familiarity with the pesticide labels and labeling for products used to perform non-soil fumigation, including labeling requirements specific to non-soil fumigants.
(2)
Safety.
Measures to minimize adverse health effects, including all of the following:
(i) Understanding how certified applicators, handlers, and bystanders can become exposed to fumigants.
(ii) Common problems and mistakes that can result in direct exposure to fumigants.
(iii) Signs and symptoms of human exposure to fumigants.
(iv) When air concentrations of a fumigant triggers handlers to wear respirators or to exit the work area entirely.
(v) Steps to take if a person using a fumigant experiences sensory irritation.
(vi) Understanding air monitoring, when it is required, and where and when to take samples.
(vii) Buffer zones, including procedures for buffer zone monitoring and who is permitted to be in a buffer zone.
(viii) First aid measures to take in the event of exposure to a fumigant.
(ix) Labeling requirements for transportation, storage, spill clean up, and emergency response for non-soil fumigants, including safe disposal of containers and contaminated materials, and management of empty containers.
(3)
Non-soil fumigant chemical characteristics.
Characteristics of non-soil fumigants, including all of the following:
(i) Chemical characteristics of non-soil fumigants.
(ii) Specific human exposure concerns for non-soil fumigants.
(iii) How fumigants change from a liquid or solid to a gas.
(iv) How fumigants disperse in the application zone.
(v) Compatibility concerns for tanks, hoses, tubing, and other equipment.
(4)
Application.
Selecting appropriate application methods and timing, including all of the following:
(i) Application methods and equipment commonly used for non-soil fumigation.
(ii) Site characteristics that influence fumigant exposure.
(iii) Conditions that could impact timing of non-soil fumigant application, such as air stability, air temperature, humidity, and wind currents, and labeling statements limiting applications when specific conditions are present.
(iv) Conducting pre-application inspection of application equipment and the site to be fumigated.
(v) Understanding the purpose and methods of sealing the area to be fumigated, including the factors that determine which sealing method to use.
(vi) Calculating the amount of product required for a specific treatment area.
(vii) Understanding the basic techniques for calibrating non-soil fumigant application equipment.
(viii) Understanding when and how to conduct air monitoring and when it is required.
(5)
Pest factors.
Pest factors that influence fumigant activity, including all of the following:
(i) Influence of pest factors on fumigant volatility.
(ii) Factors that influence gaseous movement through the area being fumigated and into the air.
(iii) Identifying pests causing the damage and verifying they can be controlled with fumigation.
(iv) Understanding the relationship between pest density and application rate.
(v) The importance of proper application rate and timing.
(6)
Personal protective equipment.
Understanding what personal protective equipment is necessary and how to use it properly, including all of the following:
(i) Following labeling directions for required personal protective equipment.
(ii) Selecting, inspecting, using, caring for, replacing, and disposing of personal protective equipment.
(iii) Understanding the types of respirators required when using specific soil fumigants and how to use them properly, including medical evaluation, fit testing, and required replacement of cartridges and canisters.
(iv) Labeling requirements and other laws applicable to medical evaluation for respirator use, fit tests, training, and recordkeeping.
(7)
Fumigant management plans and post-application summaries.
Information about fumigant management plans and when they are required, including all of the following:
(i) When a fumigant management plan must be in effect, how long it must be kept on file, where it must be kept during the application, and who must have access to it.
(ii) The elements of a fumigant management plan and resources available to assist the applicator in preparing a fumigant management plan.
(iii) The person responsible for verifying that a fumigant management plan is accurate.
(iv) The elements, purpose and content of a post-application summary, who must prepare it, and when it must be completed.
(8)
Posting requirements.
Understanding posting requirements, including all of the following:
(i) Understanding who is allowed in an area being fumigated or after fumigation and who is prohibited from being in such areas.
(ii) Distinguishing fumigant labeling-required posting and treated area posting, including the pre-application and post-application posting timeframes for each.
(iii) Proper choice and placement of warning signs.
(f)
Aerial pest control.
In addition to satisfying the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section, private applicators that use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides applied by fixed or rotary wing aircraft must demonstrate practical knowledge of the pest problems and pest control practices associated with performing aerial application, including all the following:
(1)
Labeling.
Labeling requirements and restrictions specific to aerial application of pesticides including:
(i) Spray volumes.
(ii) Buffers and no-spray zones.
(iii) Weather conditions specific to wind and inversions.
(iv) Labeling-mandated recordkeeping requirements for aerial pesticide applications including application conditions if applicable.
(2)
Application equipment.
Understand how to choose and maintain aerial application equipment, including all of the following:
(i) The importance of inspecting application equipment to ensure it is in proper operating condition prior to beginning an application.
(ii) Selecting proper nozzles to ensure appropriate pesticide dispersal and to minimize drift.
(iii) Knowledge of the components of an aerial pesticide application system, including pesticide hoppers, tanks, pumps, and types of nozzles.
(iv) Interpreting a nozzle flow rate chart.
(v) Determining the number of nozzles for intended pesticide output using nozzle flow rate chart, aircraft speed, and swath width.
(vi) How to ensure nozzles are placed to compensate for uneven dispersal due to uneven airflow from wingtip vortices, helicopter rotor turbulence, and aircraft propeller turbulence.
(vii) Where to place nozzles to produce the appropriate droplet size.
(viii) How to maintain the application system in good repair, including pressure gauge accuracy, filter cleaning according to schedule, and checking nozzles for excessive wear.
(ix) How to calculate required and actual flow rates.
(x) How to verify flow rate using fixed timing, open timing, known distance, or a flow meter.
(xi) When to adjust and calibrate application equipment.
(3)
Application considerations.
The applicator must demonstrate knowledge of factors to consider before and during application, including all of the following:
(i) Weather conditions that could impact application by affecting aircraft engine power, take-off distance, and climb rate, or by promoting spray droplet evaporation.
(ii) How to determine wind velocity, direction, and air density at the application site.
(iii) The potential impact of thermals and temperature inversions on aerial pesticide application.
(4)
Minimizing drift.
The applicator must demonstrate knowledge of methods to minimize off-target pesticide movement, including all of the following:
(i) How to determine drift potential of a product using a smoke generator.
(ii) How to evaluate vertical and horizontal smoke plumes to assess wind direction, speed, and concentration.
(iii) Selecting techniques that minimize pesticide movement out of the area to be treated.
(iv) Documenting special equipment configurations or flight patterns used to reduce off-target pesticide drift.
(5)
Performing aerial application.
The applicator must demonstrate competency in performing an aerial pesticide application, including all of the following:
(i) Selecting a flight altitude that minimizes streaking and off-target pesticide drift.
(ii) Choosing a flight pattern that ensures applicator and bystander safety and proper application.
(iii) The importance of engaging and disengaging spray precisely when entering and exiting a predetermined swath pattern.
(iv) Tools available to mark swaths, such as global positioning systems and flags.
(g)
Private applicator minimum age.
A private applicator must be at least 18 years old.
(h)
Private applicator competency.
The competency of each candidate for private applicator certification must be established by the certifying authority based upon the certification standards set forth in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section in order to assure that private applicators have the competency to use and supervise the use of restricted use pesticides in accordance with applicable State, Tribal, and Federal laws and regulations. The certifying authority must use either a written examination process as described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section or a non-examination training process as described in paragraph (h)(2) of this section to assure the competency of private applicators in regard to the general certification standards applicable to all private applicators outlined in paragraph (a) of this section, and, if applicable, the specific standards for the each of the categories outlined in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section in which a private applicator is to be certified.
(1)
Determination of competency by examination.
If the certifying authority uses an examination process to determine the competency of private applicators, the examination process must meet all of the requirements of § 171.103(a)(2).
(2)
Training for competency without examination.
Any candidate for certification as a private applicator may complete a training program approved by the certifying authority to establish competency. A training program to establish private applicator competency must conform to all of the following criteria:
(i)
Identification.
Each person seeking certification must present a valid, government-issued photo identification, or other form of similarly reliable identification authorized by the certifying authority, to the certifying authority or designated representative as proof of identity and age at the time of the training program to be eligible for certification.
(ii)
Training programs for private applicator general certification and category certification.
(A) The training program for general private applicator certification must cover the competency standards outlined in paragraph (a) of
this section in sufficient detail to allow the private applicator to demonstrate practical knowledge of the principles and practices of pest control and proper and effective use of restricted use pesticides.
(B) The training program for each relevant category for private applicator certification must cover the competency standards outlined in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section in sufficient detail to allow the private applicator to demonstrate practical knowledge of the principles and practices of pest control and proper and effective use of restricted use pesticides for each category in which he or she intends to apply restricted use pesticides, and must be in addition to the training program required for general private applicator certification.
(i)
Exceptions.
The requirements in § 171.105(a)-(h) of this part do not apply to the following persons:
(1) Persons conducting laboratory research involving restricted use pesticides.
(2) Doctors of Medicine and Doctors of Veterinary Medicine applying restricted use pesticides to patients during the course of the ordinary practice of those professions.
§ 171.107
Standards for recertification of certified applicators.
(a)
Maintenance of continued competency.
Each commercial and private applicator certification shall expire five years after issuance, unless the applicator is recertified in accordance with this section. A certifying authority may establish a shorter certification period. In order for a certified applicator's certification to continue without interruption, the certified applicator must be recertified under this section before the expiration of his or her current certification.
(b)
Process for recertification.
Minimum standards for recertification by written examination, or through continuing education programs, are as follows:
(1)
Written examination.
A certified applicator may be found eligible for recertification upon passing a written examination approved by the certifying authority and that is designed to evaluate whether the certified applicator demonstrates the level of competency required by § 171.103 for commercial applicators or § 171.105 for private applicators. The examination shall conform to the applicable standards for examinations set forth in § 171.103(a)(2) of this part.
(2)
Continuing education programs.
A certified applicator may be found eligible for recertification upon successfully completing a continuing education program pursuant to the certifying authority's EPA-approved certification plan.
(i) The quantity, content, and quality of a continuing education program to maintain applicator certification must be sufficient to ensure the applicator continues to demonstrate the level of competency required by § 171.103 for commercial applicators or § 171.105 for private applicators.
(ii) Any continuing education course or event relied upon for applicator recertification must be approved by the certifying authority as being suitable for its purpose in the certifying authority's recertification process.
(iii) A certifying authority must ensure that any continuing education course or event, including an online or other distance education course or event, relied upon for applicator recertification includes a process to verify the applicator's successful completion of the course or event.

# Subpart C—Supervision of Noncertified Applicators

# Source:
82 FR 1040, Jan. 4, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 171.201
Requirements for direct supervision of noncertified applicators by certified applicators.
(a)
Applicability.
This section applies to any certified applicator who allows or relies on a noncertified applicator to use a restricted use pesticide under the certified applicator's direct supervision.
(b)
General requirements.
(1) Requirements for the certified applicator.
(i) The certified applicator must have a practical knowledge of applicable Federal, State and Tribal supervisory
requirements, including any requirements on the product label and labeling, regarding the use of restricted use pesticides by noncertified applicators.
(ii) The certified applicator must be certified in each category as set forth in §§ 171.101 and 171.105(a) through (f) applicable to the supervised pesticide use.
(2) Requirements for the noncertified applicator. The certified applicator must ensure that each noncertified applicator using a restricted use pesticide under his or her direct supervision meets all of the following requirements before using a restricted use pesticide:
(i) The noncertified applicator has satisfied the qualification requirements under paragraph (c) of this section.
(ii) The noncertified applicator has been instructed within the last 12 months in the safe operation of any equipment he or she will use for mixing, loading, transferring, or applying pesticides.
(iii) The noncertified applicator has met the minimum age required to use restricted use pesticides under the supervision of a certified applicator. A noncertified applicator must be at least 18 years old, except that a noncertified applicator must be at least 16 years old if all of the following requirements are met:
(A) The noncertified applicator is using the restricted use pesticide under the direct supervision of a private applicator who is an immediate family member.
(B) The restricted use pesticide is not a fumigant, sodium cyanide, or sodium fluoroacetate.
(C) The noncertified applicator is not applying the restricted use pesticide aerially.
(3) Use-specific conditions that must be met in order for a noncertified applicator to use a restricted use pesticide. The certified applicator must ensure that all of the following requirements are met before allowing a noncertified applicator to use a restricted use pesticide under his or her direct supervision:
(i) The certified applicator must ensure that the noncertified applicator has access to the applicable product labeling at all times during its use.
(ii) Where the labeling of a pesticide product requires that personal protective equipment be worn for mixing, loading, application, or any other use activities, the certified applicator must ensure that any noncertified applicator has clean, labeling-required personal protective equipment in proper operating condition and that the personal protective equipment is worn and used correctly for its intended purpose.
(iii) The certified applicator must provide to each noncertified applicator before use of a restricted use pesticide instructions specific to the site and pesticide used. These instructions must include labeling directions, precautions, and requirements applicable to the specific use and site, and how the characteristics of the use site (e.g., surface and ground water, endangered species, local population) and the conditions of application (e.g., equipment, method of application, formulation) might increase or decrease the risk of adverse effects. The certified applicator must provide this information in a manner that the noncertified applicator can understand.
(iv) The certified applicator must ensure that before each day of use equipment used for mixing, loading, transferring, or applying pesticides is in proper operating condition as intended by the manufacturer, and can be used without risk of reasonably foreseeable adverse effects to the noncertified applicator, other persons, or the environment.
(v) The certified applicator must ensure that a means to immediately communicate with the certified applicator is available to each noncertified applicator using restricted use pesticides under his or her direct supervision.
(vi) The certified applicator must be physically present at the site of the use being supervised when required by the product labeling.
(vii) If the certified applicator is a commercial applicator, the certified applicator must create or verify the existence of the records required by paragraph (e) of this section.
(c)
Noncertified applicator qualifications.
Before any noncertified applicator uses a restricted use pesticide
under the direct supervision of the certified applicator, the supervising certified applicator must ensure that the noncertified applicator has met at least one of the following qualifications:
(1) The noncertified applicator has been trained in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section within the last 12 months.
(2) The noncertified applicator has met the training requirements for an agricultural handler under 40 CFR 170.501 of this title within the last 12 months.
(3) The noncertified applicator has met the requirements established by a certifying authority that meet or exceed the standards in § 171.201(c)(1).
(4) The noncertified applicator is currently a certified applicator but is not certified to perform the type of application being conducted or is not certified in the jurisdiction where the use will take place.
(d)
Noncertified applicator training program.
(1) General noncertified applicator training must be presented to noncertified applicators either orally from written materials or audiovisually. The information must be presented in a manner that the noncertified applicators can understand, such as through a translator. The person conducting the training must be present during the entire training program and must respond to the noncertified applicators' questions.
(2) The person who conducts the training must meet one of the following criteria:
(i) Be currently certified as an applicator of restricted use pesticides under this part.
(ii) Be currently designated as a trainer of certified applicators or pesticide handlers by EPA, the certifying authority, or a State, Tribal, or Federal agency having jurisdiction.
(iii) Have completed an EPA-approved pesticide safety train-the-trainer program for trainers of handlers under 40 CFR part 170.
(3) The noncertified applicator training materials must include the information that noncertified applicators need in order to protect themselves, other people, and the environment before, during, and after making a restricted use pesticide application. The noncertified applicator training materials must include, at a minimum, the following:
(i) Potential hazards from toxicity and exposure that pesticides present to noncertified applicators and their families, including acute and chronic effects, delayed effects, and sensitization.
(ii) Routes through which pesticides can enter the body.
(iii) Signs and symptoms of common types of pesticide poisoning.
(iv) Emergency first aid for pesticide injuries or poisonings.
(v) Routine and emergency decontamination procedures, including emergency eye flushing techniques. Noncertified applicators must be instructed that if pesticides are spilled or sprayed on the body, to immediately wash or to rinse off in the nearest clean water. Noncertified applicators must also be instructed to wash or shower with soap and water, shampoo hair, and change into clean clothes as soon as possible.
(vi) How and when to obtain emergency medical care.
(vii) After working with pesticides, wash hands before eating, drinking, using chewing gum or tobacco, or using the toilet.
(viii) Wash or shower with soap and water, shampoo hair and change into clean clothes as soon as possible after working with pesticides.
(ix) Potential hazards from pesticide residues on clothing.
(x) Wash work clothes before wearing them again and wash them separately from other clothes.
(xi) Do not take pesticides or pesticide containers used at work to your home.
(xii) Potential hazards to children and pregnant women from pesticide exposure.
(xiii) After working with pesticides, remove work boots or shoes before entering your home, and remove work clothes and wash or shower before physical contact with children or family members.
(xiv) How to report suspected pesticide use violations to the appropriate State or Tribal agency responsible for pesticide enforcement.
(xv) Format and meaning of information contained on pesticide labels and in labeling applicable to the safe use of the pesticide, including the location and meaning of the restricted use product statement, how to identify when the labeling requires the certified applicator to be physically present during the use of the pesticide, and information on personal protective equipment.
(xvi) Need for, and appropriate use and removal of, personal protective equipment.
(xvii) How to recognize, prevent, and provide first aid treatment for heat-related illness.
(xviii) Safety requirements for handling, transporting, storing, and disposing of pesticides, including general procedures for spill cleanup.
(xix) Environmental concerns such as drift, runoff, and wildlife hazards.
(xx) Restricted use pesticides may be used only by a certified applicator or by a noncertified applicator working under the direct supervision of a certified applicator.
(xxi) The certified applicator's responsibility to provide to each noncertified applicator instructions specific to the site and pesticide used. These instructions must include labeling directions, precautions, and requirements applicable to the specific use and site, and how the characteristics of the use site (e.g., surface and ground water, endangered species, local population, and risks) and the conditions of application (e.g., equipment, method of application, formulation, and risks) might increase or decrease the risk of adverse effects. The certified applicator must provide these instructions in a manner the noncertified applicator can understand.
(xxii) The certified applicator's responsibility to ensure that each noncertified applicator has access to the applicable product labeling at all times during its use.
(xxiii) The certified applicator's responsibility to ensure that where the labeling of a pesticide product requires that personal protective equipment be worn for mixing, loading, application, or any other use activities, each noncertified applicator has clean, labeling-required personal protective equipment in proper operating condition and that the personal protective equipment is worn and use correctly for its intended purpose.
(xxiv) The certified applicator's responsibility to ensure that before each day of use equipment used for mixing, loading, transferring, or applying pesticides is in proper operating condition as intended by the manufacturer, and can be used without risk of reasonably foreseeable adverse effects to the noncertified applicator, other persons, or the environment.
(xxv) The certified applicator's responsibility to ensure that a means to immediately communicate with the certified applicator is available to each noncertified applicator using restricted use pesticides under his or her direct supervision.
(e)
Recordkeeping.
(1) Commercial applicators must create or verify the existence of records documenting that each noncertified applicator has the qualifications required in paragraph (c) of this section. For each noncertified applicator, the records must contain the information appropriate to the method of qualification as provided in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(iv).
(i) If the noncertified applicator was trained in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the record must contain all of the following information:
(A) The noncertified applicator's printed name and signature.
(B) The date the training requirement in paragraph (c) of this section was met.
(C) The name of the person who provided the training.
(D) The title or a description of the training provided.
(ii) If the noncertified applicator was trained as an agricultural handler under 40 CFR 170.501 in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the record must contain all of the information required at 40 CFR 170.501(d)(1).
(iii) If the noncertified applicator qualified by satisfying the requirements established by the certifying authority, as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the record must contain the information required by the certifying authority.
(iv) If the noncertified applicator is a certified applicator who is not certified
to perform the type of application being conducted or not certified in the jurisdiction where the use will take place, as described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the record must include all of the following information:
(A) The noncertified applicator's name.
(B) The noncertified applicator's certification number.
(C) The expiration date of the noncertified applicator's certification.
(D) The certifying authority that issued the certification.
(2) The commercial applicator must create or verify the existence of the record containing the information in paragraph (e)(1) of this section before allowing the noncertified applicator to use restricted use pesticides under his or her direct supervision.
(3) The commercial applicator supervising any noncertified applicator must have access to records documenting the information required in paragraph (e)(1) of this section at the commercial applicator's principal place of business for two years from the date the noncertified applicator used the restricted use pesticide.
(f)
Exceptions.
The requirements in § 171.201(a) through (e) of this part do not apply to the following persons:
(1) Persons conducting laboratory research involving restricted use pesticides.
(2) Doctors of Medicine and Doctors of Veterinary Medicine applying restricted use pesticides to patients during the course of the ordinary practice of those professions.

# Subpart D—Certification Plans

# Source:
82 FR 1042, Jan. 4, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 171.301
General.
(a)
Jurisdiction.
A certification issued under a particular certifying authority's certification plan is only valid within the geographical area specified in the certification plan approved by the Agency.
§ 171.303
Requirements for State certification plans.
(a)
Conformance with Federal standards for certification of applicators of restricted use pesticides.
A State may certify applicators of restricted use pesticides only in accordance with a State certification plan approved by the Agency. The State certification plan must meet all of the following requirements:
(1) The State certification plan must include a full description of the proposed process the State will use to assess applicator competency to use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides in the State.
(2) The State certification plan must specify which of the certification categories listed in § 171.101 will be included in the plan.
(i) A State certification plan may omit any unneeded certification categories.
(ii) A State certification plan may designate subcategories within the categories described in §§ 171.101 and 171.105(b) through (f) as it deems necessary.
(iii) A State certification plan may include additional certification categories not covered by the existing Federal categories described in §§ 171.101 and 171.105(b)-(f).
(iv) A State certification plan may combine the categories described in § 171.101(m) through (n) into a single general fumigation category for commercial applicators.
(v) A State certification plan may combine the categories described in § 171.105(d) through (e) into a single general fumigation category for private applicators.
(3) For each of the categories adopted pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the State certification plan must include standards for the certification of applicators of restricted use pesticides that meet or exceed those standards prescribed by the Agency under §§ 171.101 through 171.105, except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(4) A State may adopt a limited use category for commercial applicators. A limited use category covers a small number of commercial applicators engaged in a use that does not clearly fit within any of the commercial applicator categories specified pursuant to
paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and allows only the use of a limited set of restricted use pesticides by specific application methods. A State adopting a limited use category must include all of the following in its certification plan:
(i) A definition of the limited use category, specifying the restricted use pesticide(s), use sites, and specific application methods permitted.
(ii) An explanation of why it is not practical to include the limited use within any of the commercial applicator categories specified pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(iii) A requirement that candidates for certification in a limited use category pass the written examination covering the core standards at § 171.103(c) and demonstrate practical knowledge of the principles and practices of pest control and proper and effective use of restricted use pesticide(s) covered by the limited use category.
(iv) Specific competency standards for the limited use category.
(v) The process by which applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of the principles and practices of pest control and proper and effective use of the restricted use pesticides authorized under the limited use category based on the competency standards identified in paragraph (a)(4)(iv) of this section. This does not have to be accomplished by a written examination.
(vi) A description of the recertification standards for the limited use category and how those standards meet or exceed the standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.107.
(vii) A description of the limited use certification credential. The credential must clearly state that the applicator is only authorized to purchase and use the specific restricted use pesticide(s) identified in that credential.
(5) The State certification plan must include standards for certification examinations that meet or exceed the standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.103(a)(2), including a description of any alternative identification that a State will authorize in addition to a valid, government-issued photo identification.
(6) The State certification plan must include standards for the recertification of applicators of restricted use pesticides that meet or exceed those standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.107.
(7) The State certification plan must include standards for the direct supervision of noncertified applicators by certified private and commercial applicators of restricted use pesticides that meet or exceed those standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.201, or must state that use by noncertified applicators is not permitted.
(8) The State certification plan must describe the credentials or documents the State certifying authority will issue to each certified applicator verifying certification.
(9) A State may waive any or all of the procedures specified in §§ 171.103, 171.105, and 171.107 of this part when certifying applicators in reliance on valid current certifications issued by another State, Tribal, or Federal agency under an EPA-approved certification plan. The State certification plan must explain whether, and if so, under what circumstances, the State will certify applicators based in whole or in part on their holding a valid current certification issued by another State, Tribe or Federal agency. Such certifications are subject to all of the following conditions:
(i) A State may rely only on valid current certifications that are issued under an approved State, Tribal or Federal agency certification plan.
(ii) The State has examined the standards of competency used by the State, Tribe, or Federal agency that originally certified the applicator and has determined that, for each category of certification that will be accepted, they are comparable to its own standards.
(iii) Any State that chooses to certify applicators based, in whole or in part, on the applicator having been certified by another State, Tribe, or Federal agency, must include in its plan a mechanism that allows the State to terminate an applicator's certification upon notification that the applicator's original certification terminates because the certificate holder has been convicted under section 14(b) of FIFRA
or has been subject to a final order imposing a civil penalty under section 14(a) of FIFRA.
(iv) The State issuing a certification based in whole or in part on the applicator holding a valid current certification issued by another State, Tribe or Federal agency must issue an appropriate State credential or document to the applicator.
(b)
Contents of an application for EPA approval of a State plan for certification of applicators of restricted use pesticides.
(1) The application for Agency approval of a State certification plan must list and describe the categories of certification.
(2) The application for Agency approval of a State certification plan must contain satisfactory documentation that the State standards for the certification of commercial applicators meet or exceed those standards prescribed by the Agency under §§ 171.101 and 171.103. Such documentation must include one of the following:
(i) A statement that the State has adopted the same standards for certification of commercial applicators prescribed by the Agency under §§ 171.101 and 171.103 and a citation of the specific State laws and/or regulations demonstrating that the State has adopted such standards.
(ii) A statement that the State has adopted its own standards that meet or exceed the standards for certification of commercial applicators prescribed by the Agency under §§ 171.101 and 171.103. If the State selects this option, the application for Agency approval of a State certification plan must include all of the following:
(A) A list and detailed description of all the categories and subcategories to be used for certification of commercial applicators in the State and a citation to the specific State laws and/or regulations demonstrating that the State has adopted such categories and subcategories.
(B) A list and detailed description of all of the standards for certification of commercial applicators adopted by the State and a citation to the specific State laws and/or regulations demonstrating that the State has adopted such standards. Any additional categories or subcategories established by a State must be included in the application for Agency approval of a State plan and must clearly describe the standards the State will use to determine if the applicator has the necessary competency.
(C) A description of the State's commercial applicator certification examination standards and an explanation of how they meet or exceed the standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.103(a)(2).
(3) The application for Agency approval of a State certification plan must contain satisfactory documentation that the State standards for the certification of private applicators meet or exceed those standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.105. Such documentation must include a statement that the State has adopted its own standards that meet or exceed the standards for certification of private applicators of restricted use pesticides prescribed by the Agency under § 171.105. The application for Agency approval of a State certification plan must include all of the following:
(i) A list and detailed description of all the categories and subcategories to be used for certification of private applicators in the State and a citation to the specific State laws and/or regulations demonstrating that the State has adopted such categories and subcategories.
(ii) A list and detailed description of all of the standards for certification of private applicators adopted by the State and a citation to the specific State laws and/or regulations demonstrating that the State has adopted such standards. Any additional categories or subcategories established by a State must be identified in the application for Agency approval of a State plan and the application must clearly describe the standards the State will use to determine if the applicator has the necessary competency.
(iii) If private applicator certification is based upon written examination, a description of the State's private applicator certification examination standards and an explanation of how those meet or exceed the standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.103(a)(2).
(iv) If private applicator certification is based upon training, an explanation of how the quantity, content, and quality of the State's training program ensure that a private applicator demonstrates the level of competency required § 171.105 for private applicators, addressing, at the minimum, all of the following factors:
(A) The quantity of training required to become certified as a private applicator.
(B) The content that is covered by the training and how the State ensures that required content is covered.
(C) The process the State uses to approve training programs for private applicator certification.
(D) How the State ensures the ongoing quality of the training program for private applicator certification.
(4) The application for Agency approval of a State certification plan must contain satisfactory documentation that the State standards for the recertification of applicators of restricted use pesticides meet or exceed those standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.107. Such documentation must include a statement that the State has adopted its own standards that meet or exceed the standards for recertification prescribed by the Agency under § 171.107. The application for Agency approval of a State certification plan must include all of the following:
(i) A list and detailed description of all of the State standards for recertification of private and commercial applicators, including the elements described in § 171.303(b)(4)(ii) through (iv), and a citation of the specific State laws and/or regulations demonstrating that the State has adopted such standards.
(ii) The certification period, which may not exceed five years.
(iii) If recertification is based upon written examination, a description of the State's process for reviewing, and updating as necessary, the written examination(s) to ensure that the written examination(s) evaluates whether a certified applicator demonstrates the level of competency required by § 171.103 for commercial applicators or § 171.105 for private applicators.
(iv) If recertification is based upon continuing education, an explanation of how the quantity, content, and quality of the State's continuing education program ensures that a certified applicator continues to demonstrate the level of competency required by § 171.103 for commercial applicators or § 171.105 for private applicators, including but not limited to:
(A) The quantity of continuing education required to maintain certification.
(B) The content that is covered by the continuing education program and how the State ensures the required content is covered.
(C) The process the State uses to approve continuing education courses or events, including information about how the State ensures that any continuing education courses or events verify the applicator's successful completion of the course or event.
(D) How the State ensures the ongoing quality of the continuing education program.
(5) The application for Agency approval of a State certification plan must contain satisfactory documentation that the State standards for the direct supervision of noncertified applicators by certified private and commercial applicators of restricted use pesticides meet or exceed those standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.201. Such documentation may include one or more of the following as applicable:
(i) A statement that the State has adopted the standards for direct supervision of noncertified applicators by certified private and/or commercial applicators prescribed by the Agency under § 171.201 and a citation of the specific State laws and/or regulations demonstrating that the State has adopted such standards.
(ii) A statement that the State prohibits noncertified applicators from using restricted use pesticides under the direct supervision of certified private and/or commercial applicators, and a citation of the specific State laws and/or regulations demonstrating that the State has adopted such a prohibition.
(iii) A statement that the State has adopted standards for direct supervision of noncertified applicators by certified private and/or commercial applicators that meet or exceed the standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.201, a citation of the specific State laws and/or regulations demonstrating that the State has adopted such standards, and an explanation of how the State standards meet or exceed the standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.201.
(6) The application for Agency approval of a State certification plan must include all of the following:
(i) A written statement by the Governor of the State designating a lead agency responsible for administering the State certification plan. The lead agency will serve as the central contact point for the Agency. The State certification plan must identify the primary point of contact at the lead agency responsible for administering the State certification plan and serving as the central contact for the Agency on any issues related to the State certification plan. In the event that more than one agency or organization will be responsible for performing functions under the State certification plan, the application for Agency approval of a State plan must identify all such agencies and organizations and list the functions to be performed by each, including compliance monitoring and enforcement responsibilities. The application for Agency approval of a State plan must indicate how these functions will be coordinated by the lead agency to ensure consistency of the administration of the State certification plan.
(ii) A written opinion from the State attorney general or from the legal counsel of the State lead agency that states that the lead agency and other cooperating agencies have the legal authority necessary to carry out the State certification plan.
(iii) A listing of the qualified personnel that the lead agency and any cooperating agencies or organizations have to carry out the State certification plan. The list must include the number of staff, job titles, and job functions of such personnel of the lead agency and any cooperating organizations.
(iv) A commitment by the State that the lead agency and any cooperators will ensure sufficient resources are available to carry out the applicator certification program as detailed in the State certification plan.
(v) A document outlining the State's proposed approach and anticipated timeframe for implementing the State certification plan after EPA approves the State certification plan.
(7) The application for Agency approval of a State certification plan must include a complete copy of all State laws and regulations relevant to the State certification plan. In addition, the application for Agency approval of a State plan must include citations to the specific State laws and regulations that demonstrate specific legal authority for each of the following:
(i) Provisions for and listing of the acts which would constitute grounds for denying, suspending, and revoking certification of applicators. Such grounds must include, at a minimum, misuse of a pesticide, falsification of any records required to be maintained by the certified applicator, a criminal conviction under section 14(b) of FIFRA, a final order imposing civil penalty under section 14(a) of FIFRA, and conclusion of a State enforcement action for violations of State laws or regulations relevant to the State certification plan.
(ii) Provisions for reviewing, and where appropriate, suspending or revoking an applicator's certification based on any of the grounds listed in the plan pursuant to paragraph (b)(7)(i) of this section, or a criminal conviction under section 14(b) of FIFRA, a final order imposing civil penalty under section 14(a) of FIFRA, or conclusion of a State enforcement action for violations of State laws or regulations relevant to the State certification plan.
(iii) Provisions for assessing criminal and civil penalties for violations of State laws or regulations relevant to the State certification plan.
(iv) Provisions for right of entry by consent or warrant by State officials at reasonable times for sampling, inspection, and observation purposes.
(v) Provisions making it unlawful for persons other than certified applicators or noncertified applicators working under a certified applicator's direct supervision to use restricted use pesticides.
(vi) Provisions requiring certified commercial applicators to record and maintain for the period of at least two years routine operational records containing information on types, amounts, uses, dates, and places of application of restricted use pesticides and for ensuring that such records will be available to appropriate State officials. Such provisions must require commercial applicators to record and maintain, at a minimum, all of the following:
(A) The name and address of the person for whom the restricted use pesticide was applied.
(B) The location of the restricted use pesticide application.
(C) The size of the area treated.
(D) The crop, commodity, stored product, or site to which the restricted use pesticide was applied.
(E) The time and date of the restricted use pesticide application.
(F) The brand or product name of the restricted use pesticide applied.
(G) The EPA registration number of the restricted use pesticide applied.
(H) The total amount of the restricted use pesticide applied per location per application.
(I) The name and certification number of the certified applicator that made or supervised the application, and, if applicable, the name of any noncertified applicator(s) that made the application under the direct supervision of the certified applicator.
(J) Records required under § 171.201(e).
(vii) Provisions requiring restricted use pesticide retail dealers to record and maintain at each individual dealership, for the period of at least two years, records of each transaction where a restricted use pesticide is distributed or sold to any person, excluding transactions solely between persons who are pesticide producers, registrants, wholesalers, or retail sellers, acting only in those capacities. Records of each such transaction must include all of the following information:
(A) Name and address of the residence or principal place of business of each certified applicator to whom the restricted use pesticide was distributed or sold, or if applicable, the name and address of the residence or principal place of business of each noncertified person to whom the restricted use pesticide was distributed or sold for application by a certified applicator.
(B) The certification number on the certification document presented to the seller evidencing the valid certification of the certified applicator authorized to purchase the restricted use pesticide, the State, Tribe or Federal agency that issued the certification document, the expiration date of the certified applicator's certification, and the category(ies) in which the applicator is certified relevant to the pesticide(s) sold.
(C) The product name and EPA registration number of the restricted use pesticide(s) distributed or sold in the transaction, including any applicable emergency exemption or State special local need registration number.
(D) The quantity of the restricted use pesticide(s) distributed or sold in the transaction.
(E) The date of the transaction.
(c)
Requirement to submit reports to the Agency.
The State must agree to submit the following reports to the Agency in a manner and containing the information that the Agency requires:
(1) An annual report to be submitted by the State lead agency to the Agency by the date established by the Agency that includes all of the following information:
(i) The number of new general private applicator certifications and recertifications issued during the last 12 month reporting period, and total number of applicators holding a valid general private applicator certification at the end of the last 12 month reporting period.
(ii) For each private applicator category specified in the certification plan, the numbers of new certifications and recertifications issued during the last 12 month reporting period, and the total number holding valid certifications in each category at the end of the last 12 month reporting period.
(iii) The numbers of new commercial applicator certifications and recertifications issued during the last 12 month reporting period, and the total number of applicators certified in at least one commercial applicator certification category at the end of the last 12 month reporting period.
(iv) For each commercial applicator certification category or subcategory specified in the certification plan, the numbers of new certifications and recertifications issued during the last 12 month reporting period, and the total number of commercial applicators holding a valid certification in each category or subcategory at the end of the last 12 month reporting period.
(v) A description of any modifications made to the approved certification plan during the last 12 month reporting period that have not been previously evaluated by the Agency under § 171.309(a)(3).
(vi) A description of any proposed changes to the certification plan that the State anticipates making during the next reporting period that may affect the certification program.
(vii) A summary of enforcement activities related to the use of restricted use pesticides during the last 12 month reporting period.
(2) Any other reports reasonably required by the Agency in its oversight of restricted use pesticides.
§ 171.305
Requirements for Federal agency certification plans.
(a) A Federal agency may certify applicators of restricted use pesticides only in accordance with a Federal agency certification plan approved by the Agency. Certification must be limited to the employees of the Federal agency covered by the certification plan and will be valid only for those uses of restricted use pesticides conducted in the performance of the employees' official duties.
(1) The Federal agency certification plan must include a full description of the proposed process the Federal agency will use to assess applicator competency to use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides.
(2) Employees certified by the Federal agency must meet the standards for commercial applicators.
(3) The Federal agency certification plan must list and describe the categories of certification from the certification categories listed in § 171.101 that will be included in the plan except that:
(i) A Federal agency certification plan may omit any unneeded certification categories.
(ii) A Federal agency certification plan may designate subcategories within the categories described in § 171.101 as it deems necessary.
(iii) A Federal agency certification plan may include additional certification categories not covered by the existing Federal categories described in § 171.101.
(iv) A Federal agency certification plan may combine the categories described in § 171.101(m) through (n) into a single general fumigation category for commercial applicators.
(4) For each of the categories adopted pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Federal agency plan must include standards for the certification of applicators of restricted use pesticides that meet or exceed those standards prescribed by the Agency under §§ 171.101 through 171.103, except as provided at paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(5) A Federal agency may adopt a limited use category for commercial applicators. A limited use category covers a small number of applicators engaged in a use that does not clearly fit within any of the categories in § 171.101, and allows only the use of a limited set of restricted use pesticides by specific application methods. A Federal agency adopting a limited use category must include all of the following in its certification plan:
(i) A definition of the limited use category, specifying the restricted use pesticide(s), use sites, and specific application methods permitted.
(ii) An explanation of why it is not practical to include the limited use category in any of the categories in § 171.101.
(iii) A requirement that candidates for certification in a limited use category pass the written examination covering the core standards at § 171.103(c) and demonstrate practical
knowledge of the principles and practices of pest control and proper and effective use of restricted use pesticide(s) covered by the limited use category.
(iv) Specific competency standards for the limited use category.
(v) The process by which applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of the principles and practices of pest control and proper and effective use of restricted use pesticides covered by the limited use category based on the competency standards identified in paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section. This does not have to be accomplished by a written examination.
(vi) A description of the recertification standards for the limited use category and how those standards meet or exceed the standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.107.
(vii) A description of the limited use certification credential. The credential must clearly state that the applicator is only authorized to purchase and use the specific restricted use pesticide(s) identified in that credential.
(6) The Federal agency standards for certification examinations must meet or exceed the standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.103(a)(2), including a description of any alternative identification that the Federal agency will authorize in addition to a valid, government-issued photo identification.
(7) The Federal agency standards for the recertification of applicators of restricted use pesticides must meet or exceed those standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.107.
(8) The Federal agency standards for the direct supervision of noncertified applicators by certified private and commercial applicators of restricted use pesticides must meet or exceed those standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.201.
(9) The Federal agency certification plan must describe the credentials or documents the Federal agency will issue to each certified applicator verifying certification of applicators.
(10) A Federal agency may waive any or all of the procedures specified in §§ 171.103, 171.105, and 171.107 of this part when certifying applicators in reliance on valid current certifications issued by another State, Tribal, or Federal agency under an EPA-approved certification plan. The Federal agency certification plan must explain whether, and if so, under what circumstances, the Federal agency will certify applicators based in whole or in part on their holding a valid current certification issued by another State, Tribe or Federal agency. Such certifications are subject to all of the conditions listed at § 171.303(a)(9).
(b)
Contents of an application for EPA approval of a Federal agency plan for certification of applicators of restricted use pesticides.
(1) The application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must list and describe the categories of certification.
(2) The application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must contain satisfactory documentation that the Federal agency standards for certification of commercial applicators meet or exceed those standards prescribed by the Agency under §§ 171.101 and 171.103. Such a statement must include one of the following:
(i) A statement that the Federal agency has adopted the same standards for certification prescribed by the Agency under §§ 171.101 through 171.103.
(ii) A statement that the Federal agency has adopted its own standards that meet or exceed the standards for certification prescribed by the Agency under §§ 171.101 through 171.103. If the Federal agency selects this option, the application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must include all of the following:
(A) A list and detailed description of all the categories and subcategories to be used for certification of commercial applicators.
(B) A list and detailed description of all of the standards for certification of commercial applicators adopted by the Federal agency. Any additional categories or subcategories established by a Federal agency must be included in the application for Agency approval of a Federal agency plan and must clearly describe the standards the Federal agency will use to determine if the applicator has the necessary competency.
(C) A description of the Federal agency's certification examination standards and an explanation of how those
meet or exceed the standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.103(a)(2).
(3) The application for Agency approval of a Federal agency plan must contain satisfactory documentation that the Federal agency standards for recertification of commercial applicators of restricted use pesticides meet or exceed the standards for recertification prescribed by the Agency under § 171.107. Such documentation must include a statement that the Federal agency has adopted its own standards that meet or exceed the standards for recertification prescribed by the Agency under § 171.107. The application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must include all of the following:
(i) A list and detailed description of all the standards for recertification adopted by the Federal agency.
(ii) The certification period, which may not exceed five years.
(iii) If recertification is based upon written examination, a description of the Federal agency's process for reviewing, and updating as necessary, the written examination(s) and to ensure that the written examination(s) evaluate whether a commercial applicator demonstrates the level of competency required by § 171.103.
(iv) If recertification is based upon continuing education, an explanation of how the quantity, content and quality of the Federal agency's continuing education program ensure that a commercial applicator continues to demonstrate the level of competency required by § 171.103 for commercial applicators, including but not limited to, all of the following:
(A) The quantity of continuing education required to maintain certification.
(B) The content that is covered by the continuing education program and how the Federal agency ensures the relevant content is covered.
(C) The process the Federal agency uses to approve continuing education training courses or events, including information about how the Federal agency ensures that any continuing education courses or events verify the commercial applicator's successful completion of the course or event.
(D) How the Federal agency ensures the ongoing quality of the continuing education program.
(4) The application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must contain satisfactory documentation that the Federal agency standards for direct supervision of noncertified applicators by commercial applicators meet or exceed those standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.201. Such documentation may include one or more of the following as applicable:
(i) A statement that the Federal agency has adopted the standards for direct supervision of noncertified applicators by commercial applicators prescribed by the Agency under § 171.201.
(ii) A statement that the Federal agency prohibits noncertified applicators from using restricted use pesticides under the direct supervision of commercial applicators.
(iii) A statement that the Federal agency has adopted standards for direct supervision of noncertified applicators by commercial applicators that meet or exceed the standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.201 and an explanation of how the Federal agency standards meet or exceed the standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.201.
(5) The application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must meet or exceed all of the applicable requirements in § 171.303. However, in place of the legal authorities required in § 171.303(b)(7), the Federal agency may use administrative controls inherent in the employer-employee relationship to accomplish the objectives of § 171.303(b)(7). The application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must include a detailed description of how the Federal agency will exercise its administrative authority, where appropriate to deny, suspend or revoke certificates of employees who misuse pesticides, falsify records, or violate relevant provisions of FIFRA. Similarly, the application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must include a commitment that the Federal agency will record and maintain for the period of at least two years routine operational records containing information
on types, amounts, uses, dates, and places of application of restricted use pesticides and that such records will be available to State and Federal officials. Such recordkeeping requirements must require Federal agency employees certified as commercial applicators to record and maintain, at a minimum, all of the records specified in § 171.303(b)(7)(vi).
(c) The application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must include a commitment by the Federal agency to submit an annual report to the Agency in a manner that the Agency requires that includes all of the following information:
(1) The numbers of new, recertified, and total commercial applicators certified in at least one certification category at the end of the last 12 month reporting period.
(2) For each commercial applicator certification category specified in § 171.101 or subcategory specified in the Federal agency certification plan, the numbers of new, recertified and total commercial applicators holding a valid certification in each of those categories at the end of the last 12 month reporting period.
(3) A description of any modifications made to the approved certification plan during the last 12 month reporting period that have not been previously evaluated under § 171.309(a)(3).
(4) A description of any proposed changes to the certification plan that may affect the certification program that the Federal agency anticipates making during the next reporting period.
(5) A summary of enforcement activities related to use of restricted use pesticides by applicators certified by the Federal agency during the last 12 month reporting period.
(d) The application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must include a commitment by the Federal agency to submit any other reports reasonably required by the Agency in its oversight of the use of restricted use pesticides.
(e) If applicators certified under the Federal agency plan will make any applications of restricted use pesticides in areas that are not subject to exclusive federal jurisdiction, the application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must meet all of the following additional requirements:
(1) The Federal agency plan must have a provision that affirms Federal agency certified applicators will comply with all applicable State and Tribal pesticide laws and regulations of the jurisdiction in which the restricted pesticide is being used when using restricted use pesticides areas that are not subject to exclusive federal jurisdiction, including any substantive State or Tribal standards in regard to qualifications for commercial applicator certification that exceed the Federal agency's standards.
(2) The Federal agency plan must have a provision for the Federal agency to notify the appropriate EPA Regional office and State or Tribal pesticide authority in the event of misuse or suspected misuse of a restricted use pesticide by a Federal agency employee and any pesticide exposure incident involving human or environmental harm that may have been caused by an application of a restricted use pesticide made by a Federal agency employee in an area not subject to exclusive federal jurisdiction.
(3) The Federal agency plan must have a provision for the Federal agency to cooperate with the Agency and the State or Tribal pesticide authority in any investigation or enforcement action undertaken in connection with an application of a restricted use pesticide made by a Federal agency employee in an area not subject to exclusive federal jurisdiction.
§ 171.307
Certification of applicators in Indian country.
All applicators of restricted use pesticides in Indian country must hold a certification valid in that area of Indian country, or be working under the direct supervision of a certified applicator whose certification is valid in that area of Indian country. An Indian Tribe may certify applicators of restricted use pesticides in Indian country only pursuant to a certification plan approved by the Agency that meets the requirements of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. The Agency
may implement a Federal certification plan, pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section and § 171.311, for an area of Indian country not covered by an approved plan.
(a) An Indian Tribe may choose to allow persons holding currently valid certifications issued under one or more specified State, Tribal, or Federal agency certification plans to use restricted use pesticides within the Tribe's Indian country.
(1) A certification plan under paragraph (a) of this section must consist of a written agreement between the Tribe and the relevant EPA Region(s) that contains all of the following information:
(i) A detailed map or legal description of the area(s) of Indian country covered by the plan.
(ii) A listing of the State(s), Tribe(s) or Federal agency(ies) upon whose certifications the Tribe will rely.
(iii) A description of any Tribal law, regulation, or code relating to application of restricted use pesticides in the covered area of Indian country, including a citation to each applicable Tribal law, regulation, or code.
(iv) A description of the procedures and relevant authorities for carrying out compliance monitoring under and enforcement of the plan, including all of the following:
(A) A description of the Agency and Tribal roles and procedures for conducting inspections.
(B) A description of the Agency and Tribal roles and procedures for handling case development and enforcement actions and actions on certifications, including procedures for exchange of information.
(C) A description of the Agency and Tribal roles and procedures for handling complaint referrals.
(v) A description and copy of any separate agreements relevant to administering the certification plan and carrying out related compliance monitoring and enforcement activities. The description shall include a listing of all parties involved in each separate agreement and the respective roles, responsibilities, and relevant authorities of those parties.
(2) To the extent that an Indian Tribe is precluded from exercising criminal enforcement authority, the Federal government will exercise primary criminal enforcement authority in regard to a certification plan under paragraph (a) of this section. The Tribe and the relevant EPA Region(s) shall develop a procedure whereby the Tribe will provide potential investigative leads to EPA and/or other appropriate Federal agencies in an appropriate and timely manner. This procedure shall encompass, at a minimum, all circumstances in which the Tribe is precluded from exercising relevant criminal enforcement authority. This procedure shall be included as part of the agreement between the Tribe and relevant EPA Region(s) described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(3) A plan for the certification of applicators under paragraph (a) of this section shall not be effective until the agreement between the Tribe and the relevant EPA Region(s) has been signed by the Tribe and the appropriate EPA Regional Administrator(s).
(b) An Indian Tribe may choose to develop its own certification plan for certifying private and commercial applicators to use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides.
(1) A certification plan under paragraph (b) of this section shall consist of a written plan submitted by the Tribe to the Agency for approval that includes all of the following information:
(i) A detailed map or legal description of the area(s) of Indian country covered by the plan.
(ii) A demonstration that the plan meets all requirements of § 171.303 applicable to State plans, except that the Tribe's plan will not be required to meet the requirements of § 171.303(b)(6)(iii) with respect to provisions for criminal penalties, or any other requirement for assessing criminal penalties.
(2) To the extent that an Indian Tribe is precluded from exercising criminal enforcement authority, the Federal government will exercise primary criminal enforcement authority in regard to a certification plan under paragraph (b) of this section. The Tribe and the relevant EPA Region(s) shall develop a procedure whereby the Tribe will provide potential investigative leads to EPA and/or other appropriate
Federal agencies in an appropriate and timely manner. This procedure shall encompass, at a minimum, all circumstances in which the Tribe is precluded from exercising relevant criminal enforcement authority and shall be described in a memorandum of agreement signed by the Tribe and the relevant EPA Regional Administrator(s).
(3) A plan for the certification of applicators under paragraph (b) of this section shall not be effective until the memorandum of agreement required under paragraph (b)(2) of this section has been signed by the Tribe and the relevant EPA Region(s) and the plan has been approved by the Agency.
(c) In any area of Indian country not covered by an approved certification plan, the Agency may, in consultation with the Tribe(s) affected, implement an EPA-administered certification plan under § 171.311 for certifying private and commercial applicators to use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides.
(1) Prior to publishing a notice of a proposed EPA-administered certification plan for an area of Indian country in the
Federal Register
for review and comment under § 171.311(d)(3), the Agency shall notify the relevant Indian Tribe(s) of EPA's intent to propose the plan.
(2) The Agency will not implement an EPA-administered certification plan for any area of Indian country where, prior to the expiration of the notice and comment period provided under § 171.311(d)(3), the chairperson or equivalent elected leader of the relevant Tribe provides the Agency with a written statement of the Tribe's position that the plan should not be implemented.
§ 171.309
Modification and withdrawal of approval of certification plans.
(a)
Modifications to approved certification plans.
A State, Tribe, or Federal agency may make modifications to its approved certification plan, provided that all of the following conditions are met:
(1)
Determination of plan compliance.
Before modifying an approved certification plan, the State, Tribe, or Federal agency must determine that the proposed modifications will not impair the certification plan's compliance with the requirements of this part or any other Federal laws or regulations.
(2)
Requirement for Agency notification.
The State, Tribe, or Federal agency must notify the Agency of any plan modifications within 90 days after the final State, Tribal, or Federal agency plan modifications become effective or when it submits its required annual report to the Agency, whichever occurs first.
(3)
Additional requirements for substantial modifications to approved certification plans.
Before making any substantial modifications to an approved certification plan, the State, Tribe or Federal agency must consult with the Agency and obtain Agency approval of the proposed modifications. Substantial modifications include the following:
(i) Addition or deletion of a mechanism for certification and/or recertification.
(ii) Establishment of a new private applicator category, private applicator subcategory, commercial applicator category, or commercial applicator subcategory.
(iii) Any other changes that the Agency has notified the State, Tribal or Federal agency that the Agency considers to be substantial modifications.
(4)
Agency decision.
The Agency shall make a written determination regarding the modified certification plan's compliance with the requirements of this part. The Agency shall give the certifying authority submitting a certification plan notice and opportunity for an informal hearing before rejecting the plan. The Agency's approval may be subject to reasonable terms and conditions. If the Agency approves modifications to a certification plan, that approval shall specify a schedule for implementation of the modified certification plan.
(b)
Withdrawal of approval.
If at any time the Agency determines that a State, Tribal, or Federal agency certification plan does not comply with the requirements of this part or any other Federal laws or regulations, or that a State, Tribal, or Federal agency is not administering the certification plan as approved under this part, or
that a State is not carrying out a program adequate to ensure compliance with FIFRA section 19(f), the Agency may withdraw approval of the certification plan. Before withdrawing approval of a certification plan, the Agency will notify the State, Tribal, or Federal agency and provide the opportunity for an informal hearing. If appropriate, the Agency may allow the State, Tribe, or Federal agency a reasonable time, not to exceed 90 days, to take corrective action.
§ 171.311
EPA-administered applicator certification programs.
(a)
Applicability.
This section applies in any State or area of Indian country where there is no approved State or Tribal certification plan in effect.
(b)
Certification requirement.
In any State or area of Indian country where EPA administers a certification plan, any person who uses or supervises the use of any restricted use pesticide must meet one of the following criteria:
(1) A commercial applicator must be certified in each category and subcategory, if any, as described in the EPA-administered plan, for which the applicator is applying or supervising the application of restricted use pesticides.
(2) A private applicator must be certified in each category and subcategory, if any, as described in the EPA-administered plan, for which the applicator is applying or supervising the application of restricted use pesticides.
(3) A noncertified applicator may only use a restricted use pesticide under the direct supervision of an applicator certified under the EPA-administered plan, in accordance with the requirements in § 171.201, and only for uses in categories authorized by that certified applicator's certification.
(c)
Implementation of EPA-administered plans in States.
(1) In any State where this section is applicable, the Agency, in consultation with the Governor, may implement an EPA-administered plan for the certification of applicators of restricted use pesticides.
(2) Such a plan will meet the applicable requirements of § 171.303. Prior to the implementation of the plan, the Agency will publish in the
Federal Register
for review and comment a summary of the proposed EPA-administered plan for the certification of applicators and will generally make available copies of the proposed plan within the State. The summary will include all of the following:
(i) An outline of the proposed procedures and requirements for private and commercial applicator certification and recertification.
(ii) A description of the proposed categories and subcategories for certification.
(iii) A description of any proposed conditions for the recognition of State, Tribal, or Federal agency certifications.
(iv) An outline of the proposed arrangements for coordination and communication between the Agency and the State regarding applicator certifications and pesticide compliance monitoring and enforcement.
(d)
Implementation of EPA-administered plans in Indian country.
(1) In any area of Indian country where this section is applicable and consistent with the provisions of § 171.307(c), the Agency, in consultation with the appropriate Indian Tribe(s), may implement a plan for the certification of applicators of restricted use pesticides.
(2) An EPA-administered plan may be implemented in the Indian country of an individual Tribe or multiple Tribes located within a specified geographic area.
(3) Such a plan will meet the applicable requirements of §§ 171.303 and 171.307(c). Prior to the implementation of the plan, the Agency will publish in the
Federal Register
for review and comment a summary of the proposed EPA-administered plan for the certification of applicators and will generally make available copies of the proposed plan within the area(s) of Indian country to be covered by the proposed plan. The summary will include all of the following:
(i) A description of the area(s) of Indian country to be covered by the proposed plan.
(ii) An outline of the proposed procedures and requirements for private and commercial applicator certification and recertification.
(iii) A description of the proposed categories and subcategories for certification.
(iv) A description of any proposed conditions for the recognition of State, Tribal, or Federal agency certifications.
(v) An outline of the proposed arrangements for coordination and communication between the Agency and the relevant Tribe(s) regarding applicator certifications and pesticide compliance monitoring and enforcement.
(e)
Denial, suspension, modification, or revocation of a certification.
(1) The Agency may suspend all or part of a certified applicator's certification issued under an EPA-administered plan or, after opportunity for a hearing, may deny issuance of, or revoke or modify, an applicator's certification issued under an EPA-administered plan, if the Agency finds that the applicator has been convicted under FIFRA section 14(b), has been subject to a final order imposing a civil penalty under FIFRA section 14(a), or has committed any of the following acts:
(i) Used any registered pesticide in a manner inconsistent with its labeling.
(ii) Made available for use, or used, any registered pesticide classified for restricted use other than in accordance with FIFRA section 3(d) and any regulations promulgated thereunder.
(iii) Refused to keep and maintain any records required pursuant to this section.
(iv) Made false or fraudulent records, invoices or reports.
(v) Failed to comply with any limitations or restrictions on a valid current certificate.
(vi) Violated any other provision of FIFRA and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
(vii) Allowed a noncertified applicator to use a restricted use pesticide in a manner inconsistent with the requirements in § 171.201.
(viii) Violated any provision of a State, Tribal or Federal agency certification plan or its associated laws or regulations.
(2) If the Agency intends to deny, revoke, or modify an applicator's certification, the Agency will:
(i) Notify the applicator of all of the following:
(A) The legal and factual ground(s) upon which the denial, revocation, or modification is based.
(B) The time period during which the denial, revocation or modification is effective, whether permanent or otherwise.
(C) The conditions, if any, under which the applicator may become certified or recertified.
(D) Any additional conditions the Agency may impose.
(ii) Provide the applicator an opportunity to request an informal hearing prior to final Agency action to deny, revoke or modify the certification, and the opportunity to offer written statements of facts, explanations, comments, and arguments relevant to the proposed action.
(3) If a hearing is requested by an applicator pursuant to paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section, the Agency will appoint an attorney in the Agency as Presiding Officer to conduct an informal hearing. No person shall serve as Presiding Officer if he or she has had any prior connection with the specific case.
(4) The Presiding Officer appointed pursuant to paragraph (e)(3) of this section shall do all of the following:
(i) Conduct a fair, orderly and impartial hearing, without unnecessary delay.
(ii) Provide such procedural opportunities as the Presiding Officer may deem necessary to a fair and impartial hearing.
(iii) Consider all relevant evidence, explanation, comment and argument properly submitted.
(iii) Promptly notify the parties of the final decision and order. Such an order is a final Agency action subject to judicial review in accordance with FIFRA section 16.
(5) If the Agency determines that the public health, interest or welfare warrants immediate action to suspend the certified applicator's certification during the course of the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(2) through (e)(4) of this section, the Agency will do all of the following:
(i) Notify the certified applicator of the ground(s) upon which the suspension action is based.
(ii) Notify the certified applicator of the time period during which the suspension is effective.
(iii) Notify the certified applicator of the Agency's intent to revoke or modify the certification, as appropriate, in accord with paragraph (e)(2) of this section. If such revocation or modification notice has not previously been issued, it must be issued at the same time the suspension notice is issued.
(6) In cases where the act constituting grounds for suspension of a certification is neither willful nor contrary to the public interest, health, or safety, the certified applicator may have additional procedural rights under 5 U.S.C. 558(c).
(7) Any notice, decision or order issued by the Agency under paragraph (e) of this section, and any documents and information considered by the Presiding Officer in issuing an order under paragraph (e)(4)(iv) of this section, shall be available to the public except as otherwise provided by FIFRA section 10 or by 40 CFR part 2. Any hearing at which oral testimony is presented shall be open to the public, except that the Presiding Officer may exclude the public to the extent necessary to allow presentation of information that may be entitled to confidentiality under FIFRA section 10 or under 40 CFR part 2.
(f)
Restricted use pesticide retail dealer reporting and recordkeeping requirements, availability of records, and failure to comply
—(1)
Reporting requirements.
Each restricted use pesticide retail dealer in a State or area of Indian country where the Agency implements an EPA-administered plan must do both of the following:
(i) Report to the Agency the business name by which the restricted use pesticide retail dealer operates and the name and business address of each of his or her dealerships. This report must be submitted to the appropriate EPA Regional office no later than 60 days after the EPA-administered plan becomes effective or 60 days after the date the person becomes a restricted use pesticide retail dealer in an area where an EPA-administered plan is in effect, whichever occurs later.
(ii) Submit revisions to the initial report to the appropriate EPA Regional office reflecting any name changes, additions or deletions of dealerships. Revisions must be submitted to the appropriate EPA Regional office within 10 days of the occurrence of such change, addition or deletion.
(2)
Recordkeeping requirement.
A restricted use pesticide retail dealer is required to create and maintain records of each sale of restricted use pesticides to any person, excluding transactions solely between persons who are pesticide producers, registrants, wholesalers, or retail sellers, acting only in those capacities. Each restricted use pesticide retail dealer must maintain at each individual dealership records of each transaction where a restricted use pesticide is distributed or sold by that dealership to any person. Records of each such transaction must be maintained for a period of two years after the date of the transaction and must include all of the following information:
(i) Name and address of the residence or principal place of business of each certified applicator to whom the restricted use pesticide was distributed or sold, or if applicable, the name and address of the residence or principal place of business of each noncertified person to whom the restricted use pesticide was distributed or sold, for application by a certified applicator.
(ii) The certification number on the certification document presented to the seller evidencing the valid certification of the certified applicator authorized to purchase the restricted use pesticide, the State, Tribe or Federal agency that issued the certification document, the expiration date of the certified applicator's certification, and the category(ies) in which the certified applicator is certified relevant to the pesticide(s) sold.
(iii) The product name and EPA registration number of the restricted use pesticide(s) distributed or sold in the transaction, including any emergency exemption or State special local need registration number, if applicable.
(iv) The quantity of the restricted use pesticide(s) distributed or sold in the transaction.
(v) The date of the transaction.
(3)
Availability of required records.
Each restricted use pesticide retail
dealer must, upon request of any authorized officer or employee of the Agency, or other authorized agent or person duly designated by the Agency, furnish or permit such person at all reasonable times to have access to and copy all records required to be maintained under this section.
(4)
Failure to comply.
Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of this section may be subject to civil or criminal sanctions, under FIFRA section 14, or 18 U.S.C. 1001.
Pt. 172

# PART 172—EXPERIMENTAL USE PERMITS

# Subpart A—Federal Issuance of Experimental Use Permits
Sec.
172.1
Definitions.
172.2
General.
172.3
Scope of requirement.
172.4
Applications.
172.5
The permit.
172.6
Labeling.
172.7
Importation of technical material.
172.8
Program surveillance and reporting of data.
172.9
Renewals.
172.10
Refusals to issue and revocation.
172.11
Publication.

# Subpart B—State Issuance of Experimental Use Permits
172.20
Scope.
172.21
Definitions.
172.22
General.
172.23
State plans.
172.24
State issuance of permits.
172.25
Administration of State programs.
172.26
EPA review of permits.

# Subpart C—Notification for Certain Genetically Modified Microbial Pesticides
172.43
Definitions.
172.45
Requirement for a notification.
172.46
Submission of a notification.
172.48
Data requirements for a notification.
172.50
Response to a notification.
172.52
Notification exemption process.
172.57
Submission of information regarding potential unreasonable adverse effects.
172.59
Enforcement.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 136c, 136w. Section 172.4 is also issued under 31 U.S.C. 9701.

# Source:
40 FR 18782, Apr. 30, 1975, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Federal Issuance of Experimental Use Permits
§ 172.1
Definitions.
Terms used in this part have the same meaning as in the Act. In addition, as used in this part, the following terms shall apply:
Act
means the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act, as amended.
Applicant
means any person who applies for an experimental use permit pursuant to section 5 of the Act.
Cooperator
means any person who grants permission to a permittee or a permittee's designated participant for the use of an experimental use pesticide at an application site owned or controlled by the cooperator.
Experimental animals
means individual animals or groups of animals, regardless of species, intended for use and used solely for research purposes. The term does not include animals intended to be used for any food purposes
Participant
means any person acting as a representative of the permittee and responsible for making available for use, or supervising the use or evaluation of, an experimental use pesticide to be applied at a specific application site.
Permittee
means any applicant to whom an experimental use permit has been granted.
Value for pesticide purposes
means that characteristic of a substance or mixture of substances which produces an efficacious action on a pest.
[73 FR 75599, Dec. 12, 2008]
§ 172.2
General.
(a) Pursuant to section 5 of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended (86 Stat. 983), and except as herein provided by § 172.3, any person wishing to accumulate information necessary to register under section 3 of the Act and the regulations thereunder (1) a pesticide not registered with this Agency or (2) a registered pesticide for a use not previously approved in the registration of the pesticide may apply to the Administrator at any time for an experimental use permit.
(b) Pesticides under experimental use permits may not be sold or distributed other than through participants and, if sold or distributed through participants, may be used only at an application site of a cooperator and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the experimental use permit.
§ 172.3
Scope of requirement.
(a) An experimental use permit (EUP) is generally required for testing of any unregistered pesticide or any registered pesticide being tested for an unregistered use. However, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, certain of such tests are presumed not to involve unreasonable adverse effects and, therefore, do not require an EUP.
(b) Except as provided in subpart C of this part or as specifically determined by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), it may be presumed that EUPs are not required when:
(1) The experimental use of the pesticide is limited to:
(i) Laboratory or greenhouse tests,
(ii) Limited replicated field trials as described in paragraph (c) of this section to confirm such tests, or
(iii) Other tests as described in paragraph (c) of this section whose purpose is only to assess the pesticide's potential efficacy, toxicity, or other properties.
(2) The producer, applicator, or any other person conducting the test does not expect to receive any benefit in pest control from the pesticide's use.
(c) For purposes of paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (b)(1)(iii) of this section, the following types of experimental tests are presumed not to need an EUP:
(1) A small-scale test involving use of a particular pesticide that is conducted on a cumulative total of no more than 10 acres of land per pest, except that:
(i) When testing for more than one target pest occurs at the same time and in the same locality, the 10 acre limitation shall encompass all of the target pests.
(ii) Any food or feed crops involved in, or affected by, such tests (including, but not limited to, crops subsequently grown on such land which may reasonably be expected to contain residues of the tested pesticides) shall be destroyed or consumed only by experimental animals unless an appropriate tolerance or exemption from a tolerance has been established under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA) for residues of the pesticide.
(2) A small-scale test involving the use of a particular pesticide that is conducted on a cumulative total of no more than 1 surface acre of water per pest, except that:
(i) When the testing for more than one target pest occurs at the same time and in the same locality, the 1 acre limitation shall encompass all of the target pests.
(ii) Waters which are involved in or affected by such tests are not used for irrigation purposes, drinking water supplies, or body contact recreational activities.
(iii) Testing shall not be conducted in any waters which contain or affect fish, shellfish, plants, or animals taken for recreational or commercial purposes and used for food or feed, unless an appropriate tolerance or exemption from a tolerance has been established under the FFDCA for residues of the pesticide.
(3) Animal treatment tests involving the use of a particular pesticide that are conducted only on experimental animals which will not be used for food or feed, unless an appropriate tolerance or an exemption from a tolerance has been established for animal products and byproducts under the FFDCA for residues of the pesticide.
(d) The examples in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(3) of this section are not all-inclusive and do not preclude testing in larger areas or larger numbers of units if the intended use meets the criteria of paragraph (a) of this section. However, tests which do not come within the examples in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(3) of this section, absent a specific determination by EPA to the contrary, require an EUP. Persons intending to conduct tests who are uncertain whether the testing may be conducted without a permit may submit a request for determination to the Office of Pesticide Programs' Document Processing Desk at the appropriate address as set forth in 40 CFR 150.17(a) or (b). Such a request shall include the information listed in § 172.4(b)(1)(ii) and (b)(1)(iii) and in the
case of an unregistered product, the information in § 172.4(b)(3)(i).
(e) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, EPA may, on a case-by-case basis, require that certain testing of a particular pesticide or class of pesticides be carried out under an EUP, if it is determined that such EPA oversight is warranted. If EPA determines that an EUP is required, it will notify the developer of the pesticide of the need for an EUP and provide opportunity for comment or objections before imposing the requirement.
(f) No EUP is required for a substance or mixture of substances being put through tests for the sole purpose of gathering data required for approval of such substance or mixture under the FFDCA (21 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
) as:
(1) A “new drug” (21 U.S.C. sec. 321(p) and sec. 355).
(2) A “new animal drug” (21 U.S.C. sec. 321(w) and sec. 360(b)), or
(3) An “animal feed” (21 U.S.C. sec. 321 (x)) containing a “new animal drug” (21 U.S.C. sec. 360(b)).
(g) Paragraph (f) of this section shall not apply when a purpose of such test is to accumulate information necessary to register a pesticide under section 3 of the Act.
[59 FR 45611, Sept. 1, 1994, as amended at 71 FR 35546, June 21, 2006; 73 FR 75599, Dec. 12, 2008]
§ 172.4
Applications.
(a)
Time for submission.
An application or request for amendment to an existing permit shall be submitted as far as possible in advance of the intended date of shipment or use to the Office of Pesticide Programs' Document Processing Desk at the appropriate address as set forth in 40 CFR 150.17(a) or (b).
(b)
Contents of applications
—(1)
General requirements.
(i) The name and address of the applicant;
(ii) The registration number of the product, if registered;
(iii) The purpose or objectives of the proposed testing; a description in detail of the proposed testing program including test parameters; a designation of the pest organism(s) involved; the amount of pesticide product proposed for use; the crops, fauna, flora, sites, modes, dosage rates, and situation of application on or in which the pesticide is to be used; the States in which the proposed program will be conducted; the number of acres, number of structural sites, or number of animals by State to be treated or included in the area of experimental use; the proposed dates or period(s) during which the testing program is to be conducted; and the manner in which supervision of the program will be accomplished;
(iv) The name, street address, telephone number, and qualifications of all participants in the program (whether or not in the employ of the applicant). A permit must be amended to add or change participants;
(v) The name and street address of all cooperators, if available at the time an application is submitted or as soon thereafter as available;
(vi) A description and the specific results of any appropriate prior testing of the product conducted by the applicant to determine toxicity and effects in or on target organisms at the site of application; and to determine phytotoxicity and other forms of toxicity or effects on nontarget plants, animals, and insects at or near the site of application; and to determine adverse effects on the environment;
(vii) The proposed method of storage and disposition of any unused experimental use pesticide and its containers; and
(viii) Such other additional pertinent information as the Administrator may require.
(2)
Requirement for tolerance.
If the experimental use pesticide is to be used in such a manner that any residue can reasonably be expected to result in or on food or feed, the applicant must:
(i) Submit evidence that a tolerance or exemption from the requirement of a tolerance has been established for residues of the pesticide in or on such food or feed under section 408 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; or
(ii) Submit a petition proposing establishment of a tolerance or an exemption from the requirement of a tolerance under section 408 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; or
(iii) Certify that the food or feed derived from the experimental program
will be destroyed or fed only to experimental animals for testing purposes, or otherwise disposed of in a manner which will not endanger man or the environment. The method of such destruction or disposition shall be provided in the application for the permit.
(3)
Additional requirements for unregistered pesticide products.
(i) A complete confidential statement of composition for the formulation to be tested giving the name and percentage by weight of each ingredient, active and inert;
(ii) Chemical and physical properties of each active ingredient of the formulation to be tested, including, but not limited to, the manufacturing or laboratory processes and analytical methods suitable for determining the active ingredients in the formulation;
(iii) Appropriate date, if available, on the rate of decline of residues on the treated crop or environmental site or other information for determination regarding entry of persons into treated areas; and
(iv) Results of toxicity tests and other data relevant to the product's potential for causing injury to the users or other persons who may be exposed, including any available epidemiological information as to man.
(c)
Fees.
The payment of fees for experimental use permits shall apply as specified in subpart U of part 152 of the chapter.
[40 FR 18782, Apr. 30, 1975, as amended at 53 FR 19115, May 26, 1988; 71 FR 35546, June 21, 2006; 73 FR 75599, Dec. 12, 2008]
§ 172.5
The permit.
(a)
Issuance.
The Experimental Use Permit shall be issued when the Administrator determines that the conditions of section 5 of the Act, and the regulations thereunder, have been met subject to such terms and conditions as the Administrator determines are warranted.
(b)
Duration.
Permits will be effective for a specified period of time, normally one year, depending upon the crop or site to be tested and the requirements of the testing program submitted. The applicant should propose a suitable duration of the permit commensurate with the program submitted. Permits and associated temporary tolerances may be renewed, extended, or amended upon request if circumstances warrant.
(c)
Limitations.
The quantity of a pesticide allowed by a permit may be less than requested if it is determined that the available information on efficacy, toxicity or other hazards, the need for data, or the adequacy of program supervision does not justify the quantity of the pesticide requested. Other limitations may also be placed in the permit if necessary for the protection of the public health and the environment.
(d)
Additions.
With respect to an experimental use pesticide containing any chemical or combination of chemicals not included in any previously registered pesticides, the Administrator may require that additional studies be conducted during the permit period to gather data to support the establishment of tolerances and/or registration. To the extent practicable, the applicant will be notified of any such requirements before or at the time an experimental use permit is issued.
(e)
Maintenance of records.
All producers of pesticides produced pursuant to an experimental use permit shall maintain records in accordance with part 169.
§ 172.6
Labeling.
(a)
Contents.
Except as provided by paragraph (b) of this section, all pesticides shipped or used under an experimental use permit shall be labeled with directions and conditions for use which shall include the following:
(1) The prominent statement, “For Experimental Use Only”;
(2) The Experimental Use Permit number;
(3) The statement, “Not for sale to any person other than a participant or cooperator of the EPA-approved Experimental Use Program”;
(4) The name, brand, or trademark;
(5) The name and address of the permittee, producer, or registrant;
(6) The net contents;
(7) An ingredient statement;
(8) Warning or caution statements;
(9) Any appropriate limitations on entry of persons into treated areas;
(10) The establishment registration number, except in those cases where application of the pesticide is made solely by the producer; and
(11) The directions for use, except that the Administrator may approve the use of the experimental program as labeling provided that such program is to be distributed with the product.
(b)
Supplemental labeling.
In the case of a registered pesticide, the Administrator may, at his discretion, permit a pesticide to be used under an experimental use permit with supplemental labeling as approved by him.
§ 172.7
Importation of technical material.
Technical materials may be imported without registration in sufficient quantities to formulate a pesticide for which an Experimental Use Permit has been requested if the application for such permit states that such importation will occur.
§ 172.8
Program surveillance and reporting of data.
(a) The permittee shall supervise the test program and evaluate the results of testing at each site of application. It will further be the responsibility of the permittee to report immediately to the Administrator, or to any person designated by him, any adverse effects from use of, or exposure to, the pesticide.
(b) The permittee shall submit the following reports to the Registration Division during the experimental program.
(1) [Reserved]
(2) A final report shall be submitted within 180 days after the expiration of the permit, unless a request for extension of time is approved, and shall include:
(i) All data gathered during the testing program; field notes need not be submitted but must be maintained and submitted upon request;
(ii) A description of the disposition of any pesticide containers and any unused pesticides including amounts disposed of and the method and site of disposition; and
(iii) The method of disposition of affected food and/or feed.
The data under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section above may be submitted as part of an application for registration submitted within 180 days after the expiration of the permit, provided that the final report shall include a statement that such application has been made, and the date of such application.
(c) In addition to the reporting requirements provided for elsewhere in this part, in the case of any meat-producing animals or birds that receive a direct treatment or application of any experimental use pesticide, the name and location of the packing plant where the animals will be processed shall be sent to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Washington, DC 20250, at least 10 days before the animals are to be shipped for slaughter. This requirement may be waived, on request, by the USDA. These provisions do not exempt treated food-producing animals and their products from compliance with other applicable inspection requirements.
(d) Failure to submit required reports may constitute grounds for revocation of the permit.
(e) For the purpose of supervising the use of experimental use pesticides, the Agency may require the permittee or any participant to give reasonable advance notification of the intended dates, times, and sites on which such experimental use pesticide will be applied.
(f) The permittee or participants in the experimental use program will permit any authorized representative of the Agency, upon presentation of official identification, entry, at any reasonable time, to any premises involved in the testing program to inspect and to determine whether there has been compliance with the terms and conditions of the permit.
[40 FR 18782, Apr. 30, 1975, as amended at 60 FR 32097, June 19, 1995]
§ 172.9
Renewals.
Applications for renewal of experimental use permits and temporary tolerances, to provide for additional testing, shall be submitted prior to expiration of the permit. Requirements for renewals are the same as for applications under § 172.4, except that information previously submitted may be incorporated by reference.
§ 172.10
Refusals to issue and revocation.
(a)
Refusal.
At any time that the Administrator determines that an experimental use permit is not justified, or that the issuance of such a permit would cause unreasonable adverse effects on the environment, or that for any other reason provided for under the law a permit shall not be issued, he shall notify the applicant in writing.
(b)
Revocation.
The Administrator may revoke an experimental use permit if he finds that its terms or conditions are being violated or that its terms or conditions are inadequate to avoid unreasonable adverse effects on the environment, or if new evidence is obtained which demonstrates that the tolerance will be inadequate to protect the public health, or for failure to meet any other provision of this part 172. The Administrator will notify the permittee in writing of such revocation. The permittee shall notify all participants of such revocation as soon as possible after he receives notice of revocation. The revocation of a permit shall not preclude the Administrator from initiating civil or criminal sanctions for the violations of the permit conditions or otherwise as authorized by law.
(c)
Hearing.
In the event that an applicant for an experimental use permit wishes to contest the refusal to issue an experimental use permit, or an experimental use permittee wishes to contest the revocation of any such permit, he shall, within twenty days after receipt of notice of such refusal or revocation, file with the Administrator a written request for an opportunity to confer with the Administrator or his designee. Within twenty days after such conference, the applicant or permittee will be notified of the Administrator's final decision.
§ 172.11
Publication.
(a)
Notice of receipt of an experimental use permit application.
The Administrator shall publish notice in the
Federal Register
of receipt of an application for an experimental use permit upon finding that issuance of the experimental use permit may be of regional or national significance. This notice shall include:
(1) The active ingredients,
(2) Use pattern(s),
(3) Quantity of pesticide,
(4) Total acreage,
(5) Location of area of application,
(6) A statement soliciting comments from any interested persons regarding the application.
(b)
Public hearing.
The Administrator may hold a public hearing, and publish notice in the
Federal Register
of the date and location of the hearing, when he determines that there is sufficient interest in the application to warrant a hearing, based upon the comments received in response to the Notice of Receipt of an Application, or that a hearing would otherwise be in the public interest.
(c)
Issuance of experimental use permit.
The Administrator shall give prompt notice in the
Federal Register
of the issuance of an experimental use permit. The notice shall include:
(1) The active ingredients,
(2) Use pattern(s),
(3) Quantity of pesticide,
(4) Total acreage,
(5) Location of area of application,
(6) A statement indicating where the experimental use permit is available for public inspection.

# Subpart B—State Issuance of Experimental Use Permits

# Source:
44 FR 41787, July 18, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 172.20
Scope.
This subpart sets forth regulations governing State issuance of experimental use permits pursuant to section 5(f) of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended (FIFRA). It also sets forth regulations governing authorization by the Administrator of State experimental use permit programs.
§ 172.21
Definitions.
Terms used in this subpart shall have the meaning set forth in FIFRA and in § 172.1.
Designated State agency
means the State agency designated by State law or other authority to be responsible for registering pesticides to meet special local needs.
Public or private agricultural research agency or educational institution
means any organization engaged in research pertaining to the agricultural use of pesticides, or any educational institution engaged in pesticide research. Any research agency or educational institution whose principal function is to promote, or whose principal source of income is directly derived from, the sale or distribution of pesticides (or their active ingredients) does not come within the meaning of this term.
[73 FR 75599, Dec. 12, 2008]
§ 172.22
General.
(a) Experimental use permits are not required under this rule in those situations described in § 172.3 of subpart A pertaining to Federal experimental use permits.
(b) Subpart B is not applicable to experimental use permits issued by a State, as required by State law, to a permittee who already holds a valid Federal experimental use permit issued under subpart A for the same purpose, or who is not required to obtain a permit under this rule.
(c) Pesticide products used under experimental use permits may not be sold or distributed other than through participants, and, if sold or distributed through participants, may be used only at an application site of a cooperator and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the experimental use permit.
(d) Establishments in which pesticide products under State experimental use permits are produced shall be registered as required by 40 CFR 167.2(a) and producers of such products shall maintain books and records as required by 40 CFR 169.2.
(e) Pesticide products and their containers used under this rule must also be packaged, stored, transported, used, and disposed of in accordance with all applicable Federal laws and regulations, including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 as amended (Pub. L. 94-580; 90 Stat. 2795; 42 U.S.C. 6901
et seq.
) (RCRA), and rules thereunder.
§ 172.23
State plans.
(a)
Submission.
(1) A State may, by submitting a State plan, request the Administrator to authorize the designated State agency to issue experimental use permits under section 5(f) of FIFRA.
(2) A State shall request authorization to issue experimental use permits by having the Governor or Chief Executive Officer or his designated agent submit a State plan in writing to the Administrator.
(b)
Contents.
A State plan shall include—
(1) A designation of the State agency responsible for the administration of the State experimental use permit program.
(2) An opinion of the State attorney general or the legal counsel of the designated State agency that the State has the requisite legal authorities as set forth in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, accompanied by copies of the applicable State laws and regulations.
(3) A description of procedures that the designated State agency will follow:
(i) To review experimental use permit applications, to ensure that experimental use permits will be issued in accordance with the terms and conditions of the authorization, FIFRA, and this subpart; and
(ii) To supervise use pursuant to the permits, and to ensure that permits are used in accordance with their terms and conditions, FIFRA, and this subpart.
(c)
Criteria for EPA acceptance of State plan.
(1) The Administrator shall grant authorization to issue experimental use permits if the State plan establishes that the designated State agency—
(i) Has adequate legal authority under State law to implement the plan, including authority:
(A) To issue experimental use permits, subject to limitations necessary for the protection of public health and the environment;
(B) To supervise the use of a pesticide pursuant to an experimental use permit, as provided in § 172.25(c);
(C) To deny an experimental use permit if it determines that a permit is not justified, or that the issuance of the permit would cause unreasonable adverse effects on the environment;
(D) To amend or revoke an experimental use permit, if the designated State agency finds that:
(
1
) The terms and conditions of the permit are being violated, or are inadequate to avoid unreasonable adverse effects on the environment;
(
2
) Any required tolerance under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
) has been revoked by EPA, or any exemption from the requirement for tolerance has been withdrawn by EPA; or
(
3
) A failure by the permittee or any cooperator to meet any other provision of FIFRA or this subpart has occurred;
(E) To enter, by consent or by warrant or by other legal means, in connection with an experimental use permit, a permittee's or cooperator's premises at reasonable times in order to sample or inspect any pesticides used or property treated, to inspect any equipment or records kept, or to observe any activities conducted, as necessary to enforce compliance with State law, the terms of the permit, and this subpart;
(F) To comply in all other respects with the requirements of this subpart, including labeling requirements; and
(ii) Utilizes procedures for the review of each permit which are adequate to ensure that the State program will be administered in accordance with the purposes of FIFRA and this subpart.
(2) After receiving a State plan, EPA shall publish a
Federal Register
notice announcing the fact and inviting interested parties to comment thereon.
(d)
Approval, rejection, and revocation.
(1) EPA shall approve or reject the State plan within 90 days after receipt of all information necessary for final review of the plan, including copies of effective statutes and regulations which satisfy the requirements of this subpart.
(2) The Administrator may at any time revoke the authorization of a State to issue experimental use permits if he determines that the designated State agency has not complied with the requirements of this subpart or with the terms and conditions of such authorization. State experimental use permits issued prior to the revocation of authority shall remain valid until they expire or until three years from the date of revocation of the State's authority, whichever comes first, unless sooner revoked by EPA under § 172.26(c) of this subpart.
(3) Notices of approval, rejection, and revocation shall be published in the
Federal Register,
as well as the basis for such approval, rejection, or revocation.
(4) Prior to rejecting or revoking authorization, the Administrator shall notify the State in writing of his intention to take such action, along with the basis for such action, and shall afford the State the opportunity for a hearing, and time to take corrective action.
§ 172.24
State issuance of permits.
(a)
General.
Upon approval of a State plan by the Administrator under § 172.23, the designated State agency is authorized to issue, amend, renew, deny or revoke experimental use permits subject to the terms of the authorization and these regulations.
(b)
Authority.
A designated State agency may issue an experimental use permit—
(1) To any person for the purpose of gathering the data necessary to support the State registration of a pesticide to meet special local needs under section 24(c), FIFRA.
(2) To any agricultural research agency or educational institution conducting work within the State for the purpose of experimentation:
(i) Which is done within the State; and
(ii) Which is not directly intended to result in the registration of a specific pesticide product.
(3) For use of a restricted use pesticide only if the pesticide is to be used by, or under the direct supervision of, an applicator certified in accordance with section 11 of FIFRA.
(c)
Limitations.
(1) In the case of applicants who need to gather data required to register a pesticide product to meet a special local need under section 24(c) of FIFRA, a State may only issue experimental use permits for the types of pesticide products and uses which it has authority to register under section 24(c).
(2) A State may not issue an experimental use permit under § 172.24(b)(1) or § 172.24(b)(2) for any of the following:
(i) A product containing an active or inert ingredient not contained in any EPA-registered product;
(ii) A product containing an active or inert ingredient which is currently subject to an EPA cancellation or suspension of registration order, or which is currently subject to an EPA notice of intent to suspend or cancel registration because of human health, environmental or efficacy considerations; except that the State may issue a permit for such a product for a purpose or in a formulation—
(A) Which was not specifically considered in, or which is not subject to, such suspension or cancellation proceedings, after consultation with appropriate EPA officials; or
(B) Which was specifically considered during such proceedings but not suspended, cancelled, or subjected to a notice of intent to suspend or cancel;
(iii) A use of a product which has been the subject of a notice of denial of registration published in the
Federal Register
pursuant to section 3(c)(6) of FIFRA and part 154 of this chapter; or
(iv) A use of a product which may involve use in or on food or feed other than as authorized under § 172.24(d),
Requirement of tolerance.
(3) A State may not issue an experimental use permit for use of a pesticide product in an area or in an amount in excess of that necessary to accomplish the purposes for which the permit was issued under paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Requirement of tolerance.
If the experimental use pesticide is to be used in or on food or feed, the applicant must—
(1) Submit evidence that:
(i) A tolerance or exemption from the requirement of a tolerance has been established for residues of the pesticide in or on such food or feed under section 408 of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; and
(ii) The proposed program would not reasonably be expected to result in residues of the pesticide in or on such food or feed in excess of that authorized under section 408 of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; and
(iii) All inert ingredients in the pesticide are exempted from the requirement of a tolerance under the appropriate section of 40 CFR part 180, subpart D; or
(2) Certify that the food or feed derived from the experimental program will be destroyed or fed only to experimental animals for testing purposes, or otherwise disposed of in a manner which will not endanger man or the environment. The method of destruction or disposal shall be described in the application for the permit.
[44 FR 41787, July 18, 1979, as amended at 50 FR 49020, Nov. 27, 1985; 73 FR 75599, Dec. 12, 2008]
§ 172.25
Administration of State programs.
(a)
General.
State experimental use permit programs shall be consistent with the Federal experimental use permit program, as set forth in subpart A of 40 CFR part 172.
(b)
Procedures leading to issuance.
An application for an experimental use permit shall be made in writing, and shall contain sufficient information, including a confidential statement of formula for any new product, to enable the State to determine whether use pursuant to the permit would be in accordance with the purposes of FIFRA and this subpart.
(c)
Labeling.
(1) New products shall bear labeling satisfying the requirements of § 172.6(a), except that the prominent statement “For Distribution and Experimental Use Only Within (State)” shall be used in place of “For Experimental Use Only”. The designated State agency may approve, as directions for use on labeling, the experimental program, provided such program is to be distributed with the product.
(2) The designated State agency may permit an EPA or State registered pesticide to be used under an experimental use permit with supplemental labeling as approved by the State agency. In exercising this discretion, the designated State agency shall ensure that the supplemental labeling and the registered label together satisfy the requirements of § 172.6(a).
(d)
Duration.
State experimental use permits shall be issued for a specified
period of time, not to exceed three years, depending upon the nature of the pest problem and the requirements of the testing program submitted. The designated State agency may renew, extend or amend the stated duration of a permit, if circumstances warrant.
(e)
Limitations.
The designated State agency shall impose such limitations in the permit as are necessary to protect health and the environment, including limitations on quantity, sites, area, disposal, and other aspects of pesticide use.
(f)
Program surveillance and reporting of data.
(1) The permittee shall supervise the test program and evaluate the results of testing at each site of application. The designated State agency shall require the permittee to report to it immediately any adverse effects resulting from use of, or exposure to, the pesticide.
(2) During the course of the program, the designated State agency shall require the permittee to submit such reports (both special and periodic) as are necessary to supervise effectively the progress of the program to prevent unreasonable adverse effects on man or the environment. The designated State agency shall also require the permittee to submit a final report at the conclusion of the program. Where applicable, such reports shall also be made available to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food Service and Quality Service (FSQS), as required by § 172.8(c).
(g)
Disposal.
All pesticides and pesticide containers, whether disposed of during the course of a State permit or remaining at the termination of a permit, must either be:
(1) Disposed of in accordance with a disposal plan approved as part of the experimental program; or
(2) Returned to the permittee for storage or disposal in accordance with the requirements of RCRA and rules there under; or
(3) If the product is currently registered, used in accordance with the registered label.
[44 FR 41787, July 18, 1979, as amended at 60 FR 32097, June 19, 1995]
§ 172.26
EPA review of permits.
(a)
Notification of State action.
(1) Within 10 days after the issuance of an experimental use permit, the designated State agency shall notifiy EPA of the action by forwarding to the appropriate EPA Regional Office a copy of the permit, a description of the experimental program to be conducted under the terms of the permit, a copy of the approved labeling, and a copy of the confidential statement of formula for any new product.
(2) Within 10 days after amendment or revocation of an experimental use permit by a State, the designated State agency shall notify the appropriate EPA Regional Office in writing of the amendment or revocation. The notice shall include a brief explanation of the reason for the amendment or revocation. If amendments to permits include changes in the approved labeling, the designated State agency shall also forward a copy of the amended labeling.
(3) EPA shall give notice in the
Federal Register
of State issuance of experimental use permits.
(b)
Reports.
The designated State agency shall submit the following reports to EPA:
(1) An annual report covering the number of permits issued, the names and addresses of permittees, the names of the products covered by permits, and the State permit numbers issued;
(2) Reports, as requested by EPA, containing any information that EPA may determine necessary to ensure that a State has acted in compliance with provisions of FIFRA and this subpart; and
(3) Reports of any serious adverse effect(s), as soon thereafter as possible, from use of, or exposure to, a pesticide used pursuant to an experimental use permit.
(c)
Revocation by EPA.
(1) The Administrator may revoke an experimental use permit issued under this subpart if he finds:
(i) That its terms and conditions are being violated;
(ii) That its terms and conditions are inadequate to avoid unreasonable adverse effects on the environment;
(iii) That new evidence demonstrates that any tolerance upon which the permit is based will be inadequate to protect the public health, or that any exemption from the requirement for a tolerance is no longer appropriate; or
(iv) That a failure by the permittee to meet any other provisions of FIFRA or this subpart has occurred.
(2) The Administrator shall, prior to revoking a State experimental use permit, consult with the State agency which issued the permit, except in cases where continued use of the pesticide under the permit would create an imminent hazard to man or the environment.
(3) The Administrator shall notify the designated State agency, in writing, of the revocation, and the State agency shall notify the permittee, also in writing, of the revocation.
(4) The permittee shall notify all participants of the revocation within 10 days after he receives notice of revocation.
(5) The revocation of a permit shall not preclude the Administrator from initiating civil or criminal sanctions for violations of the permit conditions or other violations, as authorized by law.
(6) If a permittee wishes to contest the revocation of a State experimental use permit, he shall, within 30 days after receipt of notice of such revocation, file with the Administrator a written request for an opportunity to confer with the Administrator or his designee. The revocation of the permit shall remain effective pending the outcome of any conference requested under this paragraph.
(7) If a permittee requests a conference under paragraph (c)(6) of this section, the Administrator shall provide the permittee:
(i) With information as to the time, place and nature of the conference, and of the matters of fact and law asserted by the Agency as grounds for the revocation action;
(ii) An opportunity to offer a written statement of facts, explanations, and arguments relevant to the revocation action;
(iii) All other procedural opportunities to which the permittee may be entitled by law.
(8) The Administrator shall notify the affected permittee and State Agency, in writing, of his final decision on the revocation matter as expeditiously as possible and shall attempt to do so within 30 days after the conclusion of a conference conducted under paragraph (c)(7). The Administrator shall also provide the permittee and the State agency with a written statement of the reasons for his decision, which shall take into account the evidence presented pursuant to paragraph (c)(7)(ii) of this section.
(9) A decision to revoke a permit under paragraph (c)(8) of this section is a final Agency action subject to judicial review as provided by law.
[44 FR 41787, July 18, 1979, as amended at 73 FR 75599, Dec. 12, 2008]

# Subpart C—Notification for Certain Genetically Modified Microbial Pesticides

# Source:
59 FR 45612, Sept. 1, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 172.43
Definitions.
Terms used in this subpart shall, with the exception of those defined below, have the meaning set forth in the Act and in § 172.1.
Containment and inactivation controls
means any combination of mechanical, procedural, or biological controls designed and operated to restrict environmental release of viable microorganisms from a facility.
Deliberately modified
means the directed addition, rearrangement, or removal of nucleotide sequences to or from genetic material.
Introduction of genetic material
means the movement of nucleotide sequences into a microorganism, regardless of the technique used.
Inversions of genetic material
means the replacement of an internal section of a chromosome in the reverse orientation.
Microbial pesticide
means a microbial agent intended for preventing, destroying, repelling, or mitigating any pest, or intended for use as a plant regulator, defoliant, or desiccant, that:
(1) Is a eucaryotic microorganism including, but not limited to, protozoa, algae and fungi;
(2) Is a procaryotic microorganism, including, but not limited to, Eubacteria and Archaebacteria; or
(3) Is a parasitically replicating microscopic element, including, but not limited to, viruses.
Microbial pesticides resulting from rearrangements
means a microbial pesticide resulting from translocations or inversions of genetic material.
Microorganism
means a bacterium, fungus, alga, virus, or protozoan.
Nonindigenous microbial pesticide
means a microbial pesticide brought into one of the following geographic areas from outside that area:
(1) The continental United States, including Alaska, and the immediately adjoining countries (
i.e.
, Canada and Mexico).
(2) The Hawaiian Islands.
(3) The Caribbean Islands including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Pesticidal property
means a characteristic exhibited by a microorganism that contributes to the intentional use of the microorganism to prevent, destroy, repel, or mitigate a pest or to act as a plant regulator, defoliant, or desiccant.
Single genome
means the sum total of chromosomal and extrachromosomal genetic material of an isolate and any descendants derived under axenic culture conditions from that isolate.
Small-scale test
means the experimental use of a microbial pesticide in a facility such as a laboratory or greenhouse, or use in limited replicated field trials or other tests as described in § 172.3(c).
Test
or
testing
means any use of a microbial pesticide consistent with section 5 of the Act, including limited replicated field trials and associated activities.
Translocations of genetic material
means a chromosomal configuration in which part of a chromosome becomes attached to a different chromosome, or inserts in a different location on the same chromosome.
[59 FR 45612, Sept. 1, 1994, as amended at 72 FR 61029, Oct. 26, 2007]
§ 172.45
Requirement for a notification.
(a)
Who must submit a Notification.
Notwithstanding § 172.3, any person who plans to conduct small-scale testing of a type of microbial pesticide identified in paragraph (c) of this section must submit a Notification to EPA and obtain prior approval for either of the following tests:
(1) Small-scale tests that involve an intentional environmental introduction of that microbial pesticide.
(2) Small-scale tests performed in a facility without adequate containment and inactivation controls as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
(b)
Alternative to Notification.
In lieu of a Notification, any person required to submit a Notification under paragraph (a) of this section may submit an application for an experimental use permit (EUP) to EPA for approval.
(c)
Small-scale testing that requires a Notification.
As provided in paragraph (a) of this section, and notwithstanding any other approval by any governmental entity, EPA review and approval are required prior to the initiation of any small-scale test involving either of the following microbial pesticides:
(1) Microbial pesticides whose pesticidal properties have been imparted or enhanced by the introduction of genetic material that has been deliberately modified.
(2) Nonindigenous microbial pesticides that have not been acted upon by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (
i.e.
, either by issuing or denying a permit or determining that a permit is unnecessary; or a permit is not pending with the USDA).
(d)
Small-scale testing that does not require a Notification.
(1) Testing conducted with microbial pesticides identified in paragraph (c) of this section, but made exempt pursuant to § 172.52, does not require a Notification. The following microbial pesticides (or classes of pesticides) are exempt from the notification requirement in paragraph (a) of this section:
(i) Microbial pesticides resulting from deletions or rearrangements within a single genome that are brought about by the introduction of genetic
material that has been deliberately modified.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) Testing conducted in a facility with adequate containment and inactivation controls, as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, does not require a Notification.
(e)
Selection and use of containment and inactivation controls.
(1) Selection and use of containment and inactivation controls for a particular microbial pesticide shall take into account the following:
(i) Factors relevant to the microbial pesticide's ability to survive in the environment.
(ii) Potential routes of release in air, solids, and liquids; in or on waste materials and equipment; in or on people (including maintenance and custodial personnel); and in or on other organisms such as insects and rodents.
(iii) Procedures for transfer of materials between facilities.
(iv) Plans for routine or emergency clean-up and test termination.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, EPA will presume that compliance with the containment provisions of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) “Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules” (51 FR 16958, May 7, 1986) constitutes selection and use of adequate containment and inactivation controls.
(3) The selection of containment and inactivation controls shall be approved by an authorized official of the organization that is conducting the test prior to commencement of the test.
(4) Records shall be developed and maintained describing the selection and use of the containment and inactivation controls, including contingency plans for emergency clean-up and test termination, that will be used during the test. These records shall be available for inspection at the test facility. In addition, these records shall be submitted to EPA at EPA's request and within the time frame specified in EPA's request.
(5) Subsequent to any EPA review of the containment/inactivation controls selected under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, changes to the controls necessary to prevent unreasonable adverse effects must be made upon EPA request. Failure to comply with EPA's request shall result in automatic revocation of the exemption from the requirement to submit a Notification.
§ 172.46
Submission of a notification.
(a)
When to submit a Notification.
A Notification shall be submitted for approval at least 90 days prior to the initiation of the proposed test.
(b)
Where to submit a notification.
A notification shall be submitted to the Office of Pesticide Programs' Document Processing Desk at the appropriate address as set forth in 40 CFR 150.17(a) or (b), Attention: Biotechnology Notification Review.
(c)
How to format a Notification.
A Notification submitted under this section must comply with the following procedures, but is not required to comply with the format and other provisions governing submission of data in §§ 158.32 and 158.33 or §§ 161.32 and 161.33 of this chapter. However, because data submitted with the Notification may subsequently be used to support other regulatory actions (e.g., used in EUP or registration applications), it is recommended that such data comply with EPA requirements in §§ 158.32 and 158.33 of this chapter.
(1) Each Notification must be accompanied by a transmittal document that clearly identifies the EPA action supported as a Biotechnology Notification Review.
(2) Five copies of each Notification must be submitted to EPA.
(3) Any claims of confidentiality for information submitted in the Notification must be made as described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(d)
How to make confidential business information (CBI) claims in a Notification.
Although it is strongly recommended that the submitter minimize the amount of data and other information claimed as CBI, a submitter may assert a claim of confidentiality for all or part of the information submitted to EPA in a Notification (See part 2, subpart B of this chapter). To assert such a claim, the submitter must comply with the following procedures:
(1) Any claim of confidentiality must accompany the information at the time the information is submitted to EPA.
Failure to assert a claim at that time will be considered a waiver of confidentiality for the information submitted, and the information may be made available to the public, subject to section 10(g) of the Act, with no further notice to the submitter.
(2) Of the five copies of the Notification required by paragraph (c) of this section, four copies must be complete with the information that is claimed confidential clearly marked in the manner described in § 2.203(b) of this chapter. All information claimed as confidential must be deleted from the fifth copy, but it must be otherwise complete. The first page of the fifth copy must be marked “Contains no information claimed as confidential.” EPA may include the fifth copy in a public file without further notice. EPA will consider incomplete a Notification containing information claimed as CBI that is not submitted in accordance with this paragraph and will suspend the review period on the Notification until such procedures are followed.
(3) Any claim of confidentiality must be accompanied, at the time the claim is made, by comments substantiating the claim and explaining why the submitter believes that the information should not be disclosed. The submitter should refer to § 2.204(e)(4) of this chapter for points to address in the substantiation. If such comments are themselves claimed confidential and are marked confidential when submitted to EPA, they will be treated as such in accordance with § 2.205(c) of this chapter. EPA will consider incomplete all Notifications containing information claimed as CBI that are not accompanied by substantiation, and will suspend the review period on such Notifications until the required substantiation is provided.
(4) EPA will disclose information that is subject to a claim of confidentiality asserted under this section only to the extent and by means of the procedures set forth in section 10 of the Act, in this subpart, and in part 2 of this chapter.
[59 FR 45612, Sept. 1, 1994, as amended at 71 FR 35546, June 21, 2006; 72 FR 61029, Oct. 26, 2007; 73 FR 75600, Dec. 12, 2008]
§ 172.48
Data requirements for a notification.
This section identifies the data and information to be included in each Notification. When specific information is not submitted, an explanation of why it is not practical or necessary to provide the information is to be provided.
(a) The identity of the microorganism which constitutes the microbial pesticide including:
(1) Summary of data supporting the taxonomic designation and its interpretation.
(2) Means and limit of detection using sensitive and specific methods (e.g., note the use of any markers that are used to distinguish the introduced population from native microorganisms). Introduction into the microbial pesticide of a unique genetic marker is encouraged.
(b) Description of the natural habitat of the parental strain of the microbial pesticide including information on:
(1) Physical and chemical features important to growth and survival of the parental strain.
(2) Biological features of the parental strain that would have an impact on the microbial pesticide (e.g., presence of phages that infect the microorganism).
(3) Competitors.
(c) Information on the host range of the microbial pesticide, if any, with an assessment of infectivity and pathogenicity to nontarget organisms.
(d) Information on survival and the ability of the microbial pesticide to increase in numbers (biomass) in the environment (e.g., in the environment into which the microbial pesticide will be introduced, and in substantially different environments that may be in the immediate vicinity). These data may be derived from the scientific literature or from tests conducted in a laboratory or other containment facility.
(e) The identity of possible transmission vectors (e.g., insects).
(f) Data on relative environmental competitiveness compared to the parental strain of the microbial pesticide.
(g) Description of the methods used to genetically modify the microbial pesticide.
(h) The identity and location of the gene segments that have been rearranged or inserted/deleted (host source, nature, and, for example, base sequence data, or restriction enzyme map of the genes).
(i) Information on the control region of the genes, and a description of the new traits or characteristics that are expressed.
(j) Data on potential for genetic transfer and exchange with other organisms and on genetic stability of any inserted sequences in the microbial pesticide.
(k) A description of the proposed testing program including:
(1) The purpose or objectives of the proposed testing.
(2) Designation of the pest organisms involved (common and scientific names).
(3) The States in which the proposed program will be conducted.
(4) The exact location of the test sites (including proximity to residences and human activities, surface water, etc.).
(5) The crops, fauna, flora, geographical description of sites, modes, dosage rates, frequency, and situation of application on or in which the pesticide is to be used.
(6) The total amount of pesticide product proposed for use in the testing.
(7) The method of application.
(8) A comparison of the natural habitat of the microbial pesticide with the proposed test site.
(9) The number of acres, structural sites, or animals/plants by State, to be treated or included in the area of experimental use.
(10) Procedures to be used to protect the test area from intrusion by unauthorized individuals.
(11) The proposed dates or periods during which the testing program is to be conducted, and the manner in which supervision of the program will be accomplished.
(12) Description of procedures for monitoring the microbial pesticide within and adjacent to the test site during the test.
(13) The method of sanitation or disposal of plants, animals, soils, farm tools, machinery etc., that will be exposed to the microbial pesticide during or after the test.
(14) Means of evaluating potential adverse effects and methods of controlling the microbial pesticide if detected beyond the test area.
(l) A statement of composition for the formulation to be tested, giving:
(1) The name and percentage by weight (or other suitable units) of each ingredient, active and inert.
(2) Production methods.
(3) Extraneous microorganisms present as contaminants.
(4) Amount and potency of any toxin present.
(5) Where applicable, the number of viable microorganisms per unit weight or volume of the product or other appropriate system for designating the quantity of active ingredient.
(m) Any additional factual information regarding the potential for unreasonable adverse effects on the environment.
§ 172.50
Response to a notification.
(a) EPA will review and evaluate each Notification as expeditiously as possible and will make a determination no later than 90 days after receipt of the complete Notification; however, under no circumstances shall the proposed test proceed until the submitter has received notice from EPA of its approval of such test.
(b) For each Notification, EPA may make the following determinations:
(1) Require additional information from the submitter to assess the proposed test adequately.
(2) Approve the proposed test.
(3) Approve the proposed test provided that the submitter makes certain modifications to the test proposal.
(4) Require an EUP for the test.
(5) Disapprove the proposed test because of the potential for unreasonable adverse effects. Such disapproval by EPA shall be considered the equivalent of denial of an EUP and the remedies for such denial provided by § 172.10 are available to the submitter.
(c) If the proposed test is approved by EPA, then the submitter shall perform the test in the same manner described in the Notification, subject to any requirements imposed under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
§ 172.52
Notification exemption process.
(a)
Initiation of the exemption process.
Pesticides may be added to the list of exemptions in § 172.45(d) by rule at EPA's initiative or in response to a petition submitted in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Petitions for exemption from the requirement for a Notification
—(1)
Who may submit a petition.
Any person may submit a petition requesting an exemption from the notification requirements of this subpart for a specific microbial pesticide or class of microbial pesticides.
(2)
Where to submit a petition.
All petitions shall be submitted to the Office of Pesticide Programs' Document Processing Desk at the appropriate address as set forth in 40 CFR 150.17(a) or (b).
(3)
Content of petition.
Each petition shall contain the following:
(i) Name and address of petitioner and name, address, and telephone number of a person who may be contacted for further information.
(ii) Description of the exemption requested, including the specific microbial pesticide or class of microbial pesticides to be tested under the petition for exemption.
(iii) Basis for the petitioner's contention that the specific microbial pesticide or class of microbial pesticides meet the criteria of § 172.3 for small-scale tests of pesticides that do not require an EUP.
(iv) Discussion of the extent to which the microbial pesticide or class of microbial pesticides covered by the petition differ from microbial pesticides that are already registered or subject to an EUP under the Act.
(4)
Administrative action on a petition.
EPA will review and evaluate petitions as expeditiously as possible and may request further information from the petitioner to assess the proposed exemption adequately. No later than 180 days after the submission of a petition, or 90 days after the last submission of additional information by the petitioner, whichever is later, EPA will take one of the following actions with respect to the petition:
(i) Grant the petition and publish a notice of proposed rulemaking in the
Federal Register
for a 45-day comment period proposing the exemption requested by the petitioner.
(ii) Grant the petition and publish a notice of proposed rulemaking in the
Federal Register
for a 45-day comment period proposing an exemption under such terms and conditions as EPA deems appropriate.
(iii) Deny the petition and provide the petitioner with a written explanation of EPA's decision.
(5)
Confidential business information (CBI) claims.
To assert a claim of confidentiality, the petitioner must comply with the applicable procedures in § 172.46(d).
(6)
Supplements, amendments, and withdrawals.
The petitioner may supplement, amend, or withdraw his or her petition in writing without EPA approval at any time prior to the granting or denial of the petition under paragraph (b)(4) of this section. The withdrawal of a petition shall be without prejudice to the resubmission of the petition at a later date.
[59 FR 45612, Sept. 1, 1994, as amended at 71 FR 35546, June 21, 2006]
§ 172.57
Submission of information regarding potential unreasonable adverse effects.
Any person using a microbial pesticide in small-scale testing covered by this subpart who obtains information regarding potential unreasonable adverse effects on health or the environment must within 30 days of receipt of such information submit the information to EPA, unless the person has actual knowledge that EPA has been adequately informed of such information. The requirement to submit information applies both to those microbial pesticides subject to the notification requirements under § 172.45(c) and those that are exempt under § 172.45(d).
§ 172.59
Enforcement.
(a)
Imminent threat of substantial harm to health or the environment.
The use of a microbial pesticide in small-scale testing covered by this subpart (whether subject to the notification requirements of § 172.45(c) or exempt under § 172.45(d)) in a manner that creates an imminent threat of substantial harm
to health or the environment is prohibited, and is considered a violation of section 12(a)(2)(S) of the Act.
(b)
EPA response to violations.
Under section 14 of the Act, EPA may seek civil or criminal penalties for violations of the Act. Failure to comply with the regulations in this part could result in civil or criminal penalties. Moreover, under sections 14 and 16(c) of the Act, EPA may at any time take appropriate action against violators to prevent or otherwise restrain use of a microbial pesticide in small-scale testing if it is determined that:
(1) Such use would create an imminent threat of substantial harm to health or the environment that is prohibited under paragraph (a) of this section; or
(2) The terms or conditions on which approval of the testing was granted under this subpart C are violated.
Pt. 173

# PART 173—PROCEDURES GOVERNING THE RESCISSION OF STATE PRIMARY ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITY FOR PESTICIDE USE VIOLATIONS
Sec.
173.1
Applicability.
173.2
Definitions.
173.3
Initiation of rescission proceedings.
173.4
Informal conference and settlement.
173.5
Request for hearing.
173.6
Publication of the notice; scheduling the hearing.
173.7
Hearing and recommended decision.
173.8
Final order.
173.9
Judicial review.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 136w and 136w-2.

# Source:
46 FR 26059, May 11, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 173.1
Applicability.
These procedures govern any proceeding to rescind a State's primary enforcement responsibility for pesticide use violations conducted under section 27(b) of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended (FIFRA), 7 U.S.C. 136
et seq.
§ 173.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency or his delegate.
(b)
Notice of intent to rescind
means a notice to a State issued under § 173.3 which initiates a proceeding to rescind the State's primary enforcement responsibility for pesticide use violations.
(c)
State
means the agency or agencies primarily responsible for enforcing pesticide use laws or regulations within the State or jurisdiction undergoing rescission proceedings.
(d)
Party to the proceeding
shall mean the State or the Agency's Office of Enforcement.
(e)
Presiding Officer
means an attorney appointed by the Administrator to conduct the rescission proceeding. The Presiding Officer shall be an employee or representative of the Agency and shall not have had prior direct connection with the specific proceeding except in circumstances where subsequent hearings are in order.
§ 173.3
Initiation of rescission proceedings.
(a) Whenever the Administrator determines that a State having primary enforcement responsibility for pesticide use violations is not carrying out such responsibility, or cannot carry out such responsibility due to the lack of adequate legal authority, the Administrator shall notify the State in writing of his intent to rescind its primary enforcement responsibility, in whole or in part, by serving upon the State a notice of intent to rescind.
(b) The notice of intent to rescind shall:
(1) Specify those aspects of the State's pesticide use enforcement program determined to be inadequate;
(2) Specify the facts which underlie the findings contained in the rescission notice;
(3) Have attached thereto copies of any relevant documents discoverable under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and the Freedom of Information Act which contain data relied upon by the Administrator in making his decision to issue the notice;
(4) Have attached thereto a copy of this part; and
(5) Be sent to the State by certified mail, return receipt requested.
(c) The State may respond in writing to the findings specified in the notice of intent to rescind.
§ 173.4
Informal conference and settlement.
(a) After receipt of a notice of intent to rescind, the State may request that an informal conference be held between appropriate State and EPA officials to discuss the findings made in the notice of intent to rescind. The informal conference shall then be held in the State. If the Administrator finds, on the basis of information submitted by the State at the conference, that the deficiencies specified in the notice did not exist or were corrected by the State, the Administrator shall issue an order withdrawing the notice of intent to rescind and terminating the rescission proceeding.
(b) At any time after receipt of a notice of intent to rescind and before the issuance of a final order, the State and EPA may resolve the issues raised in the notice by agreement. Any settlement agreement shall be in writing and signed by the parties and shall:
(1) Detail the deficiencies found in the State program;
(2) Specify the steps the State has taken or will take to remedy the deficiencies; and
(3) Set forth a precise schedule for each remedial action yet to be initiated.
(c) If a written agreement is signed by the parties, the Administrator shall issue an order withdrawing the notice of intent to rescind and terminating the rescission proceeding. If the State does not comply with the terms of the settlement agreement, the Administrator may reissue the notice of intent to rescind.
§ 173.5
Request for hearing.
A State may request a hearing before a Presiding Officer not later than sixty (60) days after receipt of a notice of intent to rescind.
§ 173.6
Publication of the notice; scheduling the hearing.
(a) If the Administrator has not issued an order terminating the rescission proceeding within sixty (60) days after service of the notice of intent to rescind upon the State, the Administrator shall publish the notice of intent to rescind in the
Federal Register.
The Administrator may modify the original notice of intent to rescind before its publication by deleting those deficiencies listed in the original notice which have been corrected or which were shown not to have existed. The public may submit comments upon the matters specified in the published notice of intent to rescind within the time specified therein.
(b) Concurrently with the publication of the notice of intent to rescind, the Administrator shall schedule a hearing in the State if one has been requested by the State. The date, time, and location of the hearing shall be published in the
Federal Register
along with the notice of intent to rescind.
(c) If a hearing is requested and the Administrator has not issued an order terminating the rescission proceeding, the Administrator shall provide for a hearing as scheduled. Representatives of the State, EPA, and the public may present evidence at the hearing. The Administrator shall appoint a Presiding Officer who shall preside over the hearing and make a recommended decision regarding the adequacy of the State's pesticide use enforcement program. The Administrator, after consultation with the State, may prescribe additional procedures governing the conduct of the hearing.
(d) If a termination order is issued or the hearing is rescheduled after the notice of intent to rescind is published in the
Federal Register,
such order or notice rescheduling the hearing shall also be published in the
Federal Register.
§ 173.7
Hearing and recommended decision.
(a) The Presiding Officer shall:
(1) Conduct a fair and impartial hearing, without unnecessary delay;
(2) Ensure that the facts are fully elicited; and
(3) Consider all evidence, comment, and argument which is submitted by persons who will be affected by the outcome of the proceeding and which is not irrelevant, immaterial, unduly repetitious, or otherwise unreliable or of little probative value. The Presiding
Officer may require any prospective witness to make available, in advance of the hearing, a brief summary of his or her testimony.
(b) If, following the close of the hearing, the Presiding Officer finds that the State has corrected, or has agreed in writing to correct, the deficiencies specified in the notice of intent to rescind or has shown that such deficiencies do not exist, the Presiding Officer shall issue a decision recommending that the notice of intent to rescind be withdrawn and that the rescission proceeding be terminated.
(c) If, following the close of the hearing, the Presiding Officer finds that the State has not corrected the deficiencies in its program, the Presiding Officer shall issue a decision recommending that the State's primary enforcement responsibility for pesticide use violations be rescinded in whole or in part.
(d) The recommended decision of the Presiding Officer shall become final Agency action forty-five (45) days after its service upon the parties and without further proceedings unless (1) an appeal to the Administrator is taken from it by a party to the proceeding, or (2) the Administrator elects, sua sponte, to review the recommended decision.
§ 173.8
Final order.
(a) If the State does not request a hearing within the sixty-day time period and the Administrator has not issued an order withdrawing the notice of intent to rescind, the Administrator shall issue a final order as soon as practicable after the time for public comment on the notice of intent to rescind has elapsed. The final order shall either withdraw the notice of intent to rescind and terminate the proceeding or rescind, in whole or in part, the State's primary enforcement responsibility for pesticide use violations.
(b) If a hearing has been held and the Presiding Officer has made a recommended decision, then either the Office of Enforcement or the State may appeal the recommended decision to the Administrator or the Administrator may elect to review the recommended decision on his own initiative.
(c) After an appeal or sua sponte review the Administrator shall issue a final order terminating the rescission proceeding or rescinding, in whole or in part, the State's primary enforcement responsibility for pesticide use violations.
(d) In no event may the Administrator issue his final decision sooner than ninety (90) days after service of the notice of intent to rescind on a State.
(e) Any final order, or a recommended decision which becomes a final order under § 173.7(c), shall be published in the
Federal Register.
§ 173.9
Judicial review.
The State may appeal an order rescinding, in whole or in part, its primary enforcement responsibility for pesticide use violations to the appropriate federal court pursuant to section 16 of FIFRA.
Pt. 174

# PART 174—PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS FOR PLANT-INCORPORATED PROTECTANTS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
174.1
Scope and purpose.
174.3
Definitions.
174.9
Confidential business information claims for plant-incorporated protectant submissions.

# Subpart B—Exemptions
174.21
General qualifications for exemptions.
174.25
Active ingredient of a plant-incorporated protectant from a sexually compatible plant created through conventional breeding.
174.26
Active ingredient of a plant-incorporated protectant created through genetic engineering from a sexually compatible plant.
174.27
Active ingredient of a loss-of-function plant-incorporated protectant.
Subpart C—Registration Procedures and Requirements [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Monitoring and Recordkeeping
174.71
Submission of information regarding adverse effects.
174.73
General recordkeeping requirements for exemptions.

# Subpart E—Exemption Eligibility Determination Process and Requirements
174.90
Determining eligibility.
174.91
Submitting a letter of self-determination.
174.93
Requesting EPA confirmation.
174.95
Documentation for an exemption for a plant-incorporated protectant created through genetic engineering from a sexually compatible plant.
174.96
Documentation for an exemption for a loss-of-function plant-incorporated protectant.
Subpart F [Reserved]
Subpart G—Labeling Requirements [Reserved]
Subpart H—Data Requirements [Reserved]
Subpart I [Reserved]
Subpart J—Good Laboratory Practices [Reserved]
Subpart K—Export Requirements [Reserved]
Subparts L-T [Reserved]
Subpart U—Experimental Use Permits [Reserved]
Subpart V [Reserved]

# Subpart W—Tolerances and Tolerance Exemptions
174.500
Scope and purpose.
174.501
Bacillus thuringiensis
Vip3Aa protein in corn and cotton; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.502
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry1A.105 protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.504
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry1F protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.505
Bacillus thuringiensis
modified Cry3A protein (mCry3A) in corn; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.506
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry34Ab1 and Cry35Ab1 proteins in corn; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.507
Nucleic acids that are part of a plant-incorporated protectant; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.508
Pesticidal substance of a plant-incorporated protectant from a sexually compatible plant created through conventional breeding; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.509
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry3A protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.510
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry1Ac protein in all plants; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.511
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry1Ab protein in all plants; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.512
Coat Protein of Potato Virus Y; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.513
Potato Leaf Roll Virus Resistance Gene (also known as orf1/orf2 gene); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.514
Coat Protein of Watermelon Mosaic Virus-2 and Zucchini Yellow Mosaic Virus; exemption from the requirement for a tolerance.
174.515
Coat Protein of Papaya Ringspot Virus; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.516
Coat protein of cucumber mosaic virus; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.517
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry9C protein in corn; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.518
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry3Bb1 protein in corn; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.519
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry2Ab2 protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.521
Neomycin phosphotransferase II; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.522
Phosphinothricin Acetyltransferase (PAT); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.523
CP4 Enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate (CP4 EPSPS) synthase in all plants; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.524
Glyphosate Oxidoreductase GOX or GOXv247 in all plants; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.525
E. coli B-D-glucuronidase enzyme as a plant-incorporated protectant inert ingredient; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.526
Hygromycin B phosphotransferase (APH4) marker protein in all plants; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.527
Phosphomannose isomerase in all plants; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.529
Bacillus thuringiensis
modified Cry1Ab protein as identified under OECD Unique Identifier SYN-IR67B-1 in cotton; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.530
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry2Ae protein in cotton; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.531
Coat protein of plum pox virus; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.532
Bacillus thuringiensis
eCry3.1Ab protein in corn; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.533
Glycine max
Herbicide-Resistant Acetolactate Synthase (GM-HRA) inert ingredient; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.534
VNT1 protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.535
Spinach Defensin proteins; temporary exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.536
Bacillus thuringiensis
mCry51Aa2 protein in cotton; temporary exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.537
HPPD-4 protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.539
Cry51Aa2.834__16 protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.540
Bacillus thuringiensis Cry14Ab-1 protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.541
Pesticidal substance of a plant-incorporated protectant created through genetic engineering from a sexually compatible plant; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.542
Bacillus thuringiensis Cry1Ab/Cry2Aj protein in corn; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.543
G10evo-EPSPS protein in all plants; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.544
Modified potato acetolactate synthase (StmALS) in potato; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.545
BLB2 and AMR3 proteins in potato; temporary exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.546
Bacillus thuringensis Cry1B.868 and Cry1Da_7 proteins; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.547
Ophioglossum pendulum
IPD079Ea protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.548
Pseudomonas chlororaphis IPD072Aa protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.549
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry1Da2 protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.550
Streptomyces sviceus DGT-28 EPSPS (5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase) protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.551
Brevibacillus laterosporus
Mpp75Aa1.1 protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.552
Bacillus thuringiensis
Vpb4Da2 protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
174.553
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry1B.34 protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.

# Subpart X—List of Approved Inert Ingredients
174.700
Scope and purpose.
174.705
Inert ingredients from sexually compatible plant.
Subparts Y-Z [Reserved]

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 136-136y; 21 U.S.C. 321(q), 346a and 371.

# Source:
66 FR 37814, July 19, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 174.1
Scope and purpose.
The characteristics of plant-incorporated protectants such as their production and use in plants, their biological properties, and their ability to spread and increase in quantity in the environment distinguish them from traditional chemical pesticides. Therefore, plant-incorporated protectants are subject to some different regulatory requirements and procedures than traditional chemical pesticides. This part sets forth regulatory requirements, criteria, and procedures applicable to plant-incorporated protectants under FIFRA and FFDCA. When applied to plant-incorporated protectants, the definitions and regulations in this part supersede the regulations found in parts 150 through 180 of this chapter to the extent that the regulations conflict. Unless otherwise superseded by this part, the regulations in parts 150 through 180 of this chapter apply to plant-incorporated protectants.
§ 174.3
Definitions.
Terms used in this part have the same meaning as in FIFRA. In addition, the following terms have the meaning set forth in this section.
Active ingredient
means a pesticidal substance that is intended to be produced and used in a living plant, or in the produce thereof, and the genetic material necessary for the production of such a pesticidal substance.
Administrator
means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency or his/her delegate.
Bridging crosses between plants
means the utilization of an intermediate plant
in a cross to produce a viable zygote between the intermediate plant and a first plant, in order to cross the plant resulting from that zygote with a third plant that would not otherwise be able to produce viable zygotes from the fusion of its gametes with those of the first plant. The result of the bridging cross is the mixing of genetic material of the first and third plant through the formation of an intermediate zygote.
Cell fusion
means the fusion
in vitro
of two or more cells or protoplasts.
Conventional breeding
of plants means the creation of progeny through either: The union of gametes,
i.e.
, syngamy, brought together through processes such as pollination, including bridging crosses between plants and wide crosses, or vegetative reproduction. It does not include use of any of the following technologies: Recombinant DNA; other techniques wherein the genetic material is extracted from an organism and introduced into the genome of the recipient plant through, for example, micro-injection, macro-injection, micro-encapsulation; or cell fusion.
EPA
means the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
Exudate
means a substance gradually discharged or secreted across intact cellular membranes or cell walls and present in the intercellular spaces or on the exterior surfaces of the plant.
FFDCA
means the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321
et seq.
).
FIFRA
means the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 136
et seq.
).
Food
includes articles used for food or drink by humans or other animals.
Food plant
means a plant which either in part or
in toto,
is used as food.
Gene,
and other grammatical variants such as “genic,” means a unit of heritable genetic material that is comprised of the genetic material necessary for the production of a substance.
Genetic engineering
means the modification of the genome of an organism using recombinant, synthesized, or amplified nucleic acids or other techniques excluded from the definition of conventional breeding.
Genetic material necessary for the production
means both: Genetic material that encodes a substance or leads to the production of a substance; and regulatory regions. It does not include noncoding, nonexpressed nucleotide sequences.
Genome
means the sum of the heritable genetic material in the plant, including genetic material in the nucleus and organelles.
In a living plant
means inside the living plant, on the surface of the living plant, or as an exudate from the living plant.
Inert ingredient,
means any substance, such as a selectable marker, other than the active ingredient, where the substance is used to confirm or ensure the presence of the active ingredient, and includes the genetic material necessary for the production of the substance, provided that genetic material is intentionally introduced into a living plant in addition to the active ingredient.
Living plant
means a plant, plant organ, or plant part that is alive, viable, or dormant. Examples of plant parts include, but are not limited to, seeds, fruits, leaves, roots, stems, flowers, and pollen.
Loss-of-function plant-incorporated protectant
means a plant-incorporated protectant in which the genetic material of a native gene is modified to result in a pesticidal effect through the reduction or elimination of the activity of that gene. For purposes of loss-of-function plant-incorporated protectants, the active ingredient and pesticidal substance are one and the same and are defined as the genetic material that has been modified to create the pesticidal trait (
i.e.,
modification of the sequence of nucleic acids). Loss-of-function plant-incorporated protectants do not include instances where the reduction or elimination of the activity of the modified native gene results in the intentional increase of activity of another pesticidal gene.
Native allele
means a variant of a native gene that is identified in the genetic diversity of plants sexually compatible with the recipient plant.
Native gene
means a gene that is identified in the recipient plant or source plants that are sexually compatible
with the recipient plant. It does not include genes introduced through genetic engineering from a source organism that is not sexually compatible with the source plant.
Noncoding, nonexpressed nucleotide sequences
means the nucleotide sequences are not transcribed and are not involved in gene expression. Examples of noncoding, nonexpressed nucleotide sequences include, but are not limited to, linkers, adapters, homopolymers, and sequences of restriction enzyme recognition sites.
Nucleic acids
means ribosides or deoxyribosides of adenine, thymine, guanine, cytosine, and uracil; polymers of the deoxyribose-5′-monophosphates of thymine, cytosine, guanine, and adenine linked by successive 3′-5′ phosphodiester bonds (also known as deoxyribonucleic acid); and polymers of the ribose-5′-monophosphates of uracil, cytosine, guanine, and adenine linked by successive 3′-5′ phosphodiester bonds (also known as ribonucleic acid). The term does not apply to nucleic acid analogues (e.g., dideoxycytidine), or polymers containing nucleic acid analogues.
Pesticidal substance,
means a substance that is intended to be produced and used in a living plant, or in the produce thereof, for a pesticidal purpose, during any part of a plant's life cyle (e.g., in the embryo, seed, seedling, mature plant).
Plant,
for plant-incorporated protectants, means an organism classified using the 5-kingdom classification system of Whittaker in the kingdom Plantae. This includes, but is not limited to, bryophytes such as mosses, pteridophytes such as ferns, gymnosperms such as conifers, and angiosperms such as most major crop plants.
Plant-incorporated protectant
means a pesticidal substance that is intended to be produced and used in a living plant, or in the produce thereof, and the genetic material necessary for production of such a pesticidal substance. It also includes any inert ingredient contained in the plant, or produce thereof.
Produce thereof,
when used with respect to plants containing plant- incorporated protectants only, means a product of a living plant containing a plant-incorporated protectant, where the pesticidal substance is intended to serve a pesticidal purpose after the product has been separated from the living plant. Examples of such products include, but are not limited to, agricultural produce, grains, and lumber. Products such as raw agricultural commodities bearing pesticide chemical residues are not “produce thereof” when the residues are not intended to serve a pesticidal purpose in the produce.
Recipient plant
means the living plant in which the plant-incorporated protectant is intended to be produced and used.
Recombinant DNA
means the genetic material has been manipulated
in vitro
through the use of restriction endonucleases and/or other enzymes that aid in modifying genetic material, and subsequently introduced into the genome of the plant.
Regulatory region
means genetic material that controls the expression of the genetic material that encodes a pesticidal substance or leads to the production of a pesticidal substance. Examples of regulatory regions include, but are not limited to, promoters, enhancers, and terminators.
Sexually compatible,
when referring to plants, means plants must be capable of forming a viable zygote through the union of two gametes through conventional breeding.
Source
means the donor of the genetic material that encodes a pesticidal substance or leads to the production of a pesticidal substance.
Vegetative reproduction
means either:
(1) In seed plants, reproduction by apomixis, or
(2) In other plants, reproduction by fragmentation, or division of the somatic body.
Wide crosses
means to facilitate the formation of viable zygotes through the use of surgical alteration of the plant pistil, bud pollination, mentor pollen, immunosuppressants,
in vitro
fertilization, pre-pollination and post-pollination hormone treatments, manipulation of chromosome numbers, embryo culture, or ovary and ovule cultures.
[66 FR 37814, July 19, 2001, as amended at 88 FR 34776, May 31, 2023]
§ 174.9
Confidential business information claims for plant-incorporated protectant submissions.
Although it is strongly recommended that the submitter minimize the amount of data and other information claimed as Confidential Business Information (CBI), a submitter may assert a claim of confidentiality for all or part of the information submitted to EPA in a submission for a plant-incorporated protectant. (See part 2, subpart B of this chapter.) To assert such a claim, the submitter must comply with all of the following procedures:
(a) Any claim of confidentiality must accompany the information at the time the information is submitted to EPA. Failure to assert a claim at that time constitutes a waiver of confidentiality for the information submitted, and the information may be made available to the public, subject to section 10(g) of FIFRA, with no further notice to the submitter.
(b) Any claim of confidentiality must be accompanied, at the time the claim is made, by comments substantiating the claim and explaining why the submitter believes that the information should not be disclosed. The submitter must address each of the points listed in § 2.204(e)(4) of this chapter in the substantiation. EPA will consider incomplete all plant-incorporated protectant submissions containing information claimed as CBI that are not accompanied by substantiation, and will suspend any applicable review of such submissions until the required substantiation is provided.

# Subpart B—Exemptions
§ 174.21
General qualifications for exemptions.
A plant-incorporated protectant is exempt from the requirements of FIFRA, other than the requirements of § 174.71, if it meets the exemption criteria in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. Plant-incorporated protectants that are not exempt from the requirements of FIFRA under this subpart are subject to all the requirements of FIFRA.
(a) The active ingredient of the plant-incorporated protectant meets the exemption criteria listed in at least one of the sections in §§ 174.25 through 174.50.
(b) When the plant-incorporated protectant is intended to be produced and used in a crop used as food, the residues of the active ingredient of the plant-incorporated protectant are either exempted from the requirement of a tolerance under FFDCA (21 U.S.C. 321
et seq.
) as listed in subpart W of this part, or no tolerance would otherwise be required.
(c) Any inert ingredient that is part of the plant-incorporated protectant is listed as an approved inert ingredient in subpart X of this part.
(d) For plant-incorporated protectants listed in the subparagraphs below, the exemption applies only if the developer is compliant with the general recordkeeping requirements specified in § 174.73 per sections 8 and 9 of FIFRA, 7 U.S.C. 136f and 136g, and only after compliance with the relevant eligibility determination procedures specified in § 174.90:
(1) Plant-incorporated protectant created through genetic engineering from a sexually compatible plant.
(2) Loss-of-function plant-incorporated protectant.
[88 FR 34776, May 31, 2023]
§ 174.25
Active ingredient of a plant-incorporated protectant from a sexually compatible plant created through conventional breeding.
The active ingredient is exempt if all of the following conditions are met:
(a) The genetic material that encodes the pesticidal substance or leads to the production of the pesticidal substance is from a plant that is sexually compatible with the recipient plant.
(b) The genetic material has never been derived from a source that is not sexually compatible with the recipient plant.
(c) The genetic material is transferred from the source plant to the recipient plant only through conventional breeding.
[66 FR 37814, July 19, 2001, as amended at 88 FR 34777, May 31, 2023]
§ 174.26
Active ingredient of a plant-incorporated protectant created through genetic engineering from a sexually compatible plant.
The active ingredient is exempt if the conditions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are met.
(a) The active ingredient is characteristic of the population of plants sexually compatible with the recipient plant and is created through genetic engineering from either an insertion of a native gene into the recipient plant as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or a modification of an existing native gene in the recipient plant as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(1)
Insertion.
A native gene is inserted into the genome of the recipient plant and produces a pesticidal substance identical in sequence to the pesticidal substance identified in the source plant. The regulatory regions inserted as part of the native gene must be identical in nucleic acid sequence to those regulatory regions of the native gene identified in the source plant.
(2)
Modification.
The existing native gene is modified to match corresponding polymorphic sequence(s) in a native allele of that gene using a single source plant as a template.
(b) This exemption does not apply until the requirements in § 174.21(d) have been met.
[88 FR 34777, May 31, 2023]
§ 174.27
Active ingredient of a loss-of-function plant-incorporated protectant.
The active ingredient is exempt if the following conditions are met:
(a) The genetic material of a native gene is modified using genetic engineering to result in a pesticidal effect through the reduction or elimination of the activity of that gene; and
(b) This exemption does not apply until the requirements in § 174.21(d) have been met.
[88 FR 34777, May 31, 2023]
Subpart C—Registration Procedures and Requirements [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Monitoring and Recordkeeping
§ 174.71
Submission of information regarding adverse effects.
(a) Any person who produces, for sale or distribution, a plant-incorporated protectant exempt under subpart B of this part, who obtains any information regarding adverse effects on human health or the environment alleged to have been caused by the plant-incorporated protectant must submit such information to EPA. This requirement does not apply to any person who does not produce a plant-incorporated protectant exempt under subpart B of this part. This may include, for example, researchers performing field experiments, breeders making crosses among plant varieties with the goal of developing new plant varieties, or a person who only sells propagative materials (e.g., seed) to farmers without producing the propagative materials themselves. EPA must receive the report within 30 calendar days of the date the producer first possesses or knows of the information.
(b) Adverse effects on human health or the environment for purposes of plant-incorporated protectant means at a minimum information about incidents affecting humans or other nontarget organisms where both:
(1) The producer is aware, or has been informed, that a person or nontarget organism allegedly suffered a toxic or adverse effect due to exposure to (e.g., ingestion of) a plant-incorporated protectant.
(2) The producer has or could reasonably obtain information concerning where the incident occurred.
(c) All of the following information, if available, must be included in a report.
(1) Name of reporter, address, and telephone number.
(2) Name, address, and telephone of contact person (if different than reporter).
(3) Description of incident.
(4) Date producer became aware of incident.
(5) Date of incident.
(6) Location of incident.
(d) Reports and questions should be submitted to the Office of Pesticide
Programs' Document Processing Desk at the appropriate address as set forth in 40 CFR 150.17(a) or (b).
[66 FR 37814, July 19, 2001, as amended at 71 FR 35546, June 21, 2006]
§ 174.73
General recordkeeping requirements for exemptions.
For 5 years, starting with the effective date of a plant-incorporated protectant exemption, any person who is required to submit documentation for the determination of eligibility for a plant-incorporated protectant listed under § 174.21(d) must do both of the following:
(a) Maintain documentation of either the request for EPA confirmation or the letter of self-determination (or both, if applicable) along with all supporting documentation for the specific exemption listed in subpart E of this part.
(b) Make the documentation outlined in paragraph (a) of this section available to EPA upon request.
[88 FR 34777, May 31, 2023]

# Subpart E—Exemption Eligibility Determination Process and Requirements

# Source:
88 FR 34777, May 31, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 174.90
Determining eligibility.
(a)
Options for determining eligibility.
As required in §§ 174.21(d) and 174.541(c), the developer must notify EPA to be eligible for exemption. Available notification options differ by plant-incorporated protectant. The developer must do at least one of the following:
(1)
EPA confirmation.
Unless permitted in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a developer must submit a request for EPA confirmation of eligibility in accordance with § 174.93. Any developer may submit a request for EPA confirmation of eligibility in accordance with § 174.93.
(2)
Self-determination.
A developer may submit a letter of self-determination in accordance with § 174.91 if the plant-incorporated protectant qualifies for exemption as one of the following:
(i) A loss-of-function plant-incorporated protectant eligible for exemption under § 174.27.
(ii) [Reserved]
(b)
Where to submit a request for EPA confirmation or letter of self-determination.
A request for EPA confirmation of eligibility or a letter of self-determination must be submitted electronically.
(c)
Claims of confidentiality.
Any claims of confidentiality for information submitted in the request for EPA confirmation or a letter of self-determination must be made in accordance with the procedures outlined in § 174.9.
(d)
Overlapping determinations of eligibility.
If a plant-incorporated protectant is eligible for a self-determination option, a developer may elect to submit a letter of self-determination as well as a request for EPA confirmation of eligibility concurrently or at a later time. If the developer so elects, the letter of self-determination will remain in effect while EPA evaluates the request for confirmation of eligibility.
(e)
Revisiting eligibility determination.
If, at any time after EPA issues a confirmation of eligibility or the letter of self-determination is submitted, EPA becomes aware of information indicating that a plant-incorporated protectant no longer meets the criteria for exemption (e.g., adverse effects reports submitted under § 174.71) or that the self-determination was incorrect, EPA will generally notify the submitter in writing of EPA's intention to initiate a review of eligibility for exemption and may request additional information from the submitter in order to evaluate that eligibility for exemption. Upon conclusion of its review, EPA will notify the submitter in writing of its determination as to whether the plant-incorporated protectant meets the exemption criteria and any actions that will be required should the plant-incorporated protectant be found to not meet the exemption criteria. Under those circumstances, the plant-incorporated protectant may be considered to be noncompliant with FIFRA and subject to possible enforcement by EPA. At any time, if EPA finds or has reason to believe that a plant-incorporated protectant's non-compliance
with FIFRA requires immediate action, EPA may take such action, including enforcement, without first informing the submitter of an eligibility review.
(f)
Extension of exemption.
An exemption can be extended in one of two ways. First, if the exempted plant-incorporated protectant is moved through conventional breeding to other plants, the exemption is extended to the subsequent plant-incorporated protectant. Second, to extend the exemption of the plant-incorporated protectant to subsequent genetic engineering events in other plants, the following exemption-specific criteria apply:
(1)
Plant-incorporated protectant created through genetic engineering from a sexually compatible plant.
An exemption extends to a plant-incorporated protectant when that plant-incorporated protectant is genetically engineered by the submitter into another variety of that same plant species, the substance produced is identical to the substance produced in the original recipient plant, and no new modifications were made to the regulatory regions.
(2)
Loss of function plant-incorporated protectant.
An exemption extends to a plant-incorporated protectant when that plant-incorporated protectant is genetically engineered by the submitter into another variety of that same plant species and the same native gene is targeted to create the loss-of-function PIP.
(g)
No duplication necessary.
A developer is not required to submit duplicative requests for eligibility determination or self-determination under both §§ 174.541(c) and 174.21(d), if it has already been submitted for purposes of determining eligibility under § 174.21(d).
§ 174.91
Submitting a letter of self-determination.
To self-determine eligibility for the exemption of a plant-incorporated protectant listed under § 174.90(a)(2), a developer must comply with all of the following requirements.
(a)
When to submit a letter of self-determination.
A letter of self-determination for an exemption must be submitted to EPA prior to engaging in any activity that would be subject to FIFRA absent an exemption.
(b)
Contents of a letter of self-determination.
The letter of self-determination must:
(1) Provide the name and contact information for the submitter (including telephone number and email address), company name, or other affiliation.
(2) Identify the plant-incorporated protectant by providing: the identity of the recipient plant (genus and species), a unique identifier for the native gene from the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) at the National Library of Medicine of the National Institutes of Health (NLM) at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) (
i.e.,
Entrez GeneID), the trait type (e.g., insect resistance), and cite the paragraph under § 174.90(a)(2) that indicates that the plant-incorporated protectant is eligible for self-determination.
(3) Complete and submit the certification statement provided in the electronic submission portal. The statement must be dated and signed by the certifying official identified in the certification statement.
(c)
EPA response.
EPA will provide electronic confirmation of receipt immediately. Electronic confirmation of receipt shall be equivalent to written confirmation of receipt.
(d)
Effective date of exemption.
The exemption does not apply until EPA confirms receipt of the letter of self-determination.
§ 174.93
Requesting EPA confirmation.
To request EPA confirmation of eligibility for exemption of a plant-incorporated protectant listed under § 174.21(d), a developer must comply with all of the following requirements.
(a)
When to submit a request for EPA confirmation.
Unless the developer has received confirmation of receipt of a letter of self-determination, the request for EPA confirmation must be submitted prior to engaging in any activity that would be subject to FIFRA absent an exemption.
(b)
Contents of a request for EPA confirmation of exemption eligibility.
The request must contain information as specified in § 174.91(b) and supporting
documentation, as specified in exemption-specific sections of this subpart (e.g., § 174.95).
(c)
EPA review and response.
Upon receipt of a request, EPA will review and evaluate the information provided to determine whether the plant-incorporated protectant meets the exemption criteria in § 174.21. EPA may require additional information to assess whether a plant-incorporated protectant meets the criteria for exemption. EPA will notify the submitter in writing of its determination. If EPA determines that the plant-incorporated protectant does not meet the criteria for exemption, EPA will notify the submitter in writing of any actions that will be required.
(d)
Effective date of exemption.
If the plant-incorporated protectant is not already exempt pursuant to the self-determination process under § 174.91, this exemption applies once EPA notifies the submitter in writing, confirming that the plant-incorporated protectant meets the criteria for exemption.
§ 174.95
Documentation for an exemption for a plant-incorporated protectant created through genetic engineering from a sexually compatible plant.
A developer requesting EPA confirmation of exemption eligibility for a plant-incorporated protectant created through genetic engineering from a sexually compatible plant pursuant to § 174.93 must submit the information in the following paragraphs to EPA. The following documentation must be maintained by a developer of a plant-incorporated protectant created through genetic engineering from a sexually compatible plant per § 174.73:
(a)
Biology of the plant.
(1) The identity of the recipient plant, including genus and species.
(2) If the plant-incorporated protectant was derived from a plant species other than the recipient plant species, provide the identity of the source plant including genus and species and information to support the determination that the recipient plant and the source plant are sexually compatible (e.g., through peer-reviewed literature rationale).
(b)
Description of the pesticidal trait and how the trait was engineered into the plant.
Include a description of the measures that were taken to ensure that no engineering components (e.g., Cas proteins) are present in the final plant product and the measures taken to maximize the likelihood that the modification to the recipient plant is limited to the intended modification.
(c)
Molecular characterization of the plant-incorporated protectant.
A nucleic acid sequence comparison of the plant-incorporated protectant between the recipient plant and the comparator(s). A deduced amino acid sequence comparison is additionally required when the pesticidal substance is proteinaceous. The relevant comparator(s) for the sequence comparison(s) are determined by the type of modification:
(1) For § 174.26(a)(1), sequences in the source plant and in the recipient plant.
(2) For § 174.26(a)(2), sequences in the recipient plant before the modification, after the modification, and the sequence in the source plant. The polymorphic site(s) must be indicated.
(d)
Information on the history of safe use of the plant-incorporated protectant.
(1) If the pesticidal substance is a known allergen or mammalian toxin/toxicant (e.g., solanine), describe how conventional breeding practices are being used to ensure that it does not exceed human dietary safety levels in the recipient food plant (
i.e.,
ensure residues of pesticidal substance are not present in food at levels that are injurious or deleterious and are within the ranges of levels generally seen in plant varieties currently on the market and/or known to produce food safe for consumption).
(2) If the source plant is a wild relative of the recipient plant, describe why the plant-incorporated protectant is not anticipated to pose a hazard to humans or the environment (e.g., Are levels of the pesticidal substance produced in the recipient plant within the ranges of levels generally seen in plant varieties currently on the market and/or known to produce food safe for consumption? Is the pesticidal mode of action non-toxic? Does the plant-incorporated protectant lack sequence similarity to known mammalian toxins, toxicants, or allergens? Is the plant-incorporated protectant a commonly
screened substance and therefore familiar to plant breeders?).
§ 174.96
Documentation for an exemption for a loss-of-function plant-incorporated protectant.
A developer requesting EPA confirmation of exemption eligibility for a loss-of-function plant-incorporated protectant pursuant to § 174.93 must submit the information in the following paragraphs to EPA along with the developer's request for exemption confirmation. The following documentation must be maintained by a developer of a loss-of-function plant-incorporated protectant per § 174.73:
(a) Biology of the plant: The identity of the recipient plant, including genus and species.
(b) Description of the pesticidal trait that results from the loss-of-function and how the trait was engineered into the plant. Include a description of the steps that were taken to ensure that no engineering components (e.g., Cas proteins) remain in the plant and the measures taken to maximize the likelihood that the modification to the recipient plant is limited to the intended modification.
Subpart F [Reserved]
Subpart G—Labeling [Reserved]
Subpart H—Data Requirements [Reserved]
Subpart I [Reserved]
Subpart J—Good Laboratory Practices [Reserved]
Subpart K—Export Requirements [Reserved]
Subparts L-T [Reserved]
Subpart U—Experimental Use Permits [Reserved]
Subpart V [Reserved]

# Subpart W—Tolerances and Tolerance Exemptions
§ 174.500
Scope and purpose.
This subpart lists the tolerances and exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance for residues of plant-incorporated protectants in or on food commodities.
[72 FR 20434, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 174.501
Bacillus thuringiensis
Vip3Aa protein in corn and cotton; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Bacillus thuringiensis
Vip3Aa proteins in or on corn or cotton are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as plant-incorporated protectants in or on the food and feed commodities of corn; corn, field; corn, sweet; corn, pop; and cotton; cotton, undelinted seed; cotton, refined oil; cotton, meal; cotton, hay; cotton, hulls; cotton, forage; and cotton, gin byproducts.
[73 FR 45624, Aug. 6, 2008]
§ 174.502
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry1A.105 protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
(a) Residues of
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry1A.105 protein in or on the food and feed commodities of corn; corn, field, flour; corn, field, forage; corn, field, grain; corn, field, grits; corn, field, meal; corn, field, refined oil; corn, field, stover; corn, sweet, forage; corn, sweet, kernel plus cob with husk removed; corn, sweet, stover; and corn, pop, grain and corn, pop, stover are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when the
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry1A.105 protein is used as a plant-incorporated protectant in these food and feed corn commodities.
(b) Residues of
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry1A.105 protein in or on soybean are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in the food and feed commodities of soybean.
[74 FR 39543, Aug. 7, 2009, as amended at 80 FR 25950, May 6, 2015]
§ 174.504
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry1F protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry1F protein in the food and feed commodities of corn, field; corn, sweet; corn, pop; cotton; and soybean are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in corn, field; corn, sweet; corn, pop; cotton, and soybean.
[79 FR 8295, Feb. 12, 2014]
§ 174.505
Bacillus thuringiensis
modified Cry3A protein (mCry3A) in corn; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Bacillus thuringiensis
modified Cry3A protein (mCry3A) in corn are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as plant-incorporated protectant in the food and feed commodities of corn; corn, field; corn, sweet; and corn, pop.
[72 FR 20434, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 174.506
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry34Ab1 and Cry35Ab1 proteins in corn; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry34Ab1 and Cry35Ab1 proteins in corn are exempted from the requirement of a tolerance when used as plant-incorporated protectants in the food and feed commodities of corn; corn, field; corn, sweet; and corn, pop.
[72 FR 20434, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 174.507
Nucleic acids that are part of a plant-incorporated protectant; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of nucleic acids that are part of a plant-incorporated protectant are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance.
[66 FR 37830, July 19, 2001. Redesignated at 72 FR 20434, April 25, 2007]
§ 174.508
Pesticidal substance of a plant-incorporated protectant from a sexually compatible plant created through conventional breeding; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of a pesticidal substance are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance if all the following conditions are met:
(a) The genetic material that encodes for the pesticidal substance or leads to the production of the pesticidal substance is from a plant that is sexually compatible with the recipient food plant.
(b) The genetic material has never been derived from a source that is not sexually compatible with the recipient food plant.
(c) The genetic material is transferred from the source plant to the recipient plant only through conventional breeding.
(d) The residues of the pesticidal substance are not present in food from the plant at levels that are injurious or deleterious to human health.
[66 FR 37854, July 19, 2001. Redesignated at 72 FR 20434, April 25, 2007; 88 FR 34779, May 31, 2023]
§ 174.509
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry3A protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry3A protein are exempted from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in potatoes.
[72 FR 20435, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 174.510
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry1Ac protein in all plants; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry1Ac protein in all plants are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as plant-incorporated protectants in all food commodities.
[72 FR 20435, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 174.511
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry1Ab protein in all plants; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry1Ab protein in all plants are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as plant-incorporated protectants in all food commodities.
[72 FR 20435, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 174.512
Coat Protein of Potato Virus Y; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of Coat Protein of Potato Virus Y are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in or on all food commodities.
[72 FR 20435, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 174.513
Potato Leaf Roll Virus Resistance Gene (also known as orf1/orf2 gene); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
An exemption from the requirement of a tolerance is established for residues of the plant-incorporated protectant Potato Leaf Roll Virus Resistance Gene (also known as orf1/orf2 gene) in or on all food commodities.
[72 FR 20435, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 174.514
Coat Protein of Watermelon Mosaic Virus-2 and Zucchini Yellow Mosaic Virus; exemption from the requirement for a tolerance.
Residues of Coat Protein of Watermelon Mosaic Virus-2 and Zucchini Yellow Mosaic Virus are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in or on all food commodities.
[72 FR 20435, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 174.515
Coat Protein of Papaya Ringspot Virus; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of Coat Protein of Papaya Ringspot Virus are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in or on all food commodities.
[72 FR 20435, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 174.516
Coat protein of cucumber mosaic virus; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of Coat Protein of Cucumber Mosaic Virus are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in or on all food commodities.
[72 FR 20435, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 174.517
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry9C protein in corn; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
The plant-incorporated protectant
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry9C protein in corn is exempted from the requirement of a tolerance for residues, only in corn used for feed; as well as in meat, poultry, milk, or eggs resulting from animals fed such feed.
[72 FR 20435, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 174.518
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry3Bb1 protein in corn; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry3Bb1 protein in corn are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as plant-incorporated protectants in the food and feed commodities of corn; corn, field; corn, sweet; and corn, pop.
[72 FR 20435, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 174.519
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry2Ab2 protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
(a) Residues of
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry2Ab2 protein in or on corn or cotton are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in the food and feed commodities of corn; corn, field; corn, sweet; corn, pop; and cotton seed, cotton oil, cotton meal, cotton hay, cotton hulls, cotton forage, and cotton gin byproducts.
(b) Residues of
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry2Ab2 protein in or on soybean are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in the food and feed commodities of soybean.
[80 FR 25604, May 5, 2015]
§ 174.521
Neomycin phosphotransferase II; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of the neomycin phosphotransferase II (NPTII) enzyme are exempted from the requirement of a tolerance in all food commodities when used as a plant-incorporated protectant inert ingredient.
[72 FR 20435, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 174.522
Phosphinothricin Acetyltransferase (PAT); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of the Phosphinothricin Acetyltransferase (PAT) enzyme are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as plant-incorporated protectant inert ingredients in all food commodities.
[72 FR 20435, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 174.523
CP4 Enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate (CP4 EPSPS) synthase in all plants; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of the CP4 Enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate (CP4 EPSPS) synthase enzyme in all plants are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as plant-incorporated protectant inert ingredients in all food commodities.
[72 FR 20435, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 174.524
Glyphosate Oxidoreductase GOX or GOXv247 in all plants; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of the Glyphosate Oxidoreductase GOX or GOXv247 enzyme in all plants are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as plant-incorporated protectant inert ingredients in all food commodities.
[72 FR 20435, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 174.525
E. coli B-D-glucuronidase enzyme as a plant-incorporated protectant inert ingredient; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
E. coli
B-D-glucuronidase enzyme are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant inert ingredient in all food commodities.
[72 FR 20435, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 174.526
Hygromycin B phosphotransferase (APH4) marker protein in all plants; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of the Hygromycin B phosphotransferase (APH4) enzyme in all plants are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant inert ingredient in cotton.
[72 FR 20435, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 174.527
Phosphomannose isomerase in all plants; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of the phosphomannose isomerase (PMI) enzyme in plants are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as plant-incorporated protectant inert ingredients in all food commodities.
[72 FR 20435, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 174.529
Bacillus thuringiensis
modified Cry1Ab protein as identified under OECD Unique Identifier SYN-IR67B-1 in cotton; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Bacillus thuringiensis
modified Cry1Ab protein as identified under OECD Unique Identifier SYN-IR67B-1 are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in cotton; cotton, undelinted seed; cotton, refined oil; cotton, meal; cotton, hay; cotton, hulls; cotton, forage; and cotton, gin byproducts.
[73 FR 40764, July 16, 2008]
§ 174.530
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry2Ae protein in cotton; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry2Ae protein in or on the food and feed commodities of cotton; cotton, undelinted seed; cotton, gin byproducts; cotton, forage; cotton, hay; cotton, hulls; cotton, meal; and cotton, refined oil, are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry2Ae protein is used as a plant-incorporated protectant in cotton.
[77 FR 6475, Feb. 8, 2012]
§ 174.531
Coat protein of plum pox virus; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of the coat protein of plum pox virus in or on the food commodities of fruit, stone, Group 12; and almond, are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance in these food commodities when expressed by the plant-incorporated protectant, coat protein gene of plum pox virus, and used in accordance with good agricultural practices.
[75 FR 29435, May 26, 2010]
§ 174.532
Bacillus thuringiensis
eCry3.1Ab protein in corn; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Bacillus thuringiensis
eCry3.1Ab protein in corn, in or on the food and feed commodities of corn; corn, field; corn, sweet; and corn, pop are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when
Bacillus thuringiensis
eCry3.1Ab protein in corn is used as a plant-incorporated protectant.
[77 FR 47291, Aug. 8, 2012]
§ 174.533
Glycine max
Herbicide-Resistant Acetolactate Synthase (GM-HRA) inert ingredient; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Glycine max
herbicide-resistant acetolactate synthase (GM-HRA) enzyme in or on the food and feed commodities of soybean are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant inert ingredient.
[78 FR 9321, Feb. 8, 2013]
§ 174.534
VNT1 protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of VNT1 protein in potato are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when the
Rpi-vnt1
gene that express the VNT1 protein is used as a plant-incorporated protectant in potato.
[82 FR 11515, Feb. 24, 2017]
§ 174.535
Spinach Defensin proteins; temporary exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of the defensin proteins SoD2, SoD2*, SoD7, and SoD8 derived from spinach (
Spinacia oleracea
L.) in or on citrus food commodities are temporarily exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in citrus plants in accordance with the terms of Experimental Use Permit No. 88232-EUP-1. This temporary exemption from the requirement of a tolerance expires on May 31, 2025.
[86 FR 51004, Sept. 14, 2021]
§ 174.536
Bacillus thuringiensis
mCry51Aa2 protein in cotton; temporary exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of the protein mCry51Aa2 in or on the food and feed commodities of cotton: Cotton, undelinted seed; cotton, gin byproducts; cotton, forage; cotton, hay; cotton, hulls; cotton, meal; and cotton, refined oil are temporarily exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in cotton plants in accordance with the terms of Experimental Use Permit No. 524-EUP-108. This temporary exemption from the requirement of a tolerance expires on February 28, 2019.
[82 FR 18230, Apr. 18, 2017]
§ 174.537
HPPD-4 protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of the HPPD-4 protein, which is a modified protein derived from the 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase enzyme of
Pseudomonas fluorescens,
in or on all food commodities are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance, when the HPPD-4 protein is used as a plant-incorporated protectant inert ingredient.
[82 FR 57140, Dec. 4, 2017]
§ 174.539
Cry51Aa2.834__16 protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of the Cry51Aa2.834__16 protein, which is a modified protein derived from the Cry51Aa2 protein of
Bacillus thuringiensis,
in or on cotton are
exempt from the requirement of a tolerance, when the Cry51Aa2.834__16 protein is used as a plant-incorporated protectant.
[83 FR 3603, Jan. 26, 2018]
§ 174.540
Bacillus thuringiensis Cry14Ab-1 protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry14Ab-1 protein in or on soybean food and feed commodities are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in soybean.
[85 FR 35008, June 8, 2020]
§ 174.541
Pesticidal substance of a plant-incorporated protectant created through genetic engineering from a sexually compatible plant; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of a pesticidal substance are exempt from the requirements of a tolerance if the conditions in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section are met.
(a) The pesticidal substance is characteristic of the population of plants sexually compatible with the recipient food plant and is created through genetic engineering from either an insertion of a native gene into the recipient food plant as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or a modification of an existing native gene in the recipient food plant as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(1)
Insertion.
A native gene is inserted into the genome of the recipient food plant and produces a pesticidal substance identical in sequence to the pesticidal substance identified in the source plant. The regulatory regions inserted as part of the native gene must be identical in nucleic acid sequence to those regulatory regions of the native gene identified in the source plant.
(2)
Modification.
The existing native gene is modified to match corresponding polymorphic sequence(s) in a native allele of that gene using a single source plant as a template.
(b) The residues of the pesticidal substance are not present in food from the plant at levels that are injurious or deleterious to human health.
(c) This exemption does not apply until the requirements in § 174.90 have been met.
[88 FR 34779, May 31, 2023]
§ 174.542
Bacillus thuringiensis Cry1Ab/Cry2Aj protein in corn; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry1Ab/Cry2Aj protein in or on the food or feed commodities of corn, field; corn, sweet; and corn, pop, are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in corn.
[86 FR 3830, Jan. 15, 2021]
§ 174.543
G10evo-EPSPS protein in all plants; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of G10evo-Enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase (G10evo-EPSPS) protein in or on all food or feed commodities, are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as an inert ingredient in a plant-incorporated protectant.
[86 FR 3830, Jan. 15, 2021]
§ 174.544
Modified potato acetolactate synthase (StmALS) in potato; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of modified potato acetolactate synthase (StmALS) in potato are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant inert ingredient.
[88 FR 95188, Mar. 15, 2023]
§ 174.545
BLB2 and AMR3 proteins in potato; temporary exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of BLB2 and AMR3 proteins in potato are temporarily exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in potato in accordance with the terms of Experimental Use Permit No. 8917-EUP-3. This temporary exemption from the requirement of a tolerance expires on March 31, 2025.
[89 FR 31651, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 174.546
Bacillus thuringensis Cry1B.868 and Cry1Da_7 proteins; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Bacillus thuringensis
Cry1B.868 and Cry1Da_7 proteins in or on the food and feed commodities of corn: corn, field; corn, sweet; and corn, pop are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in corn.
[89 FR 43331, May 17, 2024]
§ 174.547
Ophioglossum pendulum
IPD079Ea protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Ophioglossum pendulum
IPD079Ea protein in or on the food and feed commodities of corn: corn, field; corn, sweet; and corn, pop are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in corn.
[89 FR 64810, Aug. 8, 2024]
§ 174.548
Pseudomonas chlororaphis IPD072Aa protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Pseudomonas chlororaphis
IPD072Aa in or on the food and feed commodities of corn: corn, field; corn, sweet; and corn, pop are exempt from the requirement when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in corn.
[89 FR 68785, Aug. 28, 2024]
§ 174.549
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry1Da2 protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry1Da2 protein in or on the food and feed commodities of corn, including corn, field; corn, sweet; and corn, pop, are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in corn.
[89 FR 100749, Dec. 13, 2024]
§ 174.550
Streptomyces sviceus DGT-28 EPSPS (5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase) protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Streptomyces sviceus
DGT-28 EPSPS (5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase) protein in or on the food and feed commodities of corn; corn, field; corn, sweet; and corn, pop are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as an inert ingredient in a plant-incorporated protectant in corn.
[89 FR 100751, Dec. 13, 2024]
§ 174.551
Brevibacillus laterosporus
Mpp75Aa1.1 protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Brevibacillus laterosporus
Mpp75Aa1.1 protein in or on the food and feed commodities of corn: corn, field; corn, sweet; and corn, pop are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in corn.
[89 FR 101941, Dec. 17, 2024]
§ 174.552
Bacillus thuringiensis
Vpb4Da2 protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Bacillus thuringiensis
Vpb4Da2 protein in or on the food and feed commodities of corn: corn, field; corn, sweet; and corn, pop are exempt from the requirement of a tolerance when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in corn.
[89 FR 101941, Dec. 17, 2024]
§ 174.553
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry1B.34 protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
Residues of
Bacillus thuringiensis
Cry1B.34 protein in or on the food and feed commodities of corn, field; corn, sweet; and corn, pop are exempt from the requirement when used as a plant-incorporated protectant in corn.
[90 FR 10599, Feb. 25, 2025]

# Subpart X—List of Approved Inert Ingredients
§ 174.700
Scope and purpose.
This subpart lists the inert ingredients that have been exempted from FIFRA and FFDCA section 408 requirements and may be used in a plant-incorporated protectant listed in subpart B of this part.
[66 FR 37814, July 19, 2001. Redesignated at 72 FR 20434, Apr. 25, 2007]
§ 174.705
Inert ingredients from sexually compatible plant.
An inert ingredient, and residues of the inert ingredient, are exempt if all of the following conditions are met:
(a) The genetic material that encodes the inert ingredient or leads to the production of the inert ingredient is derived from a plant sexually compatible with the recipient food plant.
(b) The genetic material has never been derived from a source that is not sexually compatible with the recipient food plant.
(c) The residues of the inert ingredient are not present in food from the plant at levels that are injurious or deleterious to human health.
[66 FR 37814, July 19, 2001. Redesignated at 72 FR 20434, Apr. 25, 2007]
Subparts Y-Z [Reserved]
Pt. 176

# PART 176—TIME-LIMITED TOLERANCES FOR EMERGENCY EXEMPTIONS
Sec.
176.1
Scope and applicability.
176.3
Definitions.
176.5
Establishment of a time-limited tolerance or exemption.
176.7
Information needed to establish a tolerance.
176.9
Publication of a tolerance.
176.11
Duration of a tolerance.
176.13
Modification of a time-limited tolerance.
176.15
Effect of a tolerance.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 346a and 371.

# Source:
65 FR 64131, Oct. 25, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 176.1
Scope and applicability.
This part describes the procedures and criteria under which EPA will establish time-limited tolerances and exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance for pesticide chemical residues associated with use of pesticides under emergency or crisis exemptions under FIFRA section 18. This part applies only to tolerances issued on the initiative of EPA as the result of the issuance of an emergency exemption or the declaration of a crisis exemption. This part does not cover time-limited tolerances in any other circumstances.
§ 176.3
Definitions.
The terms have the same meaning as in the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act section 2, and in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act section 201 and § 166.3 of this chapter. In addition, the following terms are defined for the purposes of this part.
Agency
means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
Applicant
means any entity authorized under section 18 of FIFRA to request an emergency exemption that requests such an exemption under § 166.20 of this chapter, or issues a crisis exemption under § 166.40 of this chapter.
Crisis exemption
means an exemption authorized under FIFRA section 18, in accordance with §§ 166.40 through 166.53 of this chapter.
Emergency exemption
means a specific, quarantine, or public health exemption authorized under FIFRA section 18 and the regulations at §§ 166.20 through 166.35 of this chapter.
EPA
means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
FFDCA
means the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321
et seq.
).
FIFRA
means the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C 136
et seq.
).
Tolerance
means the maximum amount of a pesticide chemical residue that may lawfully be present in or on a raw agricultural commodity, or processed food, or animal feed, expressed as parts per million by weight of the pesticide chemical residue in the food or feed.
Tolerance exemption
means a formal determination by the Agency pursuant to FFDCA section 408(c), 21 U.S.C 346a(c), that no tolerance is needed for a given pesticide chemical residue in or on a particular food commodity. For purposes of this part, the term “tolerance” shall include an exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
§ 176.5
Establishment of a time-limited tolerance or exemption.
EPA will establish a time-limited tolerance for pesticide chemical residues in or on raw or processed food or feed resulting from the use of a pesticide chemical, if EPA authorizes an
emergency exemption or a crisis exemption. EPA will consider establishing such a tolerance only if an applicant acting under authority of FIFRA section 18 either has requested an emergency exemption, has stated its intention to issue a crisis exemption, or has issued a crisis exemption for a use that may result, directly or indirectly, in pesticide chemical residues in food or feed.
§ 176.7
Information needed to establish a tolerance.
(a) EPA will establish a time-limited tolerance only if EPA can determine that the tolerance is safe, that is, there is a reasonable certainty that no harm will result from aggregate exposure to the pesticide chemical residue. EPA will base its determination upon data submitted by the applicant and other readily available data. If, taking into account the limited duration and emergency nature of a section 18 application, and based on the available data the Agency cannot conclude that there is a reasonable certainty that no harm will result from the use proposed by the applicant or granted pursuant to a crisis exemption, EPA will not establish a tolerance.
(b) Data and other relevant information to support the establishment of a time-limited tolerance may be submitted by the applicant, or by any other person, in support of the time-limited tolerance. The applicant may also cite relevant data previously submitted to the Agency.
§ 176.9
Publication of a tolerance.
(a) If EPA issues an emergency exemption or crisis exemption under FIFRA section 18, and EPA concludes that the tolerance for residues resulting from use of the pesticide under the exemption will be safe, then EPA will establish the tolerance by publishing an amendment to 40 CFR part 180 in the
Federal Register.
(b) A tolerance under this part may be established without prior publication of a proposed tolerance or comment period.
§ 176.11
Duration of a tolerance.
(a) Tolerances issued under this part will become effective upon publication in the
Federal Register,
unless otherwise specified by the Administrator.
(b) Unless extended, tolerances will automatically expire and be revoked, without further action by EPA, at the time set out in the final rule published in
Federal Register.
(c) The Administrator may revoke a tolerance at any time if the Administrator determines that the tolerance is no longer safe.
§ 176.13
Modification of a time-limited tolerance.
If additional emergency or crisis exemptions are authorized that would extend use beyond the date originally authorized, or if EPA determines that the duration of a time-limited tolerance is insufficient to allow treated commodities to clear the channels of trade, EPA may modify the time-limited tolerance by publication of a final rule in the
Federal Register.
EPA will use the same criteria and procedures for modification as for establishing tolerances under this part.
§ 176.15
Effect of a tolerance.
The establishment of a tolerance under this part does not alter the requirement that any applicant comply with procedures established in part 166 of this chapter for emergency exemptions of FIFRA.
Pt. 178

# PART 178—OBJECTIONS AND REQUESTS FOR HEARINGS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
178.3
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Procedures for Filing Objections and Requests for Hearing
178.20
Right to submit objections and requests for a hearing.
178.25
Form and manner of submission of objections.
178.27
Form and manner of submission of request for evidentiary hearing.
178.30
Response by Administrator to objections and to requests for hearing.
178.32
Rulings on requests for hearing.
178.35
Modification or revocation of regulation or prior order.
178.37
Order responding to objections on which a hearing was not requested or was denied.
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Judicial Review
178.65
Judicial review.
178.70
Administrative record.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 346a, 371(a); Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1970.

# Source:
55 FR 50291, Dec. 5, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 178.3
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part:
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Agency, or any officer or employee of the Agency to whom the Administrator delegates the authority to perform functions under this part.
Agency
means the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
Assistant Administrator
means the Agency's Assistant Administrator for Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention, or any officer or employee of the Agency's Office of Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention to whom the Assistant Administrator delegates the authority to perform functions under this part.
FFDCA
means the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended, 21 U.S.C. 301-392.
[55 FR 50291, Dec. 5, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 28087, June 24, 1992; 77 FR 46292, Aug. 3, 2012]

# Subpart B—Procedures for Filing Objections and Requests for Hearing
§ 178.20
Right to submit objections and requests for a hearing.
(a) On or before the 60th day after the date of publication in the
Federal Register
of an order under part 180 of this chapter establishing, modifying, or revoking a regulation, or denying all or any portion of a petition, a person adversely affected by such order or petition denial may submit, in accordance with § 178.25, one or more written objections to the order (or to the action that is the subject of the order).
(b) A person may include with any such objection a written request for an evidentiary hearing on such objection in accordance with § 178.27
(c) A person who submits objections need not request a hearing. For instance, if the person's objections are of a purely legal or policy nature, a hearing request would be inappropriate; the purpose of an evidentiary hearing is to resolve factual disputes. The Administrator will rule on the objections, whether or not a hearing is requested.
(d) As a matter of discretion, the Administrator may order a hearing on an objection even though no person has requested a hearing.
[55 FR 50291, Dec. 5, 1990, as amended at 70 FR 33359, June 8, 2005]
§ 178.25
Form and manner of submission of objections.
(a) To be considered by the Administrator, an objection must:
(1) Be in writing.
(2) Specify with particularity the provision(s) of the order, regulation, or denial objected to, the basis for the objection(s), and the relief sought.
(3) Be signed by the objector.
(4) State the objector's name and mailing address.
(5) Be accompanied by the fee prescribed by § 180.33(i) of this chapter, if the objection is to an order or regulation issued under part 180 of this chapter.
(6) Be submitted to the hearing clerk.
(7) Be received by the Hearing Clerk not later than the close of business of the 60th day following the date of the publication in the
Federal Register
of the order to which the objection is taken (or, if such 60th day is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, not later than the close of business of the next government business day after such 60th day).
(b) Submissions to the hearing clerk shall be made as follows:
(1) Mailed submissions should be addressed to: Office of the Hearing Clerk (1900L), Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460-0001.
(2) For hand/courier delivery the Office of the Hearing Clerk is located at Suite 350, 1099 14
th
St., NW., Washington, DC 20005.
[55 FR 50291, Dec. 5, 1990, as amended at 69 FR 39864, July 1, 2004; 70 FR 33359, June 8, 2005; 71 FR 35546, June 21, 2006]
§ 178.27
Form and manner of submission of request for evidentiary hearing.
To be considered by the Administrator, a request for an evidentiary hearing must meet the criteria in § 178.32, and must:
(a) Be submitted as a part of, and specifically request an evidentiary hearing on an objection that complies with the requirements of § 178.25.
(b) Include a statement of the factual issue(s) on which a hearing is requested and the requestor's contentions on each such issue.
(c) Include a copy of any report, article, survey, or other written document (or the pertinent pages thereof) upon which the objector relies to justify an evidentiary hearing, unless the document is an EPA document that is routinely available to any member of the public.
(d) Include a summary of any evidence not described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section upon which the objector relies to justify an evidentiary hearing.
(e) Include a discussion of the relationship between the factual issues and the relief requested by the objection.
§ 178.30
Response by Administrator to objections and to requests for hearing.
The Administrator will respond to objections, and to requests for a hearing on such objections, as set forth in this section.
(a)
Denial of objections that are improperly submitted or that seek an unavailable form of relief.
The Administrator will by order issued under § 178.37 deny each objection and each request for a hearing that is included with such an objection, if:
(1) The objection is found not to conform to § 178.25.
(2) The action requested by the objection is inconsistent with any provision of FFDCA.
(3) The action requested by the objection is inconsistent with any generic, e.g., non-chemical specific, interpretation of a provision of FFDCA in any regulation in this chapter (the proper procedure in such a case is for the person to petition for an amendment of the regulation involved).
(b)
Denial of improperly submitted requests for hearing.
The Administrator will then determine whether any objection that has not been denied under paragraph (a) of this section was accompanied by a request for an evidentiary hearing that conforms to § 178.27. The Administrator will deny under § 178.37 each request that does not conform to § 178.27.
(c)
Grouping of certain related objections.
If the Administrator then finds (1) That two or more undenied objections are substantially similar, or are related in such a way that any judicial review of the Administrator's action on those objections should occur at the same time, and (2) that one or more of those objections was accompanied by an undenied request for an evidentiary hearing on that objection, the Administrator will treat those objections as a group and will rule on them only after ruling under § 178.32 on the associated request for hearing.
(d)
Rulings on objections for which a request for hearing has been granted.
If the Administrator rules under § 178.32 that an evidentiary hearing should be held on an objection, the Administrator will resolve the issues raised by any other objection grouped with it under paragraph (c) of this section in conjunction with the evidentiary hearing upon which the hearing request was granted, unless the Administrator for good cause determines otherwise.
(e)
Rulings on objections for which no request for hearing was received, or for which each request for hearing was denied.
Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, if no hearing was requested on an objection, or if each such request that was made is denied under the criteria of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section or § 178.32(b), the Administrator will rule on the objection under § 178.37.
§ 178.32
Rulings on requests for hearing.
(a) In the case of each request for an evidentiary hearing that was not denied under § 178.30(a) or (b), the Administrator will determine whether such a hearing on one or more of the objections is justified, and will publish in the
Federal Register
the determination in an order issued under § 178.37 or
a Notice of Hearing issued under § 179.20 of this chapter. If some requests for a hearing are denied and others pertaining to the same order or regulation are granted, the denial order and the hearing notice may be combined into a single document and shall be issued at the same time unless the Administrator for good cause determines otherwise.
(b) A request for an evidentiary hearing will be granted if the Administrator determines that the material submitted shows the following:
(1) There is a genuine and substantial issue of fact for resolution at a hearing. An evidentiary hearing will not be granted on issues of policy or law.
(2) There is a reasonable possibility that available evidence identified by the requestor would, if established, resolve one or more of such issues in favor of the requestor, taking into account uncontested claims or facts to the contrary. An evidentiary hearing will not be granted on the basis of mere allegations, denials, or general descriptions of positions and contentions, nor if the Administrator concludes that the data and information submitted, even if accurate, would be insufficient to justify the factual determination urged.
(3) Resolution of the factual issue(s) in the manner sought by the person requesting the hearing would be adequate to justify the action requested. An evidentiary hearing will not be granted on factual issues that are not determinative with respect to the action requested. For example, a hearing will not be granted if the Administrator concludes that the action would be the same even if the factual issue were resolved in the manner sought.
(c) Where appropriate, the Administrator will make rulings on any issues raised by an objection which are necessary for resolution prior to determining whether a request for an evidentiary hearing should be granted.
§ 178.35
Modification or revocation of regulation or prior order.
(a) If the Administrator determines upon review of an objection or request for hearing that the regulation or prior order in question should be modified or revoked, the Administrator will publish an order setting forth any revision to the regulation or prior order that the Administrator has found to be warranted.
(b) The Administrator will provide an opportunity for objections and requests for hearing on such order to the extent required by law. Such objections to the modification or revocation of the regulation, and requests for a hearing on such objections, may be submitted under §§ 178.20 through 178.27.
(c) Objections and requests for hearing that are not affected by the modification or revocation will remain on file and be acted upon in accordance with this part.
[55 FR 50291, Dec. 5, 1990, as amended at 70 FR 33359, June 8, 2005]
§ 178.37
Order responding to objections on which a hearing was not requested or was denied.
(a) The Administrator will publish in the
Federal Register
an order under FFDCA section 408(g)(2)(B) or section 408(g)(2)(C) setting forth the Administrator's determination on each denial of a request for a hearing, and on each objection submitted under § 178.20 on which:
(1) A hearing was not requested.
(2) A hearing was requested, but denied.
(b) Each order published under paragraph (a) of this section must state the reasons for the Administrator's determination. If the order denies a request for a hearing on the objection, the order also must state the reason for that denial (e.g., why the request for a hearing did not conform to § 178.27, or why the request was denied under § 178.32).
(c) Each order published under paragraph (a) of this section must state its effective date.
[55 FR 50291, Dec. 5, 1990, as amended at 70 FR 33359, June 8, 2005]
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Judicial Review
§ 178.65
Judicial review.
An order issued under § 178.37 is final agency action reviewable in the courts as provided by FFDCA section 408(h),
as of the date of publication of the order in the
Federal Register.
The failure to file a petition for judicial review within the period ending on the 60th day after the date of the publication of the order constitutes a waiver under FFDCA section 408(h) of the right to judicial review of the order and of any regulation promulgated by the order.
[70 FR 33359, June 8, 2005]
§ 178.70
Administrative record.
(a) For purposes of judicial review, the record of an administrative proceeding that culminates in an order under § 178.37 consists of:
(1) The objection ruled on (and any request for hearing that was included with the objection).
(2) Any order issued under § 180.7(g) of this chapter to which the objection related, and:
(i) Any regulation or petition denial that was the subject of that order.
(ii) The petition to which such order responded.
(iii) Any amendment or supplement of the petition.
(iv) The data and information submitted in support of the petition.
(v) The notice of filing of the petition.
(3) Any order issued under § 180.29(f) of this chapter to which the objection related, the regulation that was the subject of that order, and each related Notice of Proposed Rulemaking.
(4) Any comments submitted by members of the public in response to the Notice of Filing or Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, any data or information submitted as part of the comments, the Administrator's response to comments and the documents or information relied on by the Administrator in issuing the regulation or order.
(5) All other documents or information submitted to the docket for the rulemaking in question.
(6) The order issued under § 178.37.
(b) The record will be closed as of the date of the Administrator's decision unless another date for closing of the record is specified in the order issued under § 178.37.
[55 FR 50291, Dec. 5, 1990, as amended at 70 FR 33359, June 8, 2005]
Pt. 179

# PART 179—FORMAL EVIDENTIARY PUBLIC HEARING

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
179.3
Definitions.
179.5
Other authority.

# Subpart B—Initiation of Hearing
179.20
Notice of hearing.
179.24
Ex parte discussions; separation of functions.

# Subpart C—Participation and Appearance; Conduct
179.42
Notice of participation.
179.45
Appearance.
179.50
Conduct at oral hearings or conferences.

# Subpart D—Presiding Officer
179.60
Designation and qualifications of presiding officer.
179.70
Authority of presiding officer.
179.75
Disqualification of deciding officials.
179.78
Unavailability of presiding officer.

# Subpart E—Hearing Procedures
179.80
Filing and service.
179.81
Availability of documents.
179.83
Disclosure of data and information.
179.85
Purpose of preliminary conference.
179.86
Time and place of preliminary conference.
179.87
Procedures for preliminary conference.
179.89
Motions.
179.90
Summary decisions.
179.91
Burden of going forward; burden of persuasion.
179.93
Testimony.
179.94
Transcripts.
179.95
Admission or exclusion of evidence; objections; offers of proof.
179.97
Conferences during hearing.
179.98
Briefs and arguments.

# Subpart F—Decisions and Appeals
179.101
Interlocutory appeal from ruling of presiding officer.
179.105
Initial decision.
179.107
Appeal from or review of initial decision.
179.110
Determination by Administrator to review initial decision.
179.112
Decision by Administrator on appeal or review of initial decision.
179.115
Motion to reconsider a final order.
179.117
Designation and powers of judicial officer.

# Subpart G—Judicial Review
179.125
Judicial review.
179.130
Administrative record.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 346a, 371(a); Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1970.

# Source:
55 FR 50293, Dec. 5, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 179.3
Definitions.
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Agency, or any officer or employee of the Agency to whom the Administrator has delegated the authority to perform functions under this part.
Agency
means the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
Assistant Administrator
means the Agency's Assistant Administrator for Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention, or any officer or employee of the Agency's Office of Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention to whom the Assistant Administrator has delegated the authority to perform functions under this part.
FFDCA
means the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended, 21 U.S.C. 301-392.
FIFRA
means the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, 7 U.S.C. 136-136y.
Judicial Officer
means a person who has been designated by the Administrator under § 179.117 to serve as a judicial officer.
OCSPP
means the Agency's Office of Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention.
Office of the Administrator
means the Agency's Administrator and Deputy Administrator and their immediate staff, including the judicial officer.
[55 FR 50293, Dec. 5, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 28087, June 24, 1992; 77 FR 46292, Aug. 3, 2012]
§ 179.5
Other authority.
Questions regarding procedural matters arising under this part or part 178 of this chapter that are not addressed by this part or part 178 of this chapter shall be resolved by the Administrator or presiding officer, as appropriate.

# Subpart B—Initiation of Hearing
§ 179.20
Notice of hearing.
(a) If the Administrator determines under § 178.32 of this chapter that a hearing is justified on any issue, the Administrator will file with the hearing clerk and publish in the
Federal Register
a Notice of Hearing. The Notice of Hearing will set forth:
(1) The docket number for the hearing.
(2) Each order, regulation, or petition denial that is the subject of the hearing, and a statement specifying any part of any such regulation or order that has been stayed in the Administrator's discretion.
(3) The identity of each person whose request for a hearing has been granted, and of any other person whose petition under § 180.7 of this chapter occasioned the order that the hearing concerns.
(4) A statement of the issues of fact on which a hearing has been found to be justified.
(5) A statement of the objections whose resolution depends on the resolution of those issues of fact.
(6) A statement that the presiding officer will be designated by the Chief Administrative Law Judge.
(7) The time within which notices of participation should be filed under § 179.42.
(8) The date, time, and place of the preliminary conference, or a statement that the date, time, and place will be announced in a later notice, and the place of the hearing.
(9) The time within which parties must submit written information and views under § 179.83.
(10) Designations with respect to separation of functions published under § 179.24(b)(2).
(b) The statement of the issues of fact on which a hearing has been justified determines the scope of the hearing and the matters on which evidence may be introduced. The issues may be revised by the presiding officer. A party may obtain interlocutory review by the Administrator of a decision by the presiding officer to revise the issues to include an issue on which the Administrator has not granted a request for a hearing or to eliminate an
issue on which a request for a hearing has been granted.
(c) A hearing is deemed to begin on the date of publication of the Notice of Hearing.
[55 FR 50293, Dec. 5, 1990, as amended at 70 FR 33359, June 8, 2005]
§ 179.24
Ex parte discussions; separation of functions.
(a) Any person may meet or correspond with any officer or employee of the Agency concerning a matter under parts 178 or 180 of this chapter prior to publication of a Notice of Hearing under § 179.20.
(b) Upon publication of a Notice of Hearing, the following separation of function rules apply:
(1) OCSPP, as a party to the hearing, is responsible for presentation of its position at the hearing and in any pleading or oral argument before the Administrator. The Pesticides and Toxic Substances Division of the Office of General Counsel shall advise and represent OCSPP with respect to the hearing and in any pleading or oral argument before the Administrator. An employee or other representatives of OCSPP may not participate in or advise the Administrator or any of his representatives on any decision under this part, other than as witness or counsel in public proceedings, except as provided by paragraph (b)(2) of this section. There is to be no other communication between representatives of OCSPP and the presiding officer or any representative of the Office of the Administrator concerning the merits of the hearing until after issuance of the decision of the Administrator.
(2) The Administrator may designate persons who otherwise would be regarded as representatives of OCSPP, to serve as representatives of the Office of the Administrator on matters pertaining to the hearing, and may also designate persons who otherwise would be regarded as representatives of the Office of the Administrator to serve as representatives of OCSPP. Such designations will be included in the Notice of Hearing published under§ 179.20.
(3) The Office of the Administrator is responsible for the final decision of the matter, with the advice and participation of anyone in the Agency other than representatives of OCSPP.
(c) Between the date of publication of the Notice of Hearing and the date of the Administrator's final decision on the matter, communication concerning the matter involved in the hearing will be restricted as follows:
(1) No person outside the Agency may have an ex parte communication with the presiding officer or any representative of the Office of the Administrator concerning the merits of the hearing. Neither the presiding officer nor any representative of the Office of the Administrator may have any ex parte communication with a person outside the Agency concerning the merits of the hearing.
(2) A written communication contrary to this section must be immediately served on all other participants and filed with the hearing clerk by the presiding officer at the hearing, or by the Administrator, depending on who received the communication. An oral communication contrary to this section must be immediately recorded in a written memorandum and similarly served on all other parties and filed with the hearing clerk. A person, including a representative of a party in the hearing, who is involved in an oral communication contrary to this section, must, to the extent necessary to determine the substance of the communication, be made available for cross-examination during the hearing with respect to the substance of that communication. Rebuttal testimony pertinent to a written or oral communication contrary to this section will be permitted.
(d) The prohibitions specified in paragraph (c) of this section also apply to a person who, in advance of the publication of a Notice of Hearing, knows that the notice has been signed. The prohibitions become applicable to such a person as of the time the knowledge is acquired.
(e) The making of a communication contrary to this section may, consistent with the interests of justice and the policies underlying the FFDCA, result in a decision adverse to the person
knowingly making or causing the making of the communication.
[55 FR 50293, Dec. 5, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 28087, June 24, 1992; 70 FR 33359, June 8, 2005; 77 FR 46292, Aug. 3, 2012]

# Subpart C—Participation and Appearance; Conduct
§ 179.42
Notice of participation.
(a) OCSPP shall be a party to a hearing under this part. Any other person may participate as a party in such a hearing to the extent specified by this section.
(b) A person desiring to participate in a hearing must file with the hearing clerk within 30 days after publication of the Notice of Hearing under § 179.20, a Notice of Participation in the following form:

# Notice of Participation
Docket No. ____________________
Under 40 CFR part l79, please enter the participation of: ________________________
(Name) __________________________________
(Street address) __________________________
(City and State) __________________________
(Telephone number) ____________________
Service on the above will be accepted by: ________________________
(Name) __________________________________
(Street address) __________________________
(City and State) __________________________
(Telephone number) ____________________
Signed: ________________________________
Date: ________________________
(c) An amendment to a Notice of Participation must be filed with the hearing clerk and served on all parties.
(d) No person may participate in a hearing who has not filed a written Notice of Participation or whose participation has been stricken under paragraph (f) of this section.
(e) The presiding officer may permit the late filing of a Notice of Participation upon a showing of good cause. Arrangements and agreements previously made in the proceeding shall apply to any party admitted late.
(f) The presiding officer may strike the participation of a person for failure to comply with any requirement of this subpart. Any person whose participation is striken may obtain interlocutory review thereof by the Administrator.
[55 FR 50293, Dec. 5, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 28087, June 24, 1992; 77 FR 46292, Aug. 3, 2012]
§ 179.45
Appearance.
(a) A party to a hearing may appear in person or by counsel or other representative in the hearing.
(b) The presiding officer may strike a person's right to appear in the hearing for violation of the rules of conduct in § l79.50.
§ 179.50
Conduct at oral hearings or conferences.
The parties and their representatives must conduct themselves with dignity and observe the same standards of practice and ethics that would be required of parties in a judicial proceeding. Disrespectful, disorderly, or contumacious language or conduct, refusal to comply with directions, use of dilatory tactics, or refusal to adhere to reasonable standards of orderly and ethical conduct during any hearing constitute grounds for immediate exclusion from the proceeding by the presiding officer.

# Subpart D—Presiding Officer
§ 179.60
Designation and qualifications of presiding officer.
The presiding officer in a hearing will be an administrative law judge qualified under 5 U.S.C. 3l05 and designated by the Agency's chief administrative law judge.
§ 179.70
Authority of presiding officer.
The presiding officer shall conduct the hearing in a fair and impartial manner subject to the precepts of the Administrative Procedure Act. The presiding officer has all powers necessary to conduct a fair, expeditious, and orderly hearing, including the power to:
(a) Specify and change the date, time, and place for conferences, and issue and modify a schedule for the hearing.
(b) Establish an orderly manner for developing evidentiary facts at preliminary conferences under § 179.87, for making rulings on oral testimony and
cross-examination under § 179.93, and for making other similar evidentiary rulings in accord with these regulations.
(c) Prepare statements of the areas of factual disagreement among the participants.
(d) Hold conferences to settle, simplify, or determine the issues in a hearing or to consider other matters that may expedite the hearing.
(e) Administer oaths and affirmations.
(f) Control the course of the hearing and the conduct of the participants.
(g) Examine witnesses and strike their testimony if they fail to respond fully to proper questions.
(h) Rule on, admit, exclude, or limit evidence.
(i) Set the time for filing pleadings.
(j) Rule on motions and other procedural matters.
(k) Rule on motions for summary decision under § l79.90.
(l) Conduct the hearing in stages if the number of parties is large or the issues are numerous and complex.
(m) Strike the participation of any person under § l79.42(f), or exclude any person from the hearing under § l79.50, or take other reasonable disciplinary action.
(n) Take any other action for the fair, expeditious, and orderly conduct of the hearing that is not in conflict with law or these rules.
§ 179.75
Disqualification of deciding officials.
(a) A deciding official in a hearing under this part (including, e.g., the Administrator, judicial officer, or presiding officer) shall not decide any matter in connection with which he or she has a financial interest in any of the parties, or a relationship that would make it otherwise inappropriate for him or her to act.
(b) A party may request that a deciding official disqualify himself/herself and withdraw from the proceeding. The party may obtain interlocutory review by the Administrator of a denial of such a request made to any deciding official other than the Administrator.
(c) A deciding official who is aware of grounds for disqualification shall withdraw from the proceeding.
§ 179.78
Unavailability of presiding officer.
If the presiding officer is unable to act for any reason, his or her powers with respect to the hearing will be assigned by the Chief Administrative Law Judge to another presiding officer. The substitution will not affect the hearing,
i.e.
, the testimony of the witnesses will not be taken anew except as the new presiding officer may order upon the request of a party where the credibility of a witness is of particular importance.

# Subpart E—Hearing Procedures
§ 179.80
Filing and service.
(a) All documents required or authorized to be filed by a party to a hearing under this part regarding any matter to be decided by the presiding officer, the judicial officer, or the Administrator shall be filed in triplicate with the hearing clerk, in the manner specified by § 178.25(b) of this chapter. Each filing shall prominently note the docket number. To determine compliance with deadlines in a hearing, a document is considered filed on the date it is actually received by the hearing clerk. When this part allows a response by a party to a submission and prescribes a period of time for the filing of the response, an additional 3 days are allowed for the filing of the response if the submission is served by mail.
(b) Each notice, order, decision, or other document issued under this part by the presiding officer, the judicial officer, or the Administrator shall be filed with the hearing clerk. The hearing clerk shall immediately serve all parties with a copy of such order, decision, or other document.
(c) At the same time that a party files any document with the hearing clerk, the party shall serve a copy thereof on each other party, unless the presiding officer specifies otherwise. Each filing shall be accompanied by a certificate of service, or a statement that service is not required. Service on a party is accomplished by mailing a submission to the address shown in the Notice of Participation or by personal delivery.
(d) The presiding officer may grant an extension of time for the filing of
any pleading, document, or motion (1) Upon timely motion by a party, for good cause shown, and after consideration of prejudice to other parties, or (2) upon the presiding officer's own motion.
(e) A motion by a party for an extension may only be made after serving a copy of the motion on all other parties, unless the movant can show good cause why doing so is impracticable. The motion shall be filed in advance of the date on which the pleading, document, or motion is due to be filed, unless the failure of the party to make a timely motion for an extension was the result of excusable neglect.
§ 179.81
Availability of documents.
(a) All orders, decisions, pleadings, transcripts, exhibits, and other docket entries shall become part of the official docket and shall be retained by the hearing clerk. Except as otherwise provided by paragraph (b) of this section or part 2 of this chapter, all documents that are a part of the official docket shall be made available to the public for reasonable inspection during Agency business hours. Copies of such documents may be obtained by members of the public as provided in part 2 of this chapter.
(b) Whenever any information or data are required to be produced or examined in a hearing and any party makes a business confidentiality claim regarding such information under part 2 of this chapter, the availability of such information to the other parties or to the public shall be determined by EPA in accordance with part 2 of this chapter, including specifically the procedures and principles set forth in § 2.30l(g)(3) and (g)(4) of this chapter. The presiding officer shall make the determinations with respect to the matters referred to in § 2.301(g)(3) and (g)(4) to the extent provided, and shall take such steps as are necessary for the protection of information entitled to confidential treatment or otherwise exempt from public disclosure, including issuance of protective orders to parties or taking testimony in a closed hearing.
§ 179.83
Disclosure of data and information.
(a) Within 60 days of the publication of the Notice of Hearing under § l79.20, or, if no party will be prejudiced, within another period set by the presiding officer, the Assistant Administrator shall file with the hearing clerk, in accordance with § 179.80, the following documents numbered and organized in the manner prescribed by the presiding officer:
(1) The portions of the administrative record of the proceeding developed under part 178 of this chapter, and under part 180 of this chapter, that are relevant to the issues in the hearing.
(2) All documents in the files of OCSPP containing factual information or expert opinion, whether favorable or unfavorable to the position of OCSPP, which relate to the issues involved in the hearing. For purposes of this paragraph, “files” means the principal files in OCSPP in which documents relating to each of the issues in the hearing are ordinarily kept. Documents that are internal memoranda reflecting the deliberative process, or are attorney work product, or were prepared specifically for use in connection with the hearing, are not required to be submitted.
(3) All other documentary data and information upon which OCSPP plans to rely upon in the hearing.
(4) A narrative position statement on the factual issues in the Notice of Hearing and the nature of the supporting evidence that OCSPP intends to introduce.
(5) A signed statement that, to the best knowledge and belief of the Assistant Administrator, the submission complies with this section.
(b) Within 70 days of the publication of the Notice of Hearing or, if no party will be prejudiced, within another period of time set by the presiding officer, each party other than OCSPP shall submit to the hearing clerk in accordance with § 179.80 the following documents, numbered and organized in the manner prescribed by the presiding officer:
(1) Any objections that the administrative record filed under paragraph (a)(l) of this section is incomplete.
(2) All documents (other than those filed under paragraph (a) of this section) in the party's files containing factual information or expert opinion, whether favorable or unfavorable to the party's position, that relates to the issues involved in the hearing. For purposes of this paragraph, “files” means the party's principal files in which documents relating to each of the issues in the hearing are ordinarily kept. Documents that are attorney work product, or were prepared specifically for use in connection with the hearing, are not required to be submitted.
(3) All other documentary data and information the party plans to rely upon in the hearing.
(4) A narrative position statement on the factual issues in the Notice of Hearing and the nature of the supporting evidence the party intends to introduce.
(5) A signed statement that, to the best knowledge and belief of the party, the submission complies with this section.
(c) Submissions required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section may be supplemented later in the proceeding, with the approval of the presiding officer, upon a showing that the material contained in the supplement was not reasonably known by or available to the party when the submission was made or that the relevance of the material contained in the supplement could not reasonably have been foreseen.
(d) If a party fails to comply substantially and in good faith with this section, the presiding officer may infer that such failure was for the purpose of withholding information that is unfavorable to the party's position, and may make such further adverse inferences and findings with respect to such failure as are warranted.
(e) Parties may reference each other's submissions. To reduce duplicative submissions, parties are encouraged to exchange and consolidate lists of documentary evidence. If a particular document is bulky or in limited supply and cannot reasonably be reproduced, and it constitutes relevant evidence, the presiding officer may authorize submission of a reduced number of copies.
(f) The presiding officer will rule on questions relating to this section.
[55 FR 50293, Dec. 5, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 28087, June 24, 1992; 70 FR 33359, June 8, 2005; 77 FR 46292, Aug. 3, 2012]
§ 179.85
Purpose of preliminary conference.
The presiding officer will conduct one or more preliminary conferences for the following purposes:
(a) To determine the areas of factual disagreement to be considered at the hearing.
(b) To establish any necessary procedural rules to control the course of the hearing and the schedule for the hearing.
(c) To group parties with substantially similar interests, for purposes of presenting evidence, making objections, cross-examination, and presenting oral argument.
(d) To obtain stipulations and admissions of facts.
(e) To take other action that may expedite the hearing.
§ 179.86
Time and place of preliminary conference.
A preliminary conference will commence at the date, time, and place announced in the Notice of Hearing, or as otherwise specified by the Administrator or presiding officer in a subsequent notice. The preliminary conference may not commence until after expiration of the time for filing notices of participation under § 179.42. The presiding officer may specify that two or more such conferences shall be held.
§ 179.87
Procedures for preliminary conference.
Parties in a hearing must appear at the preliminary conference(s) prepared to present a position on the matters specified in § 179.85. A preliminary conference may be held by telephone, or other electronic means, if appropriate.
(a) To expedite the hearing, parties are encouraged to prepare in advance for the conference. Parties should cooperate with each other and should request information and begin preparation of testimony at the earliest possible time. Failure of a party to appear at the preliminary conference or to raise matters that could reasonably be
anticipated and resolved at that time will not delay the progress of the hearing, and constitutes a waiver of the rights of the party regarding such matters as objections to the agreements reached, actions taken, or rulings issued. Such failure to appear may also be grounds for striking the party's participation under § 179.42(f).
(b) Each party shall bring to the preliminary conference the following specific information, which will be filed with the hearing clerk under § 179.80:
(1) Any additional information to supplement the submission which may have been filed under § 179.83, and/or which may be filed if approved under § 179.83(c).
(2) A list setting forth each person who has been identified as a witness whose oral or written testimony will be offered by the party at the hearing, with a full curriculum vitae for each and a summary of the expected testimony (including a list of the principal exhibits on which the witness will rely) or a statement as to when such a summary will be furnished. A party may amend its witness and document list to add, delete, or substitute witnesses or documents.
(c) The presiding officer may hold preliminary conferences off the record in an effort to reach agreement on disputed factual or procedural questions.
(d) The presiding officer shall issue and file under § 179.80 a written order reciting the actions taken at each preliminary conference and setting forth the schedule for the hearing. The order will control the subsequent course of the hearing unless modified by the presiding officer for good cause.
§ 179.89
Motions.
A motion, unless made in the course of a preliminary conference or a transcribed oral hearing before the presiding officer, must be filed in the manner prescribed by § 179.80 and include a draft order. A response may be filed within 10 days of service of a motion. The moving party has no right to reply, except as permitted by the presiding officer. The presiding officer shall rule upon the motion.
§ 179.90
Summary decisions.
(a) After the hearing commences, a party may file a written motion, with or without supporting affidavits or brief, for a summary decision on any issue in the hearing. Any other party may, within 10 days after service of the motion, which time may be extended for an additional 10 days for good cause shown, serve opposing affidavits or brief or countermove for summary decision. The presiding officer may set the matter for argument and call for the submission of briefs if not submitted by the parties.
(b) The presiding officer will grant the motion if the objections, requests for hearing, other pleadings, affidavits, and other material filed in connection with the hearing, or matters officially noticed, show that there is no genuine disagreement as to any material fact bearing on the issue and that a party is entitled to summary decision.
(c) Affidavits should set forth facts that would be admissible in evidence and show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated. When a properly supported motion for summary decision is made, a party opposing the motion may not rest upon mere allegations or denials or general descriptions of positions and contentions; affidavits or other responses must demonstrate specifically that there is a genuine issue of material fact for the hearing.
(d) Should it appear from the affidavits of a party opposing the motion that for sound reasons stated, facts essential to justify the opposition cannot be presented by affidavit, the presiding officer may deny the motion for summary decision, order a continuance to permit affidavits or additional evidence to be obtained, or issue other just order.
(e) If a summary decision is not rendered upon all issues or for all the relief asked, and evidentiary facts need to be developed, the presiding officer will issue an order specifying the facts that appear without substantial controversy and directing further evidentiary proceedings. The facts so specified will be deemed established.
(f) A party may obtain interlocutory review by the Administrator of a summary decision of the presiding officer.
§ 179.91
Burden of going forward; burden of persuasion.
(a) The party whose request for an evidentiary hearing was granted has the burden of going forward in the hearing with evidence as to the issues relevant to that request for a hearing.
(b) The party or parties who contend that a regulation satisfies the criteria of section 408 of the FFDCA has the burden of persuasion in the hearing on that issue, whether the proceeding concerns the establishment, modification, or revocation of a tolerance or exemption from the requirement for a tolerance.
[55 FR 50293, Dec. 5, 1990, as amended at 70 FR 33359, June 8, 2005]
§ 179.93
Testimony.
(a) The presiding officer will conduct such proceedings as are necessary for the taking of oral direct testimony and for the conduct of oral examination of witnesses by the parties. The presiding officer shall limit oral examination to prevent irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious examination.
(b) Direct testimony shall be submitted in writing, except that the presiding officer may order direct testimony to be presented orally in those unusual cases where the memory or demeanor of the witness is of importance. Written direct testimony shall be in the form of a verified statement of fact or opinion prepared by the witness, in narrative form or in question-and-answer form. Written direct testimony may incorporate exhibits. Such a verified statement or exhibit may not be admitted into evidence sooner than 14 days (or such other reasonable period as the presiding officer may order) after the witness has delivered to the presiding officer and each party a copy of the statement or exhibit. The admissibility of the evidence contained in such a statement is subject to the same rules as if such testimony had been given orally.
(c) Oral cross-examination of witnesses will be permitted. Each exhibit that a party intends to rely upon in cross-examining a witness shall be furnished to the other parties not later than 3 days (or such other reasonable period as the presiding officer may order) before such exhibit is used in the cross-examination.
(d) Witnesses shall give testimony under oath or affirmation.
§ 179.94
Transcripts.
(a) The hearing clerk shall make arrangements to have all oral testimony stenographically reported or recorded and transcribed, with evidence that is admitted in the form of written testimony or exhibits attached or incorporated as appropriate.
(b) Unless the presiding officer orders otherwise, parties shall have 15 days from the date that the transcript of particular oral testimony first becomes available to propose corrections in the transcript of that testimony. Corrections are permitted only for transcription errors. The presiding officer shall promptly order justified corrections.
(c) As soon as practicable after the taking of the last evidence, the presiding officer shall certify:
(1) That the original transcript is a true transcript of the oral testimony offered or received at the hearing, except in such particulars as the presiding officer specifies.
(2) That the written testimony and exhibits accompanying the transcript are all the written testimony and exhibits introduced at the hearing, with such exceptions as the presiding officer specifies.
(3) The transcript with attached or incorporated material, as so certified by the presiding officer, shall be submitted to and filed by the hearing clerk under § 179.80.
(d) Copies of the transcript shall be available to the public in accordance with § 179.81; parties may make special arrangements through the hearing clerk to obtain copies on an ongoing, expedited basis.
§ 179.95
Admission or exclusion of evidence; objections; offers of proof.
(a) Written material identified as direct testimony or as an evidentiary exhibit and offered by a party in a hearing, and oral testimony, whether on direct or on cross-examination, is admissible as evidence unless the presiding officer excludes it (on objection of a party or on the presiding officer's own
initiative) because it is irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitive, or because its exclusion is necessary to enforce a specific requirement of this part relating to the admissibility of evidence.
(b) If a party objects to the admission or rejection of any evidence or to the limitation of the scope of any examination or cross-examination, the party shall state briefly the grounds for such objection. The transcript shall include any argument or debate thereon, unless the presiding officer, with the consent of all the parties, orders that such argument not be transcribed. The ruling and the reasons given therefor by the presiding officer on any objection shall be a part of the transcript. An automatic exception to that ruling will follow.
(c) Whenever evidence is deemed inadmissible, the party offering such evidence may make an offer of proof, which shall be included in the transcript. The offer of proof for excluded oral testimony shall consist of a brief statement describing the nature of the evidence excluded. If the evidence consists of a document or exhibit, it shall be inserted in the record in total. If the Administrator in reviewing the record under § 179.112 decides that the presiding officer's ruling in excluding the evidence was erroneous and prejudicial, the hearing may be reopened to permit the taking of such evidence, or, where appropriate, the Administrator may evaluate the evidence and proceed to a final decision.
(d) Official notice may be taken of Agency proceedings, any matter that might be judicially noticed by the courts of the United States, or any other fact within the knowledge and experience of the Agency as an expert agency. Any party shall be given adequate opportunity to show that such facts are erroneously noticed by presenting evidence to the contrary.
§ 179.97
Conferences during hearing.
The presiding officer may schedule and hold conferences as needed to monitor the progress of the hearing, narrow and simplify the issues, and consider and rule on motions, requests, or other matters concerning the development of the evidence.
§ 179.98
Briefs and arguments.
(a) Promptly after the taking of evidence is completed, the presiding officer will announce a schedule for the filing of briefs. Briefs must include a statement of position on each issue, with specific and complete citations to the evidence and points of law relied on. Briefs must contain proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law.
(b) The presiding officer may, as a matter of discretion, permit oral argument after the briefs are filed.

# Subpart F—Decisions and Appeals
§ 179.101
Interlocutory appeal from ruling of presiding officer.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section and in §§ 179.20(b), 179.42(f), 179.75(b), and 179.90(f), rulings of the presiding officer may not be appealed to the Administrator before the Administrator's consideration of the entire record of the hearing.
(b) A ruling of the presiding officer is subject to interlocutory appeal to the Administrator if the presiding officer certifies on the record or by document submitted under § 179.80 that immediate review is necessary to prevent exceptional delay, expense, or prejudice to any party or substantial harm to the public interest. When an order or ruling is not certified by the presiding officer, it shall be reviewed by the Administrator only upon appeal from the initial decision except when the Administrator determines upon the request of a party and in exceptional circumstances, that delaying review would be deleterious to vital public or private interests. Except in extraordinary circumstances, proceedings will not be stayed pending an interlocutory appeal. Where a stay is granted, a stay of more than 30 days must be approved by the Administrator.
(c) Ordinarily, the interlocutory appeal will be decided on the basis of the submission made to the presiding officer, but the Administrator may allow further briefs and oral arguments. Any oral argument will be transcribed and the transcript will be prepared and certified in the same manner as provided in § 179.94.
§ 179.105
Initial decision.
(a) After the filing of briefs and any oral argument, the presiding officer shall prepare and file an initial decision on the issues of fact in the hearing and the objections relating to those issues.
(b) The initial decision must be based on a fair evaluation of the entire record, and must contain:
(1)(i) A conclusion that no change is warranted in the order or regulation to which objection was taken; or
(ii) A conclusion that changes in the order or regulation are warranted, the language of the order or regulation as changed, and an effective date for the order or regulation as changed.
(2) Findings of fact supported by reliable, probative and substantial evidence that has been found admissible by the presiding officer, and adequate citations to the record supporting those findings.
(3) Conclusions on legal and policy issues, if such conclusions are necessary to resolve the objections.
(4) A discussion of the reasons for the findings and conclusions, including a discussion of the significant contentions made by any party.
(c) Except as otherwise provided by order of the Administrator filed in accordance with § 179.80, after the initial decision is filed, the presiding officer has no further jurisdiction over the matter and any motions or requests filed with the hearing clerk will be decided by the Administrator.
(d) The initial decision becomes the final decision of the Administrator by operation of law unless a party files exceptions with the hearing clerk under § 179.107 or the Administrator files a notice of review under § 179.110.
[55 FR 50293, Dec. 5, 1990, as amended at 70 FR 33360, June 8, 2005]
§ 179.107
Appeal from or review of initial decision.
(a) A party may appeal an initial decision to the Administrator by filing exceptions with the hearing clerk, and serving them on the other parties, within the period specified in the initial decision. The period may not exceed 30 days, unless extended by the Administrator under paragraph (d) of this section.
(b) Exceptions must specifically identify alleged errors in the findings of fact or conclusions of law or policy in the initial decision and, if errors in the findings of fact are alleged, must provide supporting citations to evidence of record. Oral argument before the Administrator may be requested in the exceptions.
(c) Any reply to the exceptions is to be filed and served within the timeperiod specified in the initial decision. The timeperiod may not exceed 30 days after the end of the period (including any extensions) for filing exceptions, unless extended by the Administrator under paragraph (d) of this section.
(d) The Administrator may extend the time for filing exceptions or replies to exceptions for good cause shown.
(e) If the Administrator decides to hear oral argument, the parties will be informed of the date, time, and place; the amount of time allotted to each party, and the issues to be addressed.
§ 179.110
Determination by Administrator to review initial decision.
Within 10 days following the expiration of the time for filing exceptions (including any extensions), the Administrator may file with the hearing clerk, and serve on the parties, a notice of the Administrator's determination to review the initial decision. The Administrator may invite the parties to file briefs or present oral argument on the matter. The time for filing briefs or presenting oral argument will be specified in that or a later notice.
§ 179.112
Decision by Administrator on appeal or review of initial decision.
(a) On appeal from or review of the initial decision, the Administrator shall have the same powers as did the presiding officer in making the initial decision. On the Administrator's own initiative or on motion, the Administrator may remand the matter to the presiding officer for any further action necessary for a proper decision.
(b) The scope of the issues on appeal to, or on review by the Administrator is the same as the scope of the issues
before the presiding officer, unless the Administrator specifies otherwise.
(c) After the filing of briefs and any oral argument, the Administrator will issue a final decision on the issues of fact in the hearing and the objections related to those issues. A final decision must contain the elements required for an initial decision by § 179.105(b).
(d) The Administrator may adopt the initial decision as the final decision.
(e) The Administrator's decision, or a summary of the decision and a notice of its availability, will be published in the
Federal Register.
§ 179.115
Motion to reconsider a final order.
A party may file a motion requesting the Administrator to reconsider a final decision under this part. Any such motion must be filed within 10 days after service of the final decision, and must set forth the matters claimed to have been erroneously decided and the nature of the alleged errors. Such a motion shall not stay the effective date of the final decision unless specifically so ordered by the Administrator.
§ 179.117
Designation and powers of judicial officer.
(a) One or more judicial officers may be designated by the Administrator. A judicial officer shall be an attorney who is a permanent or temporary employee of the Agency or of another Federal agency. A judicial officer may perform other duties. A judicial officer who performs any duty under this part may not be employed by OCSPP, by the Pesticides and Toxic Substances Division of the Office of General Counsel, or by any other person who is a representative of OCSPP in the hearing. A person may not be designated as a judicial officer in a hearing if he or she performed any prosecutorial or investigative functions in connection with that hearing or any other factually related hearing.
(b) The Administrator may delegate to the judicial officer all or part of the Administrator's authority to act in a given proceeding under this part. Such a delegation does not prevent the judicial officer from referring any motion or case to the Administrator when appropriate.
[55 FR 50293, Dec. 5, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 28087, June 24, 1992; 77 FR 46292, Aug. 3, 2012]

# Subpart G—Judicial Review
§ 179.125
Judicial review.
(a) The Administrator's final decision is final agency action reviewable in the courts as provided by FFDCA section 408(h), as of the date of publication of the order in the
Federal Register.
The failure of a person to file a petition for judicial review within the period ending on the 60th day after the date of the publication of the order constitutes a waiver under FFDCA section 408(h) of the right to judicial review of the order and of any regulation promulgated by the order.
(b) The record for judicial review of a final decision under this part consists of the record described in § 179.130.
[55 FR 50293, Dec. 5, 1990, as amended at 70 FR 33360, June 8, 2005]
§ 179.130
Administrative record.
(a) For purposes of judicial review, the record of a hearing that culminates in a final decision of the Administrator under § 179.105(d) or § 179.112(c) ruling on an objection shall consist of:
(1) The objection ruled on (and any request for hearing that was included with the objection).
(2) Any order issued under § 180.7(g) of this chapter to which the objection related, and:
(i) The regulation or petition denial that was the subject of that order.
(ii) The petition to which such order responded.
(iii) Any amendment or supplement of the petition.
(iv) The data and information submitted in support of the petition.
(v) The notice of filing of the petition.
(3) Any order issued under § 180.29(f) of this chapter to which the objection related, the regulation that was the subject of that order, and each related Notice of Proposed Rulemaking.
(4) The comments submitted by members of the public in response to the Notice of Filing or Notice of Proposed
Rulemaking, and the information submitted as part of the comments, the Administrator's response to comments and the documents or information relied on by the Administrator in issuing the regulation or order.
(5) All other documents or information submitted to the docket for the rulemaking in question under parts 177 or part 180 of this chapter.
(6) The Notice of Hearing published under § 179.20.
(7) All notices of participation filed under § 179.42.
(8) Any
Federal Register
notice issued under this part that pertains to the proceeding.
(9) All submissions filed under § 179.80.
(10) Any document of which official notice was taken under § 179.95.
(b) The record of the administrative proceeding is closed:
(1) With respect to the taking of evidence, when specified by the presiding officer.
(2) With respect to pleadings, at the time specified in § 179.98(a) for the filing of briefs.
(c) The presiding officer may reopen the record to receive further evidence at any time before the filing of the initial decision.
[55 FR 50293, Dec. 5, 1990, as amended at 70 FR 33360, June 8, 2005]
Pt. 180

# PART 180—TOLERANCES AND EXEMPTIONS FOR PESTICIDE CHEMICAL RESIDUES IN FOOD

# Subpart A—Definitions and Interpretative Regulations
Sec.
180.1
Definitions and interpretations.
180.3
Tolerances for related pesticide chemicals.
180.4
Exceptions.
180.5
Zero tolerances.
180.6
Pesticide tolerances regarding milk, eggs, meat, and/or poultry; statement of policy.

# Subpart B—Procedural Regulations
180.7
Petitions proposing tolerances or exemptions for pesticide residues in or on raw agricultural commodities or processed foods.
180.8
Withdrawal of petitions without prejudice.
180.9
Substantive amendments to petitions.
180.29
Establishment, modification, and revocation of tolerance on initiative of Administrator.
180.30
Judicial review.
180.31
Temporary tolerances.
180.32
Procedure for modifying and revoking tolerances or exemptions from tolerances.
180.33
Fees.
180.34
Tests on the amount of residue remaining.
180.35
Tests for potentiation.
180.40
Tolerances for crop groups.
180.41
Crop group tables.

# Subpart C—Specific Tolerances
180.101
Specific tolerances; general provisions.
180.103
Captan; tolerances for residues.
180.106
Diuron; tolerances for residues.
180.107
Triflumezopyrim; tolerance for residues.
180.108
Acephate; tolerances for residues.
180.109
Fenpicoxamid; Tolerances for residues.
180.111
Malathion; tolerances for residues.
180.114
Ferbam; tolerances for residues.
180.116
Ziram; tolerances for residues.
180.117
S
-Ethyl dipropylthiocarbamate; tolerances for residues.
180.123
Inorganic bromide residues resulting from fumigation with methyl bromide; tolerances for residues.
180.123a
Inorganic bromide residues in peanut hay and peanut hulls; statement of policy.
180.124
Methyl bromide; tolerances for residues.
180.127
Piperonyl butoxide; tolerances for residues.
180.128
Pyrethrins; tolerances for residues.
180.129
o-Phenylphenol and its sodium salt; tolerances for residues.
180.130
Hydrogen Cyanide; tolerances for residues.
180.132
Thiram; tolerances for residues.
180.142
2,4-D; tolerances for residues.
180.145
Fluorine compounds; tolerances for residues.
180.151
Ethylene oxide; tolerances for residues.
180.153
Diazinon; tolerances for residues.
180.155
1-Naphthaleneacetic acid; tolerances for residues.
180.163
Dicofol; tolerances for residues.
180.169
Carbaryl; tolerances for residues.
180.172
Dodine; tolerances for residues.
180.175
Maleic hydrazide; tolerances for residues.
180.176
Mancozeb; tolerances for residues.
180.178
Ethoxyquin; tolerances for residues.
180.181
Chlorpropham; tolerances for residues.
180.182
Endosulfan; tolerances for residues.
180.184
Linuron; tolerances for residues.
180.185
DCPA; tolerances for residues.
180.189
Coumaphos; tolerances for residues.
180.190
Diphenylamine; tolerances for residues.
180.191
Folpet; tolerances for residues.
180.198
Trichlorfon; tolerances for residues.
180.200
Dicloran; tolerances for residues.
180.202
p
-Chlorophenoxyacetic acid; tolerances for residues.
180.204
Dimethoate; tolerances for residues.
180.205
Paraquat; tolerances for residues.
180.206
Phorate; tolerances for residues.
180.207
Trifluralin; tolerances for residues.
180.208
Benfluralin; tolerances for residues.
180.209
Terbacil; tolerances for residues.
180.210
Bromacil; tolerances for residues.
180.211
Propachlor; tolerances for residues.
180.212
S
-Ethyl cyclohexylethylthiocarba­mate; tolerances for residues.
180.213
Simazine; tolerances for residues.
180.215
Naled; tolerances for residues.
180.217
Metiram; tolerances for residues.
180.220
Atrazine; tolerances for residues.
180.222
Prometryn; tolerances for residues.
180.225
Phosphine; tolerances for residues.
180.226
Diquat; tolerances for residues.
180.227
Dicamba; tolerances for residues.
180.229
Fluometuron; tolerances for residues.
180.231
Dichlobenil; tolerances for residues.
180.235
Dichlorvos; tolerances for residues.
180.236
Triphenyltin hydroxide; tolerances for residues.
180.241
Bensulide; tolerances for residues.
180.242
Thiabendazole; tolerances for residues.
180.243
Propazine; tolerances for residues.
180.245
Streptomycin; tolerances for residues.
180.249
Alachlor; tolerances for residues.
180.252
Tetrachlorvinphos; tolerances for residues.
180.253
Methomyl; tolerances for residues.
180.254
Carbofuran; tolerances for residues.
180.258
Ametryn; tolerances for residues.
180.259
Propargite; tolerances for residues.
180.261
Phosmet; tolerances for residues.
180.262
Ethoprop; tolerances for residues.
180.269
Aldicarb; tolerances for residues.
180.272
Tribuphos; tolerances for residues.
180.274
Propanil; tolerances for residues.
180.275
Chlorothalonil; tolerances for residues.
180.276
Formetanate hydrochloride; tolerances for residues.
180.278
Phenmedipham; tolerances for residues.
180.284
Zinc phosphide; tolerances for residues.
180.287
Amitraz; tolerances for residues.
180.288
2-(Thiocyanomethylthio) benzothiazole; tolerances for residues.
180.289
Methanearsonic acid; tolerances for residues.
180.291
Pentachloronitrobenzene; tolerance for residues.
180.292
Picloram; tolerances for residues.
180.293
Endothall; tolerances for residues.
180.297
N
-1-Naphthyl phthalamic acid; tolerances for residues.
180.298
Methidathion; tolerances for residues.
180.299
Dicrotophos; tolerances for residues.
180.300
Ethephon; tolerances for residues.
180.301
Carboxin; tolerances for residues.
180.303
Oxamyl; tolerances for residues.
180.304
Oryzalin; tolerances for residues.
180.314
Triallate; tolerances for residues.
180.316
Pyrazon; tolerances for residues.
180.317
Propyzamide; tolerances for residues.
180.318
4-(2-Methyl-4-chlorophenoxy) butyric acid; tolerance for residues.
180.319
Interim tolerances.
180.324
Bromoxynil; tolerances for residues.
180.328
Napropamide; tolerances for residues.
180.330
S-(2-(Ethylsulfinyl)ethyl) O,O-dimethyl phosphorothioate; tolerances for residues.
180.331
4-(2,4-Dichlorophenoxy) butyric acid; tolerances for residues.
180.332
Metribuzin; tolerances for residues.
180.337
Oxytetracycline; tolerances for residues.
180.339
MCPA; tolerances for residues.
180.341
2,4-Dinitro-6-octylphenyl crotonate and 2,6-dinitro-4-octylphenyl crotonate; tolerances for residues.
180.342
Chlorpyrifos; tolerances for residues.
180.345
Ethofumesate; tolerances for residues.
180.349
Fenamiphos; tolerances for residues.
180.350
Nitrapyrin; tolerances for residues.
180.352
Terbufos; tolerances for residues.
180.353
Desmedipham; tolerances for residues.
180.355
Bentazon; tolerances for residues.
180.356
Norflurazon; tolerances for residues.
180.360
Asulam; tolerance for residues.
180.361
Pendimethalin; tolerances for residues.
180.362
Fenbutatin-oxide; tolerances for residues.
180.364
Glyphosate; tolerances for residues.
180.367
n
-Octyl bicycloheptenedicarbox­imide; tolerances for residues.
180.368
Metolachlor; tolerances for residues.
180.370
5-Ethoxy-3-(trichloromethyl)-1, 2, 4-thiadiazole; tolerances for residues.
180.371
Thiophanate-methyl; tolerances for residues.
180.372
2,6-Dimethyl-4-tridecylmorpholine; tolerances for residues.
180.373
[Reserved]
180.377
Diflubenzuron; tolerances for residues.
180.378
Permethrin; tolerances for residues.
180.380
Vinclozolin; tolerances for residues.
180.381
Oxyfluorfen; tolerances for residues.
180.383
Sodium salt of acifluorfen; tolerances for residues.
180.384
Mepiquat (N,N-dimethylpiperidin­ium); tolerances for residues.
180.385
Diclofop-methyl; tolerances for residues.
180.388-180.389
[Reserved]
180.390
Tebuthiuron; tolerances for residues.
180.395
Hydramethylnon; tolerances for residues.
180.396
Hexazinone; tolerances for residues.
180.399
Iprodione; tolerances for residues.
180.401
Thiobencarb; tolerances for residues.
180.403
Thidiazuron; tolerances for residues.
180.404
Profenofos; tolerances for residues.
180.405
Chlorsulfuron; tolerances for residues.
180.407
Thiodicarb; tolerances for residues.
180.408
Metalaxyl; tolerances for residues.
180.409
Pirimiphos-methyl; tolerances for residues.
180.410
Triadimefon; tolerances for residues.
180.411
Fluazifop-P-butyl; tolerances for residues.
180.412
Sethoxydim; tolerances for residues.
180.413
Imazalil; tolerances for residues.
180.414
Cyromazine; tolerances for residues.
180.415
Aluminum tris (
O
-ethylphospho­nate); tolerances for residues.
180.416
Ethalfluralin; tolerances for residues.
180.417
Triclopyr; tolerances for residues.
180.418
Cypermethrin and isomers alpha-cypermethrin and zeta-cypermethrin; tolerances for residues.
180.419
Chlorpyrifos-methyl; tolerances for residues.
180.420
Fluridone; tolerances for residues.
180.421
Fenarimol; tolerances for residues.
180.425
Clomazone; tolerances for residues.
180.426
2-[4,5-Dihydro-4-methyl-4-(1-methylethyl)-5-oxo-1
H
-imidazol-2-yl]-3-quinoline carboxylic acid; tolerance for residues.
180.427
Tau-Fluvalinate; tolerances for residues.
180.428
Metsulfuron methyl; tolerances for residues.
180.429
Chlorimuron ethyl; tolerances for residues.
180.430
Fenoxaprop-ethyl; tolerances for residues.
180.431
Clopyralid; tolerances for residues.
180.432
Lactofen; tolerances for residues.
180.433
Fomesafen; tolerances for residues.
180.434
Propiconazole; tolerances for residues.
180.435
Deltamethrin; tolerances for residues.
180.436
Cyfluthrin and the isomer beta-cyfluthrin; tolerances for residues.
180.437
Imazamethabenz-methyl; tolerances for residues.
180.438
Lambda-cyhalothrin and an isomer gamma-cyhalothrin; tolerances for residues.
180.439
Thifensulfuron methyl; tolerances for residues.
180.440
Tefluthrin; tolerances for residues.
180.441
Quizalofop ethyl; tolerances for residues.
180.442
Bifenthrin; tolerances for residues.
180.443
Myclobutanil; tolerances for residues.
180.444
Sulfur dioxide; tolerances for residues.
180.445
Bensulfuron methyl; tolerances for residues.
180.446
Clofentezine; tolerances for residues.
180.447
Imazethapyr; tolerances for residues.
180.448
Hexythiazox; tolerance for residues.
180.449
Avermectin B
1
and its delta-8,9-isomer; tolerances for residues.
180.450
Beta-(4-Chlorophenoxy)-alpha-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole-1-ethanol; tolerances for residues.
180.451
Tribenuron methyl; tolerances for residues.
180.452
Primisulfuron-methyl; tolerances for residues.
180.454
Nicosulfuron; tolerances for residues.
180.455
Procymidone; tolerances for residues.
180.457
Bitertanol; tolerances for residues.
180.458
Clethodim; tolerances for residues.
180.459
Triasulfuron; tolerances for residues.
180.460
Benoxacor; tolerances for residues.
180.461
Cadusafos; tolerances for residues.
180.462
Pyridate; tolerances for residues.
180.463
Quinclorac; tolerances for residues.
180.464
Dimethenamid; tolerances for residues.
180.465
4-(Dichloroacetyl)-1-oxa-4-azaspiro[4.5]decane.
180.466
Fenpropathrin; tolerances for residues.
180.467
Carbon disulfide; tolerances for residues.
180.468
Flumetsulam; tolerances for residues.
180.469
Dichlormid; tolerances for residues.
180.470
Acetochlor; tolerances for residues.
180.471
Furilazole; tolerances for residues.
180.472
Imidacloprid; tolerances for residues.
180.473
Glufosinate; tolerances for residues.
180.474
Tebuconazole; tolerances for residues.
180.475
Difenoconazole; tolerances for residues.
180.476
Triflumizole; tolerances for residues.
180.477
Flumiclorac pentyl; tolerances for residues.
180.478
Rimsulfuron; tolerances for residues.
180.479
Halosulfuron-methyl; tolerances for residues.
180.480
Fenbuconazole; tolerances for residues.
180.481
Prosulfuron; tolerances for residues.
180.482
Tebufenozide; tolerances for residues.
180.484
Flutolanil; tolerances for residues.
180.485
Cyproconazole; tolerances for residues.
180.486
Chlorethoxyfos; tolerances for residues.
180.487
Pyrithiobac sodium; tolerances for residues.
180.490
Imazapic; tolerances for residues.
180.491
Propylene oxide; tolerances for residues.
180.492
Triflusulfuron-methyl; tolerances for residues.
180.493
Dimethomorph; tolerances for residues.
180.494
Pyridaben; tolerance for residues.
180.495
Spinosad; tolerances for residues.
180.498
Sulfentrazone; tolerances for residues.
180.499
Propamocarb; tolerances for residues.
180.500
Imazapyr; tolerances for residues.
180.501
Hydroprene; tolerances for residues.
180.502
Aminoethoxyvinylglycine hydrochloride (aviglycine HCl); tolerances for residues.
180.503
Cymoxanil, tolerance for residues.
180.504
[Reserved]
180.505
Emamectin; tolerances for residues.
180.506
Cyclanilide; tolerances for residues.
180.507
Azoxystrobin; tolerances for residues.
180.509
Mefenpyr-diethyl; tolerance for residues.
180.510
Pyriproxyfen; tolerances for residues.
180.511
Buprofezin; tolerances for residues.
180.512
[Reserved]
180.513
Chlorfenapyr; tolerances for residues.
180.514
Cloransulam-methyl; tolerances for residues.
180.515
Carfentrazone-ethyl; tolerances for residues.
180.516
Fludioxonil; tolerances for residues.
180.517
Fipronil; tolerances for residues.
180.518
Pyrimethanil; tolerances for residues.
180.519
Bromide ion and residual bromine; tolerances for residues.
180.521
Fumigants for grain-mill machinery; tolerances for residues.
180.522
Fumigants for processed grains used in production of fermented malt beverage; tolerances for residues.
180.523
Metaldehyde; tolerances for residues.
180.525
Resmethrin; tolerances for residues.
180.526
Synthetic isoparaffinic petroleum hydrocarbons; tolerances for residues.
180.527
Flufenacet, N-(4-fluorophenyl)-N-(1-methylethyl)-2-[[5-(trifluoromethyl)-1, 3, 4-thiadiazol-2-yl] oxy]acetamide and its metabolites containing the 4-fluoro-N-methylethyl benzenamine tolerances for residues.
180.532
Cyprodinil; tolerances for residues.
180.533
Esfenvalerate; tolerances for residues.
180.535
Fluroxypyr 1-methylheptyl ester; tolerances for residues.
180.537
Isoxaflutole; tolerances for residues.
180.540
Fenitrothion; tolerances for residues.
180.543
Diclosulam; tolerances for residues.
180.544
Methoxyfenozide; tolerances for residues.
180.545
Prallethrin; tolerances for residues.
180.546
Mefenoxam; tolerances for residues.
180.547
Prohexadione calcium; tolerances for residues.
180.549
Diflufenzopyr; tolerances for residues.
180.551
Fluthiacet-methyl; tolerances for residues.
180.552
Sulfosulfuron; tolerances for residues.
180.553
Fenhexamid; tolerances for residues.
180.554
Kresoxim-methyl; tolerances for residues.
180.555
Trifloxystrobin; tolerances for residues.
180.556
Pymetrozine; tolerances for residues.
180.557
Tetraconazole; tolerances for residues.
180.559
Clodinafop-propargyl; tolerances for residues.
180.560
Cloquintocet-mexyl; tolerances for residues.
180.561
Acibenzolar-
S
-methyl; tolerances for residues.
180.562
Flucarbazone-sodium; tolerances for residues.
180.563
Ethametsulfuron-methyl; tolerances for residues.
180.564
Indoxacarb; tolerances for residues.
180.565
Thiamethoxam; tolerances for residues.
180.566
Fenpyroximate; tolerances for residues.
180.567
Zoxamide; tolerances for residues.
180.568
Flumioxazin; tolerances for residues.
180.569
Forchlorfenuron; tolerances for residues.
180.570
Isoxadifen-ethyl; tolerances for residues.
180.571
Mesotrione; tolerances for residues.
180.572
Bifenazate; tolerance for residues.
180.573
Tepraloxydim; tolerances for residues.
180.574
Fluazinam; tolerances for residues.
180.575
Sulfuryl fluoride; tolerances for residues.
180.576
Cyhalofop-butyl; tolerances for residues.
180.577
Bispyribac-sodium; tolerances for residues.
180.578
Acetamiprid; tolerances for residues.
180.579
Fenamidone; tolerances for residues.
180.580
Iodosulfuron-Methyl-Sodium; tolerances for residues.
180.581
Iprovalicarb; tolerances for residues.
180.582
Pyraclostrobin; tolerances for residues.
180.583
Triticonazole; tolerances for residues.
180.584
Tolylfluanid; tolerances for residues.
180.585
Pyraflufen-ethyl; tolerances for residues.
180.586
Clothianidin; tolerances for residues.
180.587
Famoxadone; tolerance for residues.
180.588
Quinoxyfen; tolerances for residues.
180.589
Boscalid; tolerances for residues.
180.590
2, 6-Diisopropylnaphthalene (2, 6-DIPN); tolerances for residues.
180.591
Trifloxysulfuron; tolerances for residues.
180.592
Butafenacil; tolerances for residues.
180.593
Etoxazole; tolerances for residues.
180.594
Thiacloprid; tolerances for residues.
180.595
Flufenpyr-ethyl; tolerances for residues.
180.596
Fosthiazate; tolerances for residues.
180.597
Mesosulfuron-methyl; tolerances for residues.
180.598
Novaluron; tolerances for residues.
180.599
Acequinocyl; tolerances for residues.
180.600
Propoxycarbazone; tolerances for residues
180.601
Cyazofamid; tolerances for residues.
180.602
Spiroxamine; tolerances for residues.
180.603
Dinotefuran; tolerances for residues.
180.604
Mepanipyrim; tolerances for residues.
180.605
Penoxsulam; tolerances for residues.
180.607
Spiromesifen; tolerances for residues.
180.608
Spirodiclofen; tolerances for residues.
180.609
Fluoxastrobin; tolerances for residues.
180.610
Aminopyralid; tolerances for residues.
180.611
Pinoxaden; tolerances for residues.
180.612
Topramezone; tolerances for residues.
180.613
Flonicamid; tolerances for residues.
180.614
Kasugamycin; tolerances for residues.
180.615
Amicarbazone; tolerances for residues.
180.616
Fenpropimorph; tolerances for residues.
180.617
Metconazole; tolerances for residues.
180.618
Benthiavalicarb-isopropyl; tolerance for residues.
180.619
Epoxiconazole; tolerances for residues.
180.620
Etofenprox; tolerances for residues.
180.621
Dithianon; tolerances for residues.
180.622
Ethaboxam; tolerances for residues.
180.623
Flufenoxuron; tolerances for residues.
180.624
Metrafenone; tolerances for residues.
180.625
Orthosulfamuron; tolerances for residues.
180.626
Prothioconazole; tolerances for residues.
180.627
Fluopicolide; tolerances for residues.
180.628
Chlorantraniliprole; tolerances for residues.
180.629
Flutriafol; tolerances for residues.
180.631
Pyrasulfotole; tolerances for residues.
180.632
Fenazaquin; tolerances for residues.
180.633
Florasulam; tolerances for residues.
180.634
Tembotrione; tolerances for residues.
180.635
Spinetoram; tolerances for residues.
180.636
1,3-dichloropropene; tolerances for residues.
180.637
Mandipropamid; tolerances for residues.
180.638
Pyroxsulam; tolerances for residues.
180.639
Flubendiamide; tolerances for residues.
180.640
Pyridalyl; tolerances for residues.
180.641
Spirotetramat; tolerances for residues.
180.643
Uniconazole; tolerances for residues.
180.644
Cyprosulfamide; tolerances for residues.
180.645
Thiencarbazone-methyl; tolerances for residues.
180.646
Ipconazole; tolerances for residues.
180.647
d-Phenothrin; tolerances for residues.
180.648
Meptyldinocap; tolerances for residues.
180.649
Saflufenacil; tolerances for residues.
180.650
Isoxaben; tolerances for residues.
180.651
Imazosulfuron; tolerances for residues.
180.652
Ethiprole; tolerances for residues.
180.653
Indaziflam; tolerances for residues.
180.654
Isopyrazam; tolerances for residues.
180.655
Flazasulfuron; tolerances for residues.
180.656
Amisulbrom; tolerances for residues.
180.657
Metaflumizone; tolerances for residues.
180.658
Penthiopyrad; tolerances for residues.
180.659
Pyroxasulfone; tolerances for residues.
180.660
Pyriofenone; tolerances for residues.
180.661
Fluopyram; tolerances for residues.
180.662
Trinexapac-ethyl; tolerances for residues.
180.663
Ametoctradin; tolerances for residues.
180.664
Penflufen; tolerances for residues.
180.665
Sedaxane; tolerances for residues.
180.666
Fluxapyroxad; tolerances for residues.
180.667
Cyflufenamid, tolerance for residues.
180.668
Sulfoxaflor; tolerances for residues.
180.669
Picoxystrobin; tolerances for residues.
180.671
Fenpyrazamine; tolerances for residues.
180.672
Cyantraniliprole; tolerances for residues.
180.673
Triforine; tolerances for residues.
180.674
Proquinazid; tolerances for residues.
180.675
Tolfenpyrad; tolerances for residues.
180.676
Fenpropidin; tolerances for residues.
180.677
Cyflumetofen; tolerances for residues.
180.678
Tricyclazole; tolerances for residues.
180.679
Flupyradifurone; tolerances for residues.
180.680
Fluensulfone; tolerances for residues.
180.681
Isofetamid; tolerances for residues.
180.682
Bicyclopyrone; tolerances for residues.
180.684
Benalaxyl-M; tolerances for residues.
180.685
Oxathiapiprolin; tolerances for residues.
180.686
Benzovindiflupyr; tolerances for residues.
180.687
Teflubenzuron; tolerances for residues.
180.688
Diethofencarb; tolerance for residue.
180.689
Aminocyclopyrachlor; tolerances for residues.
180.690
Mandestrobin; tolerances for residues.
180.691
Halauxifen-methyl; tolerances for residues.
180.692
Tioxazafen; tolerances for residues.
180.693
Benzobicyclon; tolerances for residues.
180.694
Cyclaniliprole; tolerances for residues.
180.696
Tolpyralate; tolerances for residues.
180.697
Flutianil; tolerances for residues.
180.698
Chlormequat chloride; tolerances for residues.
180.699
Pydiflumetofen; tolerances for residues.
180.700
Afidopyropen; tolerances for residues.
180.701
Pyrifluquinazon; tolerances for residues.
180.702
Bixafen; tolerances for residues.
180.703
6-benzyladenine; tolerances for residues.
180.704
Sulfometuron-methyl; tolerances for residues.
180.705
Mefentrifluconazole; tolerances for residues.
180.706
Valifenalate; tolerances for residues.
180.708
Isotianil; tolerances for residues.
180.709
Tetraniliprole; tolerances for residues.
180.710
Pethoxamid; tolerances for residues.
180.711
1-Aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (1-ACC); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.712
Inpyrfluxam; tolerances for residues.
180.713
Tiafenacil; tolerances for residues.
180.714
Broflanilide; tolerances for residues.
180.715
Fluxametamide; tolerances for residues.
180.716
Fluindapyr; tolerances for residues.
180.717
Trifludimoxazin; tolerances for residues.
180.718
Picarbutrazox; tolerances for residues.
180.719
Ipflufenoquin; tolerances for residues.
180.720
Fluazaindolizine; tolerances for residues.
180.721
Isoprothiolane; tolerances for residues.
180.722
Pyflubumide; tolerances for residues.
180.723
Spiropidion; tolerances for residues.
180.724
Benzpyrimoxan; tolerances for residues.
180.725
Pyraclonil; tolerances for residues.
180.726
Metamitron; tolerances for residues.
180.727
Florylpicoxamid; tolerances for residues.

# Subpart D—Exemptions From Tolerances
180.900
Exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.905
Pesticide chemicals; exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.910
Inert ingredients used pre- and post-harvest; exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.920
Inert ingredients used pre-harvest; exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.930
Inert ingredients applied to animals; exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.940
Tolerance exemptions for active and inert ingredients for use in antimicrobial formulations (Food-contact surface sanitizing solutions).
180.950
Tolerance exemptions for minimal risk active and inert ingredients.
180.960
Polymers; exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1011
Viable spores of the microorganism
Bacillus thuringiensis
Berliner; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1016
Ethylene; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1017
Diatomaceous earth; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1019
Sulfuric acid; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1020
Sodium chlorate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1021
Copper; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1022
Iodine-detergent complex; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1023
Propanoic acid; exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1025
Xylene; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1027
Nuclear polyhedrosis virus of Heliothis zea; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1033
Methoprene; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1037
Polybutenes; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1040
Ethylene glycol; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1041
Nosema locustae; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1043
Gossyplure; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1049
Carbon dioxide; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1050
Nitrogen; exemption from the requirements of a tolerance.
180.1052
2,2,5-trimethyl-3-dichloroacetyl-1,3-oxazolidine; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1054
Calcium hypochlorite; exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1056
Boiled linseed oil; exemption from requirement of tolerance.
180.1057
Phytophthora palmivora; exemption from requirement of tolerance.
180.1058
Sodium diacetate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1064
Tomato pinworm insect pheromone; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1065
2-Amino-4,5-dihydro-6-methyl-4-propyl-s-triazolo(1,5-alpha)pyrimidin-5-one; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1067
Methyl eugenol and malathion combination; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1068
C
12
-C
18
fatty acid potassium salts; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1069
(
Z
)-11-Hexadecenal; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1070
Sodium chlorite; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1071
Peanuts, Tree Nuts, Milk, Soybeans, Eggs, Fish, Crustacea, and Wheat; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1072
Poly-
D
-glucosamine (chitosan); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1073
Isomate-M; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1074
F.D.
C. Blue No. 1; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1075
Colletotrichum gloeosporioides
f. sp.
aeschynomene;
exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1076
Viable spores of the microorganism
Bacillus popilliae;
exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1080
Plant volatiles and pheromone; exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1083
Dimethyl sulfoxide; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1084
Monocarbamide dihydrogen sulfate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1086
3,7,11-Trimethyl-1,6,10-dodeca­triene-1-ol and 3,7,11-trimethyl-2,6,10-dodecatriene-3-ol; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1087
Sesame stalks; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1089
Poly-
N
-acetyl-
D
-glucosamine; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1090
Lactic acid, including l-lactic acid; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1091
Aluminum isopropoxide and aluminum secondary butoxide; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1092
Menthol; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1095
Chlorine gas; exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1097
GBM-ROPE; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1098
Gibberellins [Gibberellic Acids (GA3 and GA4 + GA7), and Sodium or Potassium Gibberellate]; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1100
Gliocladium virens
isolate GL-21; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1101
Parasitic (parasitoid) and predatory insects; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1102
Trichoderma harzianum
KRL-AG2 (ATCC #20847) strain T-22; exemption from requirement of a tolerance.
180.1103
Isomate-C; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1110
3-Carbamyl-2,4,5-trichlorobenzoic acid; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1111
Bacillus subtilis GB03; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1114
Pseudomonas fluorescens
A506,
Pseudomonas fluorescens
1629RS, and
Pseudomonas syringae
742RS; exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1118
Spodoptera exigua
nuclear poly­hedrosis virus; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1119
Azadirachtin; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1120
Streptomyces
sp. strain K61; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1121
Boric acid and its salts, borax (sodium borate decahydrate), disodium octaborate tetrahydrate, boric oxide (boric anhydride), sodium borate and sodium metaborate; exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1122
Inert ingredients of semiochemical dispensers; exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1124
Arthropod pheromones; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1126
Codlure, (E,E)-8,10-Dodecadien-1-ol; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1127
Biochemical pesticide plant floral volatile attractant compounds: cinna­maldehyde, cinnamyl alcohol, 4-methoxy cinnamaldehyde, 3-phenyl propanol, 4-methoxy phenethyl alcohol, indole, and 1,2,4-trimethoxybenzene; exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1128
Bacillus amyloliquefaciens
MBI600; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1130
N-(n-octyl)-2-pyrrolidone and N-(n-dodecyl)-2-pyrrolidone; exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1135
Pasteuria penetrans;
exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1139
Sodium 5-nitroguaiacolate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1140
Sodium
o
-nitrophenolate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1141
Sodium
p
-nitrophenolate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1142
1,4-Dimethylnaphthalene; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1143
Methyl anthranilate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1145
Pseudomonas syringae;
exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1146
Beauveria bassiana
Strain GHA; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1148
Occlusion Bodies of the Granulosis Virus of
Cydia pomenella;
tolerance exemption.
180.1149
Inclusion bodies of the multi-nuclear polyhedrosis virus of
Anagrapha falcifera;
exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1150
6-Benzyladenine; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1153
Lepidopteran pheromones; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1156
Cinnamaldehyde; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1157
Cytokinins; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1158
Auxins; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1159
Pelargonic (nonanoic) acid; exemption from the requirement of tolerances.
180.1160
Jojoba oil; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1161
Clarified hydrophobic extract of neem oil; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1162
Acrylate polymers and copolymers; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1163
Killed
Myrothecium verrucaria;
exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1165
Capsaicin; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1167
Allyl isothiocyanate as a component of food grade oil of mustard; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1176
Sodium bicarbonate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1177
Potassium bicarbonate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1178
Formic acid; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1179
Plant extract derived from
Opuntia lindheimeri, Quercus falcata, Rhus aromatica,
and
Rhizophoria mangle;
exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1180
Kaolin; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1181
Bacillus cereus
strain BPO1; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1187
L-glutamic acid; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1188
Gamma aminobutyric acid; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1189
Methyl salicylate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1191
Ferric phosphate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1193
Potassium dihydrogen phosphate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1195
Titanium dioxide.
180.1196
Peroxyacetic acid; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1197
Hydrogen peroxide; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1198
Gliocladium catenulatum
strain J1446; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1199
Lysophosphatidylethanolamine (LPE); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1202
Bacillus sphaericus;
exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1204
Harpin protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1205
Beauveria bassiana
ATCC #74040; exemption from the requirements of a tolerance.
180.1206
Aspergillus flavus
strain AF36; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1207
N-acyl sarcosines and sodium N-acyl sarcosinates; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1209
Bacillus subtilis
strain QST 713 and strain QST 713 variant soil; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1210
Phosphorous acid; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1212
Pseudomonas chlororaphis
Strain 63-28; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1213
Coniothyrium minitans
strain CON/M/91-08; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1218
Indian Meal Moth Granulosis Virus; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1219
Foramsulfuron; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1220
1-Methylcyclopropene; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1222
Sucrose octanoate esters; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1223
Imazamox; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1224
Bacillus pumilus
GB34; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1225
Capric (decanoic) acid; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1226
Bacillus pumilus
strain QST2808; temporary exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1228
Diallyl sulfides; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1230
Ferrous sulfate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1231
Lime; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1232
Lime-sulfur; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1233
Potassium sorbate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1234
Sodium carbonate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1235
Sodium hypochlorite; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1236
Sulfur; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1237
Sodium metasilicate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1240
Thymol; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1243
Bacillus subtilis
var.
amylolique­faciens
strain FZB24; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1244
Ammonium bicarbonate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1245
Rhamnolipid biosurfactant; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1246
Yeast Extract Hydrolysate from
Saccharomyces cerevisiae:
exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1248
Exemption of citronellol from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1250
C8, C10, and C12 fatty acid mono­esters of glycerol and propylene glycol; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1251
Geraniol; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1253
Streptomyces lydicus
WYEC 108; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1254
Aspergillus flavus
NRRL 21882; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1255
Bacillus pumilus
strain QST 2808; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1257
Purpureocillium lilacinum strain 251; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1258
Acetic acid; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1259
Reynoutria sachalinensis
extract; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1260
Muscodor albus
QST 20799 and the volatiles produced on rehydration; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1261
Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria
and
Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato
specific Bacteriophages.
180.1262
Sorbitol octanoate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1263
Tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1267
Pantoea agglomerans
strain C9-1; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1268
Potassium silicate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1269
Bacillus mycoides
isolate J; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1270
Isophorone; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1271
Eucalyptus oil; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1272
Pantoea agglomerans
strain E325; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1273
Beauveria bassiana HF23; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1274
Tris (2-ethylhexyl) phosphate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1275
Pythium oligandrum DV 74; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1276
Tobacco mild green mosaic tobamovirus
strain U2; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1277
Dibasic esters; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1278
Quillaja saponaria
extract (saponins); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1280
Poly(hexamethylenebiguanide) hydrochloride (PHMB); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1281
S-Abscisic Acid, (S)-5-(1-hydroxy-2,6,6-trimethyl-4-oxo-1-cyclohex-2-enyl)-3-methyl-penta-(2Z,4E)-dienoic Acid; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1282
Bacillus firmus I-1582; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1283
(Z)-7,8-epoxy-2-methyloctadecane (Disparlure); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1284
Ammonium salts of higher fatty acids (C
8
-C
18
saturated; C
8
-C
12
unsaturated); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1285
Polyoxin D zinc salt; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1287
Extract of
Chenopodium ambrosioides
near
ambrosioides
; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1288
Tristyrylphenol ethoxylates; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1289
Candida oleophila
Strain O; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1290
Pasteuria usgae;
exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1291
Cold pressed neem oil; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1292
Ulocladium oudemansii (U3 Strain); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1293
Trichoderma gamsii strain ICC 080; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1294
Trichoderma asperellum strain ICC 012; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1295
Laminarin; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1296
Terpene Constituents α-terpinene, d-limonene and p-cymene, of the Extract of Chenopodium
ambrosioides
near
ambrosioides
as Synthetically Manufactured; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1297
Homobrassinolide; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1298
Trichoderma hamatum isolate 382; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1299
Prohydrojasmon; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1300
Potassium hypochlorite; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1301
Escherichia coli
O157:H7 specific bacteriophages; temporary exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1302
Sodium Ferric Ethylenediaminetetraacetate (EDTA); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1303
Metarhizium anisopliae strain F52; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1304
Pseudomonas fluorescens strain CL145A; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1305
Chromobacterium subtsugae strain PRAA4-1
T
; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1306
Isaria fumosorosea (formerly Paecilomyces fumosoroseus) Apopka strain 97; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1307
Bacteriophage of Clavibacter michiganensis subspecies michiganensis; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1308
Bacillus amyloliquefaciens strain D747; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1309
Bacillus subtilis strain CX-9060; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1310
Trichoderma virens strain G-41; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1311
Pasteuria nishizawae
—Pn1; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1312
Aureobasidium pullulans
strains DSM 14940 and DSM 14941; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1313
Bacillus pumilus
strain GHA 180; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1314
Killed, nonviable
Streptomyces acidiscabies
strain RL-110
T
; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1315
Natamycin; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1316
Pasteuria spp. (Rotylenchulus reniformis nematode)—Pr3; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1317
Pesticide chemicals; exemption from the requirements of a tolerance.
180.1318
3-decen-2-one; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1319
Banda de
Lupinus albus
doce (BLAD); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1320
Methyl jasmonate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1321
Complex Polymeric Polyhydroxy Acids (CPPA); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1322
Bacillus pumilus
strain BU F-33; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1323
Ethyl-2E,4Z-decadienoate (Pear Ester); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1324
GS-omega/kappa-Hxtx-Hv1a; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1325
Heat-killed
Burkholderia spp.
strain A396 cells and spent fermentation media exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1326
Pseudomonas fluorescens strain D7; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1327
Tetraacetylethylenediamine (TAED) and its metabolite Diacetylethylenediamine (DAED); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1328
Beauveria bassiana strain ANT-03; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1329
Bacillus subtilis strain IAB/BS03, exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1330
1-Octanol; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1331
Trichoderma asperelloides strain JM41R; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1332
Lavandulyl senecioate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1333
Potassium Salts of Hops Beta acids; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1334
Choline Chloride; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1335
Isaria fumosorosea strain FE 9901; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1336
Bacillus amyloliquefaciens strain PTA-4838; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1337
Citrus tristeza virus expressing spinach defensin proteins 2, 7, and 8; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1338
Aspergillus flavus
strains TC16F, TC35C, TC38B, and TC46G; exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1339
Spodoptera frugiperda
multiple nucleopolyhedrovirus strain 3AP2; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1340
Muscodor albus strain SA-13 and the volatiles produced on rehydration; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1341
Pseudomonas chlororaphis
strain AFS009; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1342
d
-Limonene; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1343
Tartrazine; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1344
Cyclaniliprole; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1345
1-Triacontanol; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1346
1,3-Dibromo-5,5-Dimethylhydantoin; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1347
Bacillus amyloliquefaciens
strain F727; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1348
Bacillus subtilis
strain BU1814; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1350
Bacillus licheniformis
strain FMCH001; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1351
Bacillus subtilis
strain FMCH002; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1352
Methyl-alpha-D-mannopyranoside (Alpha methyl mannoside); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1353
Lipochitooligosaccharide (LCO) SP104; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1354
Flutianil; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1355
Duddingtonia flagrans strain IAH 1297; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1356
Extract of
Swinglea glutinosa
; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1357
Cerevisane (cell walls of
Saccharomyces cerevisiae
strain LAS117); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1358
Metschnikowia fructicola
strain NRRL Y-27328; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1359
Bacteriophage active against
Erwinia amylovora
; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1360
Bacteriophage active against
Xanthomonas citri subsp. citri
; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1361
Pepino mosaic virus,
strain CH2, isolate 1906; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1362
Beauveria bassiana
strain PPRI 5339; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1363
Bacillus amyloliquefaciens
strain ENV503; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1364
Chlorate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1365
Bacteriophage active against
Xylella fastidiosa;
exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1366
24-Epibrassinolide; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1367
Bacillus amyloliquefaciens
subspecies plantarum strain FZB42; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1368
Clonostachys rosea
strain CR-7; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1369
Autographa californica
multiple nucleopolyhedrovirus strain FV#11; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1370
Lipochitoolgiosaccharide (LCO) MOR116; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1371
Florpyrauxifen-benzyl; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1372
Sodium lauryl sulfate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1373
Chrysodeixis includens
nucleopolyhedrovirus isolate #460; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1374
Autographa californica
multiple nucleopolyhedrovirus strain R3; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1375
Methyl mercaptan; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1376
Ea peptide 91398; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1378
Trichoderma atroviride
strain SC1; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1379
Trichoderma asperellum,
strain T34; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1380
Pseudomonas fluorescens strain ACK55; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1381
Oxalic acid
; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1382
Purpureocillium lilacinum
strain PL11; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1383
Bacillus velezensis
strain RTI301; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1384
Bacillus subtilis
strain RTI477; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1385
Methylorubrum populi
strain NLS0089; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1386
Bacillus subtilis strain AFS032321; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1387
Kosakonia cowanii strain SYM00028; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1388
Bacillus subtilis strain
CH3000; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1389
Bacillus paralicheniformis
strain CH2970; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1390
Trichoderma harzianum strain T-78; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1391
Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain LAS02; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1392
Streptomyces sp. strain SYM00257; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1393
Methylorubrum extorquens strain NLS0042; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1394
Lysate of Willaertia magna C2c Maky; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1395
Eugenol; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1396
Extract of
Caesalpinia spinosa;
exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1397
Trichoderma atroviride strain K5 NRRL B-50520; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1398
Peptide Derived from Harpin Protein (PDHP) 25279; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1399
Bacteriophage active against
Pseudomonas syringae
pv.
syringae;
exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1400
Bacteriophage active against
Xanthomonas arboricola
pv.
corylina;
exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1401
Bacteriophage active against
Xanthomonas arboricola
pv.
juglandis;
exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1402
Bacteriophage active against
Xanthomonas arboricola
pv.
pruni;
exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1403
Ledprona double-stranded RNA (CAS# 2433753-68-3); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1404
(2S)-5-Oxopyrrolidine-2-carboxylic Acid (L-PCA); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1405
Flg22-Bt Peptide; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1406
U1-AGTX-Ta1b-QA protein; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1407
Gluconobacter cerinus strain BC18B and Hanseniaspora uvarum strain BC18Y; exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1408
Bacillus velezensis strain 11604; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1409
Trichoderma atroviride
strain AT10; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1412
Bacillus licheniformis
strain 414-01; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1413
Potassium Carbonate; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1414
Beauveria bassiana
BW149; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1415
Inactivated
Burkholderia rinojensis
strain A396 cells and spent fermentation media; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1416
Pseudomonas oryzihabitans
strain SYM23945; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1417
Vadescana double-stranded RNA (CAS Reg. No. 2643947-26-4); exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
180.1418
Pepino mosaic virus; exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance.

# Subpart E—Pesticide Chemicals Not Requiring a Tolerance or an Exemption From a Tolerance
180.2000
Scope.
180.2003
Definitions.
180.2010
[Reserved]
180.2020
Non-food determinations.

# Authority:
21 U.S.C. 321(q), 346a and 371.

# Source:
36 FR 22540, Nov. 25, 1971, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 180 appear at 62 FR 66023, Dec. 17, 1997.

# GLOSSARY

# Note:
The items in this glossary were compiled as an aid to the users of the Code of Federal Regulations. Inclusion or exclusion from this glossary has no legal significance.
APPLI = APPLICATION
C-I MET = CHOLINESTERASE-INHIBITING METABOLITES
CARB = CARBAMATES
EPWRR = EDIBLE PORTION WITH RIND REMOVED
EXC = EXCEPT
I (IN PPM COLUMN) = INTERIM TOLERANCE
INC = INCLUDING
K = CWHR = KERNEL PLUS COB WITH HUSK REMOVED
MBYP = MEAT BYPRODUCTS
MIN = MINIMUM
N (IN PPM COLUMN) = NEGLIGIBLE RESIDUES
NMT = NOT MORE THAN
NON-PER BAG/PKGD RAC = NON-PERISHABLE PACKAGED OR BAGGED RAW AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY
PPM = PART(S) PER MILLION
POST-H = POSTHARVEST APPLICATION
PRE-H = PREHARVEST APPLICATION
PRE-S = PRESLAUGHTER APPLICATION
PRODS = PRODUCTS rollert
T (IN PPM COLUMN) = TEMPORARY TOLERANCE
[41 FR 4537, Jan. 30, 1976]

# Subpart A—Definitions and Interpretative Regulations
§ 180.1
Definitions and interpretations.
(a)
Administrator,
without qualification, means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
(b)
Agency,
without qualification, means the Environmental Protection Agency.
(c)
FFDCA
means the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended, 21 U.S.C. 301-392.
(d) Raw agricultural commodities include, among other things, fresh fruits, whether or not they have been washed and colored or otherwise treated in their unpeeled natural form; vegetables in their raw or natural state, whether or not they have been stripped of their outer leaves, waxed, prepared into fresh green salads, etc.; grains, nuts, eggs, raw milk, meats, and similar agricultural produce. It does not include foods that have been processed, fabricated, or manufactured by cooking, freezing, dehydrating, or milling.
(e) Where a raw agricultural commodity bearing a pesticide chemical residue that has been exempted from the requirement of a tolerance, or which is within a tolerance permitted under FFDCA section 408, is used in preparing a processed food, the processed food will not be considered unsafe within the meaning of FFDCA sections 402 and 408(a), despite the lack of a tolerance or exemption for the pesticide chemical residue in the processed food, if:
(1) The pesticide chemical has been used in or on the raw agricultural commodity in conformity with a tolerance under this section;
(2) The pesticide chemical residue has been removed to the extent possible in good manufacturing practice; and
(3) The concentration of the pesticide chemical residue in the processed food is not greater than the tolerance prescribed for the pesticide chemical residue on the raw agricultural commodity.
(f) For the purpose of computing fees as required by § 180.33, each group of related crops listed in § 180.34(e) and each crop group or subgroup listed in § 180.41 is counted as a single raw agricultural commodity in a petition or request for tolerances or exemption from the requirement of a tolerance.
(g) Tolerances and exemptions established for pesticide chemicals in or on the general category of raw agricultural commodities listed in column A apply to the corresponding specific raw agricultural commodities listed in column B. However, a tolerance or exemption for a specific commodity in column B does not apply to the general category in column A.
A
B
Alfalfa
Medicago sativa L. Subsp. sativa
, (alfalfa, lucerne);
Onobrychis viciifolia Scop.
(sainfoin, holy clover, esparcet); and
Lotus corniculatus L.
(trefoil); and varieties and/or hybrids of these.
Banana
Banana, plantain.
Basil (
Ocimum
spp.)
Basil (
Ocimum basilicum
L.); Basil, American (
Ocimum americanum
L.); Basil, Greek (
Ocimum minimum
L.); Basil, holy (
Ocimum tenuiflorum
L.); Basil, lemon (
Ocimum x citriodorum
Vis.); Basil, Russian (
Ocimum gratissimum
L.)
Bean
Cicer arietinum
(chickpea, garbanzo bean);
Lupinus
spp. (including, but not limited to, Andean lupin, blue lupin, grain lupin, sweet lupin, white sweet lupin, white lupin, and yellow lupin).
Phaseolus
spp. (including, but not limited to, black bean, cranberry bean, dry bean, field bean, French bean, garden bean, great northern bean, green bean, kidney bean, lima bean, navy bean, pink bean, pinto bean, red bean, scarlet runner bean, snap bean, tepary bean, yellow bean, and wax bean); Broad bean (fava bean, faba bean); Goa bean (asparagus pea and winged bean);
Vigna
spp. (including adzuki bean, asparagus bean, blackeyed pea, catjang bean, Chinese longbean, cowpea, crowder pea, moth bean, mung bean, rice bean, southern pea, urd bean, and yardlong bean); Guar bean; Horse gram; Jackbean; Lablab bean (hyacinth bean); Morama bean; African yam bean; American potato bean; Vegetable soybean (edamame); Sword bean; Velvetbean; Winged pea; cultivars, varieties and/or hybrids of these commodities. [Note: A variety of pesticide tolerances have been previously established for pea and/or bean. Chickpea/garbanzo bean is also listed in the definition for “pea”. For garbanzo bean/chickpea only, the highest established pea or bean tolerance will apply to pesticide residues found in this commodity].
Bean, dry, seed
All beans in the entry “Bean” in dry seed form.
Bean, edible podded
All beans in the entry “Bean” in edible podded form.
Bean, succulent
All beans in the entry “Bean” in edible podded or succulent shelled form.
Bean, succulent shelled
All beans in the entry “Bean” in succulent shelled form.
Blackberry
Rubus eubatus
(including bingleberry, black satin berry, boysenberry Cherokee blackberry, Chesterberry, Cheyenne blackberry, coryberry, darrowberry, dewberry, Dirksen thornless berry, Himalayaberry, hullberry, Lavacaberry, lowberry, Lucretiaberry, mammoth blackberry, marionberry, nectarberry, olallieberry, Oregon evergreen berry, phenomenalberry, rangerberry, ravenberry, rossberry, Shawnee blackberry, and varieties and/or hybrids of these).
Broccoli
Broccoli, Chinese broccoli (gai lon, white flowering broccoli).
Cabbage
Cabbage, Chinese cabbage (tight-heading varieties only).
Caneberry
Rubus
spp. (including blackberry);
Rubus caesius
(youngberry);
Rubus loganbaccus
(loganberry);
Rubus idaeus
(red and black raspberry); cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
Celery
Celery, Florence fennel (sweet anise, sweet fennel, finochio) (fresh leaves and stalks only).
Cherry
Cherry, sweet, and cherry, tart.
Endive
Endive, escarole.
Fern, edible, fiddlehead
Fern, edible, fiddlehead including: Black lady fern,
Deparia japonica
(Thunb.) M. Kato; Bracken fern,
Pteridium aquilinum
(L.) Kuhn; Broad buckler fern,
Dryopteris dilatata
(Hoffm.) A. Gray; Cinnamon fern,
Osmundastrum cinnamomeum
(L.) C. Presl; Lady fern,
Athyrium filix-femina
(L.) Roth ex Mert.; Leather fern,
Acrostichum aureum
L.; Mother fern,
Diplazium proliferum
(Lam.) Thouars; Ostrich fern,
Matteuccia struthiopteris
(L.) Tod.; Vegetable fern,
Diplazium esculentum
(Retz.) Sw.; Zenmai fern,
Osmuda japonica
Thunb.
Flowers, edible, multiple species
Acacia blossoms (
Acacia senegal
(L.) Willd.); Alyssum, sweet (
Lobularia maritima
(L.) Desv.); Anchusa, garden (
Anchusa azurea
Mill.); Angelica (
Angelica archangelica
L.); Apricot, Japanese (
Prunus mume
Siebold
Zucc.); Arnica (
Arnica montana
L.); Arugula (
Eruca sativa
Mill.); Balm (
Melissa officinalis
L.); Banana (
Musa
spp.); Basil (
Ocimum
spp.); Begonia, tuberous (
Begonia x tuberhybrida
Voss); Bilimbi (
Averrhoa bilimbi
L.); Bisnaga (
Ammi visnaga
(L.) Lam.); Blue thistle (
Centaurea benedicta
(L.) L.); Borage (
Borago officinalis
L.); Broccoli (
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
italica
Plenck); Bugelweed (
Lycopus
spp.); Burnet (
Sanguisorba
spp.); Calendula (
Calendula officinalis
L.); Canadian goldenrod (
Solidago canadensis
L.); Caper (
Capparis spinosa
L.); Carambola (
Averrhoa carambola
L.); Carnation (
Dianthus caryophyllus
L.); Celandine, greater (
Chelidonium majus
L.); Chamomile (
Chamaemelum
spp. and
Matricaria
spp.); Chaparral (
Larrea tridentata
(DC.) Coville); Chervil (
Anthriscus cerefolium
(L.) Hoffm.); Chicory (
Cichorium intybus
L.); Chive, Chinese (
Allium tuberosum
Rottler ex Spreng.); Chrysanthemum (
Chrysanthemum
spp.); Clary (
Salvia sclarea
L.); Cleavers (
Galium aparine
L); Clove (
Syzygium aromaticum
(L.) Merr.
L. M. Perry); Clover, red (
Trifolium pratense
L.); Coriander/Cilantro (
Coriandrum sativum
L.); Cornflower (
Centaurea cyanus
L.); Costmary (
Tanacetum balsamita
L. subsp.
balsamita);
Daisy, English (
Bellis perennis
L.); Dames rocket (
Hesperis matronalis
L.); Damiana (
Turnera diffusa
Willd); Dandelion (
Taraxacum officinale
F. H. Wigg. aggr.); Daylily (
Hemerocallis fulva
(L.) L.); Dill (
Anethum graveolens
L.); Elder (
Sambucus nigra
L.); Eyebright (
Euphrasia
spp.); Feijoa (
Acca sellowiana
(O. Berg) Burret); Fennel (common) (
Foeniculum vulgare
Mill. subsp
. vulgare
var.
vulgare
); Frangipani (
Plumeria rubra
L.); Fuchsia (
Fuchsia
spp.); Gardenia (
Gardenia jasminoides
J. Ellis); Geranium (
Pelargonium
spp.); Geranium, lemon (
Pelargonium crispum
(P.J. Bergius) L'Her.); Geranium, rose (
Pelargonium graveolens
L'Hér.); Ginger, white (
Hedychium coronarium
J. Koenig); Gladiolus (
Gladiolus
spp.); Greater periwinkle (
Vinca
major L.); Hawthorn (
Crataegus monogyna
Jacq.
Crataegus
spp.); Hibiscus (
Hibiscus
spp.); Hibiscus, Chinese (
Hibiscus rosa-sinensis
L.); Hollyhock (
Alcea rosea
L.); Honeysuckle, Japanese (
Lonicera japonica
Thunb.); Horehound (
Marrubium vulgare
L.); Hyssop (
Hyssopus officinalis
L.); Hyssop, anise (
Agastache foeniculum
(Pursh) Kuntze); Impatiens (
Impatiens walleriana
Hook. f.); Jasmine, Arabian (
Jasminum sambac
(L.) Aiton); Kewra (
Pandanus fascicularis
Lam.); Lavender (
Lavandula angustifolia
Mill.); Lemon (
Citrus limon
(L.) Burm. f.); Lilac (
Syringa vulgaris
L.); Lily (
Lilium
spp.); Lily, mariposa (
Calochortus gunnisonii
S. Watson); Lily, sego (
Calochortus nuttallii
Torr.
A. Gray); Lotus (
Nelumbo nucifera
Gaertn.); Lovage (
Levisticum officinale
W. D. J. Koch); Mallow, high (
Malva sylvestris
L.); Marigold (
Tagetes
spp.); Marjoram (
Origanum
spp.); Meadowsweet (
Filipendula ulmaria
(L.) Maxim.); Mint (
Mentha
spp.); Mioga (
Zingiber mioga
(Thunb.) Roscoe); Monarda (
Monarda
spp.); Motherwort (
Leonurus cardiaca
L.); Mullein (
Verbascum thapsus
L.,
Verbascum
spp.); Mustard (
Brassica
spp. and
Sinapis
spp.); Nasturtium (
Tropaeolum
spp.); Okra (
Abelmoschus esculentus
(L.) Moench); Orange, bitter (
Citrus aurantium
L.); Passion flower (
Passiflora
spp.); Pea blossoms (
Pisum sativum
L. subsp.
sativum
var.
sativum);
Peach (
Prunus persica
(L.) Batsch var.
persica);
Peony, common (
Paeonia officinalis
L.); Perilla (
Perilla frutescens
(L.) Britton); Petunia (
Petunia x hybrida
hort. ex E. Vilm.); Primrose (
Primula vulgaris
Huds.); Puget sound gumweed (
Grindelia integrifolia
DC.); Purslane, winter (
Claytonia perfoliata
Donn ex Willd.); Radish (
Raphanus sativus
L.); Redbud (
Cercis canadensis
L.); Rose (
Rosa
spp.); Rosemary (
Rosmarinus officinalis
L.); Rose-of-Sharon ((
Hibiscus syriacus
L.); Runner bean, scarlet (
Phaseolus coccineus
L.); Safflower (
Carthamus tinctorius
L.); Sage (
Salvia officinalis
L.); Sage, pineapple (
Salvia elegans
); Savory, summer (
Satureja hortensis
L.); Saxifrage, burnet (
Pimpinella saxifraga
L.); Scotch broom (
Cytisus scoparius
(L.) Link ); Shepherd's purse (
Capsella bursa-pastoris
(L.) Medik.); Snapdragon (
Antirrhinum majus
L.); Sorrel, garden (
Rumex acetosa
L.); Sorrel, wood (
Oxalis acetosella
L.); Spilanthes (
Blainvillea acmella
(L.) Philipson); Squash (
Cucurbita
spp.); Stock, gillyflower (
Matthiola incana
(L.) W. T. Aiton); Stoneroot (
Collinsonia canadensis
L.); Sunflower (
Helianthus annuus
L.); Sweet william (
Dianthus barbatus
L.); Sweet wormwood (
Artemisia annua
L.); Thyme (
Thymus vulgaris
L.); Tuberose (
Polianthes tuberosa
L.); Tulip (
Tulipa
spp.); Verbena, blue (
Verbena hastate
L.); Verbena, lemon (
Aloysia citrodora
Palau); Violet (
Viola
spp.); Wormwood (
Artemisia absinthium
L); Yarrow (
Achillea millefolium
L.); Yucca (
Yucca
spp.); and other edible flowers.
Flowers, edible, multiple species
Acacia blossoms (
Acacia senegal
(L.) Willd.); Alyssum, sweet (
Lobularia maritima
(L.) Desv.); Anchusa, garden (
Anchusa azurea
Mill.); Angelica (
Angelica archangelica
L.); Apricot, Japanese (
Prunus mume
Siebold
Zucc.); Arnica (
Arnica montana
L.); Arugula (
Eruca sativa
Mill.); Balm (
Melissa officinalis
L.); Banana (
Musa
spp.); Basil (
Ocimum
spp.); Begonia, tuberous (
Begonia x tuberhybrida
Voss); Bilimbi (
Averrhoa bilimbi
L.); Bisnaga (
Ammi visnaga
(L.) Lam.); Blue thistle (
Centaurea benedicta
(L.) L.); Borage (
Borago officinalis
L.); Broccoli (
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
italica
Plenck); Bugelweed (
Lycopus
spp.); Burnet (
Sanguisorba
spp.); Calendula (
Calendula officinalis
L.); Canadian goldenrod (
Solidago canadensis
L.); Caper (
Capparis spinosa
L.); Carambola (
Averrhoa carambola
L.); Carnation (
Dianthus caryophyllus
L.); Celandine, greater (
Chelidonium majus
L.); Chamomile (
Chamaemelum
spp. and
Matricaria
spp.); Chaparral (
Larrea tridentata
(DC.) Coville); Chervil (
Anthriscus cerefolium
(L.) Hoffm.); Chicory (
Cichorium intybus
L.); Chive, Chinese (
Allium tuberosum
Rottler ex Spreng.); Chrysanthemum (
Chrysanthemum
spp.); Clary (
Salvia sclarea
L.); Cleavers (
Galium aparine
L); Clove (
Syzygium aromaticum
(L.) Merr.
L. M. Perry); Clover, red (
Trifolium pratense
L.); Coriander/Cilantro (
Coriandrum sativum
L.); Cornflower (
Centaurea cyanus
L.); Costmary (
Tanacetum balsamita
L. subsp.
balsamita);
Daisy, English (
Bellis perennis
L.); Dames rocket (
Hesperis matronalis
L.); Damiana (
Turnera diffusa
Willd); Dandelion (
Taraxacum officinale
F. H. Wigg. aggr.); Daylily (
Hemerocallis fulva
(L.) L.); Dill (
Anethum graveolens
L.); Elder (
Sambucus nigra
L.); Eyebright (
Euphrasia
spp.); Feijoa (
Acca sellowiana
(O. Berg) Burret); Fennel (common) (
Foeniculum vulgare
Mill. subsp
. vulgare
var.
vulgare
); Frangipani (
Plumeria rubra
L.); Fuchsia (
Fuchsia
spp.); Gardenia (
Gardenia jasminoides
J. Ellis); Geranium (
Pelargonium
spp.); Geranium, lemon (
Pelargonium crispum
(P.J. Bergius) L'Her.); Geranium, rose (
Pelargonium graveolens
L'Hér.); Ginger, white (
Hedychium coronarium
J. Koenig); Gladiolus (
Gladiolus
spp.); Greater periwinkle (
Vinca
major L.); Hawthorn (
Crataegus monogyna
Jacq.
Crataegus
spp.); Hibiscus (
Hibiscus
spp.); Hibiscus, Chinese (
Hibiscus rosa-sinensis
L.); Hollyhock (
Alcea rosea
L.); Honeysuckle, Japanese (
Lonicera japonica
Thunb.); Horehound (
Marrubium vulgare
L.); Hyssop (
Hyssopus officinalis
L.); Hyssop, anise (
Agastache foeniculum
(Pursh) Kuntze); Impatiens (
Impatiens walleriana
Hook. f.); Jasmine, Arabian (
Jasminum sambac
(L.) Aiton); Kewra (
Pandanus fascicularis
Lam.); Lavender (
Lavandula angustifolia
Mill.); Lemon (
Citrus limon
(L.) Burm. f.); Lilac (
Syringa vulgaris
L.); Lily (
Lilium
spp.); Lily, mariposa (
Calochortus gunnisonii
S. Watson); Lily, sego (
Calochortus nuttallii
Torr.
A. Gray); Lotus (
Nelumbo nucifera
Gaertn.); Lovage (
Levisticum officinale
W. D. J. Koch); Mallow, high (
Malva sylvestris
L.); Marigold (
Tagetes
spp.); Marjoram (
Origanum
spp.); Meadowsweet (
Filipendula ulmaria
(L.) Maxim.); Mint (
Mentha
spp.); Mioga (
Zingiber mioga
(Thunb.) Roscoe); Monarda (
Monarda
spp.); Motherwort (
Leonurus cardiaca
L.); Mullein (
Verbascum thapsus
L.,
Verbascum
spp.); Mustard (
Brassica
spp. and
Sinapis
spp.); Nasturtium (
Tropaeolum
spp.); Okra (
Abelmoschus esculentus
(L.) Moench); Orange, bitter (
Citrus aurantium
L.); Passion flower (
Passiflora
spp.); Pea blossoms (
Pisum sativum
L. subsp.
sativum
var.
sativum);
Peach (
Prunus persica
(L.) Batsch var.
persica);
Peony, common (
Paeonia officinalis
L.); Perilla (
Perilla frutescens
(L.) Britton); Petunia (
Petunia x hybrida
hort. ex E. Vilm.); Primrose (
Primula vulgaris
Huds.); Puget sound gumweed (
Grindelia integrifolia
DC.); Purslane, winter (
Claytonia perfoliata
Donn ex Willd.); Radish (
Raphanus sativus
L.); Redbud (
Cercis canadensis
L.); Rose (
Rosa
spp.); Rosemary (
Rosmarinus officinalis
L.); Rose-of-Sharon ((
Hibiscus syriacus
L.); Runner bean, scarlet (
Phaseolus coccineus
L.); Safflower (
Carthamus tinctorius
L.); Sage (
Salvia officinalis
L.); Sage, pineapple (
Salvia elegans
); Savory, summer (
Satureja hortensis
L.); Saxifrage, burnet (
Pimpinella saxifraga
L.); Scotch broom (
Cytisus scoparius
(L.) Link ); Shepherd's purse (
Capsella bursa-pastoris
(L.) Medik.); Snapdragon (
Antirrhinum majus
L.); Sorrel, garden (
Rumex acetosa
L.); Sorrel, wood (
Oxalis acetosella
L.); Spilanthes (
Blainvillea acmella
(L.) Philipson); Squash (
Cucurbita
spp.); Stock, gillyflower (
Matthiola incana
(L.) W. T. Aiton); Stoneroot (
Collinsonia canadensis
L.); Sunflower (
Helianthus annuus
L.); Sweet william (
Dianthus barbatus
L.); Sweet wormwood (
Artemisia annua
L.); Thyme (
Thymus vulgaris
L.); Tuberose (
Polianthes tuberosa
L.); Tulip (
Tulipa
spp.); Verbena, blue (
Verbena hastate
L.); Verbena, lemon (
Aloysia citrodora
Palau); Violet (
Viola
spp.); Wormwood (
Artemisia absinthium
L); Yarrow (
Achillea millefolium
L.); Yucca (
Yucca
spp.); and other edible flowers.
Fruit, citrus
Grapefruit, lemon, lime, orange, tangelo, tangerine, citrus citron, kumquat, and hybrids of these.
Garlic
Garlic, great headed; garlic, and serpent garlic.
Guava
Guava (
Psidium guajava
L.); Guava, cattley (
Psidium cattleyanum
Sabine); Guava, Para (
Psidium acutangulum
DC.); Guava, purple strawberry (
Psidium cattleyanum
Sabine var.
cattleyanum
); Guava, strawberry (
Psidium cattleyanum
Sabine var.
littorale
(Raddi) Fosberg); Guava, yellow strawberry (
Psidium cattleyanum
Sabine var.
cattleyanum
forma
lucidum
O. Deg.)
Lettuce
Lettuce, head; and lettuce, leaf.
Lettuce, head
Lettuce, head; crisphead varieties only.
Lettuce, leaf
Lettuce, leaf; cos (romaine), butterhead varieties.
Marjoram (
Origanum
spp.); Marjoram, pot (
Origanum onites
L.); Marjoram, sweet
(Origanum majorana
L.); Oregano (
Origanum vulgare
L.)
Origanum
spp. (includes sweet or annual marjoram, wild marjoram or oregano, and pot marjoram).
Melon
Muskmelon, including hybrids and/or varieties of
Cucumis melo
(including true cantaloupe, cantaloupe, casaba, Santa Claus melon, crenshaw melon, honeydew melon, honey balls, Persian melon, golden pershaw melon, mango melon, pineapple melon, snake melon); and watermelon, including hybrids and/or varieties of (
Citrullus
spp.).
Mint (
Mentha
spp.)
Mint (
Mentha
spp.); Applemint (
Mentha suaveolens
Ehrh.); Horsemint (
Mentha longifolia
(L.) Huds.); Mint, corn (
Mentha arvensis
L.); Peppermint (
Mentha. x piperita
L.); Spearmint, (
Mentha spicata
L.); Spearmint, Scotch (
Mentha x gracilis
Sole); Watermint (
Mentha aquatica
L.); Pennyroyal (
Mentha pulegium
L.)
Muskmelon
Cucumis melo
(includes true cantaloupe, cantaloupe, casaba, Santa Claus melon, crenshaw melon, honeydew melon, honey balls, Persian melon, golden pershaw melon, mango melon, pineapple melon, snake melon, and other varieties and/or hybrids of these.)
Onion
Bulb onion; green onion; and garlic.
Onion, bulb
Bulb onion; garlic; great headed garlic; serpent garlic; Chinese onion; pearl onion; potato onion; and shallot, bulb.
Onion, green
Green onion; lady's leek; leek; wild leek; Beltsville bunching onion; fresh onion; tree onion, tops; Welsh onion; and shallot, fresh leaves.
Palm hearts
Palm hearts, various species, including: African fan palm,
Borassus aethiopum
Mart.; Cabbage palm,
Euterpe oleracea
Mart.; Cabbage palmetto,
Sabal palmetto
(Walter) Schult.
Schult. f.; Coconut,
Cocos nucifera
L.; Palmyra palm,
Borassus flabellifera
L.; Peach Palm,
Bactris gasipaes
Kunth; Royal palm,
Roystonea oleracea
(Jacq.) O.F. Cook; Salak palm,
Salacca zalacca
(Gaertn.) Voss; Saw palmetto,
Serenoa repens
(W. Bartram) Small; Wine palm,
Raphia
spp.
Peach
Peach, nectarine.
Pea
Cajanus cajan
(pigeon pea);
Cicer arietinum
(chickpea, garbanzo bean);
Lens culinaris
(lentil); Grass pea;
Pisum
spp. (including, but not limited to dry pea, dwarf pea, English pea, field pea, garden pea, green pea, marrowfat pea, snap pea, snow pea, sugar snap pea, wrinkled pea and yellow pea); cultivars, varieties and/or hybrids of these commodities. [Note: A variety of pesticide tolerances have been previously established for pea and/or bean. Chickpea/garbanzo bean is also listed in the definition for “bean”. For garbanzo bean/chickpea only, the highest established pea or bean tolerance will apply to pesticide residues found in this commodity].
Lens culinaris
(lentil);
Pisum
spp. (includes dwarf pea, garden pea, green pea, English pea, field pea, and edible pod pea). [Note: A variety of pesticide tolerances have been previously established for pea and/or bean. Chickpea/garbanzo bean is now classified in both the bean and the pea categories. For garbanzo bean/chickpea only, the highest established pea or bean tolerance will apply to pesticide residues found in this commodity.]
Pea, dry, seed
All peas in the entry “Pea” in dry seed form.
Pea, edible podded
All peas in the entry “Pea” in edible podded form.
Pea, succulent
All peas in the entry “Pea” in edible podded or succulent shelled form.
Pea, succulent shelled
All peas in the entry “Pea” in succulent shelled form.
Pepper
All varieties of pepper including pimento and bell, hot, and sweet pepper.
Radish, oriental, roots
Raphanus sativus
var.
longipinnatus
(roots and tops), including Chinese or Japanese radish (both white and red), winter radish, daikon, lobok, lo pak, and other cultivars and/or hybrids of these.
Radish, oriental, tops)
Raphanus sativus
var.
longipinnatus
(roots and tops), including Chinese or Japanese radish (both white and red), winter radish, daikon, lobok, lo pak, and other cultivars and/or hybrids of these.
Rapeseed
Brassica napus
,
B. campestris
, and
Crambe abyssinica
(oilseed-producing varieties only which include canola and crambe.)
Raspberry
Rubus
spp. (including bababerry; black raspberry; blackcap; caneberry; framboise; frambueso; himbeere; keriberry; mayberry; red raspberry; thimbleberry; tulameen; yellow raspberry; and cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these).
Sorghum, grain, grain
Sorghum
spp. [sorghum, grain, sudangrass (seed crop), and hybrids of these grown for its seed].
Sorghum, forage, stover
Sorghum
spp. [sorghum, forage; sorghum, stover; sudangrass, and hybrids of these grown for forage and/or stover.
Squash
Pumpkin, summer squash, and winter squash.
Sugar apple
Annona squamosa
L. and its hybrid atemoya (
Annona cherimola
Mill X A. s
quamosa
L.) Also includes true custard apple (
Annona reticulata
L.).
Squash, summer
Fruits of the gourd (
Cucurbitaceae
) family that are consumed when immature, 100% of the fruit is edible either cooked or raw, once picked it cannot be stored, has a soft rind which is easily penetrated, and if seeds were harvested they would not germinate; e.g.,
Cucurbita pepo
(
i.e.
, crookneck squash, straightneck squash, scallop squash, and vegetable marrow);
Lagenaria
spp. (
i.e.
, spaghetti squash, hyotan, cucuzza);
Luffa
spp. (
i.e.
, hechima, Chinese okra);
Momordica
spp. (
i.e.
, bitter melon, balsam pear, balsam apple, Chinese cucumber);
Sechium edule
(chayote); and other cultivars and/or hybrids of these.
Sweet potato
Sweet potato, yam.
Tangerine
Tangerine (mandarin or mandarin orange); clementine; Mediterranean mandarin; satsuma mandarin; tangelo; tangor; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
Tomato
Tomato, tomatillo.
Turnip tops or turnip greens
Broccoli raab (raab, raab salad), hanover salad, turnip tops (turnip greens).
Wheat
Wheat, triticale.
(h) Unless otherwise specified in this paragraph or in tolerance regulations prescribed in this part for specific pesticide chemicals, the raw agricultural commodity or processed food to be examined for pesticide residues, shall consist of the whole raw agricultural commodity or processed food.
(1) The raw agricultural commodity bananas, when examined for pesticide residues, shall not include any crown tissue or stalk.
(2) Shell shall be removed and discarded from nuts before examination for pesticide residues.
(3) Caps (hulls) shall be removed and discarded from strawberries before examination for pesticide residues.
(4) Stems shall be removed and discarded from melons before examination for pesticide residues.
(5) Roots, stems, and outer sheaths (or husks) shall be removed and discarded from garlic bulbs and dry bulb onions, and only the garlic cloves and onion bulbs shall be examined for pesticide residues.
(6) Where a tolerance is established on a root vegetable including tops and/or with tops, and the tops and the roots are marketed together, they shall be analyzed separately and neither the pesticide residue on the roots nor the pesticide residue on the tops shall exceed the tolerance level, except that in the case of carrots, parsnips, and rutabagas, the tops shall be removed and discarded before analyzing roots for pesticide residues.
(7) The crowns (leaves at the top of the fruit) shall be removed and discarded from pineapples before examination for pesticide residues.
(8) The term
lima beans
means the beans and the pod.
(9) The term
peanuts
means the peanut meat after removal of the hulls.
(10) For processed foods consisting primarily of one ingredient and sold in a form requiring further preparation prior to consumption (e.g., fruit juice concentrates, dehydrated vegetables, and powdered potatoes), the processed food to be examined for residues shall be the whole processed commodity after compensating for or reconstituting to the commodity's normal moisture content, unless a tolerance for the concentrated or dehydrated food form is included in this part. If there exists a tolerance for a specific pesticide on the processed food in its concentrated or dehydrated food form, for the purpose of determining whether the food is in compliance with that tolerance, the processed food to be examined for residues shall be the whole processed commodity on an “as is” basis.
(i) The term
pesticide chemical
shall have the meaning specified in FFDCA section 201(q)(1), as amended, except as provided in § 180.4.
(j) The term
negligible residue
means any amount of a pesticide chemical remaining in or on a raw agricultural commodity or group of raw agricultural commodities that would result in a daily intake regarded as toxicologically insignificant on the basis of scientific judgment of adequate safety data. Ordinarily this will add to the diet an amount which will be less than 1/2,000th of the amount that has been demonstrated to have no effect from feeding studies on the most sensitive animal species tested. Such toxicity studies shall usually include at least 90-day feeding studies in two species of mammals.
(k) The term
nonperishable raw agricultural commodity
means any raw agricultural commodity not subject to rapid decay or deterioration that would render it unfit for consumption. Examples are cocoa beans, coffee beans, field-dried beans, field-dried peas, grains, and nuts. Not included are eggs, milk, meat, poultry, fresh fruits, and vegetables such as onions, parsnips, potatoes, and carrots.
(l) The term
tolerance with regional registration
means any tolerance which is established for pesticide residues resulting from the use of the pesticide pursuant to a regional registration. Such a tolerance is supported by residue data from specific growing regions for a raw agricultural commodity. Individual tolerances with regional registration are designated in separate subsections in 40 CFR 180.101 through 180.999, as appropriate. Additional residue data which are representative of the proposed use area are required to expand the geographical area of usage of a pesticide on a raw agricultural commodity having an established “tolerance with regional registration.” Persons seeking geographically broader registration of a crop having a “tolerance with regional registration” should contact the appropriate EPA product manager concerning additional residue data required to expand the use area.
(m) The term
pesticide chemical residue
shall have the meaning specified in FFDCA section 201(q)(2), as amended, except as provided in § 180.4.
(n) The term
food commodity
means:
(1) Any raw agricultural commodity (food or feed) as defined in section 201(r) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA); and
(2) Any processed food or feed as defined in section 201(gg) of the FFDCA.
[36 FR 22540, Nov. 25, 1971]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 180.1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 180.3
Tolerances for related pesticide chemicals.
(a) Pesticide chemicals that cause related pharmacological effects will be regarded, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, as having an additive deleterious action. (For example, many pesticide chemicals within each of the following groups have related pharmacological effects: Chlorinated organic pesticides, arsenic-containing chemicals, metallic dithiocarbamates, cholinesterase-inhibiting pesticides.)
(b) Tolerances established for such related pesticide chemicals may limit the amount of a common component (such as As
2
O
3
) that may be present, or may limit the amount of biological activity (such as cholinesterase inhibition) that may be present, or may limit the total amount of related pesticide chemicals (such as chlorinated organic pesticides) that may be present.
(c)(1) Where tolerances for inorganic bromide in or on the same raw agricultural commodity are set in two or more sections in this part (example: §§ 180.123 and 180.199), the overall quantity of inorganic bromide to be tolerated from use of the same pesticide in different modes of application or from two or more pesticide chemicals for which tolerances are established is the highest of the separate applicable tolerances. For example, where the bromide tolerance on asparagus from methyl bromide commodity fumigation is 100 parts per million (40 CFR 180.123) and on asparagus from methyl bromide soil treatment is 300 parts per million (40 CFR 180.199), the overall inorganic bromide tolerance for asparagus grown on methyl bromide-treated soil and also fumigated with methyl bromide after harvest is 300 parts per million.
(2) Where tolerances are established in terms of inorganic bromide residues only from use of organic bromide fumigants on raw agricutural commodities, such tolerances are sufficient to protect the public health, and no additional concurrent tolerances for the organic pesticide chemicals from such use are necessary. This conclusion is based on evidence of the dissipation of the organic pesticide or its conversion to inorganic bromide residues in the food when ready to eat.
(d)(1) Where tolerances are established for both calcium cyanide and hydrogen cyanide on the same raw agricultural commodity, the total amount of such pesticides shall not yield more residue than that permitted by the larger of the two tolerances, calculated as hydrogen cyanide.
(2) Where tolerances are established for residues of both
O,O
-diethyl
S
-[2-(ethylthio)ethyl] phosphorodithioate and demeton (a mixture of
O,O
-diethyl
O
-(and
S
-) [2-(ethylthio)ethyl] phosphorothioates) on the same raw agricultural commodity, the total amount of such pesticides shall not yield more residue than that permitted by the larger of the two tolerances, calculated as demeton.
(3) Where tolerances are established for both terpene polychlorinates (chlorinated mixture of camphene, pinene, and related terpenes, containing 65-66 percent chlorine) and toxaphene (chlorinated camphene containing 67-69 percent chlorine) on the same raw agricultural commodities, the total amount of such pesticides shall not yield more residue than that permitted by the larger of the two tolerances, calculated as a chlorinated terpene of molecular weight 396.6 containing 67 percent chlorine.
(4) Where a tolerance is established for more than one pesticide containing arsenic found in, or on a raw agricultural commodity, the total amount of such pesticide shall not exceed the highest established tolerance calculated as As
2
O
3.
(5) Where tolerances are established for more than one member of the class of dithiocarbamates listed in paragraph (e)(3) of this section on the same raw agricultural commodity, the total residue of such pesticides shall not exceed that permitted by the highest tolerance established for any one member of the class, calculated both as zinc ethylenebisdithiocarbamate and carbon disulfide. The tolerance based on zinc ethylenebisdithiocarbamate shall first be multiplied by 0.6 to convert it to the equivalent carbon disulfide tolerance, and then the carbon disulfide tolerance levels will be compared to determine the highest tolerance level per raw agricultural commodity.
(6) Where tolerances are established for residues of both
S,S,S
-tributyl phosphorotrithioate and tributyl phosphorotrithioite in or on the same raw agricultural commodity, the total amount of such pesticides shall not yield more residue than that permitted by the higher of the two tolerances, calculated as
S,S,S
-tributyl phosphorotrithioate.
(7) Where tolerances are established for residues of
O,S
-dimethyl phosphoramidothioate, resulting from the use of acephate (
O,S
-dimethyl acetylphos-phoramidothioate) and/or
O,S
- dimethylphosphoramidothioate on the same agricultural commodity, the total amount of
O,S
-dimethyl-phosphoramidothioate shall not yield more residue than that permitted by the higher of the two tolerances.
(8) Where a tolerance is established for more than one pesticide having the metabolites 1-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-3-methylurea (DCPMU) and 3,4-dichlorophenylurea (DCPU) found in or on a raw agricultural commodity, the total amount of such residues shall not exceed the highest established tolerance for a pesticide having these metabolites.
(9) Where a tolerance is established for more than one pesticide having as metabolites compounds containing the benzimidazole moiety found in or on a raw agricultural commodity, the total amount of such residues shall not exceed the highest established tolerance for a pesticide having these metabolites.
(10) Where a tolerance is established for triclopyr, chloropyrifos, and chlorpyrifos-methyl having the common metabolite 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol on the same raw agricultural commodity, the total amount of such residues shall not exceed the highest
established tolerance for any of the pesticides having the metabolites.
(11) Where tolerances are established for more than one pesticide having the metabolite 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol found in or on the raw agricultural commodity, the total amount of such residues shall not exceed the highest established tolerance for a pesticide having this metabolite.
(12) Where tolerances are established for residues of methomyl, resulting from the use of thiodicarb and/or methomyl on the same raw agricultural commodity, the total amount of methomyl shall not yield more residue than that permitted by the higher of the two tolerances.
(e) Except as noted in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section, where residues from two or more chemicals in the same class are present in or on a raw agricultural commodity the tolerance for the total of such residues shall be the same as that for the chemical having the lowest numerical tolerance in this class, unless a higher tolerance level is specifically provided for the combined residues by a regulation in this part.
(1) Where residues from two or more chemicals in the same class are present in or on a raw agricultural commodity and there are available methods that permit quantitative determination of each residue, the quantity of combined residues that are within the tolerance may be determined as follows:
(i) Determine the quantity of each residue present.
(ii) Divide the quantity of each residue by the tolerance that would apply if it occurred alone, and multiply by 100 to determine the percentage of the permitted amount of residue present.
(iii) Add the percentages so obtained for all residues present.
(iv) The sum of the percentages shall not exceed 100 percent.
(2) Where residues from two or more chemicals in the same class are present in or on a raw agricultural commodity and there are available methods that permit quantitative determinations of one or more, but not all, of the residues, the amounts of such residues as may be determinable shall be deducted from the total amount of residues present and the remainder shall have the same tolerance as that for the chemical having the lowest numerical tolerance in that class. The quantity of combined residues that are within the tolerance may be determined as follows:
(i) Determine the quantity of each determinable residue present.
(ii) Deduct the amounts of such residues from the total amount of residues present and consider the remainder to have the same tolerance as that for the chemical having the lowest numerical tolerance in that class.
(iii) Divide the quantity of each determinable residue by the tolerance that would apply if it occurred alone and the quantity of the remaining residue by the tolerance for the chemical having the lowest numerical tolerance in that class and multiply by 100 to determine the percentage of the permitted amount of residue present.
(iv) Add the percentages so obtained for all residues present.
(v) The sum of the percentages shall not exceed 100 percent.
(3) The following pesticides are members of the class of dithiocarbamates:
A mixture of 5.2 parts by weight of ammoniates of [ethylenebis (dithiocarbamato)] zinc with 1 part by weight ethylenebis [dithiocarbamic acid] bimolecular and trimolecular cyclic anhydrosulfides and disulfides.
2-Chloroallyl diethyldithiocarbamate.
Coordination product of zinc ion and maneb containing 20 percent manganese, 2.5 percent zinc, and 77.5 percent ethylenebisdithiocarbamate.
Ferbam.
Maneb.
Manganous dimethyldithiocarbamate.
Sodium dimethyldithiocarbamate.
Thiram.
Zineb.
Ziram.
(4) The following are members of the class of chlorinated organic pesticides:
Aldrin.
BHC (benzene hexachloride).
1,1-Bis(
p
-chlorophenyl)-2,2,2-trichloroethanol.
Chlorbenside (
p
-chlorobenzyl
p
-chlorophenyl sulfide).
Chlordane.
Chlorobenzilate (ethyl 4,4′-dichlorobenzilate).
p
-Chlorophenoxyacetic acid.
p
-Chlorophenyl-2,4,5-trichlorophenyl sulfide.
2,4-D (2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid).
DDD (TDE).
DDT.
1,1-Dichloro-2,2-bis(
p
-ethylphenyl) ethane.
2,6-Dichloro-4-nitroaniline.
2,4-Dichlorophenyl
p
-nitrophenyl ether.
Dieldrin.
Dodecachlorooctahydro-1,3,4-metheno-2
H
-cyclobuta[
cd
]pentalene.
Endosulfan (6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a, 6,9,9a-hexahydro-6,9-methano-2,4,3-benzodioxathiepin-3-oxide).
Endosulfan sulfate (6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a-hexahydro-6,9-methano-2,4,3-benzodioxathiepin-3,3-dioxide).
Heptachlor (1,4,5,6,7,8,8-heptachlor-3a,4,7, 7a-tetrahydro-4,7-methanoindene).
Heptachlor epoxide (1,4,5,6,7,8,8-heptachloro-2,3-epoxy-2,3,3a,4,7,7a-hexahydro-4,7-methanoindene).
Hexachlorophene (2,2′-methylenebis(3,4,6-trichlorophenol) and its monosodium salt.
Isopropyl 4,4′-dichlorobenzilate.
Lindane.
Methoxychlor.
Ovex (
p
-chlorophenyl
p
-chlorobenzenesulfonate).
Sesone (sodium 2,4-dichlorophenoxyethyl sulfate, SES).
Sodium 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetate.
Sodium trichloroacetate.
Sulphenone (
p
-chlorophenyl phenyl sulfone).
Terpene polychlorinates (chlorinated mixture of camphene, pinene, and related terpenes 65-66 percent chlorine).
2,3,5,6-Tetrachloronitrobenzene.
Tetradifon (2,4,5,4′-tetrachlorodiphenyl sulfone).
Toxaphene (chlorinated camphene).
Trichlorobenzoic acid.
Trichlorobenzyl chloride.
(5) The following are members of the class of cholinesterase-inhibiting pesticides:
Acephate (
O,S
-dimethyl acetyl-phosphoramidothioate) and its cholinesterase-inhibiting metabolite
O,S
-dimethyl phosphoramidothioate.
Aldicarb (2-methyl-2-(methylthio) propionaldehyde
O
-(methylcarbamoyl)oxime) and its chlorinesterase-inhibiting metabolites 2-methyl-2-(methylsulfinyl)propionaldehyde
O
-(methycarbamoyl) oxime and 2-methyl-2-(methylsulfonyl)propionaldehyde
O
-(methylcarbamoyl)oxime.
4-
tert
-Butyl-2-chlorophenyl methyl methyl phosphoramidate.
S-[(
tert
-Butylthio)methyl]
O,O
-diethyl phosphorodithioate and its cholinesterase-inhibiting metabolites.
Carbaryl (1-naphthyl
N
-methylcarbamate).
Carbofuran (2,3,-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-7-benzofuranyl-
N
-methylcarbamate).
Carbofuran metabolite (2,3-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-3-hydroxy-7-benofuranyl
N
-methylcarbamate).
Carbophenothion (
S
-[(
p
-chlorophenyl) thiolmethyl]
O,O
-diethyl phosphorodithioate) and its cholinesterase-inhibiting metabolites.
Chlorpyrifos (
O,O
-diethyl
O
-(3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridyl)phosphorothioate).
Chlorpyrifos-methyl (
O,O
-dimethyl-
O
-(3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridyl) phosphorothioate.
2-Chloro-1-(2,4,5-trichlorophenyl)vinyl dimethyl phosphate.
2-Chloro-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl) vinyl diethyl phosphate.
Coumaphos (
O,O
-diethyl
O
-3-chloro-4-methyl-2-oxo-2
H
-1-benzopyran-7-yl phosran-7-yl phosphate).
Coumaphos oxygen analog (
O,O
-diethyl
O
-3-chloro-4-methyl-2-oxo-2
H
-1-benzopyphorothioate).
Dialifor (
S
-(2-chloro-1-phthalimidoethyl)
O,O
-diethyl phosphorodithioate).
Dialifor oxygen analog (
S
-(2-chloro-1-phthalimidoethyl)
O,O
-diethyl phosphorothioate).
Demeton (a mixture of
O,O
-diethyl
O
-(and
S
) [2-ethylthio)ethyl] phosphorothioates).
Ethiolate (
S
-ethyl diethylthiocarbamate).
2,2-Dichlorovinyl dimethyl phosphate.
O,O
-Diethyl
S
-[2-(ethylthio)ethyl] phosphorodithioate and its cholinesterase-inhibiting metabolites.
O,O
-Diethyl
O
-(2-diethylamino-6-methyl-4-pyrimidinyl) phosphorothioate and its oxygen analog diethyl 2-diethylamino-6-methyl-4-pyrimidinyl phosphate.
O,O
-Diethyl
O
-(2-isoprophyl-4-methyl-6-pyrimidinyl) phosphorothioate.
O,O
-Diethyl
O
-[
p
-(methylsulfinyl)phenyl] phosphorothioate and its cholinesterase-inhibiting metabolites.
Diethyl 2-pyrazinyl phosphate.
O,O
-Diethyl
O
-2-pyrazinyl phosphorothioate.
S
-(
O,O
-Diisopropyl phosphorodithioate) of
N
-(2-mercaptoethyl) benzenesulfonamide.
S
-(
O,O
-Diisopropyl phosphorodithioate) of
N
-(2-mercaptoethyl) benzenesulfonamide.
2-(Dimethylamino)-5.6-dimethyl-4-pyrimidinyl dimethylcarbamate and its metabolites 5,6-dimethyl-2-(formylmethylamino)-4-pyrimidinyl dimethylcarbamate and 5,6-dimethyl-2-(methylamino)-4-pyrimidinyl dimethylcarbamate (both calculated as parent).
Dimethoate (
O,O
-dimethyl
S
-(
N
-methyl-carbamoylmethyl) phosphorodithioate).
Dimethoate oxygen analog (
O,O
-dimethyl
S
-(
N
-methylcarbamoylmethyl) phosphorothioate).
O,O
-Dimethyl
O-p
-(dimethylsulfamoyl) phenyl phosphate.
O,O
-Dimethyl
O-p-
(dimethylsulfamoyl) phenyl phosphorothioate.
3,5-Dimethyl-4-(methylthio) phenyl methylcarbamate.
O,O
-Dimethyl
S
-[4-oxo-1,2,3-benzotriazin-3-(4
H
)-ylmethyl] phosphorodithioate.
Dimethyl phosphate of 3-hydroxy-
N,N
-dimethyl-
cis
-crotonamide.
Dimethyl phosphate of 3-hydroxy-
N
-methyl-
cis
-crotonamide.
Dimethyl phosphate of α-methylbenzyl 3-hydroxy-
cis
-crotonate.
O,O
-Dimethyl 2,2,2-trichloro-1-hydroxyethyl phosphonate.
O,O
-Dimethyl phosphorodithioate,
S
-ester with 4-(mercaptomethyl)-2-methozy-Δ2-1,3,4-thiadiazolin-5-one.
Dioxathion (2,3-
p
-dioxanedithiol
S,S
-bis (
O,O
-diethylphosphorodithioate)) containing approximately 70 percent
cis
and
trans
isomers and approximately 30 percent related compounds.
EPN.
Ethephon ((2- - chloroethyl) phosphonic acid).
Ethion.
Ethion oxygen analog (
S
-[[(diethoxyphosphinothioyl)thio] methyl]
O,O
-diethyl phosphorothioate).
O-
Ethyl
O
-[4-(methylthio) phenyl]
S
-propyl phosphorodithioate and its cholinesterase-inhibiting metabolites.
O
-Ethyl
S,S
-dipropylphosphorodithioate.
Ethyl 3-methyl-4-(methylthio)phenyl (1-methylethyl) phosphoramidate and its cholinesterase-inhibiting metabolites.
O
-Ethyl
S
-phenyl ethylphosphonodithioate.
O
-Ethyl
S
-phenyl ethylphosphonothiolate.
m
-(1-Ethylpropyl)phenyl methylcarbamate.
S
-[2-Ethylsulfinyl)ethyl]
O,O
-dimethyl phosphorothioate and its cholinesterase-inhibiting metabolites, (primarily
S
-[2-(ethyl-sulfonyl)ethyl]
O,O
-dimethyl phosphorothioate).
Fenthion (
O,O
-dimethyl
O
-[3-methyl-4-(methylthio)phenyl]phosphorothioate and its cholinesterase-inhibiting metabolites.
Malathion.
N
-(Mercaptomethyl)phthalimide
S
-(
O,O
-dimethyl phosphorodithioate).
N
-(Mercaptomethyl)phthalimide
S
-(
O,O
-dimethyl phosphorothioate).
Methomyl (
S
-methyl
N
-[(methylcarbamoyl)oxy]thioacetimidate).
1-Methoxycarbonyl-1-propen-2-yl dimethyl phosphate and its beta isomer.
m
-(1-Methylbutyl)phenyl methylcarbamate.
Methyl parathion.
Naled (1,2-dibromo-2,2-dichloroethyl dimethyl phosphate).
Oxamyl (methyl N′,N′-dimethyl-N-[(methylcarbamoyl)oxy]-1-thiooxamimidate).
Parathion.
Phorate (
O,O
-diethyl
S
-(ethylthio)methyl phosphorodithioate) and its cholinesterase-inhibiting metabolites.
Phosalone (
S
-(6-chloro-3-mercaptomethyl)-2-benzoxazolinone)
O,O
-diethyl phosphorodithioate).
Phosphamidon (2-chloro-2-diethylcarbamoyl-1-methylvinyl dimethyl phosphate) including all of its related cholinesterase-inhibiting compounds.
Pirimiphos-methyl
O
-[2-diethylamino-6-methyl-pyrimidinyl)
O
,
O
-dimethyl phosphorothioate.
Ronnel.
Schradan (octamethylpyrophosphoramide).
Tetraethyl pyrophosphate.
O,O,O′,O′
-Tetramethyl
O,O′
-sulfinyldi-
p
-phenylene phosphorothioate.
O,O,O′,O′
-Tetramethyl
O,O′
-thiodi-
p
-phenylene phosphorothioate.
Tributyl phosphorotritlioite.
S,S,S
-Tributyl phosphorothrithioate.
3,4,5-Trimethylphenyl methylcarbamate and its isomer 2,3,5-trimethylphenyl methylcarbamate.
(6) The following pesticides are members of the class of dinitrophenols:
2,4-Dinitro-6-octylphenyl crotonate and 2,6-dinitro-4-octylphenyl crotonate, mixture of.
4,6-Dinitro-
o
-cresol and its sodium salt.
Dinoseb (2-
sec
-butyl-4,6-dinitrophenol) and its alkanolamine, ammonium, and sodium salts.
[41 FR 8969, Mar. 2, 1976]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 180.3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 180.4
Exceptions.
The substances listed in this section are excepted from the definitions of “pesticide chemical” and “pesticide chemical residue” under FFDCA section 201(q)(3) and are therefore exempt from regulation under FFDCA section 402(a)(2)(B) and 408. These substances are subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration as food additives under FFDCA section 409.
(a) Inert ingredients in food packaging treated with a pesticide, when such inert ingredients are the components of the food packaging material (e.g. paper and paperboard, coatings, adhesives, and polymers).
(b) [Reserved]
[63 FR 10720, Mar. 4, 1998, as amended at 73 FR 54976, Sept. 24, 2008]
§ 180.5
Zero tolerances.
A zero tolerance means that no amount of the pesticide chemical may remain on the raw agricultural commodity when it is offered for shipment.
A zero tolerance for a pesticide chemical in or on a raw agricultural commodity may be established because, among other reasons:
(a) A safe level of the pesticide chemical in the diet of two different species of warm-blooded animals has not been reliably determined.
(b) The chemical is carcinogenic to or has other alarming physiological effects upon one or more of the species of the test animals used, when fed in the diet of such animals.
(c) The pesticide chemical is toxic, but is normally used at times when, or in such manner that, fruit, vegetables, or other raw agricultural commodities will not bear or contain it.
(d) All residue of the pesticide chemical is normally removed through good agricultural practice such as washing or brushing or through weathering or other changes in the chemical itself, prior to introduction of the raw agricultural commodity into interstate commerce.
§ 180.6
Pesticide tolerances regarding milk, eggs, meat, and/or poultry; statement of policy.
(a) When establishing tolerances for pesticide residues in or on raw agricultural commodities, consideration is always given to possible residues of those pesticide chemicals or their conversion products entering the diet of man through the ingestion of milk, eggs, meat, and/or poultry produced by animals fed agricultural products bearing such pesticide residues. In each instance an evaluation of all available data will result in a conclusion either:
(1) That finite residues will actually be incurred in these foods from feed use of the raw agricultural commodity including its byproducts; or
(2) That it is not possible to establish with certainty whether finite residues will be incurred, but there is a reasonable expectation of finite residues; or
(3) That it is not possible to establish with certainty whether finite residues will be incurred, but there is no reasonable expectation of finite residues.
(b) When the data show that finite residues will actually be incurred in milk, eggs, meat, and/or poultry, a tolerance will be established on the raw agricultural commodity used as feed provided that tolerances can be established at the same time, on the basis of the toxicological and other data available, for the finite residues incurred in milk, eggs, meat, and/or poultry. When it is not possible to determine with certainty whether finite residues will be incurred in milk, eggs, meat, and/or poultry but there is a reasonable expectation of finite residues in light of data reflecting exaggerated pesticides levels in feeding studies, a tolerance will be established on the raw agricultural commodity provided that appropriate tolerances can be established at the same time, on the basis of the toxicological and other data available, for the finite residues likely to be incurred in these foods through the feed use of the raw agricultural commodity or its byproducts. When it is not possible to determine with certainty whether finite residues will be incurred in milk, eggs, meat, and/or poultry but there is no reasonable expectation of finite residues in light of data such as those reflecting exaggerated pesticide levels in feeding studies and those elucidating the biochemistry of the pesticide chemical in the animal, a tolerance may be established on the raw agricultural commodity without the necessity of a tolerance on food products derived from the animal.
(c) The principles outlined in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section will also be followed with respect to tolerances for residues which will actually be incurred or are reasonably to be expected in milk, eggs, meat, and/or poultry by the use of pesticides directly on the animal or administered purposely in the feed or drinking water.
(d) Tolerances contemplated by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section will in addition to toxicological considerations be conditioned on the availability of a practicable analytical method to determine the pesticide residue; that is, the method must be sensitive and reliable at the tolerance level or in special cases at a higher level where such level is deemed satisfactory and safe in light of the toxicity of the pesticide residue and of the unlikelihood of such residue exceeding the tolerance. The analytical methods to be used for enforcement purposes will be those set forth in the “Pesticide
Analytical Manual” (see § 180.101(c)). The sensitivities of these methods are expressed in that manual.

# Subpart B—Procedural Regulations
§ 180.7
Petitions proposing tolerances or exemptions for pesticide residues in or on raw agricultural commodities or processed foods.
(a) Petitions to be filed with the Agency under the provisions of FFDCA section 408(d) shall be submitted in duplicate. If any part of the material submitted is in a foreign language, it shall be accompanied by an accurate and complete English translation. The petition shall be accompanied by an advance deposit for fees described in § 180.33. The petition shall state the petitioner's mail address to which notice of objection under FFDCA section 408(g)(2) may be sent. The petition must be signed by the petitioner or by his attorney or agent, or (if a corporation) by an authorized official.
(b) Petitions shall include the following information:
(1) An informative summary of the petition and of the data, information, and arguments submitted or cited in support of the petition. Both a paper and electronic copy of the summary should be submitted. The electronic copy should be formatted according to the Office of Pesticide Programs' current standard for electronic data submission as specified at
http://www.epa.gov/pesticides/regulating/registering/submissions/index.htm.
(2) A statement that the petitioner agrees that such summary or any information it contains may be published as a part of the notice of filing of the petition to be published under FFDCA section 408(d)(3) and as a part of a proposed or final regulation issued under FFDCA section 408.
(3) The name, chemical identity, and composition of the pesticide chemical residue and of the pesticide chemical that produces the residue.
(4) Data showing the recommended amount, frequency, method, and time of application of the pesticide chemical.
(5) Full reports of tests and investigations made with respect to the safety of the pesticide chemical, including full information as to the methods and controls used in conducting those tests and investigations.
(6) Full reports of tests and investigations made with respect to the nature and amount of the pesticide chemical residue that is likely to remain in or on the food, including a description of the analytical methods used. (See § 180.34 for further information about residue tests.)
(7) Proposed tolerances for the pesticide chemical residue if tolerances are proposed.
(8) Practicable methods for removing any amount of the residue that would exceed any proposed tolerance.
(9) A practical method for detecting and measuring the levels of the pesticide chemical residue in or on the food, or for exemptions, a statement why such a method is not needed.
(10) If the petition relates to a tolerance for a processed food, reports of investigations conducted using the processing method(s) used to produce that food.
(11) Such information as the Administrator may require to make the determination under FFDCA section 408(b)(2)(C).
(12) Such information as the Administrator may require on whether the pesticide chemical may have an effect in humans that is similar to an effect produced by a naturally occurring estrogen or other endocrine effects.
(13) Information regarding exposure to the pesticide chemical residue due to any tolerance or exemption already granted for such residue.
(14) Information concerning any maximum residue level established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for the pesticide chemical residue addressed in the petition. If a Codex maximum residue level has been established for the pesticide chemical residue and the petitioner does not propose that this level be adopted, a statement explaining the reasons for this departure from the Codex level.
(15) Such other data and information as the Administrator requires by regulation to support the petition.
(16) Reasonable grounds in support of the petition.
(c) The data specified under paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(16) of this section should be on separate sheets or sets of sheets, suitably identified. If such data have already been submitted with an earlier application, the present petition may incorporate it by reference to the earlier one.
(d) Except as noted in paragraph (e) of this section, a petition shall not be accepted for filing if any of the data prescribed by FFDCA section 408(d) are lacking or are not set forth so as to be readily understood. The availability to the public of information provided to, or otherwise obtained by, the Agency under this part shall be governed by part 2 of this chapter. The Administrator shall make the full text of the summary referenced in paragraph (b)(1) of this section available to the public in the public docket at
http://www.regulations.gov
no later than publication in the
Federal Register
of the notice of the petition filing.
(e) The Administrator shall notify the petitioner within 15 days after its receipt of acceptance or nonacceptance of a petition, and if not accepted the reasons therefor. If petitioner desires, the petitioner may supplement a deficient petition after notification as to deficiencies. If the petitioner does not wish to supplement or explain the petition and requests in writing that it be filed as submitted, the petition shall be filed and the petitioner so notified.
(f) A notice of the filing of a petition for a pesticide chemical residue tolerance that the Administrator determines has met the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section shall be published in the
Federal Register
by the Administrator within 30 days after such determination. The notice shall state the name of the pesticide chemical residue and the commodities for which a tolerance is sought and announce the availability of a description of the analytical methods available to the Administrator for the detection and measurement of the pesticide chemical residue with respect to which the petition is filed or shall set forth the petitioner's statement of why such a method is not needed. The notice shall explicitly reference the specific docket identification number in the public docket at
http://www.regulations.gov
where the full text of the summary required in paragraph (b) of this section is located, and refer interested parties to this document for further information on the petition. The full text of the summary may be omitted from the notice.
(g) The Administrator may request a sample of the pesticide chemical at any time while a petition is under consideration. The Administrator shall specify in its request for a sample of the pesticide chemical, a quantity which it deems adequate to permit tests of analytical methods used to determine residues of the pesticide chemical and of methods proposed by the petitioner for removing any residues of the chemical that exceed the tolerance proposed.
(h) The Administrator shall determine, in accordance with the Act, whether to issue an order that establishes, modifies, or revokes a tolerance regulation (whether or not in accord with the action proposed by the petitioner), whether to publish a proposed tolerance regulation and request public comment thereon under § 180.29, or whether to deny the petition. The Administrator shall publish in the
Federal Register
such order or proposed regulation. After receiving comments on any proposed regulation, the Administrator may issue an order that establishes, modifies, or revokes a tolerance regulation. An order published under this section shall describe briefly how to submit objections and requests for a hearing under part 178 of this chapter. A regulation issued under this section shall be effective on the date of publication in the
Federal Register
unless otherwise provided in the regulation.
[70 FR 33360, June 8, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 75600, Dec. 12, 2008]
§ 180.8
Withdrawal of petitions without prejudice.
In some cases the Administrator will notify the petitioner that the petition, while technically complete, is inadequate to justify the establishment of a tolerance or the tolerance requested by petitioner. This may be due to the fact that the data are not sufficiently clear or complete. In such cases, the petitioner may withdraw the petition pending its clarification or the obtaining of
additional data. This withdrawal may be without prejudice to a future filing. A deposit for fees as specified in § 180.33 shall accompany the resubmission of the petition.
[70 FR 33361, June 8, 2005]
§ 180.9
Substantive amendments to petitions.
After a petition has been filed, the petitioner may submit additional information or data in support thereof, but in such cases the petition will be given a new filing date.
[70 FR 33361, June 8, 2005]
§ 180.29
Establishment, modification, and revocation of tolerance on initiative of Administrator.
(a) Upon the Administrator's own initiative, the Administrator may propose, under FFDCA section 408(e), the issuance of a regulation establishing a tolerance for a pesticide chemical or exempting it from the necessity of a tolerance, or a regulation modifying or revoking an existing tolerance or exemption.
(b) The Administrator shall provide a period of not less than 60 days for persons to comment on the proposed regulation, except that a shorter period for comment may be provided if the Administrator for good cause finds that it would be in the public interest to do so and states the reasons for the finding in the notice of proposed rulemaking.
(c) After reviewing any timely comments received, the Administrator may by order establish, modify, or revoke a tolerance regulation, which order and regulation shall be published in the
Federal Register.
An order published under this section shall state that persons may submit objections and requests for a hearing in the manner described in part 178 of this chapter.
(d) Any final regulation issued under this section shall be effective on the date of publication in the
Federal Register
unless otherwise provided in the regulation.
[70 FR 33361, June 8, 2005]
§ 180.30
Judicial review.
(a) Under FFDCA section 408(h), judicial review is available in the United States Courts of Appeal as to the following actions:
(1) Regulations establishing general procedures and requirements under FFDCA section 408(e)(1)(C).
(2) Orders issued under FFDCA section 408(f)(1)(C) requiring the submission of data.
(3) Orders issued under FFDCA section 408(g)(2)(C) ruling on objections to establishment, modification, or revocation of a tolerance or exemption under FFDCA section 408(d)(4), or any regulation that is the subject of such an order. The underlying action here is Agency disposition of a petition seeking the establishment, modification, or revocation of a tolerance or exemption.
(4) Orders issued under FFDCA section 408(g)(2)(C) ruling on objections to the denial of a petition under FFDCA section 408(d)(4).
(5) Orders issued under FFDCA section 408(g)(2)(C) ruling on objections to the establishment, modification, suspension, or revocation of a tolerance or exemption under FFDCA section 408(e)(1)(A) or (e)(1)(B). The underlying action here is the establishment, modification, suspension, or revocation of a tolerance or exemption upon the initiative of EPA including EPA actions pursuant to FFDCA sections 408(b)(2)(B)(v), 408(b)(2)(E)(ii), 408(d)(4)(C)(ii), 408(l)(4), and 408(q)(1).
(6) Orders issued under FFDCA section 408(g)(2)(C) ruling on objections to the revocation or modification of a tolerance or exemption under FFDCA section 408(f)(2) for noncompliance with requirements for the submission of data.
(7) Orders issued under FFDCA section 408(g)(2)(C) ruling on objections to rules issued under FFDCA sections 408(n)(3) and 408(d) or (e) regarding determinations pertaining to State authority to establish regulatory limits on pesticide chemical residues.
(8) Orders issued under FFDCA section 408(g)(2)(C) ruling on objections to orders issued under FFDCA section 408(n)(5)(C) authorizing States to establish regulatory limits not identical to certain tolerances or exemptions.
(b) Any issue as to which review is or was obtainable under paragraph (a) of this section shall not be the subject of
judicial review under any other provision of law. In part, this means that, for the Agency actions subject to the objection procedure in FFDCA section 408(g)(2), judicial review is not available unless an adversely affected party exhausts these objection procedures, and any petition procedures preliminary thereto.
[70 FR 33362, June 8, 2005]
§ 180.31
Temporary tolerances.
(a) A temporary tolerance (or exemption from a tolerance) established under the authority of FFDCA section 408(r) shall be deemed to be a tolerance (or exemption from the requirement of a tolerance) for the purposes of FFDCA section 408(a)(1) or (a)(2) and for the purposes of § 180.30.
(b) A request for a temporary tolerance or a temporary exemption from a tolerance by a person who has obtained or is seeking an experimental permit for a pesticide chemical under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act shall be accompanied by such data as are available on subjects outlined in § 180.7(b) and an advance deposit to cover fees as provided in § 180.33.
(c) To obtain a temporary tolerance, a requestor must comply with the petition procedures specified in FFDCA section 408(d) and § 180.7 except as provided in this section.
(d) A temporary tolerance or exemption from a tolerance may be issued for a period designed to allow the orderly marketing of the raw agricultural commodities produced while testing a pesticide chemical under an experimental permit issued under authority of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act if the Administrator concludes that the safety standard in FFDCA section 408(b)(2) or (c), as applicable, is met. Subject to the requirements of FFDCA section 408(e), a temporary tolerance or exemption from a tolerance may be revoked if the experimental permit is revoked, or may be revoked at any time if it develops that the application for a temporary tolerance contains a misstatement of a material fact or that new scientific data or experience with the pesticide chemical indicates that it does not meet the safety standard in FFDCA section 408(b)(2) or (c), as applicable.
(e) Conditions under which a temporary tolerance is established shall include:
(1) A limitation on the amount of the chemical to be used on the designated crops permitted under the experimental permit.
(2) A limitation for the use of the chemical on the designated crops to bona fide experimental use by qualified persons as indicated in the experimental permit.
(3) A requirement that the person or firm which obtains the experimental permit for which the temporary tolerance is established will immediately inform the Environmental Protection Agency of any reports on findings from the experimental use that have a bearing on safety.
(4) A requirement that the person or firm which obtained the experimental permit for which the temporary tolerance is established will keep records of production, distribution, and performance for a period of 2 years and, on request, at any reasonable time, make these records available to any authorized officer or employee of the Environmental Protection Agency.
[70 FR 33362, June 8, 2005]
§ 180.32
Procedure for modifying and revoking tolerances or exemptions from tolerances.
(a) The Administrator on his/her own initiative may propose the issuance of a regulation modifying or revoking a tolerance for a pesticide chemical residue on raw agricultural commodities or processed foods or modifying or revoking an exemption from tolerance for such residue.
(b) Any person may file with the Administrator a petition proposing the issuance of a regulation modifying or revoking a tolerance or exemption from a tolerance for a pesticide chemical residue. The petition shall furnish reasonable grounds for the action sought. Reasonable grounds shall include an explanation showing wherein the person has a substantial interest in such tolerance or exemption from tolerance and an assertion of facts (supported by data if available) showing
that new uses for the pesticide chemical have been developed or old uses abandoned, that new data are available as to toxicity of the chemical, or that experience with the application of the tolerance or exemption from tolerance may justify its modification or revocation. Evidence that a person has registered or has submitted an application for the registration of a pesticide under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act will be regarded as evidence that the person has a substantial interest in a tolerance or exemption from the requirement of a tolerance for a pesticide chemical that consists in whole or in part of the pesticide. New data should be furnished in the form specified in § 180.7(b) for submitting petitions, as applicable.
(c) The procedures for completing action on an Administrator initiated proposal or a petition shall be those specified in §§ 180.29 and 180.7, as applicable.
[70 FR 33362, June 8, 2005]
§ 180.33
Fees.
(a) Each petition for the establishment of a new tolerance or a tolerance higher than already established, shall be accompanied by a fee of $80,950, plus $2,025 for each raw agricultural commodity more than nine on which the establishment of a tolerance is requested, except as provided in paragraphs (b), (d), and (h) of this section.
(b) Each petition for the establishment of a tolerance at a lower numerical level or levels than a tolerance already established for the same pesticide chemical, or for the establishment of a tolerance on additional raw agricultural commodities at the same numerical level as a tolerance already established for the same pesticide chemical, shall be accompanied by a fee of $18,500 plus $1,225 for each raw agricultural commodity on which a tolerance is requested.
(c) Each petition for an exemption from the requirement of a tolerance or repeal of an exemption shall be accompanied by a fee of $14,925.
(d) Each petition or request for a temporary tolerance or a temporary exemption from the requirement of a tolerance shall be accompanied by a fee of $32,325 except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. A petition or request to renew or extend such temporary tolerance or temporary exemption shall be accompanied by a fee of $4,600.
(e) A petition or request for a temporary tolerance for a pesticide chemical which has a tolerance for other uses at the same numerical level or a higher numerical level shall be accompanied by a fee of $16,075, plus $1,225 for each raw agricultural commodity on which the temporary tolerance is sought.
(f) Each petition for revocation of a tolerance shall be accompanied by a fee of $10,125. Such fee is not required when, in connection with the change sought under this paragraph, a petition is filed for the establishment of new tolerances to take the place of those sought to be revoked and a fee is paid as required by paragraph (a) of this section.
(g) If a petition or a request is not accepted for processing because it is technically incomplete, the fee, less $2,025 for handling and initial review, shall be returned. If a petition is withdrawn by the petitioner after initial processing, but before significant Agency scientific review has begun, the fee, less $2,025 for handling and initial review, shall be returned. If an unacceptable or withdrawn petition is resubmitted, it shall be accompanied by the fee that would be required if it were being submitted for the first time.
(h) Each petition for a crop group tolerance, regardless of the number of raw agricultural commodities involved, shall be accompanied by a fee equal to the fee required by the analogous category for a single tolerance that is not a crop group tolerance,
i.e.
, paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section, without a charge for each commodity where that would otherwise apply.
(i) Objections under section 408(d)(5) of the Act shall be accompanied by a filing fee of $4,050.
(j) The person who files a petition for judicial review of an order under section 408(h) of the Act shall pay the costs of preparing the record on which the order is based unless the person has no financial interest in the petition for judicial review.
(k) No fee under this section will be imposed on the Interregional Research Project Number 4 (IR-4 Program).
(l) The Administrator may waive or refund part or all of any fee imposed by this section if the Administrator determines in his or her sole discretion that such a waiver or refund will promote the public interest or that payment of the fee would work an unreasonable hardship on the person on whom the fee is imposed. A request for waiver or refund of a fee shall be submitted to the Office of Pesticide Programs' Document Processing Desk at the appropriate address as set forth in 40 CFR 150.17(a) or (b). A fee of $2,025 shall accompany every request for a waiver or refund, as specified in paragraph (m) of this section, except that the fee under this paragraph shall not be imposed on any person who has no financial interest in any action requested by such person under paragraphs (a) through (j) of this section. The fee for requesting a waiver or refund shall be refunded if the request is granted.
(m) All deposits and fees required by the regulations in this part shall be paid by money order, bank draft, or certified check drawn to the order of the Environmental Protection Agency. All deposits and fees shall be forwarded to the Environmental Protection Agency, Headquarters Accounting Operations Branch, Office of Pesticide Programs (Tolerance Fees), P.O. Box 360277M, Pittsburgh, PA 15251. The payments should be specifically labeled “Tolerance Petition Fees” and should be accompanied only by a copy of the letter or petition requesting the tolerance. The actual letter or petition, along with supporting data, shall be forwarded within 30 days of payment to the Office of Pesticide Programs' Document Processing Desk at the appropriate address as set forth in 40 CFR 150.17(a) or (b). A petition will not be accepted for processing until the required fees have been submitted. A petition for which a waiver of fees has been requested will not be accepted for processing until the fee has been waived or, if the waiver has been denied, the proper fee is submitted after notice of denial. A request for waiver or refund will not be accepted after scientific review has begun on a petition.
(n) This fee schedule will be changed annually by the same percentage as the percent change in the Federal General Schedule (GS) pay scale. In addition, processing costs and fees will periodically be reviewed and changes will be made to the schedule as necessary. When automatic adjustments are made based on the GS pay scale, the new fee schedule will be published in the
Federal Register
as a final rule to become effective 30 days or more after publication, as specified in the rule. When changes are made based on periodic reviews, the changes will be subject to public comment.
(o) No fee required by this section shall be levied during the period beginning on October 1, 2003, and ending September 30, 2008.
[68 FR 24371, May 7, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 12544, Mar. 17, 2004; 70 FR 33363, June 8, 2005; 71 FR 35547, June 21, 2006]
§ 180.34
Tests on the amount of residue remaining.
(a) Data in a petition on the amount of residue remaining in or on a raw agricultural commodity should establish the residue that may remain when the pesticide chemical is applied according to directions registered under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, or according to directions contained in an application for registration. These data should establish the residues that may remain under conditions most likely to result in high residues on the commodity.
(b) The petition should establish the reliability of the residue data reported in it. Sufficient information should be submitted about the analytical method to permit competent analysts to apply it successfully.
(c) If the pesticide chemical is absorbed into a living plant or animal when applied (is systemic), residue data may be needed on each plant or animal on which a tolerance or exemption is requested.
(d) If the pesticide chemical is not absorbed into the living plant or animal when applied (is not systemic), it may be possible to make a reliable estimate of the residues to be expected on each commodity in a group of related commodities on the basis of less data than would be required for each
commodity in the group, considered separately.
(e) Each of the following groups of crops lists raw agricultural commodities that are considered to be related for the purpose of paragraph (d) of this section. Commodities not listed in this paragraph are not considered to be related for the purpose of paragraph (d) of this section.
(1) Apples, crabapples, pears, quinces.
(2) Avocados, papayas.
(3) Blackberries, boysenberries, dewberries, loganberries, raspberries.
(4) Blueberries, currants, gooseberries, huckleberries.
(5) Cherries, plums, prunes.
(6) Oranges, citrus citron, grapefruit, kumquats, lemons, limes, tangelos, tangerines.
(7) Mangoes, persimmons.
(8) Peaches, apricots, nectarines.
(9) Beans, peas, soybeans (each in dry form).
(10) Beans, peas, soybeans (each in succulent form).
(11) Broccoli, brussels sprouts, cauliflower, kohlrabi.
(12) Cantaloups, honeydew melons, muskmelons, pumpkins, watermelons, winter squash.
(13) Carrots, garden beets, sugar beets, horseradish, parsnips, radishes, rutabagas, salsify roots, turnips.
(14) Celery, fennel.
(15) Cucumbers, summer squash.
(16) Lettuce, endive (escarole), Chinese cabbage, salsify tops.
(17) Onions, garlic, leeks, shallots (green, or in dry bulb form).
(18) Potatoes, Jerusalem-artichokes, sweetpotatoes, yams.
(19) Spinach, beet tops, collards, dandelion, kale, mustard greens, parsley, Swiss chard, turnip tops, watercress.
(20) Tomatoes, eggplants, peppers, pimentos.
(21) Pecans, almonds, brazil nuts, bush nuts, butternuts, chestnuts, filberts, hazelnuts, hickory nuts, walnuts.
(22) Field corn, popcorn, sweet corn (each in grain form).
(23) Milo, sorghum (each in grain form).
(24) Wheat, barley, oats, rice, rye (each in grain form).
(25) Alfalfa, Bermuda grass, bluegrass, brome grass, clovers, cowpea hay, fescue, lespedeza, lupines, orchard grass, peanut hay, peavine hay, rye grass, soybean hay, sudan grass, timothy, and vetch.
(26) Corn forage, sorghum forage.
(27) Sugarcane, cane sorghum.
[36 FR 22540, Nov. 25, 1971, as amended at 39 FR 28286, Aug. 6, 1974; 39 FR 28977, Aug. 13, 1974; 40 FR 6972, Feb. 18, 1975; 45 FR 82928, Dec. 17, 1980; 48 FR 29860, June 29, 1983; 60 FR 26635, May 17, 1995; 73 FR 75600, Dec. 12, 2008]
§ 180.35
Tests for potentiation.
Experiments have shown that certain cholinesterase-inhibiting pesticides when fed together to test animals are more toxic than the sum of their individual toxicities when fed separately. One substance potentiates the toxicity of the other. Important toxicological interactions also have been observed between pesticides and other substances. Wherever there is reason to believe that a pesticide chemical for which a tolerance is proposed may interact with other pesticide chemicals or other substances to which man is exposed, it may be necessary to require special experimental data regarding potentiation capacities to evaluate the safety of the proposed tolerance. This necessarily will be determined on a case-by-case basis.
§ 180.40
Tolerances for crop groups.
(a) Group or subgroup tolerances may be established as a result of:
(1) A petition from a person who has submitted an application for the registration of a pesticide under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act.
(2) On the initiative of the Administrator.
(3) A petition by an interested person.
(b) The tables in § 180.41 are to be used in conjunction with this section for the establishment of crop group tolerances. Each table in § 180.41 lists a group of raw agricultural commodities that are considered to be related for the purposes of this section. Refer also to § 180.1(g) for a listing of commodities for which established tolerances may be applied to certain other related and similar commodities.
(c) When there is an established or proposed tolerance for all of the representative commodities for a specific group or subgroup of related commodities, a tolerance may be established for all commodities in the associated group or subgroup. Tolerances may be established for a crop group or, alternatively, tolerances may be established for one or more of the subgroups of a crop group.
(d) The representative crops are given as an indication of the minimum residue chemistry data base acceptable to the Agency for the purposes of establishing a group tolerance. The Agency may, at its discretion, allow group tolerances when data on suitable substitutes for the representative crops are available (e.g., limes instead of lemons).
(e) Since a group tolerance reflects maximum residues likely to occur on all individual crops within a group, the proposed or registered patterns of use for all crops in the group or subgroup must be similar before a group tolerance is established. The pattern of use consists of the amount of pesticide applied, the number of times applied, the timing of the first application, the interval between applications, and the interval between the last application and harvest. The pattern of use will also include the type of application; for example, soil or foliar application, or application by ground or aerial equipment. Additionally, since a group tolerance reflects maximum residues likely to occur on all individual foods within a group, food processing practices must be similar for all crops in the group or subgroup if the processing practice has the potential to result in residues in a processed commodity at a higher concentration than the raw agricultural commodity.
(f)(1)
General.
EPA will not establish a crop group for a pesticide unless all tolerances made necessary by the presence of pesticide residues in the crop group commodities have been issued or are being issued simultaneously with the crop group tolerance. For purposes of paragraph (f)(1):
(i) Necessary tolerances for residues resulting from crop group tolerances include:
(A) Tolerances for processed food, including processed animal feed, to the extent needed under FFDCA section 408(a)(2).
(B) Tolerances for raw commodities not covered by the crop group tolerance that are derivative of commodities in the group.
(C) Tolerances for meat, milk, or egg products that may contain residues as a result of livestock's consumption of animal feed containing pesticide residues to the extent needed under § 180.6(b).
(ii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, a tolerance is not considered necessary for processed food, derivative raw commodities, or meat, milk, and eggs if the precursor raw commodities are grown solely for sale as raw commodities and are completely segregated from commodities grown for the purpose of producing processed foods, derivative raw commodities, and commodities, or fractions thereof, that are used as animal feed.
(2)
Processed commodity and related raw commodity crop group tolerances.
EPA may establish crop group tolerances for processed commodities or fractions of commodities (e.g., bran and flour from the Cereal Grains Group), including processed fractions used as animal feed (e.g., pomace from the Pome Fruit Group), produced from crops in the crop groups in § 180.41. EPA may establish crop group tolerances for raw commodities or fractions of commodities, including fractions used as animal feed, derived from commodities covered by the crop groups in § 180.41 (e.g., aspirated grain dust associated with the Cereal Grains Group). Crop group tolerances on processed foods and derivative raw commodities may be based on data on representative commodities for associated crop group. Paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (g), and (h) of § 180.40 apply to group tolerances authorized by paragraph (f)(2).
(3)
Representative crops.
Unless indicated otherwise in §§ 180.40 and 180.41, the processed food and feed forms of the representative crops for a crop group are considered to be representative of the processed food and feed forms and any derivative raw commodities not covered by the crop group, that are produced from any of the raw
agricultural commodities covered by the crop group tolerance. Additionally, unless indicated otherwise in §§ 180.40 and 180.41, representative commodities for such crop groups are selected taking into consideration whether their use as animal feed will result in residues in or on meat, milk, and/or eggs at a level representative of the residues that would result from use of the other commodities or byproducts in the crop group as an animal feed.
(4)
Data.
Processing data on representative crops are required prior to establishment of a group tolerance if the processing of the representative commodity has the potential to result in residues in a processed commodity at a higher concentration than in the representative commodity. Residue data are required on raw commodities derived from the crops in the crop group tolerance but not directly covered by the tolerance. Animal feeding studies with a representative crop are required if the representative crop is used as a significant animal feed.
(g) If maximum residues (tolerances) for the representative crops vary by more than a factor of 5 from the maximum value observed for any crop in the group, a group or subgroup tolerance will ordinarily not be established. In this case individual crop tolerances, rather than group tolerances, will normally be established.
(h) Alternatively, a commodity with a residue level significantly higher or lower than the other commodities in a group may be excluded from the group tolerance (e.g., cereal grains, except corn). In this case an individual tolerance at the appropriate level for the unique commodity would be established, if necessary. The alternative approach of excluding a commodity with a significantly higher or lower residue level will not be used to establish a tolerance for a commodity subgroup. Most subgroups have only two representative commodities; to exclude one such commodity and its related residue data would likely provide insufficient residue information to support the remainder of the subgroup. Residue data from crops additional to those representative crops in a grouping may be required for systemic pesticides.
(i) The commodities included in the groups will be updated periodically either at the initiative of the Agency or at the request of an interested party. Persons interested in updating this section should contact the Registration Division of the Office of Pesticide Programs.
(j)(1) When EPA amends a crop group in a manner that expands or contracts the commodities that are covered by the group, EPA will initially retain the pre-existing as well as the revised crop group in the CFR.
(2) Where the revised crop group has the same number as the pre-existing crop group, the revised crop group number will be followed by a hyphen and the final two digits of the year in which it was established (e.g., if Crop Group 1 is amended in 2007, the revised group will be designated as Crop Group 1-07). If the pre-existing crop group had crop subgroups, these subgroups will be numbered in a similar fashion in the revised crop group. The name of the revised crop group will not be changed from the pre-existing crop group unless the revision so changes the composition of the crop group that the pre-existing name is no longer accurate.
(3) Where EPA amends a crop group by creating one or more different crop groups, the revised crop groups will have different numbers and names (e.g., the amendment of Crop Group 19 through the creation of Crop Groups 25 and 26). The pre-existing crop group will be amended to identify the revised crop group(s).
(4) Once a revised crop group is established, EPA will no longer establish tolerances under the pre-existing crop group. At appropriate times, EPA will amend tolerances for crop groups that have been superseded by revised crop groups to conform the pre-existing crop group to the revised crop group. Once all of the tolerances for the pre-existing crop group have been updated, the pre-existing crop group will be removed from the CFR.
(k) Establishment of a tolerance does not substitute for the additional need to register the pesticide under a companion law, the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act. The Registration Division of the Office of
Pesticide Programs should be contacted concerning procedures for registration of new uses of a pesticide.
[60 FR 26635, May 17, 1995, as amended at 70 FR 33363, June 8, 2005; 72 FR 69155, Dec. 7, 2007; 75 FR 56014, Sept. 15, 2010; 81 FR 26476, May 3, 2016; 85 FR 70984, Nov. 6, 2020]
§ 180.41
Crop group tables.
(a) The tables in this section are to be used in conjunction with § 180.40 to establish crop group tolerances.
(b) Commodities not listed are not considered as included in the groups for the purposes of paragraph (b), and individual tolerances must be established. Miscellaneous commodities intentionally not included in any group include globe artichoke, hops, peanut, and water chestnut.
(c) Each group is identified by a group name and consists of a list of representative commodities followed by a list of all commodity members for the group. If the group includes subgroups, each subgroup lists the subgroup name, the representative commodity or commodities, and the member commodities for the subgroup. Subgroups, which are a subset of their associated crop group, are established for some but not all crops groups.
(1)
Crop Group 1:
Root and Tuber Vegetables Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Carrot, potato, radish, and sugar beet.
(ii)
Table.
The following table 1 lists all the commodities included in Crop Group 1 and identifies the related crop subgroups.
Table 1—Crop Group 1: Root and Tuber Vegetables
Commodities
Related crop subgroups
Arracacha (
Arracacia xanthorrhiza
)
1C, 1D
Arrowroot (
Maranta arundinacea
)
1C, 1D
Artichoke, Chinese (
Stachys affinis
)
1C, 1D
Artichoke, Jerusalem (
Helianthus tuberosus
)
1C, 1D
Beet, garden (
Beta vulgaris
)
1A, 1B
Beet, sugar (
Beta vulgaris
)
1A
Burdock, edible (
Arctium lappa
)
1A, 1B
Canna, edible (Queensland arrowroot) (
Canna indica
)
1C, 1D
Carrot (
Daucus carota
)
1A, 1B
Cassava, bitter and sweet (
Manihot esculenta
)
1C, 1D
Celeriac (celery root) (
Apium graveolens
var.
rapaceum
)
1A, 1B
Chayote (root) (
Sechium edule
)
1C, 1D
Chervil, turnip-rooted (
Chaerophyllum bulbosum
).
1A, 1B
Chicory (
Cichorium intybus
)
1A, 1B
Chufa (
Cyperus esculentus
)
1C, 1D
Dasheen (taro) (
Colocasia esculenta
)
1C, 1D
Ginger (
Zingiber officinale
)
1C, 1D
Ginseng (
Panax quinquefolius
)
1A, 1B
Horseradish (
Armoracia rusticana
)
1A, 1B
Leren (
Calathea allouia
)
1C, 1D
Parsley, turnip-rooted (
Petroselinum crispum
var.
tuberosum
)
1A, 1B
Parsnip (
Pastinaca sativa
)
1A, 1B
Potato (
Solanum tuberosum
)
1C
Radish (
Raphanus sativus
)
1A, 1B
Radish, oriental (daikon) (
Raphanus sativus
subvar.
longipinnatus
)
1A, 1B
Rutabaga (
Brassica campestris
var.
napobrassica
)
1A, 1B
Salsify (oyster plant) (
Tragopogon porrifolius
)
1A, 1B
Salsify, black (
Scorzonera hispanica
)
1A, 1B
Salsify, Spanish (
Scolymus hispanicus
)
1A, 1B
Skirret (
Sium sisarum
)
1A, 1B
Sweet potato (
Ipomoea batatas
)
1C, 1D
Tanier (cocoyam) (
Xanthosoma sagittifolium
)
1C, 1D
Turmeric (
Curcuma longa
)
1C, 1D
Turnip (
Brassica rapa
var.
rapa
)
1A, 1B
Yam bean (jicama, manoic pea) (
Pachyrhizus
spp.)
1C, 1D
Yam, true (
Dioscorea
spp.)
1C, 1D
(iii)
Table.
The following table 2 identifies the crop subgroups for Crop Group 1, specifies the representative commodity(ies) for each subgroup, and lists all the commodities included in each subgroup.
Table 2—Crop Group 1 Subgroup Listing
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop Subgroup 1A.
Root vegetables subgroup.
Carrot, radish, and sugar beet.
Beet, garden; beet, sugar; burdock, edible; carrot; celeriac; chervil, turnip-rooted; chicory; ginseng; horseradish; parsley, turnip-rooted; parsnip; radish; radish, oriental; rutabaga; salsify; salsify, black; salsify, Spanish; skirret; turnip.
Crop Subgroup 1B.
Root vegetables (except sugar beet) subgroup.
Carrot and radish.
Beet, garden; burdock, edible; carrot; celeriac; chervil, turnip-rooted; chicory; ginseng; horseradish; parsley, turnip-rooted; parsnip; radish; radish, oriental; rutabaga; salsify; salsify, black; salsify, Spanish; skirret; turnip.
Crop Subgroup 1C.
Tuberous and corm vegetables subgroup.
Potato.
Arracacha; arrowroot; artichoke, Chinese; artichoke, Jerusalem; canna, edible; cassava, bitter and sweet; chayote (root); chufa; dasheen; ginger; leren; potato; sweet potato; tanier; turmeric; yam bean; yam, true.
Crop Subgroup 1D.
Tuberous and corm vegetables (except potato) subgroup.
Sweet potato.
Arracacha; arrowroot; artichoke, Chinese; artichoke, Jerusalem; canna, edible; cassava, bitter and sweet; chayote (root); chufa; dasheen; ginger; leren; sweet potato; tanier; turmeric; yam bean; yam, true.
(2)
Crop Group 2.
Leaves of Root and Tuber Vegetables (Human Food or Animal Feed) Group (Human Food or Animal Feed) Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Turnip and garden beet or sugar beet.
(ii)
Commodities.
The following is a list of all the commodities included in Crop Group 2:

# Crop Group 2: Leaves of Root and Tuber Vegetables (Human Food or Animal Feed) Group—Commodities
Beet, garden (
Beta vulgaris
)
Beet, sugar (
Beta vulgaris
)
Burdock, edible (
Arctium lappa
)
Carrot (
Daucus carota
)
Cassava, bitter and sweet (
Manihot esculenta
)
Celeriac (celery root) (
Apium graveolens
var.
rapaceum
)
Chervil, turnip-rooted (
Chaerophyllum bulbosum
)
Chicory (
Cichorium intybus
)
Dasheen (taro) (
Colocasia esculenta
)
Parsnip (
Pastinaca sativa
)
Radish (
Raphanus sativus
)
Radish, oriental (daikon) (
Raphanus sativus
subvar.
longipinnatus
)
Rutabaga (
Brassica campestris
var.
napobrassica
)
Salsify, black (
Scorzonera hispanica
)
Sweet potato (
Ipomoea batatas
)
Tanier (cocoyam) (
Xanthosoma sagittifolium
)
Turnip (
Brassica rapa
var.
rapa
)
Yam, true (
Dioscorea
spp.)
(3)
Crop Group 3.
Bulb Vegetables (
Allium
spp.) Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Onion, green; and onion, dry bulb.
(ii)
Commodities.
The following is a list of all the commodities in Crop Group 3.
Crop Group 3: Bulb Vegetable (
Allium
spp.) Group—Commodities
Garlic, bulb (
Allium sativum
)
Garlic, great headed, (elephant) (
Allium ampeloprasum
var.
ampeloprasum
)
Leek (
Allium ampeloprasum
,
A. porrum, A. tricoccum
)
Onion, dry bulb and green (
Allium cepa, A. fistulosum
)
Onion, Welsh, (
Allium fistulosum
)
Shallot (
Allium cepa
var.
cepa
)
(4)
Crop Group 3-07.
Bulb Vegetable Group.
(i)
Representative Commodities.
Onion, bulb and onion, green.
(ii)
Table.
The following Table 1 lists all the commodities listed in Crop Group 3-07 and identifies the related crop subgroups.
Table 1—Crop Group 3-07: Bulb Vegetable Group
Commodities
Related crop subgroups
Chive, fresh leaves (
Allium schoenoprasum L.
)
3-07B
Chive, Chinese, fresh leaves (
Allium tuberosum
Rottler ex Spreng)
3-07B
Daylily, bulb (
Hemerocallis fulva
(L.) L. var.
fulva
)
3-07A
Elegans hosta (
Hosta Sieboldiana (Hook.) Engl
)
3-07B
Fritillaria, bulb (
Fritillaria L. fritillary
)
3-07A
Fritillaria, leaves (
Fritillaria L. fritillary
)
3-07B
Garlic, bulb (
Allium sativum
L. var.
sativum
) (
A. sativum
Common Garlic Group)
3-07A
Garlic, great headed, bulb (
Allium ampeloprasum
L. var.
ampeloprasum
) (
A. ampeloprasum
Great Headed Garlic Group)
3-07A
Garlic, Serpent, bulb (
Allium sativum
var.
ophioscorodon
or
A. sativum
Ophioscorodon Group)
3-07A
Kurrat (
Allium kurrat Schweinf. Ex. K. Krause
or
A. ampeloprasum
Kurrat Group)
3-07B
Lady's leek (
Allium cernuum
Roth)
3-07B
Leek
Allium porrum
L. (syn:
A. ampeloprasum L.
var.
porrum
(L.) J. Gay) (
A.ampeloprasum
Leek Group)
3-07B
Leek, wild (
Allium tricoccum
Aiton)
3-07B
Lily, bulb (
Lilium
spp. (
Lilium Leichtlinii
var.
maximowiczii, Lilium lancifolium
))
3-07A
Onion, Beltsville bunching (
Allium
x
proliferum
(Moench) Schrad.) (syn:
Allium fistulosum
L. x
A. cepa
L.)
3-07B
Onion, bulb (
Allium cepa
L. var.
cepa
) (
A. cepa
Common Onion Group)
3-07A
Onion, Chinese, bulb (
Allium chinense
G. Don.) (syn:
A. bakeri
Regel)
3-07A
Onion, fresh (
Allium fistulosum
L. var.
caespitosum
Makino)
3-07B
Onion, green (
Allium cepa
L. var.
cepa
) (
A. cepa
Common Onion Group)
3-07B
Onion, macrostem (
Allium macrostemom
Bunge)
3-07B
Onion, pearl (
Allium porrum
var.
sectivum
or
A. ampeloprasum
Pearl Onion Group)
3-07A
Onion, potato, bulb (
Allium cepa
L. var.
aggregatum
G. Don.) (
A. cepa
Aggregatum Group)
3-07A
Onion, tree, tops (
Allium x proliferum
(Moench) Schrad. ex Willd.) (syn:
A. cepa
var.
proliferum
(Moench) Regel;
A. cepa
L. var.
bulbiferum
L.H. Bailey;
A. cepa
L. var.
viviparum
(Metz.) Alef.)
3-07B
Onion, Welsh, tops (
Allium fistulosum
L.)
3-07B
Shallot, bulb (
Allium cepa
var.
aggregatum
G. Don.)
3-07A
Shallot, fresh leaves (
Allium cepa
var.
aggregatum
G. Don.)
3-07B
Cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these
(iii)
Table.
The following Table 2 identifies the crop subgroups for Crop Group 3-07, specifies the representative commodities for each subgroup and lists all the commodities included in each subgroup.
Table 2—Crop Group 3-07: Subgroup Listing
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop subgroup 3-07A.
Onion, bulb, subgroup.
Onion, bulb.
Daylily, bulb; fritillaria, bulb; garlic, bulb; garlic, great-headed, bulb; garlic, serpent, bulb; lily, bulb; onion, bulb; onion, Chinese, bulb; onion, pearl; onion, potato, bulb; shallot, bulb; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
Crop subgroup 3-07B.
Onion, green, subgroup.
Onion, green.
Chive, fresh leaves; chive, Chinese, fresh leaves; elegans hosta; fritillaria, leaves; kurrat; lady's leek; leek; leek, wild; Onion, Beltsville bunching; onion, fresh; onion, green; onion, macrostem; onion, tree, tops; onion, Welsh, tops; shallot, fresh leaves; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
(5)
Crop Group 4.
Leafy Vegetables (Except
Brassica
Vegetables) Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Celery, head lettuce, leaf lettuce, and spinach (
Spinacia oleracea
).
(ii)
Table.
The following table 1 lists all the commodities included in Crop Group 4 and identifies the related crop subgroups.
Table 1—Crop Group 4: Leafy Vegetables (Except BRASSICA Vegetables) Group
Commodities
Related crop subgroups
Amaranth (leafy amaranth, Chinese spinach, tampala) (
Amaranthus
spp.)
4A
Arugula (Roquette) (
Eruca sativa
)
4A
Cardoon (
Cynara cardunculus
)
4B
Celery (
Apium graveolens
var.
dulce
)
4B
Celery, Chinese (
Apium graveolens
var.
secalinum
)
4B
Celtuce (
Lactuca sativa
var.
angustana
)
4B
Chervil (
Anthriscus cerefolium
)
4A
Chrysanthemum, edible-leaved (
Chrysanthemum coronarium
var.
coronarium
)
4A
Chrysanthemum, garland (
Chrysanthemum coronarium
var.
spatiosum
)
4A
Corn salad (
Valerianella locusta
)
4A
Cress, garden (
Lepidium sativum
)
4A
Cress, upland (yellow rocket, winter cress) (
Barbarea vulgaris
)
4A
Dandelion (
Taraxacum officinale
)
4A
Dock (sorrel) (
Rumex
spp.)
4A
Endive (escarole) (
Cichorium endivia
)
4A
Fennel, Florence (finochio) (
Foeniculum vulgare
Azoricum Group)
4B
Lettuce, head and leaf (
Lactuca sativa
)
4A
Orach (
Atriplex hortensis
)
4A
Parsley (
Petroselinum crispum
)
4A
Purslane, garden (
Portulaca oleracea
)
4A
Purslane, winter (
Montia perfoliata
)
4A
Radicchio (red chicory) (
Cichorium intybus
)
4A
Rhubarb (
Rheum rhabarbarum
)
4B
Spinach (
Spinacia oleracea
)
4A
Spinach, New Zealand (
Tetragonia tetragonioides, T. expansa
)
4A
Spinach, vine (Malabar spinach, Indian spinach) (
Basella alba
)
4A
Swiss chard (
Beta vulgaris
var.
cicla
)
4B
(iii)
Table.
The following table 2 identifies the crop subgroups for Crop Group 4, specifies the representative commodities for each subgroup, and lists all the commodities included in each subgroup.
Table 2—Crop Group 4 Subgroup Listing
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop Subgroup 4A.
Leafy greens subgroup.
Head lettuce and leaf lettuce, and spinach (
Spinacia oleracea
)
Amaranth; arugula; chervil; chrysanthemum, edible-leaved; chrysanthemum, garland; corn salad; cress, garden; cress, upland; dandelion; dock; endive; lettuce; orach; parsley; purslane, garden; purslane, winter; radicchio (red chicory); spinach; spinach, New Zealand; spinach, vine.
Crop Subgroup 4B.
Leaf petioles subgroup.
Celery.
Cardoon; celery; celery, Chinese; celtuce; fennel, Florence; rhubarb; Swiss chard.
(6)
Crop Group 4-16.
Leafy Vegetable Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Head lettuce, leaf lettuce, mustard greens, and spinach.
(ii)
Commodities.
The following Table 1 lists all commodities included in Crop Group 4-16.
Table 1—Crop Group 4-16: Leafy Vegetable Group
Commodities
Related crop subgroups
Amaranth, Chinese (
Amaranthus tricolor
L.)
4-16A
Amaranth, leafy (
Amaranthus
spp.)
4-16A
Arugula (
Eruca sativa
Mill.)
4-16B
Aster, Indian (
Kalimeris indica
(L.) Sch. Bip.)
4-16A
Blackjack (
Bidens pilosa
L.)
4-16A
Broccoli, Chinese (
Brassica oleracea
var.
alboglabra
(L.H. Bailey) Musil)
4-16B
Broccoli raab (
Brassica ruvo
L.H. Bailey)
4-16B
Cabbage, abyssinian (
Brassica carinata
A. Braun)
4-16B
Cabbage, Chinese, bok choy (
Brassica rapa
subsp.
chinensis
(L.) Hanelt)
4-16B
Cabbage, seakale (
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
costata
DC.)
4-16B
Cat's whiskers (
Cleome gynandra
L.)
4-16A
Cham-chwi (
Doellingeria scabra
(Thunb.) Nees)
4-16A
Cham-na-mul (
Pimpinella calycina
Maxim)
4-16A
Chervil, fresh leaves (
Anthriscus cerefolium
(L.) Hoffm.)
4-16A
Chipilin (
Crotalaria longirostrata
Hook
Arn)
4-16A
Chrysanthemum, garland (
Glebionis coronaria
(L.) Cass. ex Spach.
Glebionis
spp.)
4-16A
Cilantro, fresh leaves (
Coriandrum sativum
L.)
4-16A
Collards (
Brassica oleracea L.
var. v
iridis
L.)
4-16B
Corn salad (
Valerianella
spp.)
4-16A
Cosmos (
Cosmos caudatus
Kunth)
4-16A
Cress, garden (
Lepidium sativum
L.)
4-16B
Cress, upland (
Barbarea vulgaris
W.T. Aiton)
4-16B
Dandelion, leaves (
Taraxacum officinale
F.H. Wigg. Aggr.)
4-16A
Dang-gwi, leaves (
Angelica gigas Nakai)
4-16A
Dillweed (
Anethum graveolens
L.)
4-16A
Dock (
Rumex patientia
L.)
4-16A
Dol-nam-mul (
Sedum sarmentosum
Bunge)
4-16A
Ebolo (
Crassocephalum crepidioides
(Benth.) S. Moore)
4-16A
Endive (
Cichorium endivia
L.)
4-16A
Escarole (
Cichorium endivia
L.)
4-16A
Fameflower (
Talinum fruticosum
(L.) Juss.)
4-16A
Feather cockscomb (
Glinus oppositifolius
(L.) Aug. DC.)
4-16A
Good King Henry (
Chenopodium bonus-henricus
L.)
4-16A
Hanover salad (
Brassica napus
var.
pabularia
(DC.) Rchb.)
4-16B
Huauzontle (
Chenopodium berlandieri
Moq.)
4-16A
Jute, leaves (
Corchorus spp.
)
4-16A
Kale (
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
Sabellica
L.)
4-16B
Lettuce, bitter (
Launaea cornuta
(Hochst. ex Oliv.
Hiern) C. Jeffrey)
4-16A
Lettuce, head (
Lactuca sativa
L.; including
Lactuca sativa
var.
capitata
L.)
4-16A
Lettuce, leaf (
Lactuca sativa
L.; including
Lactuca sativa
var.
longifolia
Lam.;
Lactuca sativa
var.
crispa
L.)
4-16A
Maca, leaves (
Lepidium meyenii
Walp.)
4-16B
Mizuna (
Brassica rapa
L. subsp.
nipposinica
(L.H. Bailey) Hanelt)
4-16B
Mustard greens (
Brassica juncea
subsp., including
Brassica juncea
(L.) Czern. subsp.
integrifolia
(H. West) Thell.,
Brassica juncea
(L.) Czern. var.
tsatsai
(T.L. Mao) Gladis)
4-16B
Orach (
Atriplex hortensis
L.)
4-16A
Parsley, fresh leaves (
Petroselinum crispum
(Mill.) Fuss;
Petroselinum crispum
var.
neapolitanum
Danert)
4-16A
Plantain, buckthorn (
Plantago lanceolata
L.)
4-16A
Primrose, English (
Primula vulgaris
Huds.)
4-16A
Purslane, garden (
Portulaca oleracea
L.)
4-16A
Purslane, winter (
Claytonia perfoliata
Donn ex Willd.)
4-16A
Radicchio (
Cichorium intybus
L.)
4-16A
Radish, leaves (
Raphanus sativus
L. var
sativus,
including
Raphanus sativus
L. var.
mougri
H. W. J. Helm (
Raphanus sativus
L. var.
oleiformis
Pers)
4-16B
Rape greens (
Brassica napus
L. var.
napus,
including
Brassica rapa
subsp.
trilocularis
(Roxb.) Hanelt;
Brassica rapa
subsp.
dichotoma
(Roxb.) Hanelt;
Brassica rapa
subsp.
oleifera
Met)
4-16B
Rocket, wild (
Diplotaxis tenuifolia
(L.) DC.)
4-16B
Shepherd's purse (
Capsella bursa-pastoris
(L.) Medik)
4-16B
Spinach (
Spinacia oleracea
L.)
4-16A
Spinach, Malabar (
Basella alba
L.)
4-16A
Spinach, New Zealand (
Tetragonia tetragonioides
(Pall.) Kuntze)
4-16A
Spinach, tanier (
Xanthosoma brasiliense
(Desf.) Engl.)
4-16A
Swiss chard (
Beta vulgaris
L. ssp. v
ulgaris
)
4-16A
Turnip greens (
Brassica rapa
L. ssp.
rapa
)
4-16B
Violet, Chinese, leaves (
Asystasia gangetica
(L.) T. Anderson)
4-16A
Watercress (
Nasturtium officinale
W.T. Aiton)
4-16B
Cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities
(iii)
Crop subgroups.
The following Table 2 identifies the crop subgroups for Crop Group 4-16, specifies the representative commodities for each subgroup, and lists all the commodities included in each subgroup.
Table 2—Crop Group 4-16: Subgroup Listing
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop Subgroup 4-16A. Leafy greens subgroup
Head lettuce, leaf lettuce, and spinach
Amaranth, Chinese; amaranth, leafy; aster, Indian; blackjack; cat's whiskers; cham-chwi; cham-na-mul; chervil, fresh leaves; chipilin; chrysanthemum, garland; cilantro, fresh leaves; corn salad; cosmos; dandelion, leaves; dang-gwi, leaves; dillweed; dock; dol-nam-mul; ebolo; endive; escarole; fameflower; feather cockscomb; Good King Henry; huauzontle; jute, leaves; lettuce, bitter; lettuce, head; lettuce, leaf; orach; parsley, fresh leaves; plantain, buckhorn; primrose, English; purslane, garden; purslane, winter; radicchio; spinach; spinach, Malabar; spinach, New Zealand; spinach, tanier; Swiss chard; violet, Chinese, leaves; cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities.
Crop Subgroup 4-16B.
Brassica
leafy greens subgroup
Mustard greens
Arugula; broccoli, Chinese; broccoli raab; cabbage, abyssinian; cabbage, Chinese, bok choy; cabbage, seakale; collards; cress, garden; cress, upland; hanover salad; kale; maca, leaves; mizuna; mustard greens; radish, leaves; rape greens; rocket, wild; shepherd's purse; turnip greens; watercress; cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities.
(7)
Crop Group 5.
Brassica
(Cole) Leafy Vegetables Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Broccoli or cauliflower; cabbage; and mustard greens.
(ii)
Table.
The following table 1 lists all the commodities included in Crop Group 5 and identifies the related crop subgroups.
Table 1—Crop Group 5:
Brassica
(Cole) Leafy Vegetables
Commodities
Related crop subgroups
Broccoli (
Brassica oleracea
var.
botrytis
)
5A
Broccoli, Chinese (gai lon) (
Brassica alboglabra
)
5A
Broccoli raab (rapini) (
Brassica campestris
)
5B
Brussels sprouts (
Brassica oleracea
var.
gemmifera
)
5A
Cabbage (
Brassica oleracea
)
5A
Cabbage, Chinese (bok choy) (
Brassica chinensis
)
5B
Cabbage, Chinese (napa) (
Brassica pekinensis
)
5A
Cabbage, Chinese mustard (gai choy) (
Brassica campestris
)
5A
Cauliflower (
Brassica oleracea
var.
botrytis
)
5A
Cavalo broccolo (
Brassica oleracea
var.
botrytis
)
5A
Collards (
Brassica oleracea
var.
acephala
)
5B
Kale (
Brassica oleracea
var.
acephala
)
5B
Kohlrabi (
Brassica oleracea
var.
gongylodes
)
5A
Mizuna (
Brassica rapa
Japonica Group)
5B
Mustard greens (
Brassica juncea
)
5B
Mustard spinach (
Brassica rapa
Perviridis Group)
5B
Rape greens (
Brassica napus
)
5B
(iii)
Table.
The following table 2 identifies the crop subgroups for Crop Group 5, specifies the representative commodity(ies) for each subgroup, and lists all the commodities included in each subgroup.
Table 2—Crop Group 5 Subgroup Listing
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop Subgroup 5A.
Head and stem
Brassica
subgroup
Broccoli or cauliflower; and cabbage
Broccoli; broccoli, Chinese; brussels sprouts; cabbage; cabbage, Chinese (napa); cabbage, Chinese mustard; cauliflower; cavalo broccolo; kohlrabi
Crop Subgroup 5B.
Leafy
Brassica
greens subgroup.
Mustard greens
Broccoli raab; cabbage, Chinese (bok choy); collards; kale; mizuna; mustard greens; mustard spinach; rape greens
(8)
Crop Group 5-16. Brassica
Head and Stem Vegetable Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Broccoli or cauliflower and cabbage.
(ii)
Commodities.
The following List 1 contains all commodities included in Crop Group 5-16.
List 1—Crop Group 5-16: Brassica Head and Stem Vegetable Group
Commodities
Broccoli (
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
italica
Plenck)
Brussels sprouts (
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
gemmifera
(DC.) Zenker)
Cabbage (
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
capitata
L.)
Cabbage, Chinese, napa (
Brassica rapa
L. subsp.
pekinensis
(Lour.) Hanelt)
Cauliflower (
Brassica oleracea
L. var.
capitata
L)
Cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities
(9)
Crop Group 6.
Legume Vegetables (Succulent or Dried) Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Bean (
Phaseolus
spp.; one succulent cultivar and one dried cultivar); pea (
Pisum
spp.; one succulent cultivar and one dried cultivar); and soybean.
(ii)
Table.
The following table 1 lists all the commodities included in Crop Group 6 and identifies the related crop subgroups.
Table 1—Crop Group 6: Legume Vegetables (Succulent or Dried)
Commodities
Related crop subgroups
Bean (
Lupinus
spp.) (includes grain lupin, sweet lupin, white lupin, and white sweet lupin)
6C
Bean (
Phaseolus
spp.) (includes field bean, kidney bean, lima bean, navy bean, pinto bean, runner bean, snap bean, tepary bean, wax bean)
6A, 6B, 6C
Bean (
Vigna
spp.) (includes adzuki bean, asparagus bean, blackeyed pea, catjang, Chinese longbean, cowpea, Crowder pea, moth bean, mung bean, rice bean, southern pea, urd bean, yardlong bean)
6A, 6B, 6C
Broad bean (fava bean) (
Vicia faba
)
6B, 6C
Chickpea (garbanzo bean) (
Cicer arietinum
)
6C
Guar (
Cyamopsis tetragonoloba
)
6C
Jackbean (
Canavalia ensiformis
)
6A
Lablab bean (hyacinth bean) (
Lablab purpureus
)
6C
Lentil (
Lens esculenta
)
6C
Pea (
Pisum
spp.) (includes dwarf pea, edible-pod pea, En glish pea, field pea, garden pea, green pea, snow pea, sugar snap pea)
6A, 6B, 6C
Pigeon pea (
Cajanus cajan
)
6A, 6B, 6C
Soybean (
Glycine max
)
N/A
Soybean (immature seed) (
Glycine max
)
6A
Sword bean (
Canavalia gladiata
)
6A
(iii)
Table.
The following table 2 identifies the crop subgroups for Crop Group 6, specifies the representative commodities for each subgroup, and lists all the commodities included in each subgroup.
Table 2—Crop Group 6 Subgroup Listing
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop Subgroup 6A.
Edible-podded legume vegetables subgroup.
Any one succulent cultivar of edible-podded bean (
Phaseolus
spp.) and any one succulent cultivar of edible-podded pea (
Pisum
spp.)
Bean (
Phaseolus
spp.) (includes runner bean, snap bean, wax bean); bean (
Vigna
spp.) (includes asparagus bean, Chinese longbean, moth bean, yardlong bean); jackbean; pea (
Pisum
spp.) (includes dwarf pea, edible-pod pea, snow pea, sugar snap pea); pigeon pea; soybean (immature seed); sword bean.
Crop Subgroup 6B.
Succulent shelled pea and bean subgroup.
Any succulent shelled cultivar of bean (
Phaseolus
spp.) and garden pea (
Pisum
spp.)
Bean (
Phaseolus
spp.) (includes lima bean (green)); broad bean (succulent); bean (
Vigna
spp.) (includes blackeyed pea, cowpea, southern pea); pea (
Pisum
spp.) (includes English pea, garden pea, green pea); pigeon pea.
Crop Subgroup 6C.
Dried shelled pea and bean (except soybean) subgroup
Any one dried cultivar of bean (
Phaseolus
spp.); and any one dried cultivar of pea (
Pisum
spp.)
Dried cultivars of bean (
Lupinus
spp.) (includes grain lupin, sweet lupin, white lupin, and white sweet lupin); (
Phaseolus
spp.) (includes field bean, kidney bean, lima bean (dry), navy bean, pinto bean; tepary bean; bean (
Vigna
spp.) (includes adzuki bean, blackeyed pea, catjang, cowpea, Crowder pea, moth bean, mung bean, rice bean, southern pea, urd bean); broad bean (dry); chickpea; guar; lablab bean; lentil; pea (
Pisum
spp.) (includes field pea); pigeon pea.
(10)
Crop Group 6-22.
Legume Vegetable Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Bean (Phaseolus spp. or Vigna spp.; one edible podded cultivar, one succulent shelled cultivar, and one dried seed); Pea (Pisum spp; one edible podded cultivar, one succulent shelled cultivar, and one dried seed); and Soybean, seed.
(ii)
Commodities.
The following table is a list of all commodities included in Crop Group 6-22 and includes cultivars, varieties and/or hybrids of these commodities.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
c
)(10)—Crop Group 6-22: Legume Vegetable Group:
Commodities
Related crop
subgroups
African yam bean, dry seed,
Sphenostylis stenocarpa
(Hochst. ex A. Rich.) Harms
6-22E
American potato bean, dry seed,
Apios americana
Medik
6-22E
Bean (
Lupinus
spp.), succulent shelled (including, but not limited to Andean lupin, blue lupin, grain lupin, sweet lupin, white lupin, white sweet lupin, and yellow lupin)
6-22C
Bean (
Lupinus
spp.), dry seed (including, but not limited to Andean lupin, blue lupin, grain lupin, sweet lupin, white lupin, white sweet lupin, and yellow lupin)
6-22E
Bean (
Phaseolus
spp.), edible podded (including, but not limited to French bean, garden bean, green bean, kidney bean, navy bean, scarlet runner bean, snap bean, and wax bean)
6-22A
Bean (
Phaseolus
spp.), succulent shelled (including, but not limited to lima bean, scarlet runner bean, and wax bean)
6-22C
Bean (
Phaseolus
spp.), dry seed (including, but not limited to black bean, cranberry bean, dry bean, field bean, French bean, garden bean, great northern bean, green bean, kidney bean, lima bean, navy bean, pink bean, pinto bean, red bean, scarlet runner bean, tepary bean, and yellow bean)
6-22E
Bean (
Vigna
spp.), edible podded (including, but not limited to asparagus bean, catjang bean, Chinese longbean, cowpea, moth bean, mung bean, rice bean, urd bean, and yardlong bean)
6-22A
Bean (
Vigna
spp.), succulent shelled (including, but not limited to blackeyed pea, catjang bean, cowpea, crowder pea, moth bean, and southern pea)
6-22C
Bean (
Vigna
spp.), dry seed (including, but not limited to adzuki bean, asparagus bean, blackeyed pea, catjang bean, Chinese longbean, cowpea, crowder pea, moth bean, mung bean, rice bean, southern pea, urd bean, and yardlong bean)
6-22E
Broad bean (fava bean), succulent shelled,
Vicia faba
L. subsp.
faba
var.
faba
6-22C
Broad bean (fava bean), dry seed,
Vicia faba
L. subsp.
faba
var.
faba
6-22E
Chickpea (garbanzo), edible podded,
Cicer arietinum
L
6-22B
Chickpea (garbanzo), succulent shelled,
Cicer arietinum
L
6-22D
Chickpea (garbanzo), dry seed,
Cicer arietinum
L
6-22F
Goa bean, edible podded (asparagus pea and winged bean),
Psophocarpus tetragonolobus
(L.) DC
6-22A
Goa bean, succulent shelled (asparagus pea and winged bean),
Psophocarpus tetragonolobus
(L.) DC
6-22C
Goa bean, dry seed (asparagus pea and winged bean),
Psophocarpus tetragonolobus
(L.) DC
6-22E
Grass pea, edible podded,
Lathyrus sativus L
6-22B
Grass pea, dry seed,
Lathyrus sativus L
6-22F
Guar bean, edible podded,
Cyamopsis tetragonoloba
(L.) Taub
6-22A
Guar bean, dry seed,
Cyamopsis tetragonoloba
(L.) Taub
6-22E
Horse gram, dry seed,
Macrotyloma uniflorum
(Lam.) Verdc
6-22E
Jackbean, edible podded,
Canavalia ensiformis
(L.) DC
6-22A
Jackbean, succulent shelled,
Canavalia ensiformis
(L.) DC
6-22C
Jackbean, dry seed,
Canavalia ensiformis
(L.) DC
6-22E
Lablab bean (hyacinth bean), edible podded, Lablab
purpureus
(L.) Sweet subsp.
purpureus
6-22A
Lablab bean (hyacinth bean), succulent shelled, Lablab
purpureus
(L.) Sweet subsp.
purpureus
6-22C
Lablab bean (hyacinth bean), dry seed, Lablab
purpureus
(L.) Sweet subsp.
Purpureus
6-22E
Lentil, edible podded,
Lens culinaris
Medik. subsp.
culinaris
6-22B
Lentil, succulent shelled,
Lens culinaris
Medik. subsp.
culinaris
6-22D
Lentil, dry seed,
Lens culinaris
Medik. subsp.
culinaris
6-22F
Morama bean, dry seed,
Tylosema esculentum
(Burch.) A. Schreib
6-22E
Pea (
Pisum
spp.), edible podded (including, but not limited to dwarf pea, green pea, snap pea, snow pea, and sugar snap pea)
6-22B
Pea (
Pisum
spp.), succulent shelled (including, but not limited to, English pea, garden pea, and green pea)
6-22D
Pea (
Pisum
spp.), dry seed (including, but not limited to dry pea, field pea, garden pea, yellow pea, wrinkled pea, marrowfat pea, and green pea)
6-22F
Pigeon pea, edible podded,
Cajanus cajan
(L.) Huth
6-22B
Pigeon pea, succulent shelled,
Cajanus cajan
(L.) Huth
6-22D
Pigeon pea, dry seed,
Cajanus cajan
(L.) Huth
6-22F
Soybean, seed,
Glycine max
(L.) Merr
N/A
Sword bean, edible podded,
Canavalia gladiata
(Jacq.) DC
6-22A
Sword bean, dry seed,
Canavalia gladiata
(Jacq.) DC
6-22E
Vegetable soybean, edible podded (edamame),
Glycine max
(L.) Merr
6-22A
Vegetable soybean, succulent shelled (edamame),
Glycine max
(L.) Merr
6-22C
Velvetbean, edible podded,
Mucuna pruriens
(L.) DC
6-22A
Velvetbean, succulent shelled,
Mucuna pruriens
(L.) DC
6-22C
Velvetbean, dry seed,
Mucuna pruriens
(L.) DC
6-22E
Winged pea, edible podded,
Lotus tetragonolobus
L
6-22A
Winged pea, dry seed,
Lotus tetragonolobus
L
6-22E
Cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these commodities
(iii)
Crop subgroups.
The following table identifies the crop subgroups for Crop Group 6-22, specifies the representative commodities for each subgroup and lists all the commodities included in each subgroup.
Table 2 to Paragraph (
c
)(10)—Crop Group 6-22: Subgroup Listing
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop Subgroup 6-22A: Edible podded bean subgroup
Any cultivar of edible podded bean
Phaseolus
spp. or
Vigna
spp
Bean (
Phaseolus
spp.; including, but not limited to French bean, garden bean, green bean, kidney bean, navy bean, scarlet runner bean, snap bean, and wax bean); Bean (
Vigna
spp.; including, but not limited to asparagus bean, catjang bean; Chinese longbean, cowpea, moth bean, mung bean, rice bean, urd bean, and yardlong bean); goa bean; guar bean; jackbean; lablab bean; vegetable soybean (edamame); sword bean; winged pea; velvetbean; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these commodities.
Crop Subgroup 6-22B: Edible podded pea subgroup
Any cultivar of edible podded pea,
Pisum
spp
Pea (
Pisum
spp.; including, but not limited to dwarf pea, green pea, snap pea, snow pea, and sugar snap pea); grass pea; lentil; pigeon pea; chickpea; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these commodities.
Crop Subgroup 6-22C: Succulent shelled bean subgroup
Any succulent shelled cultivar of bean,
Phaseolus
spp., or
Vigna
spp
Bean (
Phaseolus
spp.; including, but not limited to lima bean, scarlet runner bean, and wax bean); Bean (
Vigna
spp.; including, but not limited to blackeyed pea, catjang bean, cowpea, crowder pea, moth bean, and southern pea); Bean (
Lupinus
spp.; including, but not limited to Andean lupin, blue lupin, grain lupin, sweet lupin, white lupin, white sweet lupin, and yellow lupin); broad bean (fava bean); jackbean; goa bean; lablab bean; vegetable soybean (edamame); velvetbean; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these commodities.
Crop Subgroup 6-22D: Succulent shelled pea subgroup
Any succulent shelled cultivar of garden pea,
Pisum
spp
Chickpea; lentil; Pea (
Pisum
spp.; including, but not limited to English pea, garden pea, and green pea); pigeon pea; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these commodities.
Crop Subgroup 6-22E: Pulses, dried shelled bean, except soybean, subgroup
Any one dried seed of bean,
Phaseolus
spp., or
Vigna
spp
African yam bean; American potato bean; Bean (
Lupinus
spp.; including, but not limited to Andean lupin, blue lupin, grain lupin, sweet lupin, white lupin, white sweet lupin, and yellow lupin); Bean (
Phaseolus
spp.; including, but not limited to black bean, cranberry bean, dry bean, field bean, French bean, garden bean, great northern bean, green bean, kidney bean, lima bean, navy bean, pink bean, pinto bean, red bean, scarlet runner bean, tepary bean, and yellow bean); Bean (
Vigna
spp.; including, but not limited to adzuki bean, asparagus bean, blackeyed pea, catjang bean, Chinese longbean, cowpea, crowder pea, moth bean, mung bean, rice bean, southern pea, urd bean, and yardlong bean); broad bean (fava bean); guar bean; goa bean; horse gram; jackbean; lablab bean; morama bean; sword bean; winged pea; velvetbean; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these commodities.
Crop Subgroup 6-22F: Pulses, dried shelled pea subgroup
Any one dried seed of pea,
Pisum
spp
Pea (
Pisum
spp.; including, but not limited to dry pea, field pea, green pea, yellow pea, wrinkled pea, marrowfat pea, and garden pea); chickpea; grass pea; lentil; pigeon pea; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these commodities.
(11)
Crop Group 7.
Foliage of Legume Vegetables Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Any cultivar of bean (
Phaseolus
spp.), field pea (
Pisum
spp.), and soybean.
(ii)
Table.
The following table 1 lists the commodities included in Crop Group 7.
Table 1—Crop Group 7: Foliage of Legume Vegetables Group
Representative commodities
Commodities
Any cultivar of bean (
Phaseolus
spp.) and field pea (
Pisum
spp.), and soybean (
Glycine max
)
Plant parts of any legume vegetable included in the legume vegetables that will be used as animal feed.
(iii)
Table.
The following table 2 identifies the crop subgroup for Crop Group 7 and specifies the representative commodities for the subgroup, and lists all the commodities included in the subgroup.
Table 2—Crop Group 7 Subgroup Listing
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop Subgroup 7A.
Foliage of legume vegetables (except soybeans) subgroup
Any cultivar of bean (
Phaseolus
spp.), and field pea (
Pisum
spp.)
Plant parts of any legume vegetable (except soybeans) included in the legume vegetables group that will be used as animal feed.
(12)
Crop Group 7-22.
Forage and Hay Legume Vegetable Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Any cultivar of bean (
Phaseolus
spp. or cowpea (
Vigna unguiculata
(L.) Walp)); field pea (
Pisum sativum
L. subsp.
sativum
var.
arvense
(L.) Poir.); and soybean (
Glycine max
(L.) Merr.).
(ii)
Commodities.
The following table lists the commodities included in Crop Group 7-22.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
c
)(12)—Crop Group 7-22: Forage and Hay for Legume Vegetable Group
Representative commodities
Commodities
Any cultivar of bean (
Phaseolus
spp. or cowpea (
Vigna unguiculata
(L.) Walp)); field pea (
Pisum sativum
L. subsp.
sativum
var.
arvense
(L.) Poir.); and soybean (
Glycine max
(L.) Merr.)
Plant parts of any legume vegetable listed in crop group 6-22 that will be used as animal feed.
(iii)
Crop subgroup.
The following table identifies the crop subgroup for Crop Group 7-22 and specifies the representative commodities for the subgroup, and lists all the commodities included in the subgroup.
Table 2 to Paragraph (
c
)(12)—Crop Group 7-22 Subgroup Listing
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop Subgroup 7-22A. Forage and hay of legume vegetables (except soybeans) subgroup
Any cultivar of bean (
Phaseolus
spp. or cowpea (
Vigna unguiculata
(L.) Walp)); field pea (
Pisum sativum
L. subsp.
sativum
var.
arvense
(L.) Poir.)
Plant parts of any legume vegetable listed in crop group 6-22 (except soybeans) that will be used as animal feed.
(13)
Crop Group 8.
Fruiting Vegetables Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Tomato, bell pepper, and one cultivar of non-bell pepper.
(ii)
Commodities.
The following is a list of all the commodities included in Crop Group 8:

# Crop Group 8: Fruiting Vegetables (Except Cucurbits)—Commodities
Eggplant (
Solanum melongena
)
Groundcherry (
Physalis
spp.)
Pepino (
Solanum muricatum
)
Pepper (
Capsicum
spp.) (includes bell pepper, chili pepper, cooking pepper, pimento, sweet pepper)
Tomatillo (
Physalis ixocarpa
)
Tomato (
Lycopersicon esculentum
)
(14)
Crop Group 8-10.
Fruiting Vegetable Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Tomato, standard size, and one cultivar of small tomato; bell pepper and one cultivar of small nonbell pepper.
(ii)
Commodities.
The following is a list of all commodities included in the Crop group 8-10.
Table 1—Crop Group 8-10: Fruiting Vegetable Group
Commodities
Related crop subgroups
African eggplant,
Solanum macrocarpon
L
8-10B, 8-10C
Bush tomato,
Solanum centrale
J.M. Black
8-10A
Cocona,
Solanum sessiliflorum
Dunal
8-10A
Currant tomato,
Lycopersicon pimpinellifolium
L
8-10A
Eggplant,
Solanum melongena
L
8-10B, 8-10C
Garden huckleberry,
Solanum scabrum
Mill
8-10A
Goji berry,
Lycium barbarum
L
8-10A
Groundcherry,
Physalis alkekengi
L.,
P. grisea
(Waterf.) M. Martinez,
P. peruviana
L.,
P. pubescens
L
8-10A
Martynia,
Proboscidea louisianica
(Mill.) Thell
8-10B, 8-10C
Naranjilla,
Solanum quitoense
Lam
8-10A
Okra,
Abelmoschus esculentus
(L.) Moench
8-10B, 8-10C
Pea eggplant,
Solanum torvum
Sw.
8-10B, 8-10C
Pepino,
Solanum muricatum
Aiton
8-10B, 8-10C
Pepper, bell,
Capsicum annuum
L. var.
annuum, Capsicum
spp
8-10B
Pepper, nonbell,
Capsicum chinese
Jacq.,
C. annuum
L. var.
annuum,
C. frutescens
L.,
C. baccatum
L.,
C. pubescens
Ruiz
Pav.,
Capsicum spp
8-10B, 8-10C
Roselle,
Hibiscus sabdariffa
L
8-10B, 8-10C
Scarlet eggplant,
Solanum aethiopicum
L
8-10B, 8-10C
Sunberry,
Solanum retroflexum
Dunal
8-10A
Tomatillo,
Physalis philadelphica
Lam
8-10A
Tomato,
Solanum lycopersicum
L.,
Solanum lycopersicum
L. var.
lycopersicum
8-10A
Tree tomato,
Solanum betaceum
Cav
8-10A
Cultivars, varieties and/or hybrids of these
(iii)
Table.
The following Table 2 identifies the crop subgroups for Crop Group 8-10, specifies the representative commodities for each subgroup and lists all the commodities included in each subgroup.
Table 2—Crop Group 8-10. Subgroup Listing
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop subgroup 8-10A. Tomato subgroup
Tomato, standard size, and one cultivar of small tomato
Bush tomato; cocona; currant tomato; garden huckleberry; goji berry; groundcherry; naranjilla; sunberry; tomatillo; tomato; tree tomato; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
Crop subgroup 8-10B. Pepper/Eggplant subgroup
Bell pepper and one cultivar of small nonbell pepper
African eggplant; bell pepper; eggplant; Martynia; nonbell pepper; okra; pea eggplant; pepino; roselle; scarlet eggplant; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
Crop subgroup 8-10C. Nonbell pepper/Eggplant subgroup
One cultivar of small nonbell pepper or one cultivar of small eggplant
African eggplant; eggplant; martynia; nonbell pepper; okra; pea eggplant; pepino; roselle; scarlet eggplant; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
(15)
Crop Group 9.
Cucurbit Vegetables Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Cucumber, muskmelon, and summer squash.
(ii)
Table.
The following table 1 lists all the commodities included in Crop Group 9 and identifies the related subgroups.
Table 1—Crop Group 9: Cucurbit Vegetables
Commodities
Related crop subgroups
Chayote (fruit) (
Sechium edule
)
9B
Chinese waxgourd (Chinese preserving melon) (
Benincasa hispida
)
9B
Citron melon (
Citrullus lanatus
var.
citroides
)
9A
Cucumber (
Cucumis sativus
)
9B
Gherkin (
Cucumis anguria
)
9B
Gourd, edible (
Lagenaria
spp.) (includes hyotan, cucuzza); (
Luffa acutangula, L. cylindrica
) (includes hechima, Chinese okra)
9B
Momordica
spp. (includes balsam apple, balsam pear, bitter melon, Chinese cucumber)
9B
Muskmelon (hybrids and/or cultivars of
Cucumis melo
) (includes true cantaloupe, cantaloupe, casaba, crenshaw melon, golden pershaw melon, honeydew melon, honey balls, mango melon, Persian melon, pineapple melon, Santa Claus melon, and snake melon)
9A
Pumpkin (
Cucurbita
spp.)
9B
Squash, summer (
Cucurbita pepo
var.
melopepo
) (includes crookneck squash, scallop squash, straightneck squash, vegetable marrow, zucchini)
9B
Squash, winter (
Cucurbita maxima;
C. moschata
) (includes butternut squash, calabaza, hubbard squash); (
C. mixta;
C. pepo
) (includes acorn squash, spaghetti squash)
9B
Watermelon (includes hybrids and/or varieties of
Citrullus lanatus
)
9A
(iii)
Table.
The following table 2 identifies the crop subgroups for Crop Group 9, specifies the representative commodities for each subgroup, and lists all the commodities included in each subgroup.
Table 2—Crop Group 9 Subgroup Listing
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop Subgroup 9A.
Melon subgroup
Cantaloupes
Citron melon; muskmelon; watermelon.
Crop Subgroup 9B.
Squash/cucumber subgroup
One cultivar of summer squash and cucumber.
Chayote (fruit); Chinese waxgourd; cucumber; gherkin; gourd, edible;
Momordica
spp.; pumpkin; squash, summer; squash, winter.
(16)
Crop Group 10.
Citrus Fruit Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Sweet orange; lemon and grapefruit.
(ii)
Commodities.
The following is a list of all the commodities in Crop Group 10:

# Crop Group 10: Citrus Fruits (Citrus spp., Fortunella spp.) Group—Commodities
Calamondin (
Citrus mitis
×
Citrofortunella mitis
)
Citrus citron (
Citrus medica
)
Citrus hybrids (
Citrus
spp.) (includes chironja, tangelo, tangor)
Grapefruit (
Citrus paradisi
)
Kumquat (
Fortunella
spp.)
Lemon (
Citrus jambhiri,
Citrus limon
)
Lime (
Citrus aurantiifolia
)
Mandarin (tangerine) (
Citrus reticulata
)
Orange, sour (
Citrus aurantium
)
Orange, sweet (
Citrus sinensis
)
Pummelo (
Citrus grandis,
Citrus maxima
)
Satsuma mandarin (
Citrus unshiu
)
(17)
Crop Group 10-10.
Citrus Fruit Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Orange or Tangerine/Mandarin, Lemon or Lime, and Grapefruit.
(ii)
Commodities.
The following is a list of all the commodities in Crop Group 10-10.
Table 1—Crop Group 10-10: Citrus Fruit Group
Commodities
Related crop subgroups
Australian desert lime,
Eremocitrus glauca
(Lindl.) Swingle
10-10B
Australian finger lime,
Microcitrus australasica
(F. Muell.) Swingle
10-10B
Australian round lime,
Microcitrus australis
(A. Cunn. Ex Mudie) Swingle
10-10B
Brown River finger lime,
Microcitrus papuana
Winters
10-10B
Calamondin,
Citrofortunella microcarpa
(Bunge) Wijnands
10-10A
Citron,
Citrus medica
L
10-10A
Citrus hybrids,
Citrus spp.
Eremocitrus
spp.,
Fortunella
spp.,
Microcitrus
spp., and
Poncirus
spp
10-10A
Grapefruit,
Citrus paradisi
Macfad
10-10C
Japanese summer grapefruit,
Citrus natsudaidai
Hayata
10-10C
Kumquat,
Fortunella
spp
10-10B
Lemon,
Citrus limon
(L.) Burm. f
10-10B
Lime,
Citrus aurantiifolia
(Christm.) Swingle
10-10B
Mediterranean mandarin,
Citrus deliciosa
Ten
10-10A
Mount White lime,
Microcitrus garrowayae
(F.M. Bailey) Swingle
10-10B
New Guinea wild lime,
Microcitrus warburgiana
(F.M. Bailey) Tanaka
10-10B
Orange, sour,
Citrus aurantium
L
10-10A
Orange, sweet,
Citrus sinensis
(L.) Osbeck
10-10A
Pummelo,
Citrus maxima
(Burm.) Merr
10-10C
Russell River lime,
Microcitrus inodora
(F.M. Bailey) Swingle
10-10B
Satsuma mandarin,
Citrus unshiu
Marcow
10-10A
Sweet lime,
Citrus limetta
Risso
10-10B
Tachibana orange,
Citrus tachibana
(Makino) Tanaka
10-10A
Tahiti lime,
Citrus latifolia
(Yu. Tanaka) Tanaka
10-10B
Tangelo,
Citrus x
tangelo
J.W. Ingram
H.E. Moore
10-10A, 10-10C
Tangerine (Mandarin),
Citrus reticulata
Blanco
10-10A
Tangor,
Citrus nobilis
Lour
10-10A
Trifoliate orange,
Poncirus trifoliata
(L.) Raf
10-10A
Uniq fruit,
Citrus aurantium
Tangelo group
10-10C
Cultivars, varieties and/or hybrids of these
(iii)
Table.
The following Table 2 identifies the crop subgroups for Crop Group 10-10, specifies the representative commodities for each subgroup and lists all the commodities included in each subgroup.
Table 2—Crop Group 10-10: Subgroup Listing
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop Subgroup 10-10A. Orange subgroup
Orange or tangerine/mandarin
Calamondin; citron; citrus hybrids; mediterranean mandarin; orange, sour; orange, sweet; satsuma mandarin; tachibana orange; tangerine (mandarin); tangelo; tangor; trifoliate orange; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
Crop Subgroup 10-10B. Lemon/Lime subgroup
Lemon or lime
Australian desert lime; Australian finger lime; Australian round lime; brown river finger lime; kumquat; lemon; lime; mount white lime; New Guinea wild lime; Russell River lime; sweet lime; Tahiti lime; cultivars , varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
Crop Subgroup 10-10C. Grapefruit subgroup
Grapefruit
Grapefruit; Japanese summer grapefruit; pummelo; tangelo; uniq fruit; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
(18)
Crop Group 11:
Pome Fruits Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Apple and pear.
(ii)
Commodities.
The following is a list of all the commodities included in Crop Group 11:

# Crop Group 11: Pome Fruits Group—Commodities
Apple (
Malus domestica
)
Crabapple (
Malus
spp.)
Loquat (
Eriobotrya japonica
)
Mayhaw (
Crataegus aestivalis,
C. opaca,
and
C. rufula
)
Pear (
Pyrus communis
)
Pear, oriental (
Pyrus pyrifolia
)
Quince (
Cydonia oblonga
)
(19)
Crop group 11-10.
Pome Fruit Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Apple and Pear
(ii)
Commodities.
The following is a list of all the commodities in Crop Group 11-10.

# Crop Group 11-10: Pome Fruit Group—Commodities
Apple,
Malus domestica
Borkh.
Azarole,
Crataegus azarolus
L.
Crabapple,
Malus sylvestris
(L.) Mill.,
M. prunifolia
(Willd.) Borkh.
Loquat,
Eriobotrya japonica
(Thunb.) Lindl.
Mayhaw,
Crataegus aestivalis
(Walter) Torr.
A. Gray, C.
opaca
Hook.
Arn., and
C. rufula
Sarg.
Medlar,
Mespilus germanica
L.
Pear,
Pyrus communis
L.
Pear, Asian,
Pyrus pyrifolia
(Burm. f.) Nakai var.
culta
(Makino) Nakai
Pseudocydonia sinensis
(Thouin) C.K. Schneid.
Quince,
Cydonia oblonga
Mill.
Quince, Chinese,
Chaenomeles speciosa
(Sweet) Nakai,
Quince, Japanese,
Chaenomeles japonica
(Thunb.) Lindl. ex Spach
Tejocote,
Crataegus mexicana
DC.
Cultivars, varieties and/or hybrids of these.
(20)
Crop Group 12.
Stone Fruits Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Sweet cherry or tart cherry; peach; and plum or fresh prune (
Prunus domestica, Prunus
spp.)
(ii)
Commodities.
The following is a list of all the commodities included in Crop Group 12:

# Crop Group 12: Stone Fruits Group—Commodities
Apricot (
Prunus armeniaca
)
Cherry, sweet (
Prunus avium
),
Cherry, tart (
Prunus cerasus
)
Nectarine (
Prunus persica
)
Peach (
Prunus persica
)
Plum (
Prunus domestica,
Prunus
spp.)
Plum, Chickasaw (
Prunus angustifolia
)
Plum, Damson (
Prunus domestica
spp.
insititia
)
Plum, Japanese (
Prunus salicina
)
Plumcot (
Prunus. armeniaca
×
P. domestica
)
Prune (fresh) (
Prunus domestica,
Prunus
spp.)
(21)
Crop Group 12-12:
Stone Fruit Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Sweet cherry or Tart cherry; Peach; and Plum or Prune plum.
(ii)
Commodities.
The following Table 1 is a list of all commodities included in Crop Group 12-12.
Table 1—Crop Group 12-12: Stone Fruit Group
Commodities
Related crop subgroup
Apricot (
Prunus armeniaca
L.)
12-12C
Apricot, Japanese (
Prunus mume
Siebold
Zucc.)
12-12C
Capulin (
Prunus serotina
Ehrh. var.
salicifolia
(Kunth) Koehne)
12-12A
Cherry, black (
Prunus serotina
Ehrh.)
12-12A
Cherry, Nanking (
Prunus tomentosa
Thunb.)
12-12A
Cherry, sweet (
Prunus avium
(L.) L.)
12-12A
Cherry, tart (
Prunus cerasus
L.)
12-12A
Jujube, Chinese (
Ziziphus jujuba
Mill.)
12-12C
Nectarine (
Prunuspersica
(L.) Batsch var.
nucipersica
(Suckow) C.K. Schneid)
12-12B
Peach (
Prunus persica
(L.) Batsch var.
persica
)
12-12B
Plum (
Prunus domestica
L. subsp.
domestica
)
12-12C
Plum, American (
Prunus americana
Marshall)
12-12C
Plum, beach (
Prunus maritima
Marshall)
12-12C
Plum, Canada (
Prunus nigra
Aiton)
12-12C
Plum, cherry (
Prunus cerasifera
Ehrh.)
12-12C
Plum, Chickasaw (
Prunus angustifolia
Marshall)
12-12C
Plum, Damson (
Prunus domestica
L. subsp.
insititia
(L.) C.K. Schneid.)
12-12C
Plum, Japanese (
Prunus salicina
Lindl.;
P. salicina
Lindl. var.
salicina
)
12-12C
Plum, Klamath (
Prunus subcordata
Benth.)
12-12C
Plum, prune (
Prunus domestica
L. subsp.
domestica
)
12-12C
Plumcot (
Prunus
hybr.)
12-12C
Sloe (
Prunus spinosa
L.)
12-12C
Cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these
(iii)
Crop subgroups.
The following Table 2 identifies the crop subgroups for Crop Group 12-12, specifies the representative commodities for each subgroup, and lists all the commodities included in each subgroup.
Table 2—Crop Group 12-12: Subgroup Listing
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop subgroup 12-12A. Cherry subgroup
Cherry, sweet or Cherry, tart
Capulin; Cherry, black; Cherry, Nanking; Cherry, sweet; Cherry, tart; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
Crop subgroup 12-12B. Peach subgroup
Peach
Peach; Nectarine; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
Crop subgroup 12-12C. Plum subgroup
Plum or Prune plum
Apricot; Apricot, Japanese; Jujube, Chinese; Plum; Plum, American; Plum, beach; Plum, Canada; Plum, cherry; Plum, Chickasaw; Plum, Damson; Plum, Japanese; Plum, Klamath; Plumcot; Plum, prune; Sloe; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
(22)
Crop Group 13.
Berries Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Any one blackberry or any one raspberry; and blueberry.
(ii)
Table.
The following table 1 lists all the commodities included in Crop Group 13 and identifies the related subgroups.
Table 1—Crop Group 13: Berries Group
Commodities
Related crop subgroups
Blackberry (
Rubus eubatus
) (including bingleberry, black satin berry, boysenberry, Cherokee blackberry, Chesterberry, Cheyenne blackberry, coryberry, darrowberry, dewberry, Dirksen thornless berry, Himalayaberry, hullberry, Lavacaberry, lowberry, Lucretiaberry, mammoth blackberry, marionberry, nectarberry, olallieberry, Oregon evergreen berry, phenomenalberry, rangeberry, ravenberry, rossberry, Shawnee blackberry, youngberry, and varieties and/or hybrids of these)
13A
Blueberry (
Vaccinium
spp.)
13B
Currant (
Ribes
spp.)
13B
Elderberry (
Sambucus
spp.)
13B
Gooseberry (
Ribes
spp.)
13B
Huckleberry (
Gaylussacia
spp.)
13B
Loganberry (
Rubus loganobaccus
)
13A
Raspberry, black and red (
Rubus occidentalis, Rubus strigosus, Rubus idaeus
)
13A
(iii)
Table.
The following table 2 identifies the crop subgroups for Crop Group 13, specifies the representative commodities for each subgroup, and lists all the commodities included in each subgroup.
Table 2—Crop Group 13 Subgroups Listing
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop Subgroup 13A.
Caneberry (blackberry and raspberry) subgroup.
Any one blackberry or any one raspberry
Blackberry; loganberry; red and black raspberry; cultivars and/or hybrids of these.
Crop Subgroup 13B.
Bushberry subgroup
Blueberry, highbush
Blueberry, highbush and lowbush; currant; elderberry; gooseberry; huckleberry.
(23)
Crop Group 13-07.
Berry and Small Fruit Crop Group
(i)
Representative commodities.
Any one blackberry or any one raspberry; highbush blueberry; elderberry or mulberry; grape; fuzzy kiwifruit, and strawberry.
(ii)
Table.
The following Table 1 lists all the commodities listed in Crop Group 13-07 and identifies the related crop subgroups.
Table 1—Crop Group 13-07: Berry and Small Fruit Crop Group
Commodities
Related crop subgroups
Amur river grape (
Vitis amurensis Rupr
)
13-07D, 13-07E, 13-07F
Aronia berry (
Aronia
spp.)
13-07B
Bayberry (
Myrica
spp.)
13-07C
Bearberry (
Arctostaphylos uva-ursi
)
13-07G, 13-07H
Bilberry (
Vaccinium myrtillus L.)
13-07G, 13-07H
Blackberry (
Rubus
spp.) (including Andean blackberry, arctic blackberry, bingleberry, black satin berry, boysenberry, brombeere, California blackberry, Chesterberry, Cherokee blackberry, Cheyenne blackberry, common blackberry, coryberry, darrowberry, dewberry, Dirksen thornless berry, evergreen blackberry, Himalayaberry, hullberry, lavacaberry, loganberry, lowberry, Lucretiaberry, mammoth blackberry, marionberry, mora, mures deronce, nectarberry, Northern dewberry, olallieberry, Oregon evergreen berry, phenomenalberry, rangeberry, ravenberry, rossberry, Shawnee blackberry, Southern dewberry, tayberry, youngberry, zarzamora, and cultivars, varieties and/or hybrids of these.)
13-07A
Blueberry, highbush (
Vaccinium
spp.)
13-07B
Blueberry, lowbush (
Vaccinium angustifolium
Aiton)
13-07B
Buffalo currant (
Ribes aureum
Pursh)
13-07B
Buffaloberry (
Shepherdia argentea
(Pursh) Nutt.)
13-07C
Che (
Cudrania tricuspidata
Bur. Ex Lavallee)
13-07C
Chilean guava (
Myrtus ugni
Mol.)
13-07B
Chokecherry (
Prunus virginiana
L.)
13-07C
Cloudberry (
Rubus chamaemorus
L.)
13-07G, 13-07H
Cranberry (
Vaccinium macrocarpon
Aiton)
13-07G, 13-07H
Currant, black (
Ribes nigrum
L.)
13-07B
Currant, red (
Ribes rubrum
L.)
13-07B
Elderberry (
Sambucus
spp.)
13-07B, 13-07C
European barberry (
Berberis vulgaris
L.)
13-07B
Gooseberry (
Ribes
spp.)
13-07B, 13-07D, 13-07E, 13-07F
Grape (Vitis spp.)
13-07D, 13-07F
Highbush cranberry (
Viburnum opulus
L. var.
Americanum
Aiton)
13-07B
Honeysuckle, edible (
Lonicera caerula L.
var.
emphyllocalyx
Nakai,
Lonicera caerula L
var
. edulis Turcz. ex herder
)
13-07B
Huckleberry (
Gaylussacia
spp.)
13-07B
Jostaberry (
Ribes x nidigrolaria
Rud. Bauer and A. Bauer)
13-07B
Juneberry (Saskatoon berry) (
Amelanchier
spp.)
13-07B, 13-07C
Kiwifruit, fuzzy (
Actinidia deliciosa
A. Chev.) (C.F. Liang and A.R. Fergusons,
Actinida chinensis
Planch.)
13-07D, 13-07E
Kiwifruit, hardy (
Actinidia arguta
(Siebold and Zucc.) Planch. ex Miq)
13-07D, 13-07E, 13-07F
Lingonberry (
Vaccinium vitis-idaea
L.)
13-07B, 13-07G 13-07H
Maypop (
Passiflora incarnata
L.)
13-07E, 13-07F
Mountain pepper berries (
Tasmannia lanceolata
)(Poir.) A.C.Sm.
13-07C
Mulberry (
Morus
spp.)
13-07C
Muntries (
Kunzea pomifera
F. Muell.)
13-07G, 13-07H
Native currant (
Acrotriche depressa
R. BR.)
13-07B
Partridgeberry (
Mitchella repens
L.)
13-07G, 13-07H
Phalsa (
Grewia subinaequalis
DC.)
13-07C
Pincherry (
Prunus pensylvanica
L.f.)
13-07C
Raspberry, black and red (
Rubus
spp.)
13-07A
Riberry (
Syzygium luehmannii
)
13-07C
Salal (
Gaultheria shallon
Pursh.)
13-07B, 13-07C
Schisandra berry (Schisandra chinensis (Turcz.) Baill.)
13-07D, 13-07E, 13-07F
Sea buckthorn (
Hippophae rhamnoides
L.)
13-07B
Serviceberry (
Sorbus
spp.)
13-07C
Strawberry (
Fragaria x ananassa
Duchesne)
13-07G
Wild raspberry (
Rubus muelleri
Lefevre ex P.J. Mull)
13-07A
Cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
(iii)
Table.
The following Table 2 identifies the crop subgroups for Crop Group 13-07, specifies the representative commodities for each subgroup and lists all the commodities included in each subgroup.
Table 2—Crop Group 13-07: Subgroup Listing
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop Subgroup 13-07A.
Caneberry subgroup
Any one blackberry or any one raspberry
Blackberry; loganberry; raspberry, red and black; wild raspberry; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
Crop Subgroup 13-07B.
Bushberry subgroup.
Blueberry, highbush
Aronia berry; blueberry, highbush; blueberry, lowbush; buffalo currant; Chilean guava; currant, black; currant, red; elderberry; European, barberry; gooseberry; cranberry, highbush; honeysuckle, edible; huckleberry; jostaberry; Juneberry; lingonberry; native currant; salal; sea buckthorn; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
Crop Subgroup 13-07C.
Large shrub/tree berry subgroup.
Elderberry or mulberry
Bayberry; buffaloberry; che; chokecherry; elderberry; Juneberry; mountain pepper berries; mulberry; phalsa; pincherry; riberry; salal; serviceberry; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
Crop Subgroup 13-07D.
Small fruit vine climbing subgroup.
Grape and fuzzy kiwifruit
Amur river grape; gooseberry; grape; kiwifruit, fuzzy; kiwifruit, hardy; Maypop; schisandra berry; cultivars, varieties, and /or hybrids of these.
Crop Subgroup 13-07E.
Small fruit vine climbing subgroup, except grape.
Fuzzy kiwifruit
Amur river grape; gooseberry; kiwifruit, fuzzy; kiwifruit, hardy; Maypop; schisandra berry; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
Crop Subgroup 13-07F.
Small fruit vine climbing subgroup except fuzzy kiwifruit.
Grape
Amur river grape; gooseberry; grape; kiwifruit, hardy; Maypop; schisandra berry; cultivars varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
Crop Subgroup 13-07G.
Low growing berry subgroup.
Strawberry
Bearberry; bilberry; blueberry, lowbush; cloudberry; cranberry; lingonberry; muntries; partridgeberry; strawberry; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
Crop Subgroup 13-07H.
Low growing berry subgroup, except strawberry.
Cranberry
Bearberry; bilberry; blueberry, lowbush; cloudberry; cranberry; lingonberry; muntries; partridgeberry; cultivars, varieties, and/or cultivars of these.
(24)
Crop Group 14.
Tree Nuts Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Almond and pecan.
(ii)
Commodities.
The following is a list of all the commodities included in Crop Group 14:

# Crop Group 14: Tree Nuts—Commodities
Almond (
Prunus dulcis
)
Beech nut (
Fagus
spp.)
Brazil nut (
Bertholletia excelsa
)
Butternut (
Juglans cinerea
)
Cashew (
Anacardium occidentale
)
Chestnut (
Castanea
spp.)
Chinquapin (
Castanea pumila
)
Filbert (hazelnut) (
Corylus
spp.)
Hickory nut (
Carya
spp.)
Macadamia nut (bush nut) (
Macadamia
spp.)
Pecan (
Carya illinoensis
)
Walnut, black and English (Persian) (
Juglans
spp.)
(25)
Crop Group 14-12.
Tree Nut Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Almond and Pecan.
(ii)
Commodities.
The following is a list of all commodities included in Crop Group 14-12.

# Crop Group 14-12: Tree Nut Group
African nut-tree (
Ricinodendron heudelotii
(Baill.) Heckel)
Almond (
Prunus dulcis
(Mill.) D.A. Webb)
Beechnut (
Fagus grandifolia
Ehrh.;
F. sylvatica
L.)
Brazil nut (
Bertholletia excelsa
Humb.
Bonpl.)
Brazilian pine (
Araucaria angustifolia
(Bertol.) Kuntze)
Bunya (
Araucaria bidwillii
Hook.)
Bur oak
(Quercus macrocarpa
Michx.)
Butternut (
Juglans cinerea
L.)
Cajou nut (
Anacardium giganteum
Hance ex Engl.)
Candlenut (
Aleurites moluccanus
(L.) Willd.)
Cashew (
Anacardium occidentale
L.)
Chestnut (
Castanea crenata
Siebold
Zucc.;
C. dentata
(Marshall) Borkh.;
C. mollissima
Blume;
C. sativa
Mill.)
Chinquapin (
Castaneapumila
(L.) Mill.)
Coconut (
Cocos nucifera
L.)
Coquito nut (
Jubaea chilensis
(Molina) Baill.)
Dika nut (
Irvingia gabonensis
(Aubry-Lecomte ex O'Rorke) Baill.)
Ginkgo (
Ginkgo biloba
L.)
Guiana chestnut (
Pachira aquatica
Aubl.)
Hazelnut (Filbert) (
Corylus americana
Marshall;
C. avellana
L.;
C. californica
(A. DC.) Rose;
C. chinensis
Franch.)
Heartnut (
Juglans ailantifolia
Carrière var
. cordiformis
(Makino) Rehder)
Hickory nut (
Carya cathayensis
Sarg.;
C. glabra
(Mill.) Sweet;
C. laciniosa
(F. Michx.) W. P. C. Barton;
C. myristiciformis
(F. Michx.) Elliott;
C. ovata
(Mill.) K. Koch;
C. tomentosa
(Lam.) Nutt.)
Japanese horse-chestnut (
Aesculus turbinate
Blume)
Macadamia nut (
Macadamia integrifolia
Maiden
Betche;
M. tetraphylla
L.A.S. Johnson)
Mongongo nut (
Schinziophyton rautanenii
(Schinz) Radcl.-Sm.)
Monkey-pot (
Lecythis pisonis
Cambess.)
Monkey puzzle nut (
Araucaria araucana
(Molina) K. Koch)
Okari nut (
Terminalia kaernbachii
Warb.)
Pachira nut (
Pachira insignis
(Sw.) Savigny)
Peach palm nut (
Bactris gasipaes
Kunth var.
gasipaes
)
Pecan (
Carya illinoinensis
(Wangenh.) K. Koch)
Pequi (
Caryocar brasiliense
Cambess.;
C. villosum
(Aubl.) Pers;
C. nuciferum
L.)
Pili nut (
Canarium ovatum
Engl.;
C. vulgare
Leenh.)
Pine nut (
Pinus edulis
Engelm.;
P. koraiensis
Siebold
Zucc.;
P. sibirica
Du Tour;
P. pumila
(Pall.) Regel;
P. gerardiana
Wall. ex D. Don;
P. monophylla
Torr.
Frém.;
P. quadrifolia
Parl. ex Sudw.;
P. pinea
L.)
Pistachio (
Pistacia vera
L.)
Sapucaia nut (
Lecythis zabucaja
Aubl.)
Tropical almond (
Terminalia catappa
L.)
Walnut, black (
Juglans nigra
L.;
J. hindsii
Jeps. ex R. E. Sm.;
J. microcarpa
Berland.)
Walnut, English (
Juglans regia
L.)
Yellowhorn (
Xanthoceras sorbifolium
Bunge)
Cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these
(26)
Crop Group 15.
Cereal Grains Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Corn (fresh sweet corn and dried field corn), rice, sorghum, and wheat.
(ii)
Commodities.
The following is a list of all the commodities included in Crop Group 15:

# Crop Group 15: Cereal Grains—Commodities
Barley (
Hordeum
spp.)
Buckwheat (
Fagopyrum esculentum
)
Corn (
Zea mays
)
Millet, pearl (
Pennisetum glaucum
)
Millet, proso (
Panicum milliaceum
)
Oats (
Avena
spp.)
Popcorn (
Zea mays
var.
everta
)
Rice (
Oryza sativa
)
Rye (
Secale cereale
)
Sorghum (milo) (
Sorghum
spp.)
Teosinte (
Euchlaena mexicana
)
Triticale (
Triticum-Secale
hybrids)
Wheat (
Triticum
spp.)
Wild rice (
Zizania aquatica
)
(27)
Crop Group 15-22.
Cereal Grain Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Wheat, barley, field corn, sweet corn, rice and either grain sorghum or proso millet.
(ii)
Commodities.
The following table is a list of all commodities included in
Crop Group 15-22 and includes cultivars, varieties and/or hybrids of these commodities.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
c
)(27)—Crop Group 15-22: Cereal Grain Group
Commodities
Related crop
subgroups
Amaranth, grain,
Amaranthus
spp
15-22A
Amaranth, purple,
Amaranthus cruentus
L
15-22A
Baby corn,
Zea mays
L. subsp.
mays
15-22D
Barley,
Hordeum vulgare
L. subsp.
vulgare
15-22B
Buckwheat,
Fagopyrum esculentum
Moench
15-22B
Buckwheat, tartary,
Fagopyrum tataricum
(L.) Gaertn
15-22B
Canarygrass, annual,
Phalaris canariensis
L
15-22B
Cañihua,
Chenopodium pallidicaule
Aellen
15-22A
Chia,
Salvia hispanica
L
15-22A
Corn, field,
Zea mays
L. subsp.
mays
15-22C
Corn, sweet,
Zea mays
L. subsp.
mays
15-22D
Cram cram,
Cenchrus biflorus
Roxb
15-22A
Fonio, black,
Digitaria iburua
Stapf
15-22E
Fonio, white,
Digitaria exilis
(Kippist) Stapf
15-22E
Grain sorghum,
Sorghum bicolor
(L.) Moench
15-22E
Huauzontle grain,
Chenopodium berlandieri
Moq. subsp.
nuttalliae
(Saff.) H. D. Wilson
Heiser and
Chenopodium berlandieri
Moq
15-22A
Inca wheat,
Amaranthus caudatus
L
15-22A
Job's tears,
Coix lacryma-jobi
L.,
Coix lacryma-jobi
L. var. ma-yun (Rom. Caill.) Stapf
15-22E
Millet, barnyard,
Echinochloa frumentacea
Link
15-22E
Millet, finger,
Eleusine coracana
(L.) Gaertn. subsp.
coracana
15-22E
Millet, foxtail,
Setaria italica
(L.) P. Beauv. subsp.
italic
15-22E
Millet, little,
Panicum sumatrense
Roth
15-22E
Millet, pearl,
Pennisetum glaucum
(L.) R. B. r
15-22E
Millet, proso,
Panicum miliaceum
L. subsp.
miliaceum
15-22E
Oat,
Avena spp
15-22B
Oat, Abyssinian,
Avena abyssinica
Hochst. ex A. Rich
15-22B
Oat, common,
Avena sativa
L
15-22B
Oat, naked,
Avena nuda
L
15-22B
Oat, sand,
Avena strigosa
Schreb
15-22B
Popcorn,
Zea mays
L. subsp.
mays
15-22C
Prince's feather,
Amaranthus hypochondriacus
L
15-22A
Psyllium,
Plantago arenaria
Waldst.
Kit
15-22A
Psyllium, blond,
Plantago ovata
Forssk
15-22A
Quinoa,
Chenopodium quinoa
Willd. subsp.
quinoa
15-22A
Rice,
Oryza sativa
L
15-22F
Rice, African,
Oryza glaberrima
Steud
15-22F
Rye,
Secale cereale
L. subsp.
cereale
15-22A
Teff,
Eragrostis tef
(Zuccagni) Trotter
15-22E
Teosinte,
Zea mays
L. subsp.
mexicana
(Schrad.) H. H. Iltis
15-22C
Triticale, X
Triticosecale
spp
15-22A
Wheat,
Triticum
spp
15-22A
Wheat, club,
Triticum aestivum
L. subsp.
compactum
(Host) Mackey
15-22A
Wheat, common,
Triticum aestivum
L. subsp.
aestivum
15-22A
Wheat, durum,
Triticum turgidum
L. subsp.
durum
(Desf.) van Slageren
15-22A
Wheat, einkorn,
Triticum monococcum
L. subsp.
monococcum
15-22A
Wheat, emmer,
Triticum turgidum
L. subsp.
dicoccon
(Schrank) Thell
15-22A
Wheat, macha,
Triticum aestivum
L. subsp.
macha
(Dekapr.
Menabde) Mackey
15-22A
Wheat, oriental,
Triticum turgidum
L. subsp.
turanicum
(Jakubz.) Á. Löve
D. Löve
15-22A
Wheat, Persian,
Triticum turgidum
L. subsp.
carthlicum
(Nevski) Á. Löve
D. Löve
15-22A
Wheat, Polish,
Triticum turgidum
L. subsp.
polonicum
(L.) Thell
15-22A
Wheat, poulard,
Triticum turgidum
L. subsp.
turgidum
15-22A
Wheat, shot,
Triticum aestivum
L. subsp.
sphaerococcum
(Percival) Mackey
15-22A
Wheat, spelt,
Triticum aestivum
L. subsp.
spelta
(L.) Thell
15-22A
Wheat, timopheevi,
Triticum timopheevii
(Zhuk.) Zhuk. subsp.
timopheevii
15-22A
Wheat, vavilovi,
Triticum vavilovii
Jakubz
15-22A
Wheat, wild einkorn,
Triticum monococcum
L. subsp.
aegilopoides
(Link) Thell
15-22A
Wheat, wild emmer,
Triticum turgidum
L. subsp.
dicoccoides
(Körn. ex Asch.
Graebn.) Thell
15-22A
Wheatgrass, intermediate,
Iseilema prostratum
(L.) Andersson
15-22A
Wild rice,
Zizania palustris
L
15-22F
Wild rice, eastern,
Zizania aquatica
L
15-22F
Cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities
(iii)
Crop subgroups.
The following table identifies the crop subgroups for Crop Group 15-22, specifies the representative commodities for each subgroup and lists all the commodities included in each subgroup.
Table 2 to Paragraph (
c
)(27)—Crop Group 15-22: Subgroup Listing
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop Subgroup 15-22A: Wheat subgroup
Wheat
Amaranth, grain; Amaranth, purple; Cañihua; Chia; Cram cram; Huauzontle grain; Inca wheat; Prince's feather; Psyllium; Psyllium, blond; Quinoa; Rye; Triticale; Wheat; Wheat, club; Wheat, common; Wheat, durum; Wheat, einkorn; Wheat, emmer; Wheat, macha; Wheat, oriental; Wheat, Persian; Wheat, Polish; Wheat, poulard; Wheat, shot; Wheat, spelt; Wheat, timopheevi; Wheat, vavilovi; Wheat, wild einkorn; Wheat, wild emmer; Wheatgrass, intermediate; cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities.
Crop Subgroup 15-22B: Barley subgroup
Barley
Barley; Buckwheat; Buckwheat, tartary; Canarygrass, annual; Oat; Oat, Abyssinian; Oat, common; Oat, naked; Oat, sand; cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities.
Crop Subgroup 15-22C: Field corn subgroup
Field corn
Corn, field; Popcorn; Teosinte; cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities.
Crop Subgroup 15-22D: Sweet corn subgroup
Sweet corn
Baby corn; Corn, sweet; cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities.
Crop Subgroup 15-22E: Grain sorghum and millet subgroup
Grain sorghum or Proso millet
Fonio, black; Fonio, white; Grain sorghum; Job's tears; Millet, barnyard; Millet, finger; Millet, foxtail; Millet, little; Millet, pearl; Millet, proso; Teff; cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities.
Crop Subgroup 15-22F: Rice subgroup
Rice
Rice; Rice, African; Wild rice; Wild rice, eastern; cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities.
(28)
Crop Group 16.
Forage, Fodder and Straw of Cereal Grains Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Corn, wheat, and any other cereal grain crop.
(ii)
Commodities.
The commodities included in Crop Group 16 are: Forage, fodder, stover, and straw of all commodities included in the group cereal grains group. EPA may establish separate group tolerances on forage, fodder, hay, stover, or straw, if data on the representative commodities indicate differences in the levels of residues on forage, fodder, stover, or straw.
(29)
Crop Group 16-22.
Forage, Hay, Stover, and Straw of Cereal Grain Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Corn, wheat, and any other cereal grain crop.
(ii)
Commodities.
Crop Group 16-22 includes the forage, hay, stover and straw of the commodities in Crop Group 15-22, including cultivars, varieties and/or hybrids of these commodities.
(30)
Crop Group 17.
Grass Forage, Fodder, and Hay Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Bermuda grass; bluegrass; and bromegrass or fescue.
(ii)
Commodities.
The commodities included in Crop Group 17 are: Forage, fodder, stover, and hay of any grass,
Gramineae/Poaceae
family (either green or cured) except sugarcane and those included in the cereal grains group, that will be fed to or grazed by livestock, all pasture and range grasses and grasses grown for hay or silage. EPA may establish separate group tolerances on forage, fodder, stover, or
hay, if data on the representative commodities indicate differences in the levels of residues on forage, fodder, stover, or hay.
(31)
Crop Group 18.
Nongrass Animal Feeds (Forage, Fodder, Straw, and Hay) Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Alfalfa and clover (
Trifolium
spp.)
(ii)
Commodities.
EPA may establish separate group tolerances on forage, fodder, straw, or hay, if data on the representative commodities indicate differences in the levels of residues on forage, fodder, straw, or hay. The following is a list of all the commodities included in Crop Group 18:

# Crop Group 18: Nongrass Animal Feeds (Forage, Fodder, Straw, and Hay) Group—Commodities
Alfalfa (
Medicago sativa
subsp.
sativa
)
Bean, velvet (
Mucuna pruriens
var.
utilis
)
Clover (
Trifolium
spp.,
Melilotus
spp.)
Kudzu (
Pueraria lobata
)
Lespedeza (
Lespedeza
spp.)
Lupin (
Lupinus
spp.)
Sainfoin (
Onobrychis viciifolia
);
Trefoil (
Lotus
spp.)
Vetch (
Vicia
spp.)
Vetch, crown (
Coronilla varia
)
Vetch, milk (
Astragalus
spp.)
(32)
Crop Group 19.
Herbs and Spices Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Basil (fresh and dried); black pepper; chive; and celery seed or dill seed.
(ii)
Table.
The following table 1 lists all the commodities included in Crop Group 19 and identifies the related subgroups.
Table 1—Crop Group 19: Herbs and Spices Group
Commodities
Related crop subgroups
Allspice (
Pimenta dioica
)
19B
Angelica (
Angelica archangelica
)
19A
Anise (anise seed) (
Pimpinella anisum
)
19B
Anise, star (
Illicium verum
)
19B
Annatto (seed)
19B
Balm (lemon balm) (
Melissa officinalis
)
19A
Basil (
Ocimum basilicum
)
19A
Borage (
Borago officinalis
)
19A
Burnet (
Sanguisorba minor
)
19A
Camomile (
Anthemis nobilis
)
19A
Caper buds (
Capparis spinosa
)
19B
Caraway (
Carum carvi
)
19B
Caraway, black (
Nigella sativa
)
19B
Cardamom (
Elettaria cardamomum
)
19B
Cassia bark (
Cinnamomum aromaticum
)
19B
Cassia buds (
Cinnamomum aromaticum
)
19B
Catnip (
Nepeta cataria
)
19A
Celery seed (
Apicum graveolens
)
19B
Chervil (dried) (
Anthriscus cerefolium
)
19A
Chive (
Allium schoenoprasum
)
19A
Chive, Chinese (
Allium tuberosum
)
19A
Cinnamon (
Cinnamomum verum
)
19B
Clary (
Salvia sclarea
)
19A
Clove buds (
Eugenia caryophyllata
)
19B
Coriander (cilantro or Chinese parsley) (leaf) (
Coriandrum sativum
)
19A
Coriander (cilantro) (seed) (
Coriandrum sativum
)
19B
Costmary (
Chrysanthemum balsamita
)
19A
Culantro (leaf) (
Eryngium foetidum
)
19A
Culantro (seed) (
Eryngium foetidum
)
19B
Cumin (
Cuminum cyminum
)
19B
Curry (leaf) (
Murraya koenigii
)
19A
Dill (dillweed) (
Anethum graveolens
)
19A
Dill (seed) (
Anethum graveolens
)
19B
Fennel (common) (
Foeniculum vulgare
)
19B
Fennel, Florence (seed) (
Foeniculum vulgare
Azoricum Group)
19B
Fenugreek (
Trigonella foenumgraecum
)
19B
Grains of paradise (
Aframomum melegueta
)
19B
Horehound (
Marrubium vulgare
)
19A
Hyssop (
Hyssopus officinalis
)
19A
Juniper berry (
Juniperus communis
)
19B
Lavender (
Lavandula officinalis
)
19A
Lemongrass (
Cymbopogon citratus
)
19A
Lovage (leaf) (
Levisticum officinale
)
19A
Lovage (seed) (
Levisticum officinale
)
19B
Mace (
Myristica fragrans
)
19B
Marigold (
Calendula officinalis
)
19A
Marjoram (
Origanum spp.
) (includes sweet or annual marjoram, wild marjoram or oregano, and pot marjoram)
19A
Mustard (seed) (
Brassica
juncea,
B.
hirta,
B.
nigra)
19B
Nasturtium (
Tropaeolum majus
)
19A
Nutmeg (
Myristica fragrans
)
19B
Parsley (dried) (
Petroselinum crispum
)
19A
Pennyroyal (
Mentha pulegium
)
19A
Pepper, black (
Piper nigrum
)
19B
Pepper, white
19B
Poppy (seed) (
Papaver somniferum
)
19B
Rosemary (
Rosemarinus officinalis
)
19A
Rue (
Ruta graveolens
)
19A
Saffron (
Crocus sativus
)
19B
Sage (
Salvia officinalis
)
19A
Savory, summer and winter (
Satureja spp.
)
19A
Sweet bay (bay leaf) (
Laurus nobilis
)
19A
Tansy (
Tanacetum vulgare
)
19A
Tarragon (
Artemisia dracunculus
)
19A
Thyme (
Thymus spp.
)
19A
Vanilla (
Vanilla planifolia
)
19B
Wintergreen (
Gaultheria procumbens
)
19A
Woodruff (
Galium odorata
)
19A
Wormwood (
Artemisia absinthium
)
19A
(iii)
Table.
The following table 2 identifies the crop subgroups for Crop Group 19, specifies the representative commodities for each subgroup, and lists all the commodities included in each subgroup.
Table 2—Crop Group 19 Subgroups
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop Subgroup 19A.
Herb subgroup.
Basil (fresh and dried) and chive
Angelica; balm; basil; borage; burnet; camomile; catnip; chervil (dried); chive; chive, Chinese, clary; coriander (leaf); costmary; culantro (leaf); curry (leaf); dillweed; horehound; hyssop; lavender; lemongrass; lovage (leaf); marigold; marjoram (
Origanum
spp.); nasturtium; parsley (dried); pennyroyal; rosemary; rue; sage; savory, summer and winter; sweet bay; tansy; tarragon; thyme; wintergreen; woodruff; and wormwood.
Crop Subgroup 19B.
Spice subgroup.
Black pepper; and celery seed or dill seed
Allspice; anise (seed); anise, star; annatto (seed); caper (buds); caraway; caraway, black; cardamom; cassia (buds); celery (seed); cinnamon; clove (buds); coriander (seed); culantro (seed); cumin; dill (seed); fennel, common; fennel, Florence (seed); fenugreek; grains of paradise; juniper (berry); lovage (seed); mace; mustard (seed); nutmeg; pepper, black; pepper, white; poppy (seed); saffron; and vanilla.
(iv)
Tolerances established after November 6, 2020
. After November 6, 2020, new herb crop group and subgroup tolerances will be established as Crop Group 25 or subgroups 25A and 25B, and new spice crop group tolerances will be established as Crop Group 26.
(33)
Crop Group 20.
Oilseed Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Rapeseed (canola varieties only); sunflower, seed and cottonseed.
(ii)
Table.
The following Table 1 lists all the commodities listed in Crop Group 20 and identifies the related crop subgroups and includes cultivars and/or varieties of these commodities.
Table 1—Crop Group 20: Oilseed Group
Commodities
Related crop subgroups
Borage,
Borago officinalis
L
20A
Calendula,
Calendula officinalis
L
20B
Castor oil plant,
Ricinus communis
L
20B
Chinese tallowtree,
Triadica sebifera
(L.) Small
20B
Cottonseed,
Gossypium hirsutum
L.
Gossypium
spp
20C
Crambe,
Crambe hispanica
L.;
C. abyssinica
Hochst. ex R.E. Fr
20A
Cuphea,
Cuphea hyssopifolia
Kunth
20A
Echium,
Echium plantagineum
L
20A
Euphorbia,
Euphorbia esula
L
20B
Evening primrose,
Oenothera biennis
L
20B
Flax seed,
Linum usitatissimum
L
20A
Gold of pleasure,
Camelina sativa
(L.) Crantz
20A
Hare's ear mustard,
Conringia orientalis
(L.) Dumort
20A
Jojoba,
Simmondsia chinensis
(Link) C.K. Schneid
20B
Lesquerella,
Lesquerella recurvata
(Engelm. ex A. Gray) S. Watson
20A
Lunaria,
Lunaria annua
L
20A
Meadowfoam,
Limnanthes alba
Hartw. ex Benth
20A
Milkweed,
Asclepias
spp
20A
Mustard seed,
Brassica hirta
Moench,
Sinapis alba
L. subsp.
Alba.
20A
Niger seed,
Guizotia abyssinica
(L.f.) Cass
20B
Oil radish,
Raphanus sativus
L. var.
oleiformis
Pers
20A
Poppy seed,
Papaver somniferum
L. subsp.
Somniferum
20A
Rapeseed,
Brassica
spp.;
B. napus
L
20A
Rose hip,
Rosa rubiginosa
L
20B
Safflower,
Carthamus tinctorious
L
20B
Sesame,
Sesamum indicum
L.,
S. radiatum
Schumach.
honn
20A
Stokes aster,
Stokesia laevis
(Hill) Greene
20B
Sunflower,
Helianthus annuus
L
20B
Sweet rocket,
Hesperis matronalis
L
20A
Tallowwood,
Ximenia americana
L
20B
Tea oil plant,
Camellia oleifera
C. Abel
20B
Vernonia,
Vernonia galamensis
(Cass.) Less
20B
Cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these
(iii)
Table.
The following Table 2 identifies the crop subgroups for Crop Group 20, specifies the representative commodities for each subgroup and lists all the commodities included in each subgroup.
Table 2—Crop Group 20: Subgroup Listing
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop subgroup 20A. Rapeseed subgroup
Rapeseed, canola varieties only
Borage; crambe; cuphea; echium; flax seed; gold of pleasure; hare's ear mustard; lesquerella; lunaria; meadowfoam; milkweed; mustard seed; oil radish; poppy seed; rapeseed; sesame; sweet rocket cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
Crop subgroup 20B. Sunflower subgroup
Sunflower, seed
Calendula; castor oil plant; chinese tallowtree; euphorbia; evening primrose; jojoba; niger seed; rose hip; safflower; stokes aster; sunflower; tallowwood; tea oil plant; vernonia; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
Crop subgroup 20C. Cottonseed subgroup
Cottonseed
Cottonseed; cultivars, varieties, and/or hybrids of these.
(34)
Crop Group 21.
Edible fungi Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
White button mushroom and any one oyster mushroom or any Shiitake mushroom.
(ii)
Table.
The following is a list of all the commodities in Crop Group 21. There are no related subgroups.
Crop Group 21—Edible Fungi Group—Commodities
Blewitt (
Lepista nuda
)
Bunashimeji (
Hypsizygus marrmoreus
)
Chinese mushroom (
Volvariella volvacea
) (Bull.) Singer
Enoki (
Flammulina velutipes
) (Curt.) Singer
Hime-Matsutake (
Agaricus blazei
) Murill
Hirmeola (
Auricularia auricular
)
Maitake (
Grifola frondosa
)
Morel (
Morchella spp.
)
Nameko (
Pholiota nameko
)
Net Bearing (
Dictyophora
)
Oyster mushroom (
Pleurotus spp.
)
Pom Pom (
Hericium erinaceus
)
Reishi mushroom (
Ganoderma lucidum
(Leyss. Fr.) Karst.)
Rodman's agaricus (
Agaricus bitorquis
) (Quel.) Saccardo
Shiitake mushroom (
Lentinula edodes
(Berk.) Pegl.)
Shimeji (
Tricholoma conglobatum
)
Stropharia (
Stropharia spp.
)
Truffle (
Tuber spp.
)
White button mushroom (
Agaricus bisporous
(Lange) Imbach)
White Jelly Fungi (
Tremella fuciformis
)
(35)
Crop Group 22.
Stalk, Stem and Leaf Petiole Vegetable Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Asparagus and celery.
(ii)
Commodities.
The following Table 1 lists all commodities included in Crop Group 22.
Table 1—Crop Group 22: Stalk, Stem and Leaf Petiole Vegetable Group
Commodities
Related crop
subgroups
Agave (
Agave
spp.)
22A
Aloe vera (
Aloe vera
(L.) Burm.f.)
22A
Asparagus (
Asparagus officinalis
L.)
22A
Bamboo, shoots (
Arundinaria
spp.;
Bambusa
spp.,
Chimonobambusa
spp.;
Dendrocalamus
spp.,
Fargesia
spp.;
Gigantochloa
spp.,
Nastus elatus; Phyllostachys
spp.;
Thyrsostachys
spp.)
22A
Cardoon (
Cynara cardunculus
L.)
22B
Celery (
Apium graveolens
var.
dulce
(Mill.) Pers.)
22B
Celery, Chinese (
Apium graveolens
L. var.
secalinum
(Alef.) Mansf.)
22B
Celtuce (
Lactuca sativa
var.
angustana
L.H. Bailey)
22A
Fennel, Florence, fresh leaves and stalk (
Foeniculum vulgare
subsp.
vulgare
var.
azoricum
(Mill.) Thell.)
22A
Fern, edible, fiddlehead
22A
Fuki (
Petasites japonicus
(Siebold
Zucc.) Maxim.)
22B
Kale, sea (
Crambe maritima
L.)
22A
Kohlrabi (
Brassica oleracea
L. var
gongylodes
L.)
22A
Palm hearts (various species)
22A
Prickly pear, pads (
Opuntia ficus-indica
(L.) Mill.,
Opuntia
spp.)
22A
Prickly pear, Texas, pads (
Opuntia engelmannii
Salm-Dyck ex Engelm. var.
lindheimeri
(Engelm.) B.D. Parfitt
Pinkav)
22A
Rhubarb (
Rheum x rhabarbarum
L.)
22B
Udo (
Aralia cordata
Thunb. )
22B
Zuiki (
Colocasia gigantea
(Blume) Hook. f.)
22B
Cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities
(iii)
Crop subgroups.
The following Table 2 identifies the crop subgroups for Crop Group 22, specifies the representative commodities for each subgroup, and lists all the commodities included in each subgroup.
Table 2—Crop Group 22: Subgroup Listing
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop Subgroup 22A. Stalk and stem vegetable subgroup
Asparagus
Agave; aloe vera; asparagus; bamboo, shoots; celtuce; fennel, florence, fresh leaves and stalk; fern, edible, fiddlehead; kale, sea; kohlrabi; palm hearts; prickly pear, pads; prickly pear, Texas, pads; cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities.
Crop Subgroup 22B. Leaf petiole vegetable subgroup
Celery
Cardoon; celery; celery, Chinese; fuki; rhubarb; udo; zuiki; cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities.
(36)
Crop Group 23.
Tropical and Subtropical Fruit, Edible Peel Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Date, fig, guava, and olive.
(ii)
Commodities.
The following Table 1 lists all commodities included in Crop Group 23.
Table 1—Crop Group 23: Tropical and Subtropical Fruit, Edible Peel Group
Commodities
Related crop
subgroups
Açaí (
Euterpe oleracea
Mart.)
23C
Acerola (
Malpighia emarginata
DC.)
23A
Achachairú (
Garcinia gardneriana
(Planch.
Triana) Zappi)
23B
African plum (
Vitex doniana
Sweet)
23A
Agritos (
Berberis trifoliolata
Moric.)
23A
Almondette (
Buchanania lanzan
Spreng.)
23A
Ambarella (
Spondias dulcis
Sol. ex Parkinson)
23B
Apak palm (
Brahea dulcis
(Kunth) Mart.)
23C
Appleberry (
Billardiera scandens
Sm.)
23A
Arazá (
Eugenia stipitata
McVaugh)
23B
Arbutus berry (
Arbutus unedo
L.)
23A
Babaco (
Vasconcellea
x
heilbornii
(V.M. Badillo) V.M. Badillo)
23B
Bacaba palm (
Oenocarpus bacaba
Mart.)
23C
Bacaba-de-leque (
Oenocarpus distichus
Mart.)
23C
Bayberry, red (
Morella rubra
Lour.)
23A
Bignay (
Antidesma bunius
(L.) Spreng.)
23A
Bilimbi (
Averrhoa bilimbi
L.)
23B
Borojó (
Borojoa patinoi
Cuatrec.)
23B
Breadnut (
Brosimum alicastrum
Sw.)
23A
Cabeluda (
Plinia glomerata
(O. Berg) Amshoff)
23A
Cajou, fruit (
Anacardium giganteum
Hance ex Engl.)
23B
Cambucá (
Marlierea edulis
Nied.)
23B
Carandas-plum (
Carissa edulis
Vahl)
23A
Carob (
Ceratonia siliqua
L.)
23B
Cashew apple (
Anacardium occidentale
L.)
23B
Ceylon iron wood (
Manilkara hexandra
(Roxb.) Dubard)
23A
Ceylon olive (
Elaeocarpus serratus
L.)
23A
Cherry-of-the-Rio-Grande (
Eugenia aggregata
(Vell.) Kiaersk.)
23A
Chinese olive, black (
Canarium tramdenum
C.D. Dai
Yakovlev)
23A
Chinese olive, white (
Canarium album
(Lour.) Raeusch.)
23A
Chirauli-nut (
Buchanania latifolia
Roxb.)
23A
Ciruela verde (
Bunchosia armeniaca
(Cav.) DC.)
23B
Cocoplum (
Chrysobalanus icaco
L.)
23A
Date (
Phoenix dactylifera
L.)
23C
Davidson's plum (
Davidsonia pruriens
F. Muell.)
23B
Desert-date (
Balanites aegyptiacus
(L.) Delile)
23A
Doum palm coconut (
Hyphaene thebaica
(L.) Mart.)
23C
False sandalwood (
Ximenia americana
L.)
23A
Feijoa (
Acca sellowiana
(O. Berg) Burret)
23B
Fig (
Ficus carica
L.)
23B
Fragrant manjack (
Cordia dichotoma
G. Forst.)
23A
Gooseberry, abyssinian (
Dovyalis abyssinica
(A. Rich.) Warb.)
23A
Gooseberry, Ceylon (
Dovyalis hebecarpa
(Gardner) Warb.)
23A
Gooseberry, Indian (
Phyllanthus emblica
L.)
23B
Gooseberry, otaheite (
Phyllanthus acidus
(L.) Skeels)
23A
Governor's plum (
Flacourtia indica
(Burm. F.) Merr.)
23A
Grumichama (
Eugenia brasiliensis
Lam)
23A
Guabiroba (
Campomanesia xanthocarpa
O. Berg)
23A
Guava (
Psidium guajava
L.)
23B
Guava berry (
Myrciaria floribunda
(H. West ex Willd.) O. Berg)
23A
Guava, Brazilian (
Psidium guineense
Sw.)
23A
Guava, cattley (
Psidium cattleyanum
Sabine)
23B
Guava, Costa Rican (
Psidium friedrichsthalianum
(O. Berg) Nied.)
23A
Guava, Para (
Psidium acutangulum
DC.)
23B
Guava, purple strawberry (
Psidium cattleyanum
Sabine var.
cattleyanum
)
23B
Guava, strawberry (
Psidium cattleyanum
Sabine var.
littorale
(Raddi) Fosberg)
23B
Guava, yellow strawberry (
Psidium cattleyanum
Sabine var.
cattleyanum
forma
lucidum
O. Deg.)
23B
Guayabillo (
Psidium sartorianum
(O. Berg) Nied.)
23A
Illawarra plum (
Podocarpus elatus
R. Br. Ex Endl.)
23A
Imbé (
Garcinia livingstonei
T. Anderson)
23B
Imbu (
Spondias tuberosa
Arruda ex Kost.)
23B
Indian-plum (
Flacourtia jangomas
(Lour.). basionym)
23A
Jaboticaba (
Myrciaria cauliflora
(Mart.) O. Berg)
23B
Jamaica-cherry (
Muntingia calabura
L.)
23A
Jambolan (
Syzygium cumini
(L.) Skeels)
23A
Jelly palm (
Butia capitata
(Mart.) Becc.)
23C
Jujube, Indian (
Ziziphus mauritiana
Lam.)
23B
Kaffir-plum (
Harpephyllum caffrum
Bernh. Ex C. Krauss)
23A
Kakadu plum (
Terminalia latipes
Benth. subsp.
psilocarpa
Pedley)
23A
Kapundung (
Baccaurea racemosa
(Reinw.) Mull. Arg.)
23A
Karanda (
Carissa carandas
L.)
23A
Kwai muk (
Artocarpus hypargyreus
Hance ex Benth.)
23B
Lemon aspen (
Acronychia acidula
F. Muell)
23A
Mangaba (
Hancornia speciosa
Gomes)
23B
Marian plum (
Bouea macrophylla
Griff.)
23B
Mombin, malayan (
Spondias pinnata
(J. Koenig ex L. f.) Kurz)
23B
Mombin, purple (
Spondias purpurea
L.)
23B
Mombin, yellow (
Spondias mombin
L.)
23A
Monkeyfruit (
Artocarpus lacucha
Buch. Ham.)
23B
Monos plum (
Pseudanamomis umbellulifera
(Kunth) Kausel)
23A
Mountain cherry (
Bunchosia cornifolia
Kunth)
23A
Nance (
Byrsonima crassifolia
(L.) Kunth)
23B
Natal plum (
Carissa macrocarpa
(Eckl.) A. DC.)
23B
Noni (
Morinda citrifolia
L.)
23B
Olive (
Olea europaea
L. subsp.
europaea
)
23A
Papaya, mountain (
Vasconcellea pubescens
A. DC.)
23B
Patauá (
Oenocarpus bataua
Mart.)
23C
Peach palm, fruit (
Bactris gasipaes
Kunth var.
gasipaes
)
23C
Persimmon, black (
Diospyros texana
Scheele)
23A
Persimmon, Japanese (
Diospyros kaki
Thunb.)
23B
Pitomba (
Eugenia luschnathiana
Klotzsch ex O. Berg)
23A
Plum-of-Martinique (
Flacourtia inermis
Roxb.)
23A
Pomerac (
Syzygium malaccense
(L.) Merr.
L.M. Perry)
23B
Rambai (
Baccaurea motleyana
(Mull. Arg.) Mull. Arg.)
23B
Rose apple (
Syzygium jambos
(L.) Alston)
23B
Rukam (
Flacourtia rukam
Zoll.
Moritizi)
23A
Rumberry (
Myrciaria dubia
(Kunth) McVaugh
Myrtaceae
)
23A
Sea grape (
Coccoloba uvifera
(L.) L.)
23A
Sentul (
Sandoricum koetjape
(Burm. F.) Merr.)
23B
Sete-capotes (
Campomanesia guazumifolia
(Cambess.) O. Berg)
23A
Silver aspen (
Acronychia wilcoxian
(F. Muell.) T.G. Hartley)
23A
Starfruit (
Averrhoa carambola
L.)
23B
Surinam cherry (
Eugenia uniflora
L.)
23B
Tamarind (
Tamarindus indica
L.)
23B
Uvalha (
Eugenia pyriformis
Cambess )
23B
Water apple (
Syzygium aqueum
(Burm. F.) Alston)
23A
Water pear (
Syzygium guineense
(Willd.) DC)
23A
Water berry (
Syzygium cordatum
Hochst. Ex C. Krauss)
23A
Wax jambu (
Syzygium samarangense
(Blume) Merr.
L.M. Perry)
23A
Cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities
(iii)
Table.
The following Table 2 identifies the crop subgroups for Crop Group 23, specifies the representative commodities for each subgroup, and lists all the commodities included in each subgroup.
Table 2—Crop Group 23: Subgroup Listing
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop Subgroup 23A. Tropical and Subtropical, Small fruit, edible peel subgroup
Olive
Acerola; African plum; agritos; almondette; appleberry; arbutus berry; bayberry, red; bignay; breadnut; cabeluda; carandas-plum; Ceylon iron wood; Ceylon olive; cherry-of-the-Rio-Grande; Chinese olive, black; Chinese olive, white; chirauli-nut; cocoplum; desert-date; false sandalwood; fragant manjack; gooseberry, abyssinian; gooseberry, Ceylon; gooseberry, otaheite; governor's plum; grumichama; guabiroba; guava berry; guava, Brazilian; guava, Costa Rican; guayabillo; illawarra plum; Indian-plum; Jamaica-cherry; jambolan; kaffir-plum; kakadu plum; kapundung; karanda; lemon aspen; mombin, yellow; monos plum; mountain cherry; olive; persimmon, black; pitomba; plum-of-Martinique; rukam; rumberry; sea grape; sete-capotes; silver aspen; water apple; water pear; water berry; wax jambu; cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities.
Crop Subgroup 23B. Tropical and Subtropical, Medium to large fruit, edible peel subgroup
Fig and guava
Achachairú; ambarella; arazá; babaco; bilimbi; borojó; cajou, fruit; cambucá; carob; cashew apple; ciruela verde; davidson's plum; feijoa; fig; gooseberry, Indian; guava; guava, cattley; guava, Para; guava, purple strawberry; guava, strawberry; guava, yellow strawberry; imbé; imbu; jaboticaba; jujube, Indian; kwai muk; mangaba; Marian plum; mombin, Malayan; mombin, purple; monkeyfruit; nance; natal plum; noni; papaya, mountain; persimmon, Japanese; pomerac; rambai; rose apple; sentul; starfruit; Surinam cherry; tamarind; uvalha; cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities.
Crop Subgroup 23C. Tropical and Subtropical, Palm fruit, edible peel subgroup
Date
Açaí; apak palm; bacaba palm; bacaba-de-leque; date; doum palm coconut; jelly palm; patauá; peach palm, fruit; cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities.
(37)
Crop Group 24.
Tropical and Subtropical Fruit, Inedible Peel Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Atemoya or sugar apple, avocado, banana or pomegranate, dragon fruit, lychee, passionfruit, pineapple, and prickly pear, fruit.
(ii)
Commodities.
The following Table 1 lists all commodities included in Crop Group 24.
Table 1—Crop Group 24: Tropical and Subtropical Fruit, Inedible Peel Group
Commodities
Related crop subgroups
Abiu (
Pouteria caimito
(Ruiz
Pav.) Radlk)
24B
Aisen (
Boscia senegalensis
(Pers.) Lam.)
24A
Akee apple (
Blighia sapida
K.D. Koenig)
24B
Atemoya (
Annona cherimola
Mill. X A. squamosa L.)
24C
Avocado (
Persea americana
Mill.)
24B
Avocado, Guatemalan (
Persea americana
Mill. var.
guatemalensis
)
24B
Avocado, Mexican (
Persea americana
Mill. var.
drymifolia
(Schltdl.
Cham.) S.F. Blak)
24B
Avocado, West Indian (
Persea americana
var.
americana
)
24B
Bacury (
Platonia insignis
Mart.)
24B
Bael fruit (
Aegle marmelos
(L.) Corrêa)
24A
Banana (
Musa
spp.)
24B
Banana, dwarf (
Musa
hybrids;
Musa acuminata
Colla)
24B
Binjai (
Mangifera caesia
Jack)
24B
Biriba (
Annona mucosa
Jacq.)
24C
Breadfruit (
Artocarpus altilis
(Parkinson) Fosberg)
24C
Burmese grape (
Baccaurea ramiflora
Lour.)
24A
Canistel (
Pouteria campechiana
(Kunth) Baehni)
24B
Cat's-eyes (
Dimocarpus longan
Lour. subsp.
malesianus
Leenh.)
24A
Champedak (
Artocarpus integer
(Thunb.) Merr.)
24C
Cherimoya (
Annona cherimola
Mill.)
24C
Cupuacú (
Theobroma grandiflorum
(Willd. Ex Spreng.) K. Schum.)
24B
Custard apple (
Annona reticulata
L.)
24C
Dragon fruit (
Hylocereus undatus
(Haw.) Britton
Rose)
24D
Durian (
Durio zibethinus
L.)
24C
Elephant-apple (
Limonia acidissima
L.)
24C
Etambe (
Mangifera zeylanica
(Blume) Hook. F.)
24B
Granadilla (
Passiflora ligularis
Juss.)
24E
Granadilla, giant (
Passiflora quadrangularis
L.)
24E
Ilama (
Annona macroprophyllata
Donn. Sm.)
24C
Ingá (
Inga vera
Willd. subsp.
affinis
(DC.) T.D. Penn.)
24A
Jackfruit (
Artocarpus heterophyllus
Lam.)
24C
Jatobá (
Hymenaea courbaril
L.)
24B
Karuka (
Pandanus julianettii
Martelli)
24C
Kei apple (
Dovyalis caffra
(Hook. F.
Harv.) Warb.)
24B
Langsat (
Lansium domesticum
Corrêa)
24B
Lanjut (
Mangifera lagenifera
Griff.)
24B
Longan (
Dimocarpus longan
Lour.)
24A
Lucuma (
Pouteria lucuma
(Ruiz
Pav.) Kuntze)
24B
Lychee (
Litchi chinensis
Sonn.)
24A
Mabolo (
Diospyros blancoi
A. DC.)
24B
Madras-thorn (
Pithecellobium dulce
(Roxb.) Benth.)
24A
Mammy-apple (
Mammea americana
L.)
24C
Manduro (
Balanites maughamii
Sprague)
24A
Mango (
Mangifera indica
L.)
24B
Mango, horse (
Mangifera foetida
Lour.)
24B
Mango, Saipan (
Mangifera odorata
Griff.)
24B
Mangosteen (
Garcinia mangostana
L. )
24B
Marang (
Artocarpus odoratissimus
Blanco)
24C
Marmaladebox (
Genipa americana
L.)
24C
Matisia (
Matisia cordata
Humb.
Bonpl.)
24A
Mesquite (
Prosopis juliflora
(Sw.) DC.)
24A
Mongongo, fruit (
Schinziophyton rautanenii
(Schinz) Radcl.-Sm)
24A
Monkey-bread-tree (
Adansonia digitata
L.)
24C
Monstera (
Monstera deliciosa
Liebm.)
24E
Nicobar-breadfruit (
Pandanus leram
Jones ex Fontana)
24C
Paho (
Mangifera altissima
Blanco)
24B
Pandanus (
Pandanus utilis
Bory)
24C
Papaya (
Carica papaya
L.)
24B
Passionflower, winged-stem (
Passiflora alata
Curtis)
24E
Passionfruit (
Passiflora edulis
Sims)
24E
Passionfruit, banana (
Passiflora tripartita
var.
mollissima
(Kunth) Holm-Niels.
P. Jorg.)
24E
Passionfruit, purple (
Passiflora edulis
Sims forma
edulis
)
24E
Passionfruit, yellow (
Passiflora edulis
Sims forma
flavicarpa
O. Deg.)
24E
Pawpaw, common (
Asimina triloba
(L.) Dunal)
24B
Pawpaw, small-flower (
Asimina parviflora
(Michx.) Dunal)
24A
Pelipisan (
Mangifera casturi
Kosterm.)
24B
Pequi (
Caryocar brasiliense
Cambess)
24B
Pequia (
Caryocar villosum
(Aubl.) Pers.)
24B
Persimmon, American (
Diospyros virginiana
L.)
24B
Pineapple (
Ananas comosus
(L.) Merr.)
24C
Pitahaya (
Hylocereus polyrhizus
(F.A.C. Weber) Britton
Rose)
24D
Pitaya (
Hylocereus
sp. including
H. megalanthus
(
H. ocamponis
and
H. polychizus
)
24D
Pitaya, amarilla (
Hylocereus triangularis
Britton
Rose)
24D
Pitaya, roja (
Hylocereus ocamponis
(Salm-Dyck) Britton
Rose)
24D
Pitaya, yellow (
Hylocereus megalanthus
(K. Schum. ex Vaupel) Ralf Bauer)
24D
Plantain (
Musa paradisiaca
L.)
24B
Pomegranate (
Punica granatum
L.)
24B
Poshte (
Annona liebmanniana
Baill.)
24B
Prickly pear, fruit (
Opuntia ficus-indica
(L.) Mill.)
24D
Prickly pear, Texas, fruit (
Opuntia engelmannii
Salm-Dyck ex Engelm. var.
lindheimeri
(Engelm.) B.D. Parfitt
Pinkav)
24D
Pulasan (
Nephelium ramboutan-ake
(Labill.) Leenh.)
24C
Quandong (
Santalum acuminatum
(R. Br.) DC.)
24B
Rambutan (
Nephelium lappaceum
L.)
24C
Saguaro (
Carnegiea gigantea
(Engelm.) Britton
Rose)
24D
Sapodilla (
Manilkara zapota
(L.) P. Royen)
24C
Sapote, black (
Diospyros digyna
Jacq.)
24B
Sapote, green (
Pouteria viridis
(Pittier) Cronquist)
24B
Sapote, mamey (
Pouteria sapota
(Jacq.) H.E. Moore
Stearn)
24C
Sapote, white (
Casimiroa edulis
La Llave
Lex)
24B
Sataw (
Parkia speciosa
Hassk.)
24B
Satinleaf (
Chrysophyllum oliviforme
L.)
24A
Screw-pine (
Pandanus tectorius
Parkinson)
24B
Sierra Leone-tamarind (
Dialium guineense
Willd.)
24A
Soncoya (
Annona purpurea
Moc.
Sessé ex Dunal)
24C
Soursop (
Annona muricata
L.)
24C
Spanish lime (
Melicoccus bijugatus
Jacq.)
24A
Star apple (
Chrysophyllum cainito
L.)
24B
Sugar apple (
Annona squamosa
L.)
24C
Sun sapote (
Licania platypus
(Hemsl.) Fritsch)
24C
Tamarind-of-the-Indies (
Vangueria madagascariensis
J.F. Gmel.)
24B
Velvet tamarind (
Dialium indum
L.)
24A
Wampi (
Clausena lansium
(Lour.) Skeels)
24A
White star apple (
Chrysophyllum albidum
G. Don)
24A
Wild loquat (
Uapaca kirkiana
Müll. Arg.)
24B
Cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities
(iii)
Table.
The following Table 2 identifies the crop subgroups for Crop Group 24, specifies the representative commodities for each subgroup, and lists all the commodities included in each subgroup.
Table 2—Crop Group 24: Subgroup Listing
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop Subgroup 24A. Tropical and Subtropical, Small fruit, inedible peel subgroup
Lychee
Aisen; bael fruit; Burmese grape; cat's-eyes; ingá; longan; lychee; madras-thorn; manduro; matisia; mesquite; mongongo, fruit; pawpaw, small-flower; satinleaf; Sierra Leone-tamarind; Spanish lime; velvet tamarind; wampi; white star apple; cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities.
Crop Subgroup 24B. Tropical and Subtropical, Medium to large fruit, smooth, inedible peel subgroup
Avocado, plus pomegranate or banana
Abiu; akee apple; avocado; avocado, Guatemalan; avocado, Mexican; avocado, West Indian; bacury; banana; banana, dwarf; binjai; canistel; cupuacú; etambe; jatobá; kei apple; langsat; lanjut; lucuma; mabolo; mango; mango, horse; mango, Saipan; mangosteen; paho; papaya; pawpaw, common; pelipisan; pequi; pequia; persimmon, American; plantain; pomegranate; poshte; quandong; sapote, black; sapote, green; sapote, white; sataw; screw-pine; star apple; tamarind-of-the-Indies; wild loquat; cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities.
Crop Subgroup 24C. Tropical and Subtropical, Medium to large fruit, rough or hairy, inedible peel subgroup
Pineapple, plus atemoya or sugar apple
Atemoya; biriba; breadfruit; champedak; cherimoya; custard apple; durian; elephant-apple; ilama; jackfruit; karuka; mammy-apple; marang; marmaladebox; monkey-bread tree; nicobar-breadfruit; pandanus; pineapple; pulasan; rambutan; sapodilla; sapote, mamey; soncoya; soursop; sugar apple; sun sapote; cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities.
Crop Subgroup 24D. Tropical and Subtropical, Cactus, inedible peel subgroup
Dragon fruit and Prickly pear fruit
Dragon fruit; pitahaya; pitaya; pitaya, amarilla; pitaya, roja; pitaya, yellow; prickly pear, fruit; prickly pear, Texas, fruit; saguaro; cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities.
Crop Subgroup 24E. Tropical and Subtropical, Vine, inedible peel subgroup
Passionfruit
Granadilla; granadilla, giant; monstera; passionflower, winged-stem; passionfruit; passionfruit, banana; passionfruit, purple; passionfruit, yellow; cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities.
(38)
Crop Group 25.
Herb Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Basil, dried leaves; Basil, fresh leaves; Mint, dried leaves; and Mint, fresh leaves.
(ii)
Commodities.
The following Table 1 lists all commodities included in Crop Group 25 and identifies the related crop subgroups.
Table 1—Crop Group 25: Herb Group
Commodities
Related crop subgroup
Agrimony, fresh leaves,
Agrimonia eupatoria
L
25A
Agrimony, dried leaves,
Agrimonia eupatoria
L
25B
Amla, fresh leaves,
Phyllanthus amarus
Schumach
25A
Amla, dried leaves,
Phyllanthus amarus
Schumach
25B
Angelica, fresh leaves,
Angelica archangelica
L
25A
Angelica, dried leaves,
Angelica archangelica
L
25B
Angelica, dahurian, fresh leaves,
Angelica dahurica
(Hoffm.) Benth
Hook. F. ex Franch.
Sav
25A
Angelica, dahurian, dried leaves,
Angelica dahurica
(Hoffm.) Benth
Hook. F. ex Franch.
Sav
25B
Applemint, fresh leaves,
Mentha suaveolens
Ehrh
25A
Applemint, dried leaves,
Mentha suaveolens
Ehrh
25B
Avarum, fresh leaves,
Senna auriculata
(L.) Roxb
25A
Avarum, dried leaves,
Senna auriculata
(L.) Roxb
25B
Balloon pea, fresh leaves,
Lessertia frutescens
(L.) Goldblatt
J. C. Manning
25A
Balloon pea, dried leaves,
Lessertia frutescens
(L.) Goldblatt
J. C. Manning
25B
Balm, fresh leaves,
Melissa officinalis
L
25A
Balm, dried leaves,
Melissa officinalis
L
25B
Barrenwort, fresh leaves,
Epimedium grandiflorum
C. Morren
25A
Barrenwort, dried leaves,
Epimedium grandiflorum
C. Morren
25B
Basil, fresh leaves,
Ocimum basilicum
L
25A
Basil, dried leaves,
Ocimum basilicum
L
25B
Basil, American, fresh leaves,
Ocimum americanum
L
25A
Basil, American, dried leaves,
Ocimum americanum
L
25B
Basil, Greek, fresh leaves,
Ocimum minimum
L
25A
Basil, Greek, dried leaves,
Ocimum minimum
L
25B
Basil, holy, fresh leaves,
Ocimum tenuiflorum
L
25A
Basil, holy, dried leaves,
Ocimum tenuiflorum
L
25B
Basil, lemon, fresh leaves,
Ocimum x citriodorum
Vis
25A
Basil, lemon, dried leaves,
Ocimum x citriodorum
Vis
25B
Basil, Russian, fresh leaves,
Ocimum gratissimum
L
25A
Basil, Russian, dried leaves,
Ocimum gratissimum
L
25B
Bay, fresh leaves,
Laurus nobilis
L
25A
Bay, dried leaves,
Laurus nobilis
L
25B
Bearberry, fresh leaves,
Arctostaphylos uva ursi
(L.) Spreng
25A
Bearberry, dried leaves,
Arctostaphylos uva ursi
(L.) Spreng
25B
Bisongrass, fresh leaves,
Anthoxanthum nitens
(Weber) Y. Schouten
Veldkamp
25A
Bisongrass, dried leaves,
Anthoxanthum nitens
(Weber) Y. Schouten
Veldkamp
25B
Blue mallow, fresh leaves,
Malva sylvestris
L
25A
Blue mallow, dried leaves,
Malva sylvestris
L
25B
Boneset, fresh leaves,
Eupatorium perfoliatum
L
25A
Boneset, dried leaves,
Eupatorium perfoliatum
L
25B
Borage, fresh leaves,
Borago officinalis
L
25A
Borage, dried leaves,
Borago officinalis
L
25B
Borage, Indian, fresh leaves,
Plectranthus amboinicus
(Lour.) Spreng
25A
Borage, Indian, dried leaves,
Plectranthus amboinicus
(Lour.) Spreng
25B
Burnet, fresh leaves,
Sanguisorba
spp
25A
Burnet, dried leaves,
Sanguisorba
spp
25B
Burnet, garden, fresh leaves,
Sanguisorba officinalis
L
25A
Burnet, garden, dried leaves,
Sanguisorba officinalis
L
25B
Burnet, salad, fresh leaves,
Sanguisorba minor
Scop
25A
Burnet, salad, dried leaves,
Sanguisorba minor
Scop
25B
Butterbur, fresh leaves,
Petasites hybridus
(L.) G. Gaertn. Et al.,
P. frigidus
(L.) Fr
25A
Butterbur, dried leaves,
Petasites hybridus
(L.) G. Gaertn. Et al.,
P. frigidus
(L.) Fr
25B
Calamint, fresh leaves,
Clinopodium
spp
25A
Calamint, dried leaves,
Clinopodium
spp
25B
Calamint, large-flower, fresh leaves,
Clinopodium grandiflorum
(L.) Kuntze
25A
Calamint, large-flower, dried leaves,
Clinopodium grandiflorum
(L.) Kuntze
25B
Calamint, lesser, fresh leaves,
Clinopodium nepeta
(L.) Kuntze
25A
Calamint, lesser, dried leaves,
Clinopodium nepeta
(L.) Kuntze
25B
Calendula, fresh leaves,
Calendula officinalis
L
25A
Calendula, dried leaves,
Calendula officinalis
L
25B
Caltrop, fresh leaves,
Tribulus terrestris
L
25A
Caltrop, dried leaves,
Tribulus terrestris
L
25B
Camomile (Chamomile), fresh leaves,
Chamaemelum
spp. and
Matricaria
spp
25A
Camomile (Chamomile), dried leaves,
Chamaemelum
spp. and
Matricaria
spp
25B
Camomile (Chamomile), German, fresh leaves,
Matricaria recutita
L
25A
Camomile (Chamomile), German, dried leaves,
Matricaria recutita
L
25B
Camomile (Chamomile), Roman, fresh leaves,
Chamaemelum nobile
(L.) All
25A
Camomile (Chamomile), Roman, dried leaves,
Chamaemelum nobile
(L.) All
25B
Caraway, fresh leaves,
Carum carvi
L
25A
Caraway, dried leaves,
Carum carvi
L
25B
Cat's claw, fresh leaves,
Uncaria tomentosa
(Willd.) DC.,
U. guianensis
(Aubl.) J. F. Gmel
25A
Cat's claw, dried leaves,
Uncaria tomentosa
(Willd.) DC.,
U. guianensis
(Aubl.) J. F. Gmel
25B
Catnip, fresh leaves,
Nepeta cataria
L
25A
Catnip, dried leaves,
Nepeta cataria
L
25B
Catnip, Japanese, fresh leaves,
Schizonepeta multifida
(L.) Briq
25A
Catnip, Japanese, dried leaves,
Schizonepeta multifida
(L.) Briq
25B
Celandine, greater, fresh leaves,
Chelidonium majus
L
25A
Celandine, greater, dried leaves,
Chelidonium majus
L
25B
Celandine, lesser, fresh leaves,
Ficaria verna
Huds
25A
Celandine, lesser, dried leaves,
Ficaria verna
Huds
25B
Celery, dried leaves,
Apium graveolens
L. var.
dulce
(Mill.) DC
25B
Centaury, fresh leaves,
Centaurium erythrarae
Rafn
25A
Centaury, dried leaves,
Centaurium erythrarae
Rafn
25B
Chaste tree, fresh leaves,
Vitex agnus-castus
L
25A
Chaste tree, dried leaves,
Vitex agnus-castus
L
25B
Chaste tree, Chinese, fresh leaves,
Vitex negundo
L
25A
Chaste tree, Chinese, dried leaves,
Vitex negundo
L.
25B
Chervil, dried leaves,
Anthriscus cerefolium
(L.) Hoffm
25B
Chinese blackberry, fresh leaves,
Rubus stipulates
L.H. Bailey
25A
Chinese blackberry, dried leaves,
Rubus stipulates
L.H. Bailey
25B
Chinese foxglove, fresh leaves,
Rehmannia glutinosa
(Gaertn.) Steud
25A
Chinese foxglove, dried leaves,
Rehmannia glutinosa
(Gaertn.) Steud
25B
Chive, dried leaves,
Allium schoenoprasum
L
25B
Chive, Chinese, dried leaves,
Allium tuberosum
Rottler ex Spreng
25B
Cicely, sweet, fresh leaves,
Myrrhis odorata
(L.) Scop
25A
Cicely, sweet, dried leaves,
Myrrhis odorata
(L.) Scop
25B
Cilantro, dried leaves,
Coriandrum sativum
L
25B
Clary, fresh leaves,
Salvia sclarea
L
25A
Clary, dried leaves,
Salvia sclarea
L
25B
Coriander, Bolivian, fresh leaves,
Porophyllum ruderale
(Jacq.) Cass
25A
Coriander, Bolivian, dried leaves,
Porophyllum ruderale
(Jacq.) Cass
25B
Coriander, Vietnamese, fresh leaves,
Persicaria odorata
(Lour.) Sojak
25A
Coriander, Vietnamese, dried leaves,
Persicaria odorata
(Lour.) Sojak
25B
Costmary, fresh leaves,
Tanacetum balsamita
L. subsp.
Balsamita
25A
Costmary, dried leaves,
Tanacetum balsamita
L. subsp.
Balsamita
25B
Creat, fresh leaves,
Andrographis paniculata
(Burm. f.) Wall. Ex Nees
25A
Creat, dried leaves,
Andrographis paniculata
(Burm. f.) Wall. Ex Nees
25B
Culantro, fresh leaves,
Eryngium foetidum
L
25A
Culantro, dried leaves,
Eryngium foetidum
L
25B
Curry leaf, fresh leaves,
Bergera koenigii
L
25A
Curry leaf, dried leaves,
Bergera koenigii
L
25B
Curryplant, fresh leaves,
Helichrysum italicum
(Roth) G. Don
25A
Curryplant, dried leaves,
Helichrysum italicum
(Roth) G. Don
25B
Cut leaf, fresh leaves,
Prostanthera incisa
R. Br
25A
Cut leaf, dried leaves,
Prostanthera incisa
R. Br
25B
Damiana, fresh leaves,
Turnera diffusa
Willd
25A
Damiana, dried leaves,
Turnera diffusa
Willd
25B
Dillweed, dried leaves,
Anethum graveolens
L
25B
Dokudami, fresh leaves,
Houttuynia cordata
Thunb
25A
Dokudami, dried leaves,
Houttuynia cordata
Thunb
25B
Echinacea, fresh leaves,
Echinacea angustifolia
DC.,
Echinacea
spp
25A
Echinacea, dried leaves,
Echinacea angustifolia
DC.,
Echinacea
spp
25B
Epazote, fresh leaves,
Dysphania ambrosioides
(L.) Mosyakin
Clemants
25A
Epazote, dried leaves,
Dysphania ambrosioides
(L.) Mosyakin
Clemants
25B
Eucommia, fresh leaves,
Eucommia ulmoides
Oliv
25A
Eucommia, dried leaves,
Eucommia ulmoides
Oliv
25B
Evening primrose, fresh leaves,
Oenothera biennis
L
25A
Evening primrose, dried leaves,
Oenothera biennis
L
25B
Eyebright, fresh leaves,
Euphrasia officinalis
L
25A
Eyebright, dried leaves,
Euphrasia officinalis
L
25B
Fennel, common, fresh leaves,
Foeniculum vulgare
Mill. subsp.
vulgare
var.
vulgare
25A
Fennel, common, dried leaves,
Foeniculum vulgare
Mill. subsp.
vulgare
var.
vulgare
25B
Fennel, Florence, dried leaves,
Foeniculum vulgare
Mill. subsp.
vulgare
var.
azoricum
(Mill.) Thell
25B
Fennel, Spanish, fresh leaves,
Nigella
spp
25A
Fennel, Spanish, dried leaves,
Nigella
spp
25B
Fenugreek, fresh leaves,
Trigonella foenum-graecum
L
25A
Fenugreek, dried leaves,
Trigonella foenum-graecum
L
25B
Feverfew, fresh leaves,
Tanacetum parthenium
(L.) Sch. Bip
25A
Feverfew, dried leaves,
Tanacetum parthenium
(L.) Sch. Bip
25B
Field pennycress, fresh leaves,
Thlaspi arvense
L
25A
Field pennycress, dried leaves,
Thlaspi arvense
L
25B
Flowers, edible, fresh, multiple species
25A
Flowers, edible, dried, multiple species
25B
Fumitory, fresh leaves,
Fumaria officinalis
L
25A
Fumitory, dried leaves,
Fumaria officinalis
L
25B
Galbanum, fresh leaves,
Ferula gummosa
Boiss
25A
Galbanum, dried leaves,
Ferula gummosa
Boiss
25B
Galega, fresh leaves,
Galega officinalis
L
25A
Galega, dried leaves,
Galega officinalis
L
25B
Gambir, fresh leaves,
Uncaria gambir
(W. Hunter) Roxb
25A
Gambir, dried leaves,
Uncaria gambir
(W. Hunter) Roxb
25B
Geranium, fresh leaves,
Pelargonium
spp
25A
Geranium, dried leaves,
Pelargonium
spp
25B
Geranium, lemon, fresh leaves,
Pelargonium crispum
(P. J. Bergius) L'Her
25A
Geranium, lemon, dried leaves,
Pelargonium crispum
(P. J. Bergius) L'Her
25B
Geranium, rose, fresh leaves,
Pelargonium graveolens
L'Her
25A
Geranium, rose, dried leaves,
Pelargonium graveolens
L'Her
25B
Germander, golden, fresh leaves,
Teucrium polium
L
25A
Germander, golden, dried leaves,
Teucrium polium
L
25B
Goldenrod, European, fresh leaves,
Solidago virgaurea
Scop
25A
Goldenrod, European, dried leaves,
Solidago virgaurea
Scop
25B
Goldenseal, fresh leaves,
Hydrastis canadensis
L
25A
Goldenseal, dried leaves,
Hydrastis canadensis
L
25B
Gotu kola, fresh leaves,
Centella asiatica
(L.) Urb
25A
Gotu kola, dried leaves,
Centella asiatica
(L.) Urb
25B
Greater periwinkle, fresh leaves,
Vinca major
L
25A
Greater periwinkle, dried leaves,
Vinca major
L
25B
Guayusa, fresh leaves,
Ilex guayusa
Loes
25A
Guayusa, dried leaves,
Ilex guayusa
Loes
25B
Gumweed, fresh leaves,
Grindelia camporum
Greene
25A
Gumweed, dried leaves,
Grindelia camporum
Greene
25B
Gymnema, fresh leaves,
Gymnema sylvestre
(Retz.) Schult
25A
Gymnema, dried leaves,
Gymnema sylvestre
(Retz.) Schult
25B
Gypsywort, fresh leaves,
Lycopus europaeus
L
25A
Gypsywort, dried leaves,
Lycopus europaeus
L
25B
Hawthorn, fresh leaves,
Crataegus monogyna
Jacq.;
Crataegus
spp
25A
Hawthorn, dried leaves,
Crataegus monogyna
Jacq.;
Crataegus
spp
25B
Heal-all, fresh leaves,
Prunella vulgaris
L
25A
Heal-all, dried leaves,
Prunella vulgaris
L
25B
Hemp nettle, fresh leaves,
Galeopsis segetum
Neck.,
Galeopsis
spp
25A
Hemp nettle, dried leaves,
Galeopsis segetum
Neck.,
Galeopsis
spp
25B
Honewort, fresh leaves,
Cryptotaenia canadensis
(L.) DC
25A
Honewort, dried leaves,
Cryptotaenia canadensis
(L.) DC
25B
Honeybush, fresh leaves,
Cyclopia genistoides
(L.) R. Br
25A
Honeybush, dried leaves,
Cyclopia genistoides
(L.) R. Br
25B
Horehound, fresh leaves,
Marrubium vulgare
L
25A
Horehound, dried leaves,
Marrubium vulgare
L
25B
Horsemint, fresh leaves,
Mentha longifolia
(L.) Huds
25A
Horsemint, dried leaves,
Mentha longifolia
(L.) Huds
25B
Horsetail, fresh leaves,
Equisetum arvense
L,
E. ttelmateia
Ehrh
25A
Horsetail, dried leaves,
Equisetum arvense
L,
E. ttelmateia
Ehrh
25B
Hyssop, fresh leaves,
Hyssopus officinalis
L
25A
Hyssop, dried leaves,
Hyssopus officinalis
L
25B
Hyssop, anise, fresh leaves,
Agastache foeniculum
(Pursh) Kuntze
25A
Hyssop, anise, dried leaves,
Agastache foeniculum
(Pursh) Kuntze
25B
Indian tobacco, fresh leaves,
Lobelia inflata
L
25A
Indian tobacco, dried leaves,
Lobelia inflata
L
25B
Ironwort, fresh leaves,
Sideritis scardica
Griseb.,
Sideritis
spp
25A
Ironwort, dried leaves,
Sideritis scardica
Griseb.,
Sideritis
spp
25B
Ivy, fresh leaves,
Hedera helix
L
25A
Ivy, dried leaves,
Hedera helix
L
25B
Jamaica dogwood, fresh leaves,
Piscidia piscipula
(L.) Sarg
25A
Jamaica dogwood, dried leaves,
Piscidia piscipula
(L.) Sarg
25B
Jasmine, dried leaves,
Jasminum officinale
L.,
J. odoratissimum
L
25B
Jasmine, fresh leaves,
Jasminum officinale
L.,
J. odoratissimum
L
25A
Labrador tea, fresh leaves,
Rhododendron groenlandicum
(Oeder) Kron
Judd,
R. tomentosum
Harmaja
25A
Labrador tea, dried leaves,
Rhododendron groenlandicum
(Oeder) Kron
Judd,
R. tomentosum
Harmaja
25B
Lavender, fresh leaves,
Lavandula angustifolia
Mill
25A
Lavender, dried leaves,
Lavandula angustifolia
Mill
25B
Lemon verbena, fresh leaves,
Aloysia citrodora
Palau
25A
Lemon verbena, dried leaves,
Aloysia citrodora
Palau
25B
Lemongrass, fresh leaves,
Cymbopogon citratus
(DC.) Stapf
25A
Lemongrass, dried leaves,
Cymbopogon citratus
(DC.) Stapf
25B
Lovage, fresh leaves,
Levisticum officinale
W.D.J. Koch
25A
Lovage, dried leaves,
Levisticum officinale
W.D.J. Koch
25B
Love-in-a-mist, fresh leaves,
Nigella damascena
L
25A
Love-in-a-mist, dried leaves,
Nigella damascena
L
25B
Mamaki, fresh leaves,
Pipturus arborescens
(Link) C. B. Rob
25A
Mamaki, dried leaves,
Pipturus arborescens
(Link) C. B. Rob
25B
Marigold, fresh leaves,
Tagetes
spp
25A
Marigold, dried leaves,
Tagetes
spp
25B
Marigold, African, fresh leaves,
Tagetes erecta
L
25A
Marigold, African, dried leaves,
Tagetes erecta
L
25B
Marigold, Aztec, fresh leaves,
Tagetes minuta
L
25A
Marigold, Aztec, dried leaves,
Tagetes minuta
L
25B
Marigold, French, fresh leaves,
Tagetes patula
L
25A
Marigold, French, dried leaves,
Tagetes patula
L
25B
Marigold, Irish lace, fresh leaves,
Tagetes filifolia
Lag
25A
Marigold, Irish lace, dried leaves,
Tagetes filifolia
Lag
25B
Marigold, licorice, fresh leaves,
Tagetes micrantha
Cav
25A
Marigold, licorice, dried leaves,
Tagetes micrantha
Cav
25B
Marigold, Mexican mint, fresh leaves,
Tagetes lucida
Cav
25A
Marigold, Mexican mint, dried leaves,
Tagetes lucida
Cav
25B
Marigold, signet, fresh leaves,
Tagetes tenuifolia
Cav
25A
Marigold, signet, dried leaves,
Tagetes tenuifolia
Cav
25B
Marjoram, fresh leaves,
Origanum
spp
25A
Marjoram, dried leaves,
Origanum
spp
25B
Marjoram, pot, fresh leaves,
Origanum onites
L
25A
Marjoram, pot, dried leaves,
Origanum onites
L
25B
Marjoram, sweet, fresh leaves,
Origanum majorana
L
25A
Marjoram, sweet, dried leaves,
Origanum majorana
L
25B
Marshmallow, fresh leaves,
Althaea officinalis
L
25A
Marshmallow, dried leaves,
Althaea officinalis
L
25B
Meadowsweet, fresh leaves,
Filipendula ulmaria
(L.) Maxim
25A
Meadowsweet, dried leaves,
Filipendula ulmaria
(L.) Maxim
25B
Mint, fresh leaves,
Mentha
spp
25A
Mint, dried leaves,
Mentha
spp
25B
Mint, corn, fresh leaves,
Mentha arvensis
L
25A
Mint, corn, dried leaves,
Mentha arvensis
L
25B
Mint, Korean, fresh leaves,
Agastache rugosa
(Fisch.
C.A. Mey.) Kun
25A
Mint, Korean, dried leaves,
Agastache rugosa
(Fisch.
C.A. Mey.) Kun
25B
Monarda, fresh leaves,
Monarda
spp
25A
Monarda, dried leaves,
Monarda
spp
25B
Moringa, fresh leaves,
Moringa oleifera
L
25A
Moringa, dried leaves,
Moringa oleifera
L
25B
Motherwort, fresh leaves,
Leonurus cardiaca
L
25A
Motherwort, dried leaves,
Leonurus cardiaca
L
25B
Mountainmint, fresh leaves,
Pycnanthemum
spp
25A
Mountainmint, dried leaves,
Pycnanthemum
spp
25B
Mountainmint, clustered, fresh leaves,
Pycnanthemum muticum
(Michx.) Pers
25A
Mountainmint, clustered, dried leaves,
Pycnanthemum muticum
(Michx.) Pers
25B
Mountainmint, hoary, fresh leaves,
Pycnanthemum incanum
Michx
25A
Mountainmint, hoary, dried leaves,
Pycnanthemum incanum
Michx
25B
Mountainmint, Virginia, fresh leaves,
Pycnanthemum virginianum
(L.) T. Durand
B.D. Jacks. Ex B.L. Rob.
Fernald
25A
Mountainmint, Virginia, dried leaves,
Pycnanthemum virginianum
(L.) T. Durand
B.D. Jacks. ex B.L. Rob.
Fernald
25B
Mountainmint, whorled, fresh leaves,
Pycnanthemum verticillatum
(Michx.) Pers
25A
Mountainmint, whorled, dried leaves,
Pycnanthemum verticillatum
(Michx.) Pers
25B
Mugwort, fresh leaves,
Artemisia vulgaris
L
25A
Mugwort, dried leaves,
Artemisia vulgaris
L
25B
Mulberry, white, fresh leaves,
Morus alba
L
25A
Mulberry, white, dried leaves,
Morus alba
L
25B
Mullein, fresh leaves,
Verbascum densiflorum
Bertol.,
Verbascum
spp
25A
Mullein, dried leaves,
Verbascum densiflorum
Bertol.,
Verbascum
spp
25B
Mustard, hedge, fresh leaves,
Sisymbrium officinale
(L.) Scop
25A
Mustard, hedge, dried leaves,
Sisymbrium officinale
(L.) Scop
25B
Nasturtium, fresh leaves,
Tropaeolum
spp
25A
Nasturtium, dried leaves,
Tropaeolum
spp
25B
Nasturtium, bush, fresh leaves,
Tropaeolum minus
L
25A
Nasturtium, bush, dried leaves,
Tropaeolum minus
L
25B
Nasturtium, garden, fresh leaves,
Tropaeolum majus
L
25A
Nasturtium, garden, dried leaves,
Tropaeolum majus
L
25B
Nettle, stinging, fresh leaves,
Urtica dioica
L
25A
Nettle, stinging, dried leaves,
Urtica dioica
L
25B
Oregano, fresh leaves,
Origanum vulgare
L
25A
Oregano, dried leaves,
Origanum vulgare
L
25B
Oregano, Mexican, fresh leaves,
Lippia graveolens
Kunth
25A
Oregano, Mexican, dried leaves,
Lippia graveolens
Kunth
25B
Oregano, Puerto Rico, fresh leaves,
Lippia micromera
Schauer
25A
Oregano, Puerto Rico, dried leaves,
Lippia micromera
Schauer
25B
Oswego tea, fresh leaves,
Monarda didyma
L
25A
Oswego tea, dried leaves,
Monarda didyma
L
25B
Pandan leaf, fresh leaves,
Pandanus amaryllifolius
Roxb
25A
Pandan leaf, dried leaves,
Pandanus amaryllifolius
Roxb
25B
Pansy, fresh leaves,
Viola tricolor
L
25A
Pansy, dried leaves,
Viola tricolor
L
25B
Paracress, fresh leaves,
Acmella oleracea
(L.) R.K. Jansen
25A
Paracress, dried leaves,
Acmella oleracea
(L.) R.K. Jansen
25B
Parsley, dried leaves,
Petroselinum crispum
(Mill.) Fuss
25B
Partridge berry, fresh leaves,
Mitchella repens
L
25A
Partridge berry, dried leaves,
Mitchella repens
L
25B
Patchouli, fresh leaves,
Pogostemon cablin
(Blanco) Benth
25A
Patchouli, dried leaves,
Pogostemon cablin
(Blanco) Benth
25B
Pennyroyal, fresh leaves,
Mentha pulegium
L
25A
Pennyroyal, dried leaves,
Mentha pulegium
L
25B
Pepper leaf, black, fresh leaves,
Piper nigrum
L
25A
Pepper leaf, black, dried leaves,
Piper nigrum
L
25B
Peppermint, fresh leaves,
Mentha X piperita
L
25A
Peppermint, dried leaves,
Mentha X piperita
L
25B
Perilla, fresh leaves,
Perilla frutescens
(L.) Britton
25A
Perilla, dried leaves,
Perilla frutescens
(L.) Britton
25B
Pill bearing spurge, fresh leaves,
Euphorbia hirta
L
25A
Pill bearing spurge, dried leaves,
Euphorbia hirta
L
25B
Pipsissewa, fresh leaves,
Chimaphila umbellata
(L.) W. P. C. Barton
25A
Pipsissewa, dried leaves,
Chimaphila umbellata
(L.) W. P. C. Barton
25B
Plantain, common, fresh leaves,
Plantago major
L
25A
Plantain, common, dried leaves,
Plantago major
L
25B
Rooibos, fresh leaves,
Aspalathus linearis
(Burm. f.) R. Dahlgren
25A
Rooibos, dried leaves,
Aspalathus linearis
(Burm. f.) R. Dahlgren
25B
Rose, fresh leaves,
Rosa
spp
25A
Rose, dried leaves,
Rosa
spp
25B
Rosemary, fresh leaves,
Rosmarinus officinalis
L
25A
Rosemary, dried leaves,
Rosmarinus officinalis
L
25B
Sage, fresh leaves,
Salvia officinalis
L
25A
Sage, dried leaves,
Salvia officinalis
L
25B
Sage, Greek, fresh leaves,
Salvia fruticosa
Mill
25A
Sage, Greek, dried leaves,
Salvia fruticosa
Mill
25B
Sage, Spanish, fresh leaves,
Salvia lavandulifolia
Vahl
25A
Sage, Spanish, dried leaves,
Salvia lavandulifolia
Vahl
25B
Sage, white, fresh leaves,
Salvia apiana
Jeps
25A
Sage, white, dried leaves,
Salvia apiana
Jeps
25B
Savory, summer, fresh leaves,
Satureja hortensis
L
25A
Savory, summer, dried leaves,
Satureja hortensis
L
25B
Savory, winter, fresh leaves,
Satureja montana
L
25A
Savory, winter, dried leaves,
Satureja montana
L.
25B
Senna, fresh leaves,
Senna alexandrina
Mill
25A
Senna, dried leaves,
Senna alexandrina
Mill
25B
Siberian fir, fresh leaves,
Abies sibirica
Ledeb
25A
Siberian fir, dried leaves,
Abies sibirica
Ledeb
25B
Skullcap, fresh leaves,
Scutellaria lateriflora
L
25A
Skullcap, dried leaves,
Scutellaria lateriflora
L
25B
Small flower willow head, fresh leaves,
Epilobium parviflorum
Schreb
25A
Small flower willow head, dried leaves,
Epilobium parviflorum
Schreb
25B
Sorrel, fresh leaves,
Rumex
spp
25A
Sorrel, dried leaves,
Rumex
spp
25B
Sorrel, French, fresh leaves,
Rumex scutatus
L
25A
Sorrel, French, dried leaves,
Rumex scutatus
L
25B
Sorrel, garden, fresh leaves,
Rumex acetosa
L
25A
Sorrel, garden, dried leaves,
Rumex acetosa
L
25B
Southernwood, fresh leaves,
Artemisia abrotanum
L
25A
Southernwood, dried leaves,
Artemisia abrotanum
L
25B
Spearmint, fresh leaves,
Mentha spicata
L
25A
Spearmint, dried leaves,
Mentha spicata
L
25B
Spearmint, Scotch, fresh leaves,
Mentha x gracilis
Sole
25A
Spearmint, Scotch, dried leaves,
Mentha x gracilis
Sole
25B
Spilanthes, fresh leaves,
Blainvillea acmella
(L.) Philipson
25A
Spilanthes, dried leaves,
Blainvillea acmella
(L.) Philipson
25B
Spotted beebalm, fresh leaves,
Monarda punctata
L
25A
Spotted beebalm, dried leaves,
Monarda punctata
L
25B
St John's Wort, fresh leaves,
Hypericum perforatum
L
25A
St John's Wort, dried leaves,
Hypericum perforatum
L
25B
Stevia, fresh leaves,
Stevia rebaudiana
(Bertoni) Bertoni
25A
Stevia, dried leaves,
Stevia rebaudiana
(Bertoni) Bertoni
25B
Stoneroot, fresh leaves,
Collinsonia canadensis
L
25A
Stoneroot, dried leaves,
Collinsonia canadensis
L
25B
Swamp leaf, fresh leaves,
Limnophila chinensis
(Osbeck) Merr
25A
Swamp leaf, dried leaves,
Limnophila chinensis
(Osbeck) Merr
25B
Tansy, fresh leaves,
Tanacetum vulgare
L
25A
Tansy, dried leaves,
Tanacetum vulgare
L
25B
Tarragon, fresh leaves,
Artemisia dracunculus
L
25A
Tarragon, dried leaves,
Artemisia dracunculus
L
25B
Thuja, fresh leaves,
Thuja occidentalis
L
25A
Thuja, dried leaves,
Thuja occidentalis
L
25B
Thyme, fresh leaves,
Thymus
spp
25A
Thyme, dried leaves,
Thymus
spp
25B
Thyme, creeping, fresh leaves,
Thymus serpyllum
L
25A
Thyme, creeping, dried leaves,
Thymus serpyllum
L
25B
Thyme, lemon, fresh leaves,
Thymus ×citriodorus
(Pers.) Schreb
25A
Thyme, lemon, dried leaves,
Thymus ×citriodorus
(Pers.) Schreb
25B
Thyme, mastic, fresh leaves,
Thymus mastichina
(L.) L
25A
Thyme, mastic, dried leaves,
Thymus mastichina
(L.) L
25B
Toon, Chinese, fresh leaves,
Toona sinensis
(A. Juss.) M. Roem
25A
Toon, Chinese, dried leaves,
Toona sinensis
(A. Juss.) M. Roem
25B
Toothed clubmoss, fresh leaves,
Huperzia serrata
(Thunb.) Trevis
25A
Toothed clubmoss, dried leaves,
Huperzia serrata
(Thunb.) Trevis
25B
Trailing arbutus, fresh leaves,
Epigaea repens
L
25A
Trailing arbutus, dried leaves,
Epigaea repens
L
25B
Vasaka, fresh leaves,
Justicia adhatoda
L
25A
Vasaka, dried leaves,
Justicia adhatoda
L.
25B
Verbena, blue, fresh leaves,
Verbena hastata
L
25A
Verbena, blue, dried leaves,
Verbena hastata
L
25B
Veronica, fresh leaves,
Veronica officinalis
L
25A
Veronica, dried leaves,
Veronica officinalis
L
25B
Violet, fresh leaves,
Viola odorata
L
25A
Violet, dried leaves,
Viola odorata
L
25B
Watermint, fresh leaves,
Mentha aquatica
L
25A
Watermint, dried leaves,
Mentha aquatica
L
25B
Waterpepper, fresh leaves,
Persicaria hydropiper
(L.) Delarbre
25A
Waterpepper, dried leaves,
Persicaria hydropiper
(L.) Delarbre
25B
Wild bergamot, fresh leaves,
Monarda fistulosa
L
25A
Wild bergamot, dried leaves,
Monarda fistulosa
L
25B
Wintergreen, fresh leaves,
Gaultheria procumbens
L
25A
Wintergreen, dried leaves,
Gaultheria procumbens
L
25B
Wood betony, fresh leaves,
Stachys officinalis
(L.) Trevis
25A
Wood betony, dried leaves,
Stachys officinalis
(L.) Trevis
25B
Woodruff, fresh leaves,
Galium odoratum
(L.) Scop
25A
Woodruff, dried leaves,
Galium odoratum
(L.) Scop
25B
Wormwood, fresh leaves,
Artemisia absinthium
L
25A
Wormwood, dried leaves,
Artemisia absinthium
L
25B
Wormwood, Roman, fresh leaves,
Artemisia pontica
L
25A
Wormwood, Roman, dried leaves,
Artemisia pontica
L
25B
Yarrow, fresh leaves,
Achillea millefolium
L
25A
Yarrow, dried leaves,
Achillea millefolium
L
25B
Yellow gentian, fresh leaves,
Gentiana lutea
L
25A
Yellow gentian, dried leaves,
Gentiana lutea
L
25B
Yerba santa, fresh leaves,
Eriodictyon californicum
(Hook.
Arn.) Torr
25A
Yerba santa, dried leaves,
Eriodictyon californicum
(Hook.
Arn.) Torr
25B
Yomogi, fresh leaves,
Artemisia princeps
L
25A
Yomogi, dried leaves,
Artemisia princeps
L
25B
Cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities
(iii)
Crop subgroups.
The following Table 2 identifies the crop subgroups for Crop Group 25, specifies the representative commodities for each subgroup, and lists all the commodities included in each subgroup.
Table 2—Crop Group 25: Subgroup Listing
Representative commodities
Commodities
Crop subgroup 25A. Herb fresh leaves subgroup
Basil, fresh leaves and mint, fresh leaves
Agrimony, fresh leaves; Amla, fresh leaves; Angelica, fresh leaves; Angelica, dahurian, fresh leaves; Applemint, fresh leaves; Avarum, fresh leaves; Balloon pea, fresh leaves; Balm, fresh leaves; Barrenwort, fresh leaves; Basil, fresh leaves; Basil, American, fresh leaves; Basil, Greek, fresh leaves; Basil, holy, fresh leaves; Basil, lemon, fresh leaves; Basil, Russian, fresh leaves; Bay, fresh leaves; Bearberry, fresh leaves; Bisongrass, fresh leaves; Blue mallow, fresh leaves; Boneset, fresh leaves; Borage, fresh leaves; Borage, Indian, fresh leaves; Burnet, fresh leaves; Burnet, garden, fresh leaves; Burnet, salad, fresh leaves; Butterbur, fresh leaves; Calamint, fresh leaves; Calamint, large-flower, fresh leaves; Calamint, lesser, fresh leaves; Calendula, fresh leaves; Caltrop, fresh leaves; Camomile (Chamomile), fresh leaves; Camomile (Chamomile), German, fresh leaves; Camomile (Chamomile), Roman, fresh leaves; Caraway, fresh leaves; Cat's claw, fresh leaves; Catnip, fresh leaves; Catnip, Japanese, fresh leaves; Celandine, greater, fresh leaves; Celandine, lesser, fresh leaves; Centaury, fresh leaves; Chaste tree, fresh leaves; Chaste tree, Chinese, fresh leaves; Chinese blackberry, fresh leaves; Chinese foxglove, fresh leaves; Cicely, sweet, fresh leaves; Clary, fresh leaves; Coriander, Bolivian, fresh leaves; Coriander, Vietnamese, fresh leaves; Costmary, fresh leaves; Creat, fresh leaves; Culantro, fresh leaves; Curry leaf, fresh leaves; Curryplant, fresh leaves; Cut leaf, fresh leaves; Damiana, fresh leaves; Dokudami, fresh leaves; Echinacea, fresh leaves; Epazote, fresh leaves; Eucommia, fresh leaves; Evening primrose, fresh leaves; Eyebright, fresh leaves; Fennel, common, fresh leaves; Fennel, Spanish, fresh leaves; Fenugreek, fresh leaves; Feverfew, fresh leaves; Field pennycress, fresh leaves; Flowers, edible, fresh; Fumitory, fresh leaves; Galbanum, fresh leaves; Galega, fresh leaves; Gambir, fresh leaves; Geranium, fresh leaves; Geranium, lemon, fresh leaves; Geranium, rose, fresh leaves; Germander, golden, fresh leaves; Goldenrod, European, fresh leaves; Goldenseal, fresh leaves; Gotu kola, fresh leaves; Greater periwinkle, fresh leaves; Guayusa, fresh leaves; Gumweed, fresh leaves; Gymnema, fresh leaves; Gypsywort, fresh leaves; Hawthorn, fresh leaves; Heal-all, fresh leaves; Hemp nettle, fresh leaves; Honewort, fresh leaves; Honeybush, fresh leaves; Horehound, fresh leaves; Horsemint, fresh leaves; Horsetail, fresh leaves; Hyssop, fresh leaves; Hyssop, anise, fresh leaves; Indian tobacco, fresh leaves; Ironwort, fresh leaves; Ivy, fresh leaves; Jamaica dogwood, fresh leaves; Jasmine, fresh leaves; Labrador tea, fresh leaves; Lavender, fresh leaves; Lemon verbena, fresh leaves; Lemongrass, fresh leaves; Lovage, fresh leaves; Love-in-a-mist, fresh leaves; Mamaki, fresh leaves; Marigold, fresh leaves; Marigold, African, fresh leaves; Marigold, Aztec, fresh leaves; Marigold, French, fresh leaves; Marigold, Irish lace, fresh leaves; Marigold, licorice, fresh leaves; Marigold, Mexican mint, fresh leaves; Marigold, signet, fresh leaves; Marjoram, fresh leaves; Marjoram, pot, fresh leaves; Marjoram, sweet, fresh leaves; Marshmallow, fresh leaves; Meadowsweet, fresh leaves; Mint, fresh leaves; Mint, corn, fresh leaves; Mint, Korean, fresh leaves; Monarda, fresh leaves; Moringa, fresh leaves; Motherwort, fresh leaves; Mountainmint, fresh leaves; Mountainmint, clustered, fresh leaves; Mountainmint, hoary, fresh leaves; Mountainmint, Virginia, fresh leaves; Mountainmint, whorled, fresh leaves; Mugwort, fresh leaves; Mulberry, white, fresh leaves; Mullein, fresh leaves; Mustard, hedge, fresh leaves; Nasturtium, fresh leaves; Nasturtium, bush, fresh leaves; Nasturtium, garden, fresh leaves; Nettle, stinging, fresh leaves; Oregano, fresh leaves; Oregano, Mexican, fresh leaves; Oregano, Puerto Rico, fresh leaves; Oswego tea, fresh leaves; Pandan leaf, fresh leaves; Pansy, fresh leaves; Paracress, fresh leaves; Partridge berry, fresh leaves; Patchouli, fresh leaves; Pennyroyal, fresh leaves; Pepper leaf, black, fresh leaves; Peppermint, fresh leaves; Perilla, fresh leaves; Pill bearing spurge, fresh leaves; Pipsissewa, fresh leaves; Plantain, common, fresh leaves; Rooibos, fresh leaves; Rose, fresh leaves; Rosemary, fresh leaves; Sage, fresh leaves; Sage, Greek, fresh leaves; Sage, Spanish, fresh leaves; Sage, white, fresh leaves; Savory, summer, fresh leaves; Savory, winter, fresh leaves; Senna, fresh leaves; Siberian fir, fresh leaves; Skullcap, fresh leaves; Small flower willow head, fresh leaves; Sorrel, fresh leaves; Sorrel, French, fresh leaves; Sorrel, garden, fresh leaves; Southernwood, fresh leaves; Spearmint, fresh leaves; Spearmint, Scotch, fresh leaves; Spilanthes, fresh leaves; Spotted beebalm, fresh leaves; St. John's Wort, fresh leaves; Stevia, fresh leaves; Stoneroot, fresh leaves; Swamp leaf, fresh leaves; Tansy, fresh leaves; Tarragon, fresh leaves; Thuja, fresh leaves; Thyme, fresh leaves; Thyme, creeping, fresh leaves; Thyme, lemon, fresh leaves; Thyme, mastic, fresh leaves; Toon, Chinese, fresh leaves; Toothed clubmoss, fresh leaves; Trailing arbutus, fresh leaves; Vasaka, fresh leaves; Verbena, blue, fresh leaves; Veronica, fresh leaves; Violet, fresh leaves; Watermint, fresh leaves; Waterpepper, fresh leaves; Wild bergamot, fresh leaves; Wintergreen, fresh leaves; Wood betony, fresh leaves; Woodruff, fresh leaves; Wormwood, fresh leaves; Wormwood, Roman, fresh leaves; Yarrow, fresh leaves; Yellow gentian, fresh leaves; Yerba santa, fresh leaves; Yomogi, fresh leaves; Cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities.
Crop subgroup 25B. Herb dried leaves subgroup
Basil, dried leaves and mint, dried leaves
Agrimony, dried leaves; Amla, dried leaves; Angelica, dried leaves; Angelica, dahurian, dried leaves; Applemint, dried leaves; Avarum, dried leaves; Balloon pea, dried leaves; Balm, dried leaves; Barrenwort, dried leaves; Basil, dried leaves; Basil, American, dried leaves; Basil, Greek, dried leaves; Basil, holy, dried leaves; Basil, lemon, dried leaves; Basil, Russian, dried leaves; Bay, dried leaves; Bearberry, dried leaves; Bisongrass, dried leaves; Blue mallow, dried leaves; Boneset, dried leaves; Borage, dried leaves; Borage, Indian, dried leaves; Burnet, dried leaves; Burnet, garden, dried leaves; Burnet, salad, dried leaves; Butterbur, dried leaves; Calamint, dried leaves; Calamint, large-flower, dried leaves; Calamint, lesser, dried leaves; Calendula, dried leaves; Caltrop, dried leaves; Camomile (Chamomile), dried leaves; Camomile (Chamomile), German, dried leaves; Camomile (Chamomile), Roman, dried leaves; Caraway, dried leaves; Cat's claw, dried leaves; Catnip, dried leaves; Catnip, Japanese, dried leaves; Celandine, greater, dried leaves; Celandine, lesser, dried leaves; Celery, dried leaves; Centaury, dried leaves; Chaste tree, dried leaves; Chaste tree, Chinese, dried leaves; Chervil, dried leaves; Chinese blackberry, dried leaves; Chinese foxglove, dried leaves; Chive, dried leaves; Chive, Chinese, dried leaves; Cicely, sweet, dried leaves; Cilantro, dried leaves; Clary, dried leaves; Coriander, Bolivian, dried leaves; Coriander, Vietnamese, dried leaves; Costmary, dried leaves; Creat, dried leaves; Culantro, dried leaves; Curry leaf, dried leaves; Curryplant, dried leaves; Cut leaf, dried leaves; Damiana, dried leaves; Dillweed, dried leaves; Dokudami, dried leaves; Echinacea, dried leaves; Epazote, dried leaves; Eucommia, dried leaves; Evening primrose, dried leaves; Eyebright, dried leaves; Fennel, common, dried leaves; Fennel, Florence, dried leaves; Fenugreek, dried leaves; Feverfew, dried leaves; Field pennycress, dried leaves; Flowers, edible, dried; Fumitory, dried leaves; Galbanum, dried leaves; Galega, dried leaves; Gambir, dried leaves; Geranium, dried leaves; Geranium, lemon, dried leaves; Geranium, rose, dried leaves; Germander, golden, dried leaves; Goldenrod, European, dried leaves; Goldenseal, dried leaves; Gotu kola, dried leaves; Greater periwinkle, dried leaves; Guayusa, dried leaves; Gumweed, dried leaves; Gymnema, dried leaves; Gypsywort, dried leaves; Hawthorn, dried leaves; Heal-all, dried leaves; Hemp nettle, dried leaves; Honewort, dried leaves; Honeybush, dried leaves; Horehound, dried leaves; Horsemint, dried leaves; Horsetail, dried leaves; Hyssop, dried leaves; Hyssop, anise, dried leaves; Indian tobacco, dried leaves; Ironwort, dried leaves; Ivy, dried leaves; Jamaica dogwood, dried leaves; Jasmine, dried leave; Labrador tea, dried leaves; Lavender, dried leaves; Lemon verbena, dried leaves; Lemongrass, dried leaves; Lovage, dried leaves; Love-in-a-mist, dried leaves; Mamaki, dried leaves; Marigold, dried leaves; Marigold, African, dried leaves; Marigold, Aztec, dried leaves; Marigold, French, dried leaves; Marigold, Irish lace, dried leaves; Marigold, licorice, dried leaves; Marigold, Mexican mint, dried leaves; Marigold, signet, dried leaves; Marjoram, dried leaves; Marjoram, sweet, dried leaves; Marshmallow, dried leaves; Meadowsweet, dried leaves; Mint, dried leaves; Mint, corn, dried leaves; Mint, Korean, dried leaves; Monarda, dried leaves; Moringa, dried leaves; Motherwort, dried leaves; Mountainmint, dried leaves; Mountainmint, clustered, dried leaves; Mountainmint, hoary, dried leaves; Mountainmint, Virginia, dried leaves; Mountainmint, whorled, dried leaves; Mugwort, dried leaves; Mulberry, white, dried leaves; Mullein, dried leaves; Mustard, hedge, dried leaves; Nasturtium, dried leaves; Nasturtium, bush, dried leaves; Nasturtium, garden, dried leaves; Nettle, stinging, dried leaves; Oregano, dried leaves; Oregano, Mexican, dried leaves; Oregano, Puerto Rico, dried leaves; Oswego tea, dried leaves; Pandan leaf, dried leaves; Pansy, dried leaves; Paracress, dried leaves; Parsley, dried leaves; Partridge berry, dried leaves; Patchouli, dried leaves; Pennyroyal, dried leaves; Pepper leaf, black, dried leaves; Peppermint, dried leaves; Perilla, dried leaves; Pill bearing spurge, dried leaves; Pipsissewa, dried leaves; Plantain, common, dried leaves; Rooibos, dried leaves; Rose, dried leaves; Rosemary, dried leaves; Sage, dried leaves; Sage, Greek, dried leaves; Sage, Spanish, dried leaves; Sage, white, dried leaves; Savory, summer, dried leaves; Savory, winter, dried leaves; Senna, dried leaves; Siberian fir, dried leaves; Skullcap, dried leaves; Small flower willow head, dried leaves; Sorrel, dried leaves; Sorrel, French, dried leaves; Sorrel, garden, dried leaves; Southernwood, dried leaves; Spearmint, dried leaves; Spearmint, Scotch, dried leaves; Spilanthes, dried leaves; Spotted beebalm, dried leaves; St. John's Wort, dried leaves; Stevia, dried leaves; Stoneroot, dried leaves; Swamp leaf, dried leaves; Tansy, dried leaves; Tarragon, dried leaves; Thuja, dried leaves; Thyme, dried leaves; Thyme, creeping, dried leaves; Thyme, lemon, dried leaves; Thyme, mastic, dried leaves; Toon, Chinese, dried leaves; Toothed clubmoss, dried leaves; Trailing arbutus, dried leaves; Vasaka, dried leaves; Verbena, blue, dried leaves; Veronica, dried leaves; Violet, dried leaves; Watermint, dried leaves; Waterpepper, dried leaves; Wintergreen, dried leaves; Wood betony, dried leaves; Woodruff, dried leaves; Wormwood, dried leaves; Wormwood, Roman, dried leaves; Yarrow, dried leaves; Yellow gentian, dried leaves; Yerba santa, dried leaves; Yomogi, dried leaves; Fennel, Spanish, dried leaves; Marjoram, pot, dried leaves; Wild bergamot, dried leaves; Cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities.
(39)
Crop Group 26.
Spice Group.
(i)
Representative commodities.
Dill seed or Celery seed.
(ii)
Commodities.
The following table lists all commodities included in Crop Group 26.
Table 1—Crop Group 26: Spice Group
Commodities
Ajowan, seed,
Trachyspermum ammi
(L.) Sprague ex Turrill.
Alder buckhorn,
Frangula alnus
Mill.
Allspice,
Pimenta dioica
(L.) Merr.
Ambrette, seed,
Abelmoschus esculentus
(L.) Moench.
Amla, seed,
Phyllanthus amarus
Schumach.
Angelica, dahurian, seed,
Angelica dahurica
(Hoffm.) Benth.
Hook. F. ex Franch.
Sav.
Angelica, seed,
Angelica archangelica
L.
Angostura, bark,
Angostura trifoliata
(Willd.) T. S. Elias.
Anise pepper,
Zanthoxylum piperitum
(L.) DC.
Anise, seed,
Pimpinella anisum
L.
Anise, star,
Illicium verum
Hook. f.
Annatto, seed,
Bixa orellana
L.
Asafoetida,
Ferula assa-foetida
L.
Ashwagandha, fruit,
Withania somnifera
(L.) Dunal.
Autumn crocus,
Colchicum autumnale
L.
Balsam, Peruvian,
Myroxylon balsamum
(L.) Harms var.
pereirae
(Royle) Harms.
Barberry, bark,
Morella cerifera
L.
Batavia-cassia, bark,
Cinnamomum burmanni
(Nees
T. Nees) Blume.
Batavia-cassia, fruit,
Cinnamomum burmanni
(Nees
T. Nees) Blume.
Belleric myrobalan,
Terminalia bellirica
(Gaertn.) Roxb.
Betel vine,
Piper betle
L.
Birch, bark,
Betula
spp.
Bisnaga, seed,
Ammi visnaga
(L.) Lam.
Bitterwood,
Picrasma excelsa
(Sw.) Planch.
Black bread weed,
Nigella arvensis
L.
Bloodroot,
Sanguinaria canadensis
L.
Blue mallee,
Eucalyptus polybractea
R. T. Baker.
Blushwood, seed,
Fontainea picrosperma
L.
Boldo, leaf,
Peumus boldus
Molina.
Buchu,
Agathosma betulina
(P. J. Bergius) Pillans.
Calamus root,
Acorus calamus
L.
Candlebush,
Senna alata
(L.) Roxb.
Canella, bark,
Canella winterana
(L.) Gaertn.
Caper buds,
Capparis spinosa
L.
Caper spurge, seed,
Euphorbia lathyrus
L.
Caraway, black,
Nigella sativa
L.
Caraway, fruit,
Carum carvi
L.
Cardamom, black,
Amomum
spp.
Cardamom, Ethiopian,
Aframomum corrorima
(A. Braun) P. C. M. Jansen.
Cardamom, green,
Elettaria cardamomum
(L.) Maton.
Cardamom, Nepal,
Amomum subulatum
Roxb.,
A. aromaticum
Roxb.
Cardamom-amomum,
Amomum compactum
Sol. ex Maton.
Cascara sagrada,
Frangula purshiana
(DC.) A. Gray.
Cassia, bark,
Cinnamomum
spp.
Cassia, Chinese, bark,
Cinnamomum aromaticum
Nees.
Cassia, Chinese, fruit,
Cinnamomum aromaticum
Nees.
Cassia, fruit,
Cinnamomum
spp.
Cat's claw, bark,
Uncaria tomentosa
(Willd.) DC.,
U. guianensis
(Aubl.) J. F. Gmel.
Catechu, bark,
Senegalia catechu
(L.f.) P. J. H. Hurter
Mabb.
Celery, seed,
Apium graveolens
var.
dulce
(Mill.) Pers.
Chaste tree, berry,
Vitex agnus-castus
L.
Chaste tree, Chinese, roots,
Vitex negundo
L.
Chervil, seed,
Anthriscus cerefolium
(L.) Hoffm.
Chinese hawthorn,
Crataegus pinnatifida
Bunge.
Chinese nutmeg tree,
Torreya grandis
Fortune.
Chinese wineberry, fruit,
Aristotelia chilensis
(Molina) Stuntz.
Chinese-pepper,
Zanthoxylum simulans
Hance.
Cinnamon, bark,
Cinnamomum verum
J. Presl.
Cinnamon, fruit,
Cinnamomum verum
J. Presl.
Cinnamon, Saigon, bark,
Cinnamomum loureiroi
Nees.
Cinnamon, Saigon, fruit,
Cinnamomum loureiroi
Nees.
Clove buds,
Syzygium aromaticum
(L.) Merr.
L.M. Perry.
Clusterleaf,
Terminalia sericea
Burch. ex DC.
Comfrey,
Symphytum officinale
L.,
Symphytum
spp.
Copaiba,
Copaifera officinalis
(Jacq.) L.
Coptis,
Coptis chinensis
Franch.,
Coptis
spp.
Coriander, fruit,
Coriandrum sativum
L.
Coriander, seed,
Coriandrum sativum
L.
Cotton, bark,
Gossypium hirsutum
L.
Crampbark,
Virburnum opulus
L.
Cubeb, seed,
Piper cubeba
L. f.
Culantro, seed,
Eryngium foetidum
L.
Culvers root,
Veronicastrum virginicum.
Cumin,
Cuminum cyminum
L.
Cumin, black,
Bumium persicum
(Boiss.) B. Fedtsch.
Dill, seed,
Anethum graveolens
L.
Dorrigo pepper, berry,
Tasmannia stipitata
(Vick.) A.C. Smith.
Dorrigo pepper, leaf,
Tasmannia stipitata
(Vick.) A.C. Smith.
Dragon blood,
Croton lechleri
Müll. Arg.
Echinacea, seed,
Echinacea purpurea
(L.) Moench,
Echinacea
spp.
Epimedium,
Epimedium
spp.
Eucalyptus,
Eucalyptus
spp.
Eucommia, bark,
Eucommia ulmoides
Oliv.
European beech,
Fagus sylvatica
L.
Felty germander,
Teucrium polium
L.
Fennel flower, seed,
Nigella hispanica
L.
Fennel, common, fruit,
Foeniculum vulgare
Mill. subsp.
vulgare
var.
vulgare.
Fennel, common, seed,
Foeniculum vulgare
Mill. subsp.
vulgare
var.
vulgare.
Fennel, Florence, fruit,
Foeniculum vulgare
Mill. subsp.
vulgare
var.
azoricum
(Mill.) Thell.
Fennel, Florence, seed,
Foeniculum vulgare
Mill. subsp.
vulgare
var.
azoricum
(Mill.) Thell.
Fenugreek, seed,
Trigonella foenum-graecum
L.
Fingerroot,
Boesenbergia rotunda
(L.) Mansf.
Flame lily, seed,
Gloriosa superba
L.
Frankincense,
Boswellia sacra
Flueck.
Frankincense, Indian,
Boswellia serrata
Roxb. ex Colebr.
Fringetree, bark,
Chionathus virginicus
L.
Galbanum, resin,
Ferula gummosa
Boiss.
Gambooge,
Garcinia gummi-gutta
(L.) N. Robson.
Grains of paradise,
Aframomum melegueta
K. Schum.
Grains of Selim,
Xylopia aethiopica
(Dunal) A. Rich.
Guaiac,
Guaiacum officinale
L.
Guarana,
Paullinia cupana
Kunt.
Guggul,
Commiphora wightii
(Arn.) Bhandari.
Gum arabic,
Senegalia senegal
(L.) Britton.
Gum ghatti,
Anogeissus latifolia
(Roxb. ex DC.) Wall. ex Guill.
Perr.
Gum karaya,
Stercula urens
Roxb.
Gum tragacanth,
Astragalus gummifer
Labill.
Haw, black,
Viburnum prunifolium
L.
Honewort, seed,
Cryptotaenia canadensis
(L.) DC.
Imperatoria,
Peucedanum officinale
L.
Indian tobacco, seed,
Lobelia inflata
L.
Iva,
Achillea erba-rotta
All. subsp.
moschata
(Wulfen) I. Richardson.
Jalap,
Ipomoea purga
(Wender.) Hayne.
Jamaica dogwood, bark,
Piscidia piscipula
(L.) Sarg.
Juniper berry,
Juniperus communis
L.
Kaffir lime, leaf,
Citrus hystrix
DC.
Kewra,
Pandanus fascicularis
Lam.
Kokam,
Garcinia indica
(Thouars) Choisy.
Linden, leaf,
Tilia americana
L.
Lovage, seed,
Levisticum officinale
W.D.J. Koch.
Mace,
Myristica fragrans
Houtt.
Magnolia, bark,
Magnolia officinalis
Rehder
E. H. Wilson.
Mahaleb,
Prunus mahaleb
L.
Malabar cardamom,
Amomum villosum
Lour.
Malabar-tamarind,
Garcinia
spp.
Malabathrum,
Cinnamomum tamala
(Buch-Ham.) Nees
Eberm.
Mastic,
Pistacia lentiscus
L.
Micromeria, white,
Micromeria fruticosa
(L.) Druce.
Milk thistle,
Silybum marianum
(L.) Gaertn.
Mioga,
Zingiber mioga
(Thunb.) Roscoe.
Miracle fruit,
Synsepalum dulcificum
(Schumach.
Thonn.) Daniell.
Mistletoe,
Viscum album
L.
Mojave yucca,
Yucca schidigera
Roezl ex Ortgies.
Muira puama,
Croton echioides
Müll. Arg.
Mustard, black,
Brassica nigra
(L.) W.D.J. Koch.
Mustard, brown,
Brassica juncea
(L.) Czern. var.
juncea.
Mustard, seed,
Brassica
spp. and
Sinapis
spp.
Mustard, white,
Sinapis alba
L. ssp.
alba.
Myrrh,
Commiphora myrrha
(Nees) Engl.,
C. africana
(A. Rich.) Engl.
Myrrh, bisabol,
Commiphora kataf
(Forssk.) Engl.
Myrtle, anise,
Syzygium anisatum
(Vickery) Craven
Biffen.
Myrtle, leaf,
Myrtus communis
L.
Myrtle, lemon,
Backhousia citriodora
F. Muell.
Nasturtium, bush, pods,
Tropaeolum minus
L.
Nasturtium, garden, pods,
Tropaeolum majus
L.
Nasturtium, pods,
Tropaeolum
spp.
Nettle, stinging, seed,
Urtica dioica
L.
Nutmeg,
Myristica fragrans
Houtt.
Osha,
Ligusticum porteri
J.M. Coult.
Rose.
Pepper, black,
Piper nigrum
L.
Pepper, Indian long,
Piper longum
L.
Pepper, Javanese long,
Piper retrofractum
Vahl.
Pepper, leaf,
Piper auritum
Kunth,
P. lolot
C.DC.,
P. sanctum
(Miq.) Schltdl.,
P. umbellatum
L.
Pepper, pink,
Schinus terebinthifolius
Raddi.
Pepper, Sichuan,
Zanthoxylum
spp.
Pepper, white,
Piper nigrum
L.
Pepperbush, berry,
Tasmannia
spp.
Pepperbush, leaf,
Tasmannia
spp.
Peppercorn, green,
Piper nigrum
L.
Peppertree,
Schinus
spp.
Peppertree, Peruvian,
Schinus molle
L.
Perilla, seed,
Perilla frutescens
(L.) Britton.
Phellodendron,
Phellodendron amurense
Rvpr.
Pine, maritime,
Pinus pinaster
Aiton.
Poppy, seed,
Papaver somniferum
L. subsp.
somniferum.
Prickly ash, Chinese,
Zanthoxylum bungeanum
Maxim.
Prickly ash, Southern, bark,
Zanthoxylum clava-herculis
L.
Pygeum,
Prunus africana
(Hook. f.) Kalkman.
Qing hua jiao,
Zanthoxylum schinifolium
Siebold
Zucc.
Quassia, bark,
Quassia amara
L.,
Picrasma excelsa
(Sw.) Planch.
Quebracho, bark,
Aspidosperma quebracho-blanco
Schltdl.
Quillaja,
Quillaja saponaria
Molina.
Quinine,
Cinchona pubescens
Vahl,
Cinchona
spp.
Rauwolfia, bark,
Rauwolfia vomitoria
Afzel.
Resin spurge,
Euphorbia resinifera
O. Berg.
Rue,
Ruta graveolens
L.
Saffron crocus,
Crocus sativus
L.
Sandalwood, seed,
Santalum album
L.
Sassafras, bark,
Sassafras albidum
(Nutt.) Nees.
Sassafras, leaf,
Sassafras albidum
(Nutt.) Nees.
Saunders, red,
Pterocarpus santalinus
L. f.
Saw palmetto,
Serenoa repens
(W. Bartram) Small.
Sesame, seed,
Sesamum indicum
L.,
S. radiatum
Thonn. ex Hornem.
Silktree, bark,
Albizia julibrissin
Durazz.,
A. lebbeck
(L.) Benth.
Simaruba, bark,
Simarouba amara
Aubl.
Skunk cabbage, root,
Symplocarpus foetidus
(L.) Salisb. ex W. P. C. Barton.
Slippery elm,
Ulmus rubra
Muhl.
Stemona, root,
Stemona sessilifolia
(Miq.) Miq.
Suma,
Hebanthe eriantha
(Poir.) Pedersen.
Sumac, fragrant,
Rhus aromatica
Aiton.
Sumac, smooth, leaf,
Rhus glabra
L.
Taheebo, bark,
Handroanthus impetiginosus
(Mart. ex DC.) Mattos.
Tamarind, seed,
Tamarindus indica
L.
Tasmanian pepper, berry,
Tasmannia lanceolata
(Poir.) A. C. Sm.
Tasmanian pepper, leaf,
Tasmannia lanceolata
(Poir.) A. C. Sm.
Threeleaf caper,
Crataeva magna
(Lour.) DC.
Tsaoko,
Amomum tsao-ko
Crevost
Lemarié.
Vanilla,
Vanilla planifolia
Jacks.
Wattleseed,
Acacia
spp.
White willow,
Salix alba
L.
Willow,
Salix
spp.
Witch hazel,
Hamamelis virginiana
L.
Yaw root,
Stillingia sylvatica
L.
Yellow gentian, roots,
Gentiana lutea
L.
Yohimbe,
Pausinystalia johimbe
(K. Schum.) Pierre.
Cultivars, varieties, and hybrids of these commodities.
[60 FR 26635, May 17, 1995, as amended at 72 FR 69156, 69157, Dec. 7, 2007; 73 FR 52, Jan. 2, 2008; 75 FR 76289, Dec. 8, 2010; 77 FR 50620, Aug. 22, 2012; 81 FR 26477, May 3, 2016; 85 FR 70985, Nov. 6, 2020; 87 FR 57633, Sept. 21, 2022]

# Subpart C—Specific Tolerances

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to subpart C of part 180 appear at 67 FR 41803,
June 19, 2002; 67 FR 42393, June 21, 2002; 68 FR 39430, July 1, 2003; 71 FR 74804, Dec. 13, 2006; 72 FR 53137, Sept. 18, 2007; 72 FR 61536, Oct. 31, 2007; 73 FR 60155, Oct. 10, 2008; 75 FR 56014, Sept. 15, 2010; and 76 FR 34885, June 15, 2011.
§ 180.101
Specific tolerances; general provisions.
(a) The tolerances established for pesticide chemicals in this subpart C apply to residues resulting from their application prior to harvest or slaughter, unless otherwise stated. Tolerances are expressed in terms of parts by weight of the pesticide chemical per one million parts by weight of the raw agricultural commodity.
(b) The poisonous and deleterious substances for which tolerances are established by the regulations in this subpart C are named by their common names wherever practicable, otherwise by their chemical names.
(c) The analytical methods to be used for determining whether pesticide residues, including negligible residues, in or on raw agricultural commodities are in compliance with the tolerances established in this part 180 are identified among the methods contained or referenced in the Food and Drug Administration's “Pesticide Analytical Manual” which is available from the Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, 200 C Street SW., Washington, DC 20204.
§ 180.103
Captan; tolerances for residues.
(a)(1)
General.
Tolerances are established for residues of the fungicide, captan (N-trichloromethylthio-4-cyclohexene-1,2-dicarboximide) in or on the following commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Almond
0.25
Almond, hulls
75.0
Animal feed, nongrass, group 18
0.05
Apple
25.0
Apricot
10.0
Blueberry
20.0
Caneberry, subgroup 13A
25.0
Cherry, sweet
50.0
Cherry, tart
50.0
Cotton, undelinted seed
0.05
Dill, seed
0.05
Flax, seed
0.05
Grape
25.0
Grain, cereal, forage, fodder and straw, group 16
0.05
Grain, cereal, group 15
0.05
Grass, forage
0.05
Grass, hay
0.05
Nectarine
25.0
Okra
0.05
Peach
15.0
Peanut
0.05
Peanut, hay
0.05
Pear
25.0
Plum, prune, fresh
10.0
Rapeseed, forage
0.05
Rapeseed, seed
0.05
Safflower, seed
0.05
Sesame, seed
0.05
Strawberry
20.0
Sunflower, seed
0.05
Vegetable, brassica leafy, group 5
0.05
Vegetable, bulb, group 3
0.05
Vegetable, cucurbit, group 9
0.05
Vegetable, foliage of legume, group 7
0.05
Vegetable, fruiting, group 8
0.05
Vegetable, leafy, except brassica, group 4
0.05
Vegetable, leaves of root and tuber, group 2
0.05
Vegetable, legume, group 6
0.05
Vegetable, root and tuber, group 1
0.05
(2) Tolerances are established for the combined residues of the fungicide, captan (N-trichloromethylthio-4-cyclohexene-1,2-dicarboximide) and its metabolite 1,2,3,6-tetrahydrophthalimide (THPI), measured at THPI, in or on the following commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Cattle, fat
0.15
Cattle, meat
0.20
Cattle, meat byproducts
0.30
Goat, fat
0.15
Goat, meat
0.20
Goat, meat byproducts
0.30
Hog, fat
0.15
Hog, meat
0.20
Hog, meat byproducts
0.30
Horse, fat
0.15
Horse, meat
0.20
Horse, meat byproducts
0.30
Milk
0.10
Sheep, fat
0.15
Sheep, meat
0.20
Sheep, meat byproducts
0.30
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[72 FR 52016, Sept. 12, 2007]
§ 180.106
Diuron; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances are established for the combined residues of the herbicide diuron, 3-(3,4-
dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea and its metabolites convertible to 3,4-dichloroaniline in or on food commodities, as follows:
Commodity
Parts per million
Alfalfa, forage
3.0
Alfalfa, hay
2.0
Apple
0.1
Artichoke, globe
1
Asparagus
7
Banana
0.1
Berry group 13
0.1
Cattle, fat
1
Cattle, meat
1
Cattle, meat byproducts
1
Citrus, oil
3.0
Corn, field, grain
0.1
Corn, pop, grain
0.1
Cotton, undelinted seed
0.2
Fish - freshwater finfish, farm raised
2.0
Fruit, citrus, group 10, except lemon
0.05
Goat, fat
1
Goat, meat
1
Goat, meat byproducts
1
Grain, aspirated fractions
5.0
Grape
0.05
Grass, forage, except bermudagrass
2
Grass, hay, except bermudagrass
2
Hazelnut
0.1
Hog, fat
1
Hog, meat
1
Hog, meat byproducts
1
Horse, fat
1
Horse, meat
1
Horse, meat byproducts
1
Lemon
0.5
Nut, macadamia
0.05
Olive
1
Papaya
0.5
Peach
0.1
Pear
1
Pea, field, seed
0.1
Pea, field, vines
2
Pea, field, hay
2
Pecan
0.05
Peppermint, tops
1.5
Pineapple
0.1
Pineapple, process residue
0.4
Sheep, fat
1
Sheep, meat
1
Sheep, meat byproducts
1
Sorghum, grain, forage
2
Sorghum, grain, grain
0.5
Sorghum, grain, stover
2
Spearmint, tops
1.5
Sugarcane, cane
0.2
Sugarcane, molasses
0.7
Walnut
0.05
Wheat, bran
0.7
Wheat, forage
2
Wheat, grain
0.5
Wheat, hay
2
Wheat, straw
1.5
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
Tolerances with a regional registration as defined in § 180.1(l) are established for the combined residues of the herbicide diuron (3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea and its metabolites convertible to 3,4-dichloroaniline) in or on the raw agricultural commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Barley, bran
0.7
Barley, grain
0.2
Barley, hay
2
Barley, straw
1.5
Cactus
0.05
Clover, forage
0.1
Clover, hay
1.0
Oat, forage
2
Oat, grain
0.1
Oat, hay
2
Oat, straw
1.5
Trefoil, forage
0.1
Trefoil, hay
1.5
Vetch, forage
0.1
Vetch, hay
1.5
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[63 FR 2164, Jan. 14, 1998, as amended at 63 FR 57072, Oct. 26, 1998; 64 FR 41305, July 30, 1999; 66 FR 28671, May 24, 2001; 67 FR 46883, July 17, 2002; 69 FR 71717, Dec. 10, 2004; 72 FR 32540, June 13, 2007; 72 FR 35666, June 29, 2007; 73 FR 54958, Sept. 24, 2008; 76 FR 34885, June 15, 2011]
§ 180.107
Triflumezopyrim; tolerance for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances are established for residues of the insecticide triflumezopyrim, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the following food commodities in the table below. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified below is to be determined by measuring only triflumezopyrim (2,4-dioxo-1-(5-pyrimidinylmethyl)-3-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-2
H
-pyrido[1,2-
a
] pyrimidinium inner salt) in or on the commodity.
Commodity
Parts per
million
Rice, grain *
0.40
Rice, hulls *
1.0
* There are no U.S. registrations for the use of triflumezopyrim on these commodities.
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[82 FR 48005, Oct. 16, 2017]
§ 180.108
Acephate; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
(1) Tolerances are established for residues of acephate,
O,S
-dimethyl acetyl phosphoramidothioate, including its metabolites and degradates other than methamidophos, in or on the commodities in the following table. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only acephate,
O,S
-dimethyl acetyl phosphoramidothioate, in or on the commodity.
Commodity
1
Parts per million
Bean, dry, seed
3.0
Brussels sprouts
3.0
Cattle, fat
0.1
Cattle, meat
0.1
Cattle, meat byproducts
0.1
Cauliflower
2.0
Celery
10
Cotton, hulls
1.0
Cotton, meal
1.0
Cotton, undelinted seed
0.5
Cranberry
0.5
Egg
0.1
Goat, fat
0.1
Goat, meat
0.1
Goat, meat byproducts
0.1
Hog, fat
0.1
Hog, meat
0.1
Hog, meat byproducts
0.1
Horse, fat
0.1
Horse, meat
0.1
Horse, meat byproducts
0.1
Lettuce, head
10
Milk
0.1
Peanut
0.2
Pepper
4.0
Peppermint, tops
27
Poultry, fat
0.1
Poultry, meat
0.1
Poultry, meat byproducts
0.1
Sheep, fat
0.1
Sheep, meat
0.1
Sheep, meat byproducts
0.1
Spearmint, tops
27
Soybean, seed
1.0
1
Where there is a direct use of methamidophos on the commodity, residues of methamidophos resulting from methamidophos application are regulated under 40 CFR 180.315.
(2) A tolerance of 0.02 ppm is established for residues of acephate,
O,S
-dimethyl acetyl phosphoramidothioate, including its metabolites and degradates other than methamidophos, in or on all food items (other than those already covered by a higher tolerance as a result of use on growing crops) in food handling establishments where food and food products are held, processed, prepared and served, including food service, manufacturing and processing establishments, such as restaurants, cafeterias, supermarkets, bakeries, breweries, dairies, meat slaughtering and packing plants, and canneries, where application of acephate shall be limited solely to spot and/or crack and crevice treatment (a coarse, low-pressure spray shall be used to avoid atomization or splashing of the spray for spot treatments; equipment capable of delivering a pin-stream of insecticide shall be used for crack and crevice treatments). Spray concentration shall be limited to a maximum of 1.0 percent active ingredient. Contamination of food or food-contact surfaces shall be avoided. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only acephate,
O,S
-dimethyl acetyl phosphoramidothioate, in or on the commodity.
(3) Tolerances are established for residues of methamidophos,
O,S
-dimethyl phosphoramidothioate, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the following table as a result of the application of acephate. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only methamidophos,
O,S
-dimethyl phosphoramidothioate, in or on the commodity.
Commodity
Parts per million
Bean, dry, seed
1
Brussels sprouts
0.5
Cauliflower
0.5
Celery
1
Cranberry
0.1
Lettuce, head
1
Pepper
1
Peppermint, tops
1
Spearmint, tops
1
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
A tolerance with a regional registration is established for residues of acephate,
O,S
-dimethyl acetyl phosphoramidothioate, including its metabolites and degradates other than methamidophos, in or on the commodity in the following table. Compliance with the tolerance level specified in this paragraph is to be determined
by measuring only acephate,
O,S
-dimethyl acetyl phosphoramidothioate, in or on the commodity.
Commodity
1
Parts per million
Nut, macadamia
0.05
1
Where there is a direct use of methamidophos on the commodity, residues of methamidophos resulting from methamidophos application are regulated under 40 CFR 180.315.
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[63 FR 13542, Mar. 20, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 49615, July 31, 2002; 73 FR 5108, Jan. 29, 2008; 75 FR 60237, Sept. 29, 2010; 81 FR 34905, June 1, 2016]
§ 180.109
Fenpicoxamid; Tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances are established for residues of fenpicoxamid including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table below. Compliance with the tolerance levels for fenpicoxamid is to be determined by measuring only fenpicoxamid ([[4-methoxy-2-[[[(3
S,
7
R,
8
R,
9
S
)-9-methyl-8-(2-methyl-1-oxopropoxy)-2,6-dioxo-7-(phenylmethyl)-1,5-dioxonan-3-yl]amino]carbonyl]-3-pyridinyl]oxy]methyl 2-methylpropanoate) in or on the commodity.
Commodity
Parts per
million
Banana*
0.15
Wheat, grain*
0.60
Rye, grain*
0.60
*There are no U.S. registrations for use of fenpicoxamid on this commodity.
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[82 FR 48000, Oct. 16, 2017]
§ 180.111
Malathion; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
(1) Tolerances are established for residues of the insecticide malathion (
O,O
-dimethyl dithiophosphate of diethyl mercaptosuccinate) in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Alfalfa, forage
135
Alfalfa, hay
135
Almond, hulls
50
Almond, postharvest
8
Apple
8
Apricot
8
Asparagus
8
Avocado
8
Barley, grain, postharvest
8
Bean, dry, seed
8
Bean, succulent
8
Beet, garden, roots
8
Beet, garden, tops
8
Beet, sugar, roots
1
Beet, sugar, tops
8
Blackberry
8
Blueberry
8
Boysenberry
8
Carrot, roots
8
Chayote, fruit
8
Chayote, roots
8
Cherry
8
Chestnut
1
Clover, forage
135
Clover, hay
135
Corn, field, forage
8
Corn, field, grain, postharvest
8
Corn, pop, grain, postharvest
8
Corn, sweet, forage
8
Corn, sweet, kernel plus cob with husks removed
2
Cowpea, forage
135
Cowpea, hay
135
Cranberry
8
Cucumber
8
Currant
8
Date, dried fruit
8
Dewberry
8
Eggplant
8
Fig
8
Flax, seed
0.1
Garlic, bulb
8
Gooseberry
8
Grape
8
Grapefruit
8
Guava
8
Hazelnut
1
Hop, dried cones
1
Horseradish
8
Kumquat
8
Leek
8
Lemon
8
Lentil, seed
8
Lespedeza, hay
135
Lime
8
Loganberry
8
Lupin, seed
8
Mango
8
Melon
8
Mushroom
8
Nectarine
8
Nut, macadamia
1
Oat, grain, postharvest
8
Okra
8
Onion, bulb
8
Onion, green
8
Orange
8
Papaya
1
Parsnip
8
Passionfruit
8
Pea
8
Pea, field, hay
8
Pea, field, vines
8
Peach
8
Peanut, hay
135
Peanut, postharvest
8
Pear
8
Pecan
8
Pepper
8
Peppermint, tops
8
Pineapple
8
Plum
8
Plum, prune
8
Potato
8
Pumpkin
8
Quince
8
Radish
8
Raspberry
8
Rice, grain, postharvest
8
Rice, wild
8
Rutabaga
8
Rye, grain, postharvest
8
Safflower, seed
0.2
Salsify, roots
8
Salsify, tops
8
Shallot, bulb
8
Sorghum, grain, forage
8
Sorghum, grain, grain, postharvest
8
Soybean, forage
135
Soybean, hay
135
Soybean, seed
8
Soybean, vegetable, succulent
8
Spearmint, tops
8
Squash, summer
8
Squash, winter
8
Strawberry
8
Sunflower, seed, postharvest
8
Sweet potato, roots
1
Tangerine
8
Tomato
8
Trefoil, forage
135
Trefoil, hay
135
Turnip, greens
8
Turnip, roots
8
Vegetable, brassica, leafy, group 5
8
Vegetable, leafy, except brassica, group 4
8
Vetch, hay
135
Walnut
8
Wheat, grain, postharvest
8
(2) Tolerances are established for the combined residues of the insecticide malathion (
O,O
-dimethyl dithiophosphate of diethyl mercaptosuccinate) and its metabolite, malaoxon (O,O-dimethyl thiophosphate of diethyl mercaptosuccinate), in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Barley, straw
50
Corn, field, stover
30.0
Cotton, undelinted seed
20.0
Grass, forage
200
Grass, hay
270
Oat, forage
4.0
Oat, straw
50
Rye, forage
4.0
Rye, straw
50
Watercress
0.2
Wheat, forage
4.0
Wheat, straw
50
(3) Tolerances are established for residues of the insecticide malathion (
O,O
-dimethyl dithiophosphate of diethyl mercaptosuccinate), in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Cattle, fat
4
Cattle, meat
1
4
Cattle, meat byproducts
1
4
Egg
0.1
Goat, fat
4
Goat, meat
1
4
Goat, meat byproducts
1
4
Hog, fat
4
Hog, meat
1
4
Hog, meat byproducts
1
4
Horse, fat
4
Horse, meat
1
4
Horse, meat byproducts
1
4
Milk, fat
0.5
Poultry, fat
4
Poultry, meat
1
4
Poultry, meat byproducts
1
4
Sheep, fat
4
Sheep, meat
1
4
Sheep, meat byproducts
1
4
1
The tolerance level shall not be exceeded in any cut of meat or in any meat byproducts from cattle, goat, hog, horse, poultry, or sheep.
(4) Malathion may be safely used in accordance with the following conditions:
(i) It is incorporated into paper trays in amounts not exceeding 100 milligrams per square foot.
(ii) Treated paper trays are intended for use only in the drying of grape (raisins).
(iii) Total residues of malathion resulting from drying of grape on treated trays and from application to grape before harvest shall not exceed 12 parts per million on processed ready-to-eat raisins.
(5) Residues of malathion in safflower, refined oil from application to the growing safflower plant shall not exceed 0.6 parts per million.
(6) Malathion may be safely used for the control of insects during the drying of grape (raisins) in compliance with paragraph (a)(4) of this section by incorporation into paper trays in amounts not exceeding 100 milligrams per square foot.
(7) Malathion (
O,O-
dimethyl dithiophosphate of diethyl mercaptosuccinate) may be safely used in feed in accordance with the following conditions.
(i) A tolerance of 50 parts per million is established for residues of malathion
in citrus, dried pulp for cattle feed, when present as the result of the application of the pesticide to bagged citrus pulp during storage. Whether or not tolerances for residues of malathion on the fresh fruit have been established under section 408 of the Act, the total residue of malathion in the citrus, dried pulp shall not exceed 50 parts per million.
(ii) A tolerance of 10 parts per million is established for malathion in nonmedicated cattle feed concentrate blocks resulting from its application as a pesticide to paper used in packaging the nonmedicated cattle feed concentrate blocks.
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[43 FR 22974, May 30, 1978, as amended at 43 FR 45584, Oct. 3, 1978; 44 FR 38844, July 3, 1979; 45 FR 76145, Nov. 18, 1980; 47 FR 42738, Sept. 29, 1982; 47 FR 55226, Dec. 8, 1982; 52 FR 45183, Nov. 25, 1987; 62 FR 66023, 66025, Dec. 17, 1997; 65 FR 33694, May 24, 2000; 72 FR 35665, June 29, 2007; 73 FR 54959, Sept. 24, 2008; 74 FR 47455, Sept. 16, 2009; 75 FR 60238, Sept. 29, 2010]
§ 180.114
Ferbam; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances are established for residues of the fungicide ferbam (ferric dimethyldithiocarbamate), calculated as carbon disulfide, in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Expiration/Revocation Date
Apple
4.0
1
None
Bean
7.0
1
10/27/07
Cabbage
7.0
1
10/27/07
Cherry
4.0
1
None
Cranberry
4.0
1
None
Fruit, citrus, group 10
4.0
1
None
Grape
4.0
1
None
Lettuce
7.0
1
10/27/07
Nectarine
4.0
1
None
Peach
4.0
1
None
Pear
4.0
1
None
Raspberry
7.0
1
10/27/07
1
Some of these tolerances were established on the basis of data acquired at the public hearings held in 1950 (formerly § 180.101) and the remainder were established on the basis of pesticide petitions presented under the procedure specified in the amendment to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act by Pub. L. 518, 83d Congress (68 Stat. 511)
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
Tolerances with regional registrations, as defined in § 180.1(l), are established for residues of the fungicide ferbam (ferric dimethyldithiocarbamate), calculated as carbon disulfide, in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Mango
4.0
1
1
This tolerance was established on the basis of data acquired at the public hearings held in 1950 (formerly § 180.101) and the remainder was established on the basis of pesticide petitions presented under the procedure specified in the amendment to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act by Pub. L. 518, 83d Congress (68 Stat. 511)
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[63 FR 57072, Oct. 26, 1998, as amended at 72 FR 53453, Sept. 19, 2007]
§ 180.116
Ziram; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances are established for residues of the fungicide ziram (zinc dimethyldithiocarbamate), including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table below as a result of the application of ziram. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified below is to be determined by measuring total dithiocarbamates, determined as CS2, evolved during acid digestion and expressed as zinc ethylenebisdithiocarbamate.
Commodity
Parts per million
Almond
1
0.10
Apple
1
7.0
Apricot
1
7.0
Blueberry
1
7.0
Cherry, sweet
1
7.0
Cherry, tart
1
7.0
Grape
7.0
Hazelnut
0.10
Huckleberry
7.0
Peach
7.0
Pear
1
7.0
Pecan
0.10
Quince
1
7.0
Strawberry
7.0
Tomato
1
7.0
1
Some of these tolerances were established on the basis of data acquired at the public hearings held in 1950 (formerly § 180.101) and the remainder were established on the basis of pesticide petitions presented under the procedure specified in the amendment to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act by Public Law 518, 83d Congress (68 Stat. 511).
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[68 FR 39437, July 1, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 54432, Sept. 15, 2006; 73 FR 54959, Sept. 24, 2008; 77 FR 59123, Sept. 26, 2012; 82 FR 57860, Dec. 8, 2017]
§ 180.117
S
-Ethyl dipropylthiocarbamate; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances are established for residues of the herbicide
S
-ethyl dipropylthiocarbamate, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the following table. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only the sum of
S
-ethyl dipropylthiocarbamate,
S
-ethyl (2-hydroxypropyl)propylcarbamothioate,
S
-(2-hydroxyethyl)dipropylcarbamothioate, and
S
-ethyl (3-hydroxypropyl)propylcarbamothioate, calculated as the stoichiometric equivalent of
S
-ethyl dipropylthiocarbamate, in or on the commodity.
Commodity
Parts per million
Alfalfa, forage
0.2
Alfalfa, hay
0.6
Almond
0.08
Almond, hulls
0.08
Bean, dry, seed
0.08
Bean, succulent
0.08
Beet, garden, tops
0.5
Beet, sugar, molasses
0.4
Beet, sugar, tops
0.5
Clover, forage
0.1
Clover, hay
0.1
Corn, field, forage
0.08
Corn, field, grain
0.08
Corn, field, stover
0.08
Corn, pop, grain
0.08
Corn, pop, stover
0.08
Corn, sweet, forage
0.08
Corn, sweet, kernel plus cob with husks removed
0.08
Corn, sweet, stover
0.08
Cotton, gin byproducts
0.20
Cotton, undelinted seed
0.08
Fruit, citrus, group 10
0.1
Grass, forage
0.60
Grass, hay
0.50
Lespedeza, forage
0.1
Lespedeza, hay
0.1
Pea, succulent
0.08
Safflower, seed
0.08
Sunflower, seed
0.08
Tomato
0.08
Trefoil, forage
0.1
Trefoil, hay
0.1
Vegetable, root
0.1
Walnut
0.08
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[75 FR 60239, Sept. 29, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 42952, Sept. 13, 2017]
§ 180.123
Inorganic bromide residues resulting from fumigation with methyl bromide; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
(1) Tolerances are established for residues of inorganic bromides (calculated as Br) in or on the following food commodities which have been fumigated with the antimicrobial agent and insecticide methyl bromide after harvest (with the exception of strawberry):
Commodity
Parts per million
Expiration/Revocation Date
Alfalfa, hay, postharvest
50.0
10/31/11
Almond, postharvest
200.0
None
Apple, postharvest
5.0
None
Apricot, postharvest
20.0
None
Artichoke, jerusalem, postharvest
30.0
None
Asparagus, postharvest
100.0
None
Avocado, postharvest
75.0
None
Barley, grain, postharvest
50.0
None
Bean, lima, postharvest
50.0
None
Bean, postharvest
50.0
None
Bean, snap, succulent, postharvest
50.0
None
Bean, succulent, postharvest
50.0
None
Beet, garden, roots, postharvest
30.0
None
Beet, sugar, roots, postharvest
30.0
None
Blueberry, postharvest
20.0
None
Butternut, postharvest
200.0
None
Cabbage, postharvest
50.0
None
Cacao bean, roasted bean, postharvest
50.0
None
Cantaloupe, postharvest
20.0
None
Carrot, roots, postharvest
30.0
None
Cashew, postharvest
200.0
None
Cherry, sweet, postharvest
20.0
None
Cherry, tart, postharvest
20
None
Chestnut, postharvest
200.0
None
Cippolini, bulb, postharvest
50.0
None
Citron, citrus, postharvest
30.0
None
Coconut, copra, postharvest
100.0
None
Coffee, bean, green, postharvest
75.0
None
Corn, field, grain, postharvest
50.0
None
Corn, pop, postharvest
240.0
None
Corn, sweet, kernel plus cob with husks removed, postharvest
50.0
None
Cotton, undelinted seed, postharvest
200.0
10/31/11
Cucumber, postharvest
30.0
None
Cumin, seed, postharvest
100.0
None
Eggplant, postharvest
20.0
None
Garlic, postharvest
50.0
None
Ginger, postharvest
100.0
None
Grape, postharvest
20.0
None
Grapefruit, postharvest
30.0
None
Hazelnut, postharvest
200.0
None
Horseradish, postharvest
30.0
None
Kumquat, postharvest
30.0
None
Lemon, postharvest
30.0
None
Lime, postharvest
30.0
None
Melon, honeydew, postharvest
20.0
None
Muskmelon, postharvest
20.0
None
Nectarine, postharvest
20.0
None
Nut, brazil, postharvest
200.0
None
Nut, hickory, postharvest
200.0
None
Nut, macadamia, postharvest
200.0
None
Oat, postharvest
50.0
None
Okra, postharvest
30.0
None
Onion, bulb, postharvest
20.0
None
Onion, green, postharvest
20.0
None
Orange, postharvest
30.0
None
Parsnip, roots, postharvest
30.0
None
Peach, postharvest
20.0
None
Peanut, postharvest
200.0
None
Pear, postharvest
5.0
None
Pea, blackeyed, postharvest
50.0
None
Pea, postharvest
50.0
None
Pecan, postharvest
200.0
None
Pepper, postharvest
30.0
None
Pimento, postharvest
30.0
None
Pineapple, postharvest
20.0
None
Pistachio, postharvest
200.0
None
Plum, postharvest
20.0
None
Pomegranate, postharvest
100.0
None
Potato, postharvest
75.0
None
Pumpkin, postharvest
20.0
None
Quince, postharvest
5.0
None
Radish, postharvest
30.0
None
Rice, grain, postharvest
50.0
None
Rutabaga, roots, postharvest
30.0
None
Rutabaga, tops, postharvest
30.0
None
Rye, grain, postharvest
50.0
None
Salsify, roots, postharvest
30.0
None
Sorghum, grain, grain, postharvest
50.0
None
Soybean, postharvest
200.0
None
Squash, summer, postharvest
30.0
None
Squash, winter, postharvest
20.0
None
Squash, zucchini, postharvest
20.0
None
Strawberry, postharvest
60.0
None
Sweet potato, postharvest
75.0
None
Tangerine, postharvest
30.0
None
Timothy, hay, postharvest
50.0
10/19/10
Tomato, postharvest
20.0
None
Turnip, roots, postharvest
30.0
None
Walnut, postharvest
200.0
None
Watermelon, postharvest
20.0
None
Wheat
50.0
None
(2) Inorganic bromide may be present as a residue in certain processed food in accordance with the following conditions:
(i) When inorganic bromide residues are present as a result of fumigation of the processed food with methyl bromide or from such fumigation in addition to the authorized use of methyl bromide on the source raw agricultural commodity, as provided for in this part, the total residues of inorganic bromides (calculated as Br) shall not exceed the following levels:
(A) 400 parts per million in or on egg, dried and herb, processed and spice.
(B) 325 parts per million in or on cheese, parmesan and cheese, roquefort cheese.
(C) 250 parts per million in or on tomato, concentrated products and fig, dried fruit.
(D) 125 parts per million in or on processed food other than those listed above.
(ii) When inorganic bromide residues are present in malt beverage, fermented in accordance with 21 CFR 172.730(a)(2), the amount shall not exceed 25 parts per million (calculated as Br).
(iii) Where tolerances are established on both the raw agricultural commodities and processed food made therefrom, the total residues of inorganic bromides in or on the processed food shall not be greater than those designated in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, unless a higher level is established elsewhere in this part.
(3) Tolerances are established for residues of inorganic bromides (calculated as Br) as follows:
(i) 400 parts per million for residues in or on dog food, resulting from fumigation with methyl bromide.
(ii) 125 parts per million for residues in or on processed commodities for animal feedstuffs from barley, corn, grain sorghum, oat, rice, rye and wheat, resulting directly from fumigation with methyl bromide or from carryover and concentration of residues of inorganic bromides from fumigation of the grains with methyl bromide.
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
A tolerance with regional registration, as defined in § 180.1(l), is established for residues of inorganic bromides (calculated as Br) in or on the following food commodity grown in soil fumigated with methyl bromide.
Commodity
Parts per million
Ginger, postharvest
100
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[71 FR 74812, Dec. 13, 2006, as amended at 75 FR 60239, Sept. 29, 2010]
§ 180.123a
Inorganic bromide residues in peanut hay and peanut hulls; statement of policy.
(a) Investigations by the Food and Drug Administration show that peanut hay and peanut shells have been used as feed for meat and dairy animals. While many growers now harvest peanuts with combines and leave the hay on the ground to be incorporated into the soil, some growers follow the practice of curing peanuts on the vines in a stack and save the hay for animal feed. Peanut shells or hulls have been used to a minor extent as roughage for cattle feed. It has been established that the feeding to cattle of peanut hay and peanut hulls containing residues of inorganic bromides will contribute considerable residues of inorganic bromides to the meat and milk.
(b) There are no tolerances for inorganic bromides in meat and milk to cover residues from use of such peanut hulls as animal feed. Peanut hulls containing residues of inorganic bromides from the use of methyl bromide are unsuitable as an ingredient in the feed of meat and dairy animals and should not be represented, sold, or used for that purpose.
[58 FR 65555, Dec. 15, 1993]
§ 180.124
Methyl bromide; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
A tolerance is established for residues of the fumigant methyl bromide, including metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodity in the table below. Compliance with the tolerance level specified below is to be determined by measuring only methyl bromide.
Commodity
Parts per
million
Cotton, undelinted seed
150
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
Time-limited tolerances are established for residues of the fumigant methyl bromide, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the specified agricultural commodities in Table 2 to this paragraph (b). Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in Table 2 to this paragraph (b) is to be determined by measuring only methyl bromide, in or on the commodities, resulting from use of the pesticide pursuant to Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) section 18 emergency exemptions. The tolerances expire and are revoked on the dates specified in Table 2 to this paragraph (b).
Table 2 to Paragraph
(b)
Commodity
Parts per
million
Expiration/
revocation date
Berry and small fruit, group 13-07
5.0
12/31/26
Cactus
3.0
12/31/26
Coconut, copra
8.0
12/31/26
Coffee, green bean
150
12/31/26
Cola, seed
150
12/31/26
Cucurbit, seed
150
12/31/26
Fig
10
12/31/26
Fruit, citrus, group 10-10
2
12/31/26
Fruit, stone, group 12-12
5.0
12/31/26
Fruit, tropical and subtropical, edible peel, group 23
10
12/31/26
Fruit, tropical and subtropical, inedible peel, group 24
5.0
12/31/26
Herb and spice, group 19
35
12/31/26
Hibiscus, seed
150
12/31/26
Ivy gourd
5.0
12/31/26
Kaffir lime, leaves
0.50
12/31/26
Kenaf, seed
150
12/31/26
Oilseed group 20
150
12/31/26
Peppermint, tops
35
12/31/26
Pointed gourd
5.0
12/31/26
Spearmint, tops
35
12/31/26
Vegetable, bulb, group 3-07
2.0
12/31/26
Vegetable, cucurbit, group 9
5.0
12/31/26
Vegetable, foliage of legume, group 7
0.50
12/31/26
Vegetable, fruiting, group 8-10
7.0
12/31/26
Vegetable, head and stem
Brassica,
group 5-16
1.0
12/31/26
Vegetable, leafy, group 4-16
0.50
12/31/26
Vegetable, leaves of root and tuber, group 2
0.50
12/31/26
Vegetable, legume, group 6
3.0
12/31/26
Vegetable, root and tuber, group 1
3.0
12/31/26
Vegetable, stalk, stem and leaf petiole, group 22
0.50
12/31/26
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[77 FR 35298, June 13, 2012, as amended at 83 FR 8763, Mar. 1, 2018; 85 FR 65734, Oct. 16, 2020; 86 FR 8703, Feb. 9, 2021; 88 FR 75505, Nov. 3, 2023]
§ 180.127
Piperonyl butoxide; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
(1) Tolerances for residues of the insecticide piperonyl butoxide [(butyl carbityl)(6-propyl piperonyl)ether] are established in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Almond, postharvest
8
Apple, postharvest
8
Barley, postharvest
20
Bean, postharvest
8
Birdseed, mixtures, postharvest
20
Blackberry, postharvest
8
Blueberry, postharvest
8
Boysenberry, postharvest
8
Buckwheat, grain, postharvest
20
Cattle, fat
0.1
Cattle, meat
0.1
Cattle, meat byproducts
0.1
Cherry, sweet, postharvest
8
Cherry, tart, postharvest
8
Cacoa bean, roasted bean, postharvest
8
Coconut, copra, postharvest
8
Corn, field, grain, postharvest
20
Corn, pop, postharvest
20
Cotton, undelinted seed, postharvest
8
Crabapple, postharvest
8
Currant, postharvest
8
Dewberry, postharvest
8
Egg
1
Fig, postharvest
8
Flax, seed, postharvest
8
Goat, fat
0.1
Goat, meat
0.1
Goat, meat byproducts
0.1
Gooseberry, postharvest
8
Grape, postharvest
8
Guava, postharvest
8
Hog, fat
0.1
Hog, meat
0.1
Hog, meat byproducts
0.1
Horse, fat
0.1
Horse, meat
0.1
Horse, meat byproducts
0.1
Loganberry, postharvest
8
Mango, postharvest
8
Milk, fat
0.25
Muskmelon, postharvest
8
Oat, postharvest
8
Orange, postharvest
8
Peach, postharvest
8
Peanut, postharvest
8
Pea, postharvest
8
Pear, postharvest
8
Pineapple, postharvest
8
Plum, prune, fresh, postharvest
8
Potato, postharvest
0.25
Poultry, fat
3
Poultry, meat
3
Poultry, meat byproducts
3
Raspberry, postharvest
8
Rice, postharvest
20
Rye, postharvest
20
Sheep, fat
0.1
Sheep, meat
0.1
Sheep, meat byproducts
0.1
Sorghum, grain, postharvest
8
Sweet potato, postharvest
0.25
Tomato, postharvest
8
Walnut, postharvest
8
Wheat, postharvest
20
(2) Piperonyl butoxide may be safely used in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(i) It is used or intended for use in combination with pyrethrins for control of insects:
(A) In cereal grain mills and in storage areas for milled cereal grain products, whereby the amount of piperonyl butoxide is at least equal to but not more than 10 times the amount of pyrethrins in the formulation.
(B) On the outer ply of multiwall paper bags of 50 pounds or more capacity in amounts not exceeding 60 milligrams per square foot, whereby the amount of piperonyl butoxide is equal to 10 times the amount of pyrethrins in the formulation. Such treated bags are to be used only for food, dried.
(C) On cotton bags of 50 pounds or more capacity in amounts not exceeding 55 milligrams per square foot of
cloth, whereby the amount of piperonyl butoxide is equal to 10 times the amount of pyrethrins in the formulation. Such treated bags are constructed with waxed paper liners and are to be used only for food, dried that contain 4 percent fat or less.
(D) In two-ply bags consisting of cellophane/polyolefin sheets bound together by an adhesive layer when it is incorporated in the adhesive. The treated sheets shall contain not more than 50 milligrams of piperonyl butoxide per square foot (538 milligrams per square meter). Such treated bags are to be used only for packaging plum, prune, dried; grape, raisin; and other fruit, dried and are to have a maximum ratio of 3.12 milligrams of piperonyl butoxide per ounce of fruit (0.10 milligram of piperonyl butoxide per gram of product).
(E) In food processing and food storage areas: Provided, That the food is removed or covered prior to such use.
(ii) It is used or intended for use in combination with pyrethrins and N-octylbicycloheptene dicarboximide for insect control in accordance with 21 CFR 178.3730.
(iii) A tolerance of 10 parts per million is established for residues of piperonyl butoxide in or on:
(A) Grain, cereal, milled fractions when present therein as a result of its use in cereal grain mills and in storage areas for milled cereal grain products.
(B) Food, dried when present as a result of migration from its use on the outer ply of multiwall paper bags of 50 pounds or more capacity.
(C) Food treated in accordance with 21 CFR 178.3730.
(D) Food, dried that contain 4 percent fat, or less, when present as a result of migration from its use on the cloth of cotton bags of 50 pounds or more capacity constructed with waxed paper liners.
(E) Food treated in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i)(D) and (E) of this section.
(iv) To assure safe use of the pesticide, its label and labeling shall conform to that registered with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and it shall be used in accordance with such label and labeling.
(v) Where tolerances are established on both raw agricultural commodities and processed food made therefrom, the total residues of piperonyl butoxide in or on the processed food shall not be greater than that permitted by the larger of the two tolerances.
(3) Piperonyl butoxide may be safely used in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:
(i) It is used or intended for use in combination with pyrethrins for control of insects:
(A) On the outer ply of multiwall paper bags of 50 pounds or more capacity in amounts not exceeding 60 milligrams per square foot.
(B) On cotton bags of 50 pounds or more capacity in amounts not exceeding 55 milligrams per square foot of cloth. Such treated bags are constructed with waxed paper liners and are to be used only for feed, dried that contain 4 percent fat or less.
(ii) It is used in combination with pyrethrins, whereby the amount of piperonyl butoxide is equal to 10 times the amount of pyrethrins in the formulation. Such treated bags are to be used only for feed, dried.
(iii) A tolerance of 10 parts per million is established for residues of piperonyl butoxide when present as the result of migration:
(A) In or on feed, dried from its use on the outer ply of multiwall paper bags of 50 pounds or more capacity.
(B) In or on feed, dried that contain 4 percent fat, or less, from its use on cotton bags of 50 pounds or more capacity constructed with waxed paper liners.
(iv) To assure safe use of the pesticide, its label and labeling shall conform to that registered with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
(v) Where tolerances are established on both the raw agricultural commodities and food, processed made therefrom, the total residues of piperonyl butoxide in or on the processed food shall not be greater than that permitted by the larger of the two tolerances.
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[71 FR 74813, Dec. 13, 2006]
§ 180.128
Pyrethrins; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
(1) Tolerances for residues of the insecticide pyrethrins ((1S)-2-methyl-4-oxo-3-(2Z)-2,4-pentadienylcyclopenten-1-yl (1R,3R)-2,2-dimethyl-3-(2-methyl-1-propenyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate (pyrethrin 1), (1S)-2-methyl-4-oxo-3-(2Z)-2,4-pentadienyl-2-cyclopenten-1-yl (1R,3R)-3-[(1E)-3-methoxy-2-methyl-3-oxo-1-propenyl]-2,2-dimethylcyclopropane-carboxylate (pyrethrin 2), (1S)-3-(2Z)-2-butenyl-2-methyl-4-oxo-2-cyclopenten-1-yl (1R,3R)-2,2-dimethyl-3-(2-methyl-1-propenyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate (cinerin 1), (1S)-3-(2Z)-2-butenyl-2-methyl-4-oxo-2-cyclopenten-1-yl (1R,3R)-3-[(1E)-3-methoxy-2-methyl-3-oxo-1-propenyl]-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate (cinerin 2), (1S)-2-methyl-4-oxo-3-(2Z)-2-pentenyl-2-cyclopenten-1-yl (1R, 3R)-2,2-dimethyl-3-(2-methyl-1-propenyl)cyclopropanecarboxylate (jasmolin 1), and (1S)-2-methyl-4-oxo-3-(2Z)-pentenyl-2-cyclopenten-1-yl (1R,3R)-3-[(1E)-3-methoxy-2-methyl-3-oxo-1-propenyl]-2,2-dimethylcyclopropanecarboxylate (jasmolin 2)), the insecticidally active principles of Chrysanthemum cinerariaefolium, which are measured as cumulative residues of pyrethrin 1, cinerin 1, and jasmolin 1 are not to exceed the following:
Commodity
Parts per million
Almond, postharvest
1.0
Apple, postharvest
1.0
Barley, grain, postharvest
3.0
Bean, succulent, postharvest
1.0
Birdseed, mixtures, postharvest
3.0
Blackberry, postharvest
1.0
Blueberry, postharvest
1.0
Boysenberry, postharvest
1.0
Buckwheat, grain, postharvest
3.0
Cacao bean, roasted bean, postharvest
1.0
Cattle, fat
1.0
Cattle, meat
0.05
Cattle, meat byproducts
0.05
Cherry, sweet, postharvest
1.0
Cherry, tart, postharvest
1.0
Coconut, copra, postharvest
1.0
Corn, field, grain, postharvest
3.0
Corn, pop, grain, postharvest
3.0
Cotton, undelinted seed, postharvest
1.0
Crabapple, postharvest
1.0
Currant, postharvest
1.0
Dewberry, postharvest
1.0
Fig, postharvest
1.0
Flax, seed, postharvest
1.0
Goat, fat
1.0
Goat, meat
0.05
Goat, meat byproducts
0.05
Gooseberry, postharvest
1.0
Grape, postharvest
1.0
Guava, postharvest
1.0
Hog, fat
1.0
Hog, meat
0.05
Hog, meat byproducts
0.05
Horse, fat
1.0
Horse, meat
0.05
Horse, meat byproducts
0.05
Loganberry, postharvest
1.0
Mango, postharvest
1.0
Milk, fat (reflecting negligible residues in milk)
0.05
Muskmelon, postharvest
1.0
Oat, grain, postharvest
1.0
Orange, postharvest
1.0
Pea, dry, seed, postharvest
1.0
Peach, postharvest
1.0
Peanut, postharvest
1.0
Pear, postharvest
1.0
Pineapple, postharvest
1.0
Plum, prune, fresh, postharvest
1.0
Potato, postharvest
0.05
Raspberry, postharvest
1.0
Rice, grain, postharvest
3.0
Rye, grain, postharvest
3.0
Sheep, fat
1.0
Sheep, meat
0.05
Sheep, meat byproducts
0.05
Sorghum, grain, grain, postharvest
1.0
Sweet potato, postharvest
0.05
Tomato, postharvest
1.0
Walnut, postharvest
1.0
Wheat, grain, postharvest
3.0
(2) A tolerance of 1.0 ppm is established for residues of the insecticide pyrethrins in or on milled fractions derived from grain, cereal when present as a result of its use in cereal grain mills and in storage areas for milled cereal grain products.
(3) A tolerance of 1.0 ppm is established for residues of the insecticide pyrethrins in or on all food items in food handling establishments where food and food products are held, processed, prepared and/or served. Food must be removed or covered prior to use.
(4) Where tolerances are established on both the raw agricultural commodities and processed foods made there-from, the total residues of pyrethrins in or on the processed food shall not be greater than that permitted by the larger of the two tolerances.
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[71 FR 74814, Dec. 13, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 5108, Jan. 29, 2008]
§ 180.129
o-Phenylphenol and its sodium salt; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances are established for combined residues of the fungicide o-phenylphenol and sodium o-phenylphenate, each expressed as o-phenylphenol, from postharvest application of either in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Apple
25
Cantaloupe (NMT 10 ppm in edible portion)
125
Carrot, roots
20
Cherry
5
Citrus fruits
10
Cucumber
10
Lemon
10
Nectarine
5
Orange
10
Pepper, bell
10
Peach
20
Pear
25.0
Pineapple
10
Plum, prune, fresh
20
Sweet potato, roots
15
Tomato
10
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[73 FR 54960, Sept. 24, 2008]
§ 180.130
Hydrogen Cyanide; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
A tolerance for residues of the insecticide hydrogen cyanide from postharvest fumigation as a result of application of sodium cyanide is established as follows: 50 parts per million in or on Fruit, citrus.
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[64 FR 39077, July 21, 1999]
§ 180.132
Thiram; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
(1) A tolerances for residues of the fungicide thiram (tetramethyl thiuram disulfide), including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table in this paragraph. Compliance with the tolerance level specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only thiram.
Commodity
Parts
per million
Avocado
1
15
1
No U.S. registrations as of September 23, 2009.
(2) Tolerances are established for residues of the fungicide thiram, tetramethyl thiuram disulfide, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table in this paragraph. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only those thiram residues convertible to and expressed in terms of the degradate carbon disulfide, in or on the commodity.
Commodity
Parts
per million
Apple
5
Banana
1
2.0
Peach
7.0
Strawberry
13
1
There are no U.S. registrations as of September 23, 2009.
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[67 FR 49615, July 31, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 48391, Sept. 23, 2009; 79 FR 8301, Feb. 12, 2014; 79 FR 18822, Apr. 4, 2014; 80 FR 16306, Mar. 27, 2015; 80 FR 35252, June 19, 2015; 80 FR 72597, Nov. 20, 2015]
§ 180.142
2,4-D; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances are established for residues of the herbicide, plant regulator, and fungicide 2,4-D, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table below. Compliance with the tolerance levels is to be determined by measuring residues of 2,4-D (2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid), both free and conjugated, determined as the acid, in or on the following commodities:
Table 1 to Paragraph (
a
)
Commodity
Parts per million
Almond hulls
0.1
Asparagus
5.0
Barley, bran
4.0
Barley, grain
2.0
Barley, straw
50
Berry, group 13
0.2
Cattle, fat
0.3
Cattle, kidney
4.0
Cattle, meat
0.3
Cattle, meat byproducts, except kidney
0.3
Corn, field, forage
6.0
Corn, field, grain
0.05
Corn, field, stover
50
Corn, pop, grain
0.05
Corn, pop, stover
50
Corn, sweet, forage
6.0
Corn, sweet, kernel plus cob with husks removed
0.05
Corn, sweet, stover
50
Cotton, gin byproducts
1.5
Cotton, undelinted seed
0.08
Cranberry
0.5
Fish
0.1
Fruit, citrus, group 10
3.0
Fruit, pome, group 11
0.05
Fruit, stone, group 12
0.05
Goat, fat
0.3
Goat, kidney
4.0
Goat, meat
0.3
Goat, meat byproducts, except kidney
0.3
Grain, aspirated fractions
40
Grape
0.05
Grass, forage
360
Grass, hay
300
Hop, dried cones
0.2
Horse, fat
0.3
Horse, kidney
4.0
Horse, meat
0.3
Horse, meat byproducts, except kidney
0.3
Milk
0.05
Millet, forage
25
Millet, grain
2.0
Millet, straw
50
Nut, tree, group 14
0.2
Oat, forage
25
Oat, grain
2.0
Oat, straw
50
Pistachio
0.05
Potato
0.4
Rice, grain
0.5
Rice, hulls
2.0
Rye, bran
4.0
Rye, forage
25
Rye, grain
2.0
Rye, straw
50
Sesame, seed
0.05
Sheep, fat
0.3
Sheep, kidney
4.0
Sheep, meat
0.3
Sheep, meat byproducts, except kidney
0.3
Shellfish
1.0
Sorghum, grain, forage
0.2
Sorghum, grain, grain
0.2
Sorghum, grain, stover
0.2
Soybean, forage
0.02
Soybean, hay
2.0
Soybean, seed
0.02
Strawberry
0.05
Sugarcane, cane
0.05
Sugarcane, molasses
0.2
Teff, bran
4.0
Teff, forage
25.0
Teff, grain
2.0
Teff, straw
50.0
Vegetable, leaves of root and tuber, group 2
0.1
Vegetable, root and tuber, except potato, group 1
0.1
Wheat, bran
4.0
Wheat, forage
25
Wheat, grain
2.0
Wheat, straw
50
Wheatgrass, intermediate, bran
4
Wheatgrass, intermediate, forage
30
Wheatgrass, intermediate, grain
2
Wheatgrass, intermediate, straw
50
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
Tolerances with regional registration, as defined in § 180.1(l), are established for residues of the herbicide, plant regulator, and fungicide 2,4-D, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table below. Compliance with the tolerance levels is to be determined by measuring residues of 2,4-D (2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid), both free and conjugated, determined as the acid, in or on the follow commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Rice, wild, grain
0.05
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
Tolerances are established for indirect or inadvertent residues of the herbicide, plant regulator, and fungicide 2,4-D, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table below. Compliance with the tolerances levels is to be determined by measuring residues of 2,4-D (2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid), both free and conjugated, determined as the acid, in or on the following commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Animal feed, nongrass, group 18
0.2
Avocado
0.05
Dill, seed
0.05
Okra
0.05
Vegetable, brassica leafy, group 5
0.4
Vegetable, bulb, group 3
0.05
Vegetable, cucurbit, group 9
0.05
Vegetable, foliage of legume, group 7
0.2
Vegetable, fruiting, group 8
0.05
Vegetable, leafy, except brassica, group 4
0.4
Vegetable, legume, group 6
0.05
[72 FR 52017, Sept. 12, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 53737, Sept. 17, 2008; 74 FR 48411, Sept. 23, 2009; 76 FR 55817, Sept. 9, 2011; 80 FR 72597, Nov. 20, 2015; 82 FR 9529, Feb. 7, 2017; 85 FR 82943, Dec. 21, 2020]
§ 180.145
Fluorine compounds; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
(1) Tolerances are established for combined residues of the insecticidal fluorine compounds cryolite and synthetic cryolite (sodium aluminum fluoride) in or on the following agricultural commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Apricot
7
Blackberry
7
Blueberry
7
Boysenberry
7
Broccoli
7
Brussels sprouts
7
Cabbage
7
Cauliflower
7
Collards
7
Cranberry
7
Cucumber
7
Dewberry
7
Eggplant
7
Fruit, citrus
7
Grape
7
Kale
7
Kohlrabi
7
Lettuce, head
7
Lettuce, leaf
7
Loganberry
7
Melon
7
Nectarine
7
Peach
7
Pepper
7
Plum, prune, fresh
7
Pumpkin
7
Raspberry
7
Squash, summer
7
Squash, winter
7
Strawberry
7
Tomato
7
Youngberry
7
(2) Tolerances are established for residues of fluoride in or on the following commodities from the postharvest fumigation with sulfuryl fluoride for the control of insects:
Commodity
Parts per million
All processed food commodities not otherwise listed
70
Barley, bran, postharvest
45.0
Barley, flour, postharvest
45.0
Barley, grain, postharvest
15.0
Barley, pearled barley, postharvest
45.0
Cattle, meat, dried
40
Cheese
5.0
Cacao bean, roasted bean, postharvest
20
Coconut, postharvest
40
Coffee, bean, green, postharvest
15
Corn, field, flour, postharvest
35.0
Corn, field, grain, postharvest
10.0
Corn, field, grits, postharvest
10.0
Corn, field, meal, postharvest
30.0
Corn, pop, grain, postharvest
10.0
Cotton, undelinted seed, postharvest
70
Egg, dried
900
Fruit, dried, except grape, raisin, postharvest
3.0
Ginger, postharvest
70
Grain, aspirated fractions, postharvest
55.0
Grape, raisin, postharvest
7.0
Hog, meat
20
Herbs and spices group 19, postharvest
70
Milk, powdered
5.0
Millet, grain, postharvest
40.0
Nut, pine, postharvest
20
Nut, tree, Group 14, postharvest
10.0
Oat, flour, postharvest
75.0
Oat, grain, postharvest
25.0
Oat, groats/rolled oats
75.0
Peanut, postharvest
15
Pistachio, postharvest
10.0
Rice, bran, postharvest
31.0
Rice, flour, postharvest
45
Rice, grain, postharvest
12.0
Rice, hulls, postharvest
35.0
Rice, polished rice, postharvest
25.0
Rice, wild, grain, postharvest
25.0
Sorghum, grain, postharvest
40.0
Triticale, grain, postharvest
40.0
Vegetable, legume, group 6, postharvest
70
Wheat, bran, postharvest
40.0
Wheat, flour, postharvest
125.0
Wheat, germ, postharvest
130.0
Wheat, grain, postharvest
40.0
Wheat, milled byproducts, postharvest
130.0
Wheat, shorts, postharvest
40.0
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
Tolerances with regional registration, as defined by § 180.1(l), are established for the combined residues of the insecticidal fluorine compounds, cryolite and synthetic cryolite (sodium aluminum fluoride), in or on the following raw agricultural commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Kiwifruit
15
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[71 FR 74815, Dec. 13, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 34885, June 15, 2011]
§ 180.151
Ethylene oxide; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
(1) Tolerances are established for residues of the antimicrobial
agent and insecticide ethylene oxide, when used as a postharvest fumigant in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Herb and spice, group 19, dried, except basil
7
Licorice, roots
7
Peppermint, tops, dried
7
Sesame, seed
7
Spearmint, tops, dried
7
Vegetable, dried
7
Walnut
50
(2) Tolerances are established for residues of the ethylene oxide reaction product, 2-chloroethanol, commonly referred to as ethylene chlorohydrin, when ethylene oxide is used as a postharvest fumigant in or on food commodities as follows:
Commodity
Parts per million
Herb and spice, group 19, dried, except basil
940
Licorice, roots
940
Peppermint, tops, dried
940
Sesame, seed
940
Spearmint, tops, dried
940
Vegetable, dried
940
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[65 FR 33695, May 24, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 46696, Sept. 11, 2009]
§ 180.153
Diazinon; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances are established for residues of the insecticide diazinon,
O
,
O
-diethyl
O
-[6-methyl-2-(1-methylethyl)-4-pyrimidinyl]phosphorothioate (CAS No. 333-41-5), in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Almond, hulls
3.0
Apple
0.50
Apricot
0.20
Bean, lima
0.50
Bean, snap, succulent
0.50
Beet, garden, roots
0.75
Beet, garden, tops
0.70
Blueberry
0.50
Caneberry subgroup 13-07A
0.75
Carrot, roots
0.75
Cattle, fat
0.50
Cherry, sweet
0.20
Cherry, tart
0.20
Cranberry
0.50
Endive
0.70
Fig
0.50
Ginseng
0.75
Grape
0.75
2
Hazelnut
0.50
Kiwifruit
1
0.75
Lettuce
0.70
Melon
0.75
Mushroom
0.75
2
Nectarine
0.20
Onion, bulb
0.75
Onion, green
0.75
Pea, succulent
0.50
Peach
0.20
Pear
0.50
Pineapple
0.50
Plum, prune, fresh
0.20
Radish
0.50
Rutabaga
0.75
Spinach
0.70
Strawberry
0.50
Tomato
0.75
Vegetable, brassica, leafy, group 5
0.70
Watercress
0.05
1
There are no domestic registrations for kiwifruit as of March 6, 2002.
2
The expiration/revocation date for this tolerance is 9/10/2010.
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
Tolerances with regional registration, as defined in § 180.1(l), are established for residues of the insecticide diazinon,
O
,
O
-diethyl
O
-[6-methyl-2-(1-methylethyl)-4-pyrimidinyl]-phosphorothioate (CAS No. 333-41-5), in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Almond
0.50
Banana
0.20
Celery
0.70
Cucumber
0.75
Parsley, leaves
0.75
Parsnip
0.50
Pepper
0.5
Potato
0.10
Squash, summer
0.50
Squash, winter
0.75
Sweet potato, roots
0.10
Swiss chard
0.70
Turnip, roots
0.50
Turnip, tops
0.75
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[47 FR 42738, Sept. 29, 1982]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 180.153, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 180.155
1-Naphthaleneacetic acid; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances are established for the residues of 1-naphthaleneacetic acid, including its metabolites and degradates in or on the commodities in the following table. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified is to be determined by measuring only 1-naphthaleneacetic acid and its conjugates, calculated as the Stoichiometric equivalent of 1-naphthaleneacetic acid, in or on the commodity.
Commodity
Parts per
million
Avocado
0.05
Cherry, sweet
0.1
Fruit, pome, group 11-10
0.15
Mango
0.05
Olive
0.7
Orange
0.1
Pineapple
1
0.05
Pomegranate
0.05
Potato
0.01
Rambutan
2.0
Sapote, mamey
0.05
Tangerine
0.1
1
There are no U.S. registrations since 1988.
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[78 FR 30218, May 22, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 77260, Dec. 14, 2015]
§ 180.163
Dicofol; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
(1) Tolerances are established for residues of the insecticide dicofol, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table in this paragraph. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only dicofol as the sum of its p,p-dicofol and o,p-dicofol isomers: 4-chloro-α-(4-chlorophenyl)-α-(trichloromethyl)benzenemethanol and 2-chloro-α-(4-chlorophenyl)-α-(trichloromethyl)benzenemethanol, in or on the commodity.
Commodity
Parts per million
Expiration/revocation date
Apple, wet pomace
38.0
10/31/16
Bean, dry, seed
0.5
10/31/16
Bean, succulent
3.0
10/31/16
Butternut
0.1
10/31/16
Caneberry subgroup 13A
5.0
10/31/16
Chestnut
0.1
10/31/16
Citrus, dried pulp
12.0
10/31/16
Citrus oil
200.0
10/31/16
Cotton, refined oil
0.5
10/31/16
Cotton, undelinted seed
0.1
10/31/16
Fruit, citrus, group 10
6.0
10/31/16
Fruit, pome, group 11
10.0
10/31/16
Fruit, stone, group 12
5.0
10/31/16
Grape
5.0
10/31/16
Grape, raisin
20.0
10/31/16
Hazelnut
0.1
10/31/16
Hop, dried cones
65.0
10/31/16
Nut, hickory
0.1
10/31/16
Nut, macadamia
0.1
10/31/16
Pecan
0.1
10/31/16
Peppermint, oil
30.0
10/31/16
Peppermint, tops
25.0
10/31/16
Spearmint, oil
30.0
10/31/16
Spearmint, tops
25.0
10/31/16
Strawberry
10.0
10/31/16
Tea, dried
50.0
None
Tea, plucked leaves
30.0
None
Vegetable, cucurbit, group 9
2.0
10/31/16
Vegetable, fruiting, group 8
2.0
10/31/16
Walnut
0.1
10/31/16
(2) Tolerances are established for residues of the insecticide dicofol, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table in this paragraph. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only the sum of p,p-dicofol, 4-chloro-α-(4-chlorophenyl)-α-(trichloromethyl)benzenemethanol, its isomer o,p-dicofol, 2-chloro-α-(4-chlorophenyl)-α-(trichloromethyl)benzenemethanol, and its metabolites 4-chloro-α-(4-chlorophenyl)-α-(dichloromethyl)benzenemethanol and 2-chloro-α-(4-chlorophenyl)-α-(dichloromethyl)benzenemethanol, calculated as the stoichiometric equivalent of p,p-dicofol, 4-chloro-α-(4-chlorophenyl)-α-(trichloromethyl)benzenemethanol, in or on the commodity.
Commodity
Parts per million
Expiration/Revocation Date
Cattle, fat
50.0
10/31/16
Cattle, liver
5.0
10/31/16
Cattle, meat
3.0
10/31/16
Cattle, meat byproducts, except liver
3.0
10/31/16
Egg
0.05
10/31/16
Goat, fat
50.0
10/31/16
Goat, liver
5.0
10/31/16
Goat, meat
3.0
10/31/16
Goat, meat byproducts, except liver
3.0
10/31/16
Hog, fat
50.0
10/31/16
Hog, liver
5.0
10/31/16
Hog, meat
3.0
10/31/16
Hog, meat byproducts, except liver
3.0
10/31/16
Horse, fat
50.0
10/31/16
Horse, liver
5.0
10/31/16
Horse, meat
3.0
10/31/16
Horse, meat byproducts, except liver
3.0
10/31/16
Milk, fat (reflecting 0.75 ppm in whole milk)
22.0
10/31/16
Poultry, fat
0.1
10/31/16
Poultry, meat
0.1
10/31/16
Poultry, meat byproducts
0.1
10/31/16
Sheep, fat
50.0
10/31/16
Sheep, liver
5.0
10/31/16
Sheep, meat
3.0
10/31/16
Sheep, meat byproducts, except liver
3.0
10/31/16
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[63 FR 34826, June 26, 1998, as amended at 72 FR 35665, June 29, 2007; 72 FR 41928, Aug. 1, 2007; 77 FR 59124, Sept. 26, 2012]
§ 180.169
Carbaryl; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
(1) Tolerances are established for residues of the insecticide carbaryl, 1-naphthyl
N
-methylcarbamate
per se
, in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Expiration/revocation date
Alfalfa, forage
50
None
Alfalfa, hay
75
None
Almond, hulls
50
None
Apple, wet pomace
15
None
Asparagus
15
None
Banana
5.0
None
Beet, sugar, roots
0.5
None
Beet, sugar, tops
25
None
Bushberry subgroup 13-07B
3.0
None
Cabbage
21
None
Cactus, fruit
5.0
None
Cactus, pads
12
None
Caneberry subgroup 13-07A
12.0
None
Citrus, oil
20
None
Clover, forage
50
None
Clover, hay
70
None
Corn, field, forage
30
None
Corn, field, grain
0.02
None
Corn, field, stover
20
None
Corn, pop, grain
0.02
None
Corn, pop, stover
20
None
Corn, sweet, forage
185
None
Corn, sweet, kernel plus cob with husks removed
0.1
None
Corn, sweet, stover
215
None
Cotton, undelinted seed
5.0
10/31/09
Cranberry
3.0
None
Dandelion, leaves
22
None
Endive
10
None
Flax, seed
0.5
None
Fruit, citrus, group 10
10
None
Fruit, pome, group 11
12
None
Fruit, stone, group 12
10
None
Grain, aspirated fractions
70
None
Grape
10
None
Grape, raisin
12
None
Grass, forage
100
None
Grass, hay
15
None
Leaf petiole subgroup 4B
3.0
None
Lettuce
10
None
Millet, proso, grain
1.0
None
Millet, proso, straw
20
None
Nut, tree group 14, except walnut
0.1
None
Okra
4.0
None
Olive
10
None
Oyster
0.25
None
Parsley, leaves
22
None
Pea and bean, dried shelled, except soybean, subgroup 6C
1.0
None
Peanut
0.05
None
Peanut, hay
20
None
Pineapple
2.0
None
Pistachio
0.1
None
Rice, grain
15
None
Rice, hulls
30
None
Sorghum grain, forage
30
None
Sorghum grain, grain
10
None
Sorghum grain, stover
30
None
Soybean, forage
15
None
Soybean, hay
15
None
Soybean, seed
0.5
None
Spinach
22
None
Strawberry
4.0
None
Sunflower, seed
0.5
None
Sweet potato, roots
0.2
None
Trefoil, forage
15
None
Trefoil, hay
25
None
Vegetable, brassica, leafy, group 5, except cabbage
10
None
Vegetable, cucurbit, group 9
3.0
None
Vegetable, foliage of legume, subgroup 7A, except soybean
60
None
Vegetable, fruiting, group 8
5.0
None
Vegetable, leaves of root and tuber, group 2, except sugar beet tops
75
None
Vegetable, legume, edible podded, subgroup 6A
10
None
Vegetable, root and tuber, group 1, except sugar beet and sweet potato
2.0
None
Walnut
1.0
None
Wheat, forage
30
None
Wheat, grain
1.0
None
Wheat, hay
30
None
Wheat, straw
20
None
(2) Tolerances are established for residues of the insecticide carbaryl, 1-naphthyl
N
-methylcarbamate, including its metabolites: 1-naphthol (naphthyl-sulfate); 5,6-dihydrodihydroxycarbaryl; and 5,6-dihydrodihydroxy naphthol, calculated as 1-naphthyl
N
-methylcarbamate and the free and conjugated residues of
carbaryl: 5,6-dihydro-5,6-dihydroxy carbaryl and 5-methoxy-6-hydroxy carbaryl, in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Expiration/revocation date
Cattle, fat
0.5
None
Cattle, meat
1.0
None
Cattle, meat byproducts
3.0
None
Egg
0.5
10/31/09
Goat, fat
0.5
None
Goat, meat
1.0
None
Goat, meat byproducts
3.0
None
Hog, fat
0.5
None
Hog, meat
1.0
None
Hog, meat byproducts
3.0
None
Horse, fat
0.5
None
Horse, meat
1.0
None
Horse, meat byproducts
3.0
None
Milk
1.0
None
Poultry, fat
5.0
10/31/09
Poultry, meat
5.0
10/31/09
Sheep, fat
0.5
None
Sheep, meat
1.0
None
Sheep, meat byproducts
3.0
None
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
Tolerances with regional registrations, as defined in § 180.1(l), are established for residues of the insecticide carbaryl, 1-naphthyl
N
-methylcarbamate
per se
, in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Dillweed, fresh leaves
0.2
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[65 FR 33695, May 24, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 38955, July 26, 2001; 67 FR 49615, July 31, 2002; 70 FR 44492, Aug. 3, 2005; 73 FR 52611, Sept. 10, 2008; 74 FR 10490, Mar. 11, 2009; 80 FR 72597, Nov. 20, 2015]
§ 180.172
Dodine; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances are established for residues of the fungicide dodine, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in table 1 to this paragraph (a). Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in table 1 is to be determined by measuring only dodine,
N
-dodecylguanidine acetate; in or on the following commodities.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
a
)
Commodity
Parts
per million
Almond, hull
30.0
Apple, wet pomace
15.0
Banana
0.50
Fruit, pome, group 11-10
5
Fruit, stone, group 12-12
5
Nut, tree, group 14-12
0.3
Olive, with pit
0.4
Peanut
0.013
Strawberry
5.0
(b)-(d) [Reserved]
[88 FR 86273, Dec. 13, 2023]
§ 180.175
Maleic hydrazide; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
(1) Tolerances for residues of the herbicide and plant regulator maleic hydrazide (1,2-dihydro-3,6-pyridazinedione) are established in or on the following raw agricultural commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Onion, bulb
15.0
Potato
50.0
(2) A food additive known as maleic hydrazide (1,2-dihydro-3,6-pyridazinedione) may be present in potato, chips when used in accordance with the following conditions:
(i) The food additive is present as a result of the application of a pesticide formulation containing maleic hydrazide to the growing potato plant in accordance with directions registered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
(ii) The label of the pesticide formulation containing the food additive conforms to labeling registered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
(iii) The food additive is present in an amount not to exceed 160 parts per million by weight of the finished food.
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[62 FR 64293, Dec. 5, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 11792, Mar. 10, 1999; 67 FR 35048, May 17, 2002]
§ 180.176
Mancozeb; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances are established for residues of mancozeb (a coordination product of zinc ion and maneb (manganese ethylenebisdithiocarbamate)), including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the following table. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only those mancozeb residues convertible to and expressed in terms of the degradate carbon disulfide.
Commodity
Parts
per million
Almond
0.1
Almond, hulls
4
Apple
0.6
Asparagus
0.1
Atemoya
3.0
Banana
2
Barley, bran
2
Barley, flour
1.2
Barley, grain
1
Barley, hay
30
Barley, pearled barley
20
Barley, straw
25
Beet, sugar, dried pulp
3.0
Beet, sugar, roots
1.2
Beet, sugar, tops
60
Broccoli
7
Cabbage
9
Canistel
15.0
Cattle, kidney
0.5
Cattle, liver
0.5
Cherimoya
3.0
Corn, field, forage
40
Corn, field, grain
0.06
Corn, field, stover
15
Corn, pop, grain
0.1
Corn, pop, stover
40
Corn, sweet, forage
70
Corn, sweet, kernel plus cob with husks removed
0.1
Corn, sweet, stover
40
Cotton, undelinted seed
0.5
Crabapple
0.6
Cranberry
5
Custard apple
3.0
Fennel
2.5
Flax, seed
0.15
Ginseng
1.2
Goat, kidney
0.5
Goat, liver
0.5
Grape
1.5
Hog, kidney
0.5
Hog, liver
0.5
Horse, kidney
0.5
Horse, liver
0.5
Lettuce, head
3.5
Lettuce, leaf
18
Mango
15.0
Oat, flour
1.2
Oat, grain
1
Oat, groats/rolled oats
20
Oat, hay
30
Oat, straw
25
Onion, bulb
1.5
Papaya
9
Peanut
0.1
Peanut, hay
65
Pear
0.6
Pepper
12
Potato
0.2
Poultry, kidney
0.5
Poultry, liver
0.5
Quince
0.6
Rice, grain
0.06
Rye, bran
2
Rye, flour
1.2
Rye, grain
1
Rye, straw
25
Sapodilla
15.0
Sapote, mamey
15.0
Sapote, white
15.0
Sheep, kidney
0.5
Sheep, liver
0.5
Sorghum, grain, forage
0.15
Sorghum, grain, grain
0.25
Sorghum, grain, stover
0.15
Star apple
15.0
Sugar apple
3.0
Tangerine
1
10
Tomato
2.5
Vegetable, cucurbit, group 9
2.0
Walnut
0.70
Wheat, bran
2
Wheat, flour
1.2
Wheat, germ
20
Wheat, grain
1
Wheat, hay
30
Wheat, middlings
20
Wheat, shorts
2
Wheat, straw
25
1
There are no U.S. registrations for use of mancozeb on tangerine.
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
A tolerance with regional registrations, as defined in § 180.1(l), is established for residues of the fungicide mancozeb, (a coordination product of zinc ion and maneb (manganese ethylenebisdithiocarbamate)), including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodity in the following table in this paragraph. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only those mancozeb residues convertible to and expressed in terms of the degradate carbon disulfide.
Commodity
Parts per million
Carrot, roots
1
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[65 FR 33708, May 24, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 49924, Aug. 16, 2000; 66 FR 64773, Dec. 14, 2001; 68 FR 2247, Jan. 16, 2003; 69 FR 29458, May 24, 2004; 71 FR 76199, Dec. 20, 2006; 74 FR 46372, Sept. 9, 2009; 75 FR 770, Jan. 6, 2010; 75 FR 50913, Aug. 18, 2010; 76 FR 18915, Apr. 6, 2011; 78 FR 44455, July 24, 2013; 79 FR 27501, May 14, 2014; 80 FR 72597, Nov. 20, 2015]
§ 180.178
Ethoxyquin; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
A tolerance is established for residues of the plant regulator ethoxyquin (1,2-dihydro-6-ethoxy-2,2,4-trimethylquinoline) from preharvest or postharvest use in or on the following commodity:
Commodity
Parts per million
Pear
3
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[63 FR 57073, Oct. 26, 1998]
§ 180.181
Chlorpropham; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
(1) Tolerances are established for residues of the plant regulator and herbicide chlorpropham (isopropyl m-chlorocarbanilate (CIPC) in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Potato
30
Potato, wet peel
40
(2) Tolerances are established for the combined residues of the plant regulator and herbicide chlorpropham (isopropyl m-chlorocarbanilate (CIPC) and its metabolite 4-hydroxychlorpropham-O-sulfonic acid (4-HSA) in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Cattle, fat
0.20
Cattle, kidney
0.30
Cattle, meat
0.06
Cattle, meat byproducts except kidney
0.06
Goat, fat
0.20
Goat, kidney
0.30
Goat, meat
0.06
Goat, meat byproducts except kidney
0.06
Hog, fat
0.20
Hog, kidney
0.30
Hog, meat
0.06
Hog, meat byproducts except kidney
0.06
Horse, fat
0.20
Horse, kidney
0.30
Horse, meat
0.06
Horse, meat byproducts except kidney
0.06
Milk
0.30
Sheep, fat
0.20
Sheep, kidney
0.30
Sheep, meat
0.06
Sheep, meat byproducts except kidney
0.06
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[43 FR 52487, Nov. 13, 1978, as amended at 63 FR 57073, Oct. 26, 1998; 72 FR 37653, July 11, 2007]
§ 180.182
Endosulfan; tolerances for residues.
(a)(1)
General.
Tolerances are established for residues of the insecticide endosulfan, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table in this paragraph. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only the sum of endosulfan, 6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a-hexahydro-6,9-methano-2,4,3-benzodioxathiepin 3-oxide (alpha and beta isomers), and its metabolite endosulfan sulfate, 6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a-hexahydro-6,9-methano-2,4,3-benzodioxathiepin-3,3-dioxide, calculated as the stoichiometric equivalent of endosulfan, in or on the commodity.
Commodity
Parts per million
Expiration/
revocation
date
Almond
0.3
7/31/12
Almond, hulls
1.0
7/31/12
Apricot
2.0
7/31/12
Bean
2.0
7/31/12
Broccoli
3.0
7/31/12
Brussels sprouts
2.0
7/31/12
Cabbage
4.0
7/31/12
Cantaloupe
1.0
7/31/12
Carrot, roots
0.2
7/31/12
Cattle, fat
13.0
7/31/16
Cattle, liver
5.0
7/31/16
Cattle, meat
2.0
7/31/16
Cattle, meat byproducts, except liver
1.0
7/31/16
Cauliflower
2.0
7/31/12
Celery
8.0
7/31/12
Cherry, sweet
2.0
7/31/12
Cherry, tart
2.0
7/31/12
Collards
2.0
7/31/12
Cotton, gin byproducts
30.0
7/31/12
Cotton, undelinted seed
1.0
7/31/12
Cucumber
1.0
7/31/12
Eggplant
1.0
7/31/12
Goat, fat
13.0
7/31/16
Goat, liver
5.0
7/31/16
Goat, meat
2.0
7/31/16
Goat, meat byproducts, except liver
1.0
7/31/16
Hazelnut
0.2
7/31/12
Hog, fat
13.0
7/31/16
Hog, liver
5.0
7/31/16
Hog, meat
2.0
7/31/16
Hog, meat byproducts, except liver
1.0
7/31/16
Horse, fat
13.0
7/31/16
Horse, liver
5.0
7/31/16
Horse, meat
2.0
7/31/16
Horse, meat byproducts, except liver
1.0
7/31/16
Kale
2.0
7/31/12
Lettuce, head
11.0
7/31/12
Lettuce, leaf
6.0
7/31/12
Milk, fat
2.0
7/31/16
Muskmelon
1.0
7/31/12
Mustard greens
2.0
7/31/12
Mustard, seed
0.2
7/31/12
Nectarine
2.0
7/31/12
Nut, macadamia
0.2
7/31/12
Peach
2.0
7/31/12
Pear
2.0
7/31/13
Pineapple
1.0
7/31/16
Pineapple, process residue
20.0
7/31/16
Plum
2.0
7/31/12
Plum, prune
2.0
7/31/12
Sheep, fat
13.0
7/31/16
Sheep, liver
5.0
7/31/16
Sheep, meat
2.0
7/31/16
Sheep, meat byproducts, except liver
1.0
7/31/16
Squash, summer
1.0
7/31/12
Strawberry
2.0
7/31/16
Sweet potato, roots
0.15
7/31/12
Walnut
0.2
7/31/12
Watermelon
1.0
7/31/12
(2) A tolerance is established for the combined residues of the insecticide endosulfan, 6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a-hexahydro-6,9-methano-2, 4,3-benzodioxathiepin-3-oxide (alpha and beta isomers), and its metabolite endosulfan sulfate, 6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a-hexahydro-6,9-methano-2, 4,3-benzodioxathiepin-3,3-dioxide in or on the commodity in the following table:
Commodity
Parts per million
Expiration/
revocation date
Tea, dried
24 (reflecting less than 0.1 ppm in beverage tea) resulting from application of the insecticide to growing tea
7/31/16
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c) Tolerances with regional registrations. (1) Tolerances with regional registration, as defined in § 180.1(l), are established for residues of the insecticide endosulfan, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table in this paragraph, when endosulfan is used in the state of Florida. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only the sum of endosulfan, 6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a-hexahydro-6,9-methano-2,4,3-benzodioxathiepin 3-oxide (alpha and beta isomers), and its metabolite endosulfan sulfate, 6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a-hexahydro-6,9-methano-2,4,3-benzodioxathiepin-3,3-dioxide, calculated as the stoichiometric equivalent of endosulfan, in or on the commodity.
Commodity
Parts per million
Expiration/
revocation
date
Apple
1.0
12/31/14
Apple, wet pomace
5.0
12/31/14
Blueberry
0.3
12/31/14
Corn, sweet, forage
12.0
12/31/14
Corn, sweet, kernel plus cob with husks removed
0.2
12/31/14
Corn, sweet, stover
14.0
12/31/14
Pepper
2.0
12/31/14
Potato
0.2
12/31/14
Pumpkin
1.0
12/31/14
Squash, winter
1.0
12/31/14
Tomato
1.0
12/31/14
(2) Tolerances with regional registrations. Tolerances with regional registration, as defined in § 180.1(l), are established for residues of the insecticide endosulfan, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table in this paragraph, when endosulfan is used in the United States (except Florida). Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only the sum of endosulfan, 6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a-hexahydro-6,9-methano-2,4,3-benzodioxathiepin 3-oxide (alpha and beta isomers), and its metabolite endosulfan sulfate, 6,7,8,9,10,10-hexachloro-1,5,5a,6,9,9a-hexahydro-6,9-methano-2,4,3-benzodioxathiepin-3,3-dioxide, calculated as the stoichiometric
equivalent of endosulfan, in or on the commodity.
Commodity
Parts per million
Expiration/
revocation
date
Apple
1.0
7/31/15
Apple, wet pomace
5.0
7/31/15
Blueberry
0.3
7/31/15
Corn, sweet, forage
12.0
7/31/15
Corn, sweet, kernel plus cob with husks removed
0.2
7/31/15
Corn, sweet, stover
14.0
7/31/15
Pepper
2.0
7/31/15
Potato
0.2
7/31/15
Pumpkin
1.0
7/31/15
Squash, winter
1.0
7/31/15
Tomato
1.0
7/31/15
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[65 FR 33696, May 24, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 54433, Sept. 15, 2006; 76 FR 56653, Sept. 14, 2011; 78 FR 8409, Feb. 6, 2013]
§ 180.184
Linuron; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances are established for residues of the herbicide linuron (3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1-methoxy-1-methylurea), including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table below. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified below is to be determined by measuring only those linuron residues convertible to 3,4-dichloroaniline, calculated as the stoichiometric equivalent of linuron, in or on the commodity:
Table 1 to Paragraph (
a
)
Commodity
Parts per million
Alfalfa, forage
1
Alfalfa, hay
3
Asparagus
7.0
Carrot, roots
1.0
Cattle, fat
0.2
Cattle, kidney
2.0
Cattle, liver
2.0
Cattle, meat
0.1
Cattle, meat byproducts except kidney and liver
0.1
Celeriac
1.0
Cilantro, dried leaves
10
Cilantro, fresh leaves
3.0
Coriander, seed
0.01
Corn, field, forage
1.0
Corn, field, grain
0.1
Corn, field, stover
6.0
Corn, sweet, forage
1.0
Corn, sweet, kernel plus cob with husks removed
0.25
Corn, sweet, stover
6.0
Cotton, gin byproducts
5.0
Cotton, undelinted seed
0.25
Dill, oil
2.0
Dill, seed
0.5
Dillweed, dried leaves
5.0
Dillweed, fresh leaves
1.5
Goat, fat
0.2
Goat, kidney
2.0
Goat, liver
2.0
Goat, meat
0.1
Goat, meat byproducts except kidney and liver
0.1
Hog, fat
0.05
Hog, meat
0.05
Hog, meat byproducts
0.1
Horse, fat
0.2
Horse, kidney
2.0
Horse, liver
2.0
Horse, meat
0.1
Horse, meat byproducts except kidney and liver
0.1
Horseradish
0.05
Milk
0.05
Parsley, dried leaves
9.0
Parsley, leaves
4.0
Parsnip, roots
0.05
Parsnip, tops
0.05
Pea, dry, seed
0.09
Rhubarb
0.5
Sheep, fat
0.2
Sheep, kidney
2.0
Sheep, liver
2.0
Sheep, meat
0.1
Sheep, meat byproducts except kidney and liver
0.1
Sorghum, grain, forage
1.0
Sorghum, grain, grain
0.25
Sorghum, grain, stover
1.0
Soybean, seed
1.0
Soybean, vegetable
1.0
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
Time-limited tolerances are established for residues of the herbicide linuron [3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1-methoxy-1-methylurea], including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table below, resulting from use of the pesticide pursuant to FIFRA section 18 emergency exemptions. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified below is to be determined by measuring only those linuron residues convertible to 3.4-dichloroaniline, calculated as the stoichiometric equivalent of linuron, in or on the commodity. The tolerance expires and is revoked on the date specified in the table.
Commodity
Parts per
million
Expiration/revocation date
Lentil
0.1
12/31/14
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
Tolerances with regional registrations, as defined in § 180.1(l), are
established for residues of the herbicide linuron (3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1-methoxy-1-methylurea), including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table below. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified below is to be determined by measuring only those linuron residues convertible to 3,4-dichloroaniline, calculated as the stoichiometric equivalent of linuron, in or on the commodity.
Commodity
Parts per million
Celery
0.5
Potato
0.2
Wheat, forage
0.5
Wheat, grain
0.05
Wheat, hay
0.5
Wheat, straw
2.0
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[64 FR 41822, Aug. 2, 1999, as amended at 72 FR 37653, July 11, 2007; 73 FR 51727, Sept. 5, 2008; 76 FR 81396, Dec. 28, 2011; 79 FR 8307, Feb. 12, 2014; 89 FR 4200, Jan. 23, 2024]
§ 180.185
DCPA; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances for the combined residues of the herbicide dimethyl tetrachloroterephthalate (DCPA) and its metabolites monomethyltetrachloroterephthalate (MTP) and tetrachloroterephthalic acid (TCP) (calculated as dimethyl tetrachloroterephthalate) are established in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Cantaloupe
1.0
Garlic
1.0
Ginseng
2.0
Horseradish
2.0
Muskmelon
1.0
Onion, bulb
1.0
Onion, green
1.0
Strawberry
2.0
Tomato
1.0
Vegetable, brassica, leafy, group 5
5.0
Watermelon
1.0
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
Tolerances with regional registration, as defined in § 180.1(l), are established for the combined inadvertent residues of the herbicide dimethyl tetrachloroterephthalate (DCPA) and its metabolites monomethyl tetrachloroterephthalate acid (MTP) and terachlorophthalic acid (TCP) (calculated as DCPA) in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Radish, roots
2.0
Radish, tops
15.0
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
Tolerances are established for the combined indirect or inadvertent residues of the herbicide dimethyl tetrachloroterephthalate (DCPA) and its metabolites monomethyl tetrachloroterephthalate acid (MTP) and terachlorophthalic acid (TCP) (calculated as DCPA) in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Basil, dried leaves
20.0
Basil, fresh leaves
5.0
Bean, dry
2.0
Bean, mung, seed
2.0
Bean, snap, succulent
2.0
Celeriac
2.0
Chicory, roots
2.0
Chicory, tops
5.0
Chive
5.0
Coriander, leaves
5.0
Corn, field, forage
0.4
Corn, field, grain
0.05
Corn, field, stover
0.4
Corn, pop, forage
0.4
Corn, pop, grain
0.05
Corn, pop, stover
0.4
Corn, sweet, forage
0.4
Corn, sweet, kernel plus cob with husks removed
0.05
Corn, sweet, stover
0.4
Cotton, undelinted seed
0.2
Cucumber
1.0
Dill
5.0
Eggplant
1.0
Lettuce
2.0
Marjoram
5.0
Parsley, dried leaves
20.0
Parsley, leaves
5.0
Pea, blackeyed, seed
2.0
Pepper
2.0
Pimento
2.0
Potato
2.0
Radicchio
5.0
Radish, oriental, roots
2.0
Radish, oriental, tops
2.0
Rutabaga
2.0
Soybean
2.0
Squash, summer
1.0
Squash, winter
1.0
Sweet potato
2.0
Turnip, roots
2.0
Turnip, tops
5.0
Yam, true, tuber
2.0
[72 FR 52018, Sept. 12, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 53737, Sept. 17, 2008; 73 FR 80302, Dec. 31, 2008; 74 FR 14744, Apr. 1, 2009]
§ 180.189
Coumaphos; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances for residues of the insecticide coumaphos (
O,O
-diethyl
O
-3-chloro-4-methyl-2-oxo-2H-1-benzopyran-7-yl phosphorothioate and its oxygen analog (
O,O
-diethyl
O
-3-chloro-4-methyl-2-oxo-2H-1-benzopyran-7-yl phosphate) in or on food commodities as follows:
Commodity
Parts per million
Cattle, fat
1.0
Cattle, meat
1.0
Cattle, meat byproducts
1.0
Goat, fat
1.0
Goat, meat
1.0
Goat, meat byproducts
1.0
Hog, fat
1.0
Hog, meat
1.0
Hog, meat byproducts
1.0
Honey
0.15
Honeycomb
45.0
Horse, fat
1.0
Horse, meat
1.0
Horse, meat byproducts
1.0
Milk, fat ( = n in whole milk)
0.5
Sheep, fat
1.0
Sheep, meat
1.0
Sheep, meat byproducts
1.0
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[64 FR 39077, July 21, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 49936, Aug. 16, 2000; 67 FR 46883, July 17, 2002; 69 FR 29458, May 24, 2004; 72 FR 28876, May 23, 2007]
§ 180.190
Diphenylamine; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances for residues of the plant regulator diphenylamine are established in or on the following commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Apple, wet pomace
30.0
Apple from preharvest or postharvest use, including use of impregnated wraps
10.0
Cattle, fat
0.01
Cattle, liver
0.1
Cattle, meat byproducts, except liver
0.01
Cattle, meat
0.01
Goat, fat
0.01
Goat, liver
0.1
Goat, meat byproducts, except liver
0.01
Goat, meat
0.01
Horse, fat
0.01
Horse, liver
0.1
Horse, meat byproducts, except liver
0.01
Horse, meat
0.01
Milk
0.01
Pear (post harvest)
5.0
Sheep, fat
0.01
Sheep, liver
0.1
Sheep, meat byproducts, except liver
0.01
Sheep, meat
0.01
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[64 FR 25848, May 13, 1999, as amended at 66 FR 63198, Dec. 5, 2001; 72 FR 16283, Apr. 4, 2007; 76 FR 34885, June 15, 2011]
§ 180.191
Folpet; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances are established for the fungicide folpet (
N
-(trichloromethylthio)phthalimide) in or on raw agricultural commodities as follows:
Commodity
Parts per million
Apple
1
5.0
Cranberry
1
15.0
Cucumber
1
2.0
Grape
1
50.0
Grape, raisin
1
80.0
Hop, dried cones
120.0
Lettuce
1
50.0
Melon
1
3.0
Onion,bulb
1
2.0
Strawberry
1
5.0
Tomato
1
25.0
1
No U.S. registrations.
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
Tolerances with regional registrations as defined in § 180.1(l) are established for the fungicide folpet (
N
-(trichloromethylthio)phthalimide) in or on the following raw agricultural commodity:
Commodity
Parts per million
Avocado
25.0
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[61 FR 37222, July 17, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 10388, Mar. 5, 2003; 69 FR 52192, Aug. 25, 2004; 72 FR 41928, Aug. 1, 2007]
§ 180.198
Trichlorfon; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances are established for residues of the insecticide trichlorfon (dimethyl (2,2,2-trichloro-1-hydroxyethyl) phosphonate) in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Cattle, fat
1
0.5
Cattle, meat
1
0.2
Cattle, meat byproducts
1
0.1
1
There are no U.S. registrations for cattle commodities as of June 24, 1999.
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[72 FR 54578, Sept. 26, 2007]
§ 180.200
Dicloran; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances are established for residues of the fungicide dicloran, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table in this paragraph. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only dicloran, 2,6-dichloro-4-nitroaniline, in or on the commodity.
Commodity
Parts per
million
Expiration/revocation date
Apricot
20
None
Bean, snap, succulent
20
None
Carrot, roots
10
11/2/11
Celery
15
None
Cherry, sweet
20
None
Cucumber
5
None
Endive
10
None
Garlic
5
None
Grape
10
None
Lettuce
10
None
Nectarine
20
None
Onion
10
None
Peach
20
None
Plum, prune, fresh
15
None
Potato
0.25
12/31/14
Rhubarb
10
None
Sweet potato, roots
10
None
Tomato
5
None
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[77 FR 40815, July 11, 2012]
§ 180.202
p
-Chlorophenoxyacetic acid; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
A tolerance is established for residues of the plant regulator
p
-chlorophenoxyacetic acid, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodity in the table in this paragraph (a). Compliance with the tolerance level specified in this paragraph (a) is to be determined by measuring only
p
-chlorophenoxyacetic acid, in or on the commodity.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
a
)
Commodity
Parts per million
Bean, mung, sprouts
0.2
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[68 FR 39439, July 1, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 56398, Sept. 27, 2006; 88 FR 46083, July 19, 2023]
§ 180.204
Dimethoate; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances are established for total residues of the insecticide dimethoate (
O
,
O
-dimethyl
S
-(
N
- methylcarbamoylmethyl) phosphorodithioate) including its oxygen analog (
O
,
O
-dimethyl
S
-(
N-
methylcarbamoylmethyl) phosphorothioate) in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Alfalfa, forage
2.0
Alfalfa, hay
2.0
Bean, dry, seed
2.0
Bean, lima
2.0
Bean, snap, succulent
2.0
Blueberry
1
1.0
Broccoli
2.0
Cattle, meat byproducts
0.02
Cauliflower
2.0
Celery
2.0
Citrus, dried pulp
5.0
Corn, field, forage
1.0
Corn, field, grain
0.1
Corn, field, stover
1.0
Corn, pop, grain
0.1
Corn, pop, stover
1.0
Corn, sweet, forage
1.0
Cotton, undelinted seed
0.1
Egg
0.02
Endive
2.0
Goat, meat byproducts
0.02
Grapefruit
2.0
Hog, meat byproducts
0.02
Horse, meat byproducts
0.02
Kale
2.0
Lemon
2.0
Lettuce, leaf
2.0
Melon
1.0
Milk
0.002
Mustard greens
2.0
Orange
2.0
Pea
2.0
Pear
2.0
Pecan
0.1
Pepper
2.0
Potato
0.2
Poultry, meat byproducts
0.02
Safflower, seed
0.1
Sheep, meat byproducts
0.02
Sorghum, grain, forage
0.1
Sorghum, grain, grain
0.1
Sorghum, grain, stover
0.1
Soybean, forage
2.0
Soybean, hay
2.0
Soybean, seed
0.05
Swiss chard
2.0
Tangerine
2.0
Tomato
2.0
Turnip, roots
0.2
Turnip, tops
2.0
Wheat, forage
2.0
Wheat, grain
0.04
Wheat, hay
2.0
Wheat, straw
2.0
1
There are U.S. registrations as of August 16, 1996.
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
Tolerances with regional registration, as defined in § 180.1(l), are established for total residues of dimethoate including its oxygen analog in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Asparagus
0.15
Brussels sprouts
5.0
Cherry, sweet
2.0
Cherry, tart
2.0
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[65 FR 33697, May 24, 2000, as amended at 69 FR 6567, Feb. 11, 2004; 73 FR 53737, Sept. 17, 2008]
§ 180.205
Paraquat; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances are established for residues of the desiccant, defoliant, and herbicide paraquat (1,1′-dimethyl-4,4′-bipyridinium-ion) derived from application of either the bis(methyl sulfate) or the dichloride salt (both calculated as the cation) in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Acerola
0.05
Almond, hulls
0.5
Animal feed, nongrass, group 18, forage
75.0
Animal feed, nongrass, group 18, hay
210.0
Artichoke, globe
0.05
Asparagus
0.5
Atemoya
0.05
Avocado
0.05
Banana
0.05
Barley, grain
0.05
Barley, hay
3.5
Barley, straw
1.0
Beet, sugar, roots
0.5
Beet, sugar, tops
0.05
Berry group 13
0.05
Biriba
0.05
Cacao bean, bean
0.05
Canistel
0.05
Carrot, roots
0.05
Cattle, fat
0.05
Cattle, kidney
0.5
Cattle, meat
0.05
Cattle, meat byproducts, except kidney
0.05
Cherimoya
0.05
Coffee, bean, green
0.05
Corn, field, forage
3.0
Corn, field, grain
0.1
Corn, field, stover
10.0
Corn, pop, grain
0.1
Corn, pop, stover
10.0
Corn, sweet, kernel plus cob with husks removed
0.05
Cotton, gin byproducts
110.0
Cotton, undelinted seed
3.5
Cowpea, forage
0.1
Cowpea, hay
0.4
Cranberry
0.05
Custard apple
0.05
Egg
0.01
Endive
0.05
Feijoa
0.05
Fig
0.05
Fruit, citrus, group 10
0.05
Fruit, pome, group 11
0.05
Fruit, stone, group 12
0.05
Goat, fat
0.05
Goat, kidney
0.5
Goat, meat
0.05
Goat, meat byproducts, except kidney
0.05
Grain, aspirated fractions
65.0
Grape
0.05
Grass, forage
90.0
Grass, hay
40.0
Guar, seed
0.5
Guava
0.05
Hog, fat
0.05
Hog, kidney
0.5
Hog, meat
0.05
Hog, meat byproducts, except kidney
0.05
Hop, dried cones
0.5
Horse, fat
0.05
Horse, kidney
0.5
Horse, meat
0.05
Horse, meat byproducts, except kidney
0.05
Ilama
0.05
Jaboticaba
0.05
Kiwifruit
0.05
Lentil, seed
0.3
Lettuce
0.05
Longan
0.05
Lychee
0.05
Mango
0.05
Milk
0.01
Nut, tree, group 14
0.05
Okra
0.05
Olive
0.05
Onion, bulb
0.1
Onion, green
0.05
Papaya
0.05
Passionfruit
0.2
Pawpaw
0.05
Pea and bean, dried shelled, except soybean, subgroup 6C, except guar bean
0.3
Pea and bean, succulent shelled, subgroup 6B
0.05
Pea, field, hay
0.8
Pea, field, vines
0.2
Peanut
0.05
Peanut, hay
0.5
Peppermint, tops
0.5
Persimmon
0.05
Pineapple
0.05
Pineapple, process residue
0.25
Pistachio
0.05
Pomegranate
0.05
Pulasan
0.05
Rambutan
0.05
Rhubarb
0.05
Rice, grain
0.05
Safflower, seed
0.05
Sapodilla
0.05
Sapote, black
0.05
Sapote, mamey
0.05
Sapote, white
0.05
Sheep, fat
0.05
Sheep, kidney
0.5
Sheep, meat
0.05
Sheep, meat byproducts, except kidney
0.05
Sorghum, forage, forage
0.1
Sorghum, grain, forage
0.1
Sorghum, grain, grain
0.05
Soursop
0.05
Soybean, forage
0.4
Soybean, hay
10.0
Soybean, hulls
4.5
Soybean, seed
0.7
Spanish lime
0.05
Spearmint, tops
0.5
Star apple
0.05
Starfruit
0.05
Strawberry
0.25
Sugar apple
0.05
Sugarcane, cane
0.5
Sugarcane, molasses
3.0
Sunflower, seed
2.0
Turnip, greens
0.05
Turnip, roots
0.05
Vegetable, brassica, leafy, group 5
0.05
Vegetable, cucurbit, group 9
0.05
Vegetable, fruiting, group 8
0.05
Vegetable, legume, edible podded, subgroup 6A
0.05
Vegetable, tuberous and corm, subgroup 1C
0.50
Wax jambu
0.05
Wheat, forage
0.5
Wheat, grain
1.1
Wheat, hay
3.5
Wheat, straw
50.0
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
Tolerances with regional registration as defined in § 180.1(l), are established for residues of the pesticide paraquat (1,1′-dimethyl-4,4′ bipyridinium ion) derived from application of either the bis(methyl sulfate) or the dichloride salt (both calculated as the cation) in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Pea, pigeon, seed
0.05
Taro, corm
0.1
Tyfon
0.05
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[46 FR 51614, Oct. 21, 1981]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 180.205, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 180.206
Phorate; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
Tolerances are established for the combined residues of the insecticide phorate (
O,O
-diethyl
S
(ethylthio) methyl]phosphorodithioate), phorate sulfoxide, phorate sulfone, phorate oxygen analog, phorate oxygen analog sulfoxide, and phorate oxygen analog sulfone in or on the following food commodities:
Commodity
Parts per million
Bean, dry, seed
0.05
Bean, succulent
0.05
Beet, sugar, roots
0.3
Beet, sugar, tops
3.0
Coffee, green bean
1
0.02
Corn, field, forage
0.5
Corn, field, grain
0.05
Corn, sweet, forage
0.5
Corn, sweet, kernel plus cob with husks removed
0.05
Cotton, undelinted seed
0.05
Hop, dried cones
2.0
Peanut
0.1
Potato
0.2
Sorghum, grain, grain
0.05
Sorghum, grain, stover
0.1
Soybean, seed
0.05
Sugarcane, cane
0.05
Wheat, forage
1.5
Wheat, grain
0.05
Wheat, hay
1.5
Wheat, straw
0.05
1
There are no U.S. registrations as of September 1, 1993 for the use of phorate on the growing crop, coffee.
(b)
Section 18 emergency exemptions.
[Reserved]
(c)
Tolerances with regional registrations.
[Reserved]
(d)
Indirect or inadvertent residues.
[Reserved]
[58 FR 62038, Nov. 24, 1993, as amended at 63 FR 2165, Jan. 14, 1998; 63 FR 57074, Oct. 26, 1998; 66 FR 50833, Oct. 5, 2001; 67 FR 49616, July 31, 2002; 71 FR 74816, Dec. 13, 2006; 73 FR 53738, Sept. 17, 2008]
§ 180.207
Trifluralin; tolerances for residues.
(a)
General.
