(e) The pilot of a multi-seat experimental turbojet-powered aircraft who has not received a proficiency check within the prior 12 months in accordance with this section may continue to operate such aircraft in accordance with the pilot's authorizations. However, the pilot is prohibited from carriage of any persons in any experimental turbojet-powered aircraft with the exception of those individuals authorized by the Administrator to conduct training, conduct flight checks, or perform pilot certification functions in such aircraft, and only during flights specifically related to training, flight checks, or certification in such aircraft.
(f) This section will not apply to a pilot authorized by the Administrator to serve as pilot in command in experimental turbojet-powered aircraft that possesses, by original design, a single seat, when operating such single-seat aircraft.
(g) A check or test described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section may be accomplished in a flight simulator under part 142 of this chapter, subject to the following:
(1) Except as provided for in paragraphs (g)(2) and (3) of this section, if an otherwise qualified and approved flight simulator used for a pilot-in-command proficiency check is not qualified and approved for a specific required maneuver—
(i) The training center must annotate, in the applicant's training record, the maneuver or maneuvers omitted; and
(ii) Prior to acting as pilot in command, the pilot must demonstrate proficiency in each omitted maneuver in an aircraft or flight simulator qualified and approved for each omitted maneuver.
(2) If the flight simulator used pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section is not qualified and approved for circling approaches—
(i) The applicant's record must include the statement, “Proficiency in circling approaches not demonstrated”; and
(ii) The applicant may not perform circling approaches as pilot in command when weather conditions are less than the basic VFR conditions described in § 91.155 of this chapter, until proficiency in circling approaches has been successfully demonstrated in a flight simulator qualified and approved for circling approaches or in an aircraft to a person authorized by the Administrator to conduct the check required by this section.
(3) If the flight simulator used pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section is not qualified and approved for landings, the applicant must—
(i) Hold a type rating in the airplane represented by the simulator; and
(ii) Have completed within the preceding 90 days at least three takeoffs and three landings (one to a full stop) as the sole manipulator of the flight controls in the type airplane for which the pilot-in-command proficiency check is sought.
(h) For the purpose of meeting the pilot-in-command proficiency check requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, a person may act as pilot in command of a flight under day VFR conditions or day IFR conditions if no person or property is carried, other than as necessary to demonstrate compliance with this part.
(i) If a pilot takes the pilot-in-command proficiency check required by this section in the calendar month before or the calendar month after the month in which it is due, the pilot is considered to have taken it in the month in which it was due for the purpose of computing when the next pilot-in-command proficiency check is due.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 40899, July 30, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 61-109, 68 FR 54559, Sept. 17, 2003; Amdt. 61-112, 70 FR 54814, Sept. 16, 2005; Amdt. 61-128, 76 FR 54106, Aug. 31, 2011; 76 FR 63184, Oct. 12, 2011; Docket FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 61-151, 87 FR 75845, Dec. 9, 2022; Docket FAA-2022-1463, Amdt. 61-153, 89 FR 22517, Apr. 1, 2024]
§ 61.59
Falsification, reproduction, or alteration of applications, certificates, logbooks, reports, or records.
(a) No person may make or cause to be made:
(1) Any fraudulent or intentionally false statement on any application for a certificate, rating, authorization, or duplicate thereof, issued under this part;
(2) Any fraudulent or intentionally false entry in any logbook, record, or report that is required to be kept, made, or used to show compliance with any requirement for the issuance or exercise of the privileges of any certificate, rating, or authorization under this part;
(3) Any reproduction for fraudulent purpose of any certificate, rating, or authorization, under this part; or
(4) Any alteration of any certificate, rating, or authorization under this part.
(b) The commission of an act prohibited under paragraph (a) of this section is a basis for suspending or revoking any airman certificate, rating, or authorization held by that person.
§ 61.60
Change of address.
The holder of a pilot, flight instructor, or ground instructor certificate who has made a change in permanent mailing address may not, after 30 days from that date, exercise the privileges of the certificate unless the holder has notified in writing the FAA, Airman Certification Branch, P.O. Box 25082, Oklahoma City, OK 73125, of the new permanent mailing address, or if the permanent mailing address includes a post office box number, then the holder's current residential address.

# Subpart B—Aircraft Ratings and Pilot Authorizations
§ 61.61
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes the requirements for the issuance of additional aircraft ratings after a pilot certificate is issued, issuance of a type rating concurrently with a pilot certificate, and the requirements for and limitations of pilot authorizations issued by the Administrator.
[Docket FAA-2006-26661, 76 FR 78143, Dec. 16, 2011]
§ 61.63
Additional aircraft ratings (other than for ratings at the airline transport pilot certification level).
(a)
General.
For an additional aircraft rating on a pilot certificate, other than for an airline transport pilot certificate, a person must meet the requirements of this section appropriate to the additional aircraft rating sought.
(b)
Additional aircraft category rating.
A person who applies to add a category rating to a pilot certificate:
(1) Must complete the training and have the applicable aeronautical experience.
(2) Must have a logbook or training record endorsement from an authorized instructor attesting that the person was found competent in the appropriate aeronautical knowledge areas and proficient in the appropriate areas of operation.
(3) Must pass the practical test.
(4) Need not take an additional knowledge test, provided the applicant holds an airplane, rotorcraft, powered-lift, weight-shift-control aircraft, powered parachute, or airship rating at that pilot certificate level.
(c)
Additional aircraft class rating.
A person who applies for an additional class rating on a pilot certificate:
(1) Must have a logbook or training record endorsement from an authorized instructor attesting that the person was found competent in the appropriate aeronautical knowledge areas and proficient in the appropriate areas of operation.
(2) Must pass the practical test.
(3) Need not meet the specified training time requirements prescribed by this part that apply to the pilot certificate for the aircraft class rating sought; unless, the person only holds a lighter-than-air category rating with a balloon class rating and is seeking an airship class rating, then that person must receive the specified training time requirements and possess the appropriate aeronautical experience.
(4) Need not take an additional knowledge test, provided the applicant
holds an airplane, rotorcraft, powered-lift, weight-shift-control aircraft, powered parachute, or airship rating at that pilot certificate level.
(d)
Additional aircraft type rating.
Except as provided under paragraph (d)(6) of this section, a person who applies for an aircraft type rating or an aircraft type rating to be completed concurrently with an aircraft category or class rating—
(1) Must hold or concurrently obtain an appropriate instrument rating, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) Must have a logbook or training record endorsement from an authorized instructor attesting that the person is competent in the appropriate aeronautical knowledge areas and proficient in the appropriate areas of operation at the airline transport pilot certification level.
(3) Must pass the practical test at the airline transport pilot certification level.
(4) Must perform the practical test in actual or simulated instrument conditions, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
(5) Need not take an additional knowledge test if the applicant holds an airplane, rotorcraft, powered-lift, or airship rating on the pilot certificate.
(6) In the case of a pilot employee of a part 121 or part 135 certificate holder or of a fractional ownership program manager under subpart K of part 91 of this chapter, the pilot must—
(i) Meet the appropriate requirements under paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(3), and (d)(4) of this section; and
(ii) Receive a flight training record endorsement from the certificate holder attesting that the person completed the certificate holder's approved ground and flight training program.
(e)
Aircraft not capable of instrument maneuvers and procedures.
(1) An applicant for a type rating or a type rating in addition to an aircraft category and/or class rating who provides an aircraft that is not capable of the instrument maneuvers and procedures required on the practical test:
(i) May apply for the type rating, but the rating will be limited to “VFR only.”
(ii) May have the “VFR only” limitation removed for that aircraft type after the applicant:
(A) Passes a practical test in that type of aircraft in actual or simulated instrument conditions;
(B) Passes a practical test in that type of aircraft on the appropriate instrument maneuvers and procedures in § 61.157; or
(C) Becomes qualified under § 61.73(d) for that type of aircraft.
(2) When an instrument rating is issued to a person who holds one or more type ratings, the amended pilot certificate must bear the “VFR only” limitation for each aircraft type rating that the person did not demonstrate instrument competency.
(f)
Multiengine airplane with a single-pilot station.
An applicant for a type rating, at other than the ATP certification level, in a multiengine airplane with a single-pilot station must perform the practical test in the multi-seat version of that airplane, or the practical test may be performed in the single-seat version of that airplane if the Examiner is in a position to observe the applicant during the practical test and there is no multi-seat version of that multiengine airplane.
(g)
Single engine airplane with a single-pilot station.
An applicant for a type rating, at other than the ATP certification level, in a single engine airplane with a single-pilot station must perform the practical test in the multi-seat version of that single engine airplane, or the practical test may be performed in the single-seat version of that airplane if the Examiner is in a position to observe the applicant during the practical test and there is no multi-seat version of that single engine airplane.
(h)
Aircraft category and class rating for the operation of aircraft with an experimental certificate.
A person holding a recreational, private, or commercial pilot certificate may apply for a category and class rating limited to a specific make and model of experimental aircraft, provided—
(1) The person logged 5 hours flight time while acting as pilot in command in the same category, class, make, and model of aircraft.
(2) The person received a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor who determined the pilot's proficiency to act as pilot in command of the same category, class, make, and model of aircraft.
(3) The flight time specified under paragraph (h)(1) of this section was logged between September 1, 2004 and August 31, 2005.
(i)
Waiver authority.
An Examiner who conducts a practical test may waive any task for which the FAA has provided waiver authority.
[Docket FAA-2006-26661, 74 FR 42552, Aug. 21, 2009, as amended by Amdt. 61-125, 75 FR 5220, Feb. 1, 2010]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 61.63 were published by Docket FAA-2023-1275, Amdt. 60-8, 89 FR 92485, Nov. 21, 2024, effective Jan. 21, 2025.
§ 61.64
Use of a flight simulator and flight training device.
(a)
Use of a flight simulator or flight training device.
If an applicant for a certificate or rating uses a flight simulator or flight training device for training or any portion of the practical test, the flight simulator and flight training device—
(1) Must represent the category, class, and type (if a type rating is applicable) for the rating sought; and
(2) Must be qualified and approved by the Administrator and used in accordance with an approved course of training under part 141 or part 142 of this chapter; or under part 121 or part 135 of this chapter, provided the applicant is a pilot employee of that air carrier operator.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, if an airplane is not used during the practical test for a type rating for a turbojet airplane (except for preflight inspection), an applicant must accomplish the entire practical test in a Level C or higher flight simulator and the applicant must—
(1) Hold a type rating in a turbojet airplane of the same class of airplane for which the type rating is sought, and that type rating may not contain a supervised operating experience limitation;
(2) Have 1,000 hours of flight time in two different turbojet airplanes of the same class of airplane for which the type rating is sought;
(3) Have been appointed by the U.S. Armed Forces as pilot in command in a turbojet airplane of the same class of airplane for which the type rating is sought;
(4) Have 500 hours of flight time in the same type of airplane for which the type rating is sought; or
(5) Have logged at least 2,000 hours of flight time, of which 500 hours were in turbine-powered airplanes of the same class of airplane for which the type rating is sought.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, if an airplane is not used during the practical test for a type rating for a turbo-propeller airplane (except for preflight inspection), an applicant must accomplish the entire practical test in a Level C or higher flight simulator and the applicant must—
(1) Hold a type rating in a turbo-propeller airplane of the same class of airplane for which the type rating is sought, and that type rating may not contain a supervised operating experience limitation;
(2) Have 1,000 hours of flight time in two different turbo-propeller airplanes of the same class of airplane for which the type rating is sought;
(3) Have been appointed by the U.S. Armed Forces as pilot in command in a turbo-propeller airplane of the same class of airplane for which the type rating is sought;
(4) Have 500 hours of flight time in the same type of airplane for which the type rating is sought; or
(5) Have logged at least 2,000 hours of flight time, of which 500 hours were in turbine-powered airplanes of the same class of airplane for which the type rating is sought.
(d) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, if a helicopter is not used during the practical test for a type rating in a helicopter (except for preflight inspection), an applicant must accomplish the entire practical test in a Level C or higher flight simulator and the applicant must meet one of the following requirements—
(1) Hold a type rating in a helicopter and that type rating may not contain
the supervised operating experience limitation;
(2) Have been appointed by the U.S. Armed Forces as pilot in command of a helicopter;
(3) Have 500 hours of flight time in the type of helicopter; or
(4) Have 1,000 hours of flight time in two different types of helicopters.
(e) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, if a powered-lift is not used during the practical test for a type rating in a powered-lift (except for preflight inspection), an applicant must accomplish the entire practical test in a Level C or higher flight simulator and the applicant must meet one of the following requirements—
(1) Hold a type rating in a powered-lift without a supervised operating experience limitation;
(2) Have been appointed by the U.S. Armed Forces as pilot in command of a powered-lift;
(3) Have 500 hours of flight time in the type of powered-lift for which the rating is sought; or
(4) Have 1,000 hours of flight time in two different types of powered-lifts.
(f) If the applicant does not meet one of the experience requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (5), (c)(1) through (5), (d)(1) through (4) or (e)(1) through (4) of this section, as appropriate to the type rating sought, then—
(1) The applicant must complete the following tasks on the practical test in an aircraft appropriate to category, class, and type for the rating sought: Preflight inspection, normal takeoff, normal instrument landing system approach, missed approach, and normal landing; or
(2) The applicant's pilot certificate will be issued with a limitation that states: “The [name of the additional type rating] is subject to pilot in command limitations,” and the applicant is restricted from serving as pilot in command in an aircraft of that type.
(g) The limitation described under paragraph (f)(2) of this section may be removed from the pilot certificate if the applicant complies with the following—
(1) Performs 25 hours of flight time in an aircraft of the category, class, and type for which the limitation applies under the direct observation of the pilot in command who holds a category, class, and type rating, without limitations, for the aircraft;
(2) Logs each flight and the pilot in command who observed the flight attests in writing to each flight;
(3) Obtains the flight time while performing the duties of pilot in command; and
(4) Presents evidence of the supervised operating experience to any Examiner or Flight Standards office to have the limitation removed.
[Docket FAA-2006-26661, 76 FR 78143, Dec. 16, 2011, as amended by Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 61-141, 83 FR 9170, Mar. 5, 2018]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 61.64 were published by Docket FAA-2023-1275, Amdt. 60-8, 89 FR 92485, Nov. 21, 2024, effective Jan. 21, 2025.
§ 61.65
Instrument rating requirements.
(a)
General.
A person who applies for an instrument rating must:
(1) Hold at least a current private pilot certificate, or be concurrently applying for a private pilot certificate, with an airplane, helicopter, or powered-lift rating appropriate to the instrument rating sought;
(2) Be able to read, speak, write, and understand the English language. If the applicant is unable to meet any of these requirements due to a medical condition, the Administrator may place such operating limitations on the applicant's pilot certificate as are necessary for the safe operation of the aircraft;
(3) Receive and log ground training from an authorized instructor or accomplish a home-study course of training on the aeronautical knowledge areas of paragraph (b) of this section that apply to the instrument rating sought;
(4) Receive a logbook or training record endorsement from an authorized instructor certifying that the person is prepared to take the required knowledge test;
(5) Receive and log training on the areas of operation of paragraph (c) of this section from an authorized instructor in an aircraft, full flight simulator, or flight training device that represents an airplane, helicopter, or
powered-lift appropriate to the instrument rating sought;
(6) Receive a logbook or training record endorsement from an authorized instructor certifying that the person is prepared to take the required practical test;
(7) Pass the required knowledge test on the aeronautical knowledge areas of paragraph (b) of this section; however, an applicant is not required to take another knowledge test when that person already holds an instrument rating; and
(8) Pass the required practical test on the areas of operation in paragraph (c) of this section in—
(i) An airplane, helicopter, or powered-lift appropriate to the rating sought; or
(ii) A full flight simulator or a flight training device appropriate to the rating sought and for the specific maneuver or instrument approach procedure performed. If an approved flight training device is used for the practical test, the instrument approach procedures conducted in that flight training device are limited to one precision and one nonprecision approach, provided the flight training device is approved for the procedure performed.
(b)
Aeronautical knowledge.
A person who applies for an instrument rating must have received and logged ground training from an authorized instructor or accomplished a home-study course on the following aeronautical knowledge areas that apply to the instrument rating sought:
(1) Federal Aviation Regulations of this chapter that apply to flight operations under IFR;
(2) Appropriate information that applies to flight operations under IFR in the “Aeronautical Information Manual;”
(3) Air traffic control system and procedures for instrument flight operations;
(4) IFR navigation and approaches by use of navigation systems;
(5) Use of IFR en route and instrument approach procedure charts;
(6) Procurement and use of aviation weather reports and forecasts and the elements of forecasting weather trends based on that information and personal observation of weather conditions;
(7) Safe and efficient operation of aircraft under instrument flight rules and conditions;
(8) Recognition of critical weather situations and windshear avoidance;
(9) Aeronautical decision making and judgment; and
(10) Crew resource management, including crew communication and coordination.
(c)
Flight proficiency.
A person who applies for an instrument rating must receive and log training from an authorized instructor in an aircraft, or in a full flight simulator or flight training device, in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section, that includes the following areas of operation:
(1) Preflight preparation;
(2) Preflight procedures;
(3) Air traffic control clearances and procedures;
(4) Flight by reference to instruments;
(5) Navigation systems;
(6) Instrument approach procedures;
(7) Emergency operations; and
(8) Postflight procedures.
(d)
Aeronautical experience for the instrument-airplane rating.
A person who applies for an instrument-airplane rating must have logged:
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, 50 hours of cross-country flight time as pilot in command, of which 10 hours must have been in an airplane; and
(2) Forty hours of actual or simulated instrument time in the areas of operation listed in paragraph (c) of this section, of which 15 hours must have been received from an authorized instructor who holds an instrument-airplane rating, and the instrument time includes:
(i) Three hours of instrument flight training from an authorized instructor in an airplane that is appropriate to the instrument-airplane rating within 2 calendar months before the date of the practical test; and
(ii) Instrument flight training on cross country flight procedures, including one cross country flight in an airplane with an authorized instructor, that is performed under instrument flight rules, when a flight plan has been filed with an air traffic control facility, and that involves—
(A) A flight of 250 nautical miles along airways or by directed routing from an air traffic control facility;
(B) An instrument approach at each airport; and
(C) Three different kinds of approaches with the use of navigation systems.
(e)
Aeronautical experience for the instrument-helicopter rating.
A person who applies for an instrument-helicopter rating must have logged:
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, 50 hours of cross-country flight time as pilot in command, of which 10 hours must have been in a helicopter; and
(2) Forty hours of actual or simulated instrument time in the areas of operation listed under paragraph (c) of this section, of which 15 hours must have been with an authorized instructor who holds an instrument-helicopter rating, and the instrument time includes:
(i) Three hours of instrument flight training from an authorized instructor in a helicopter that is appropriate to the instrument-helicopter rating within 2 calendar months before the date of the practical test; and
(ii) Instrument flight training on cross country flight procedures, including one cross country flight in a helicopter with an authorized instructor that is performed under instrument flight rules and a flight plan has been filed with an air traffic control facility, and involves—
(A) A flight of 100 nautical miles along airways or by directed routing from an air traffic control facility;
(B) An instrument approach at each airport; and
(C) Three different kinds of approaches with the use of navigation systems.
(f)
Aeronautical experience for the instrument-powered-lift rating.
A person who applies for an instrument-powered-lift rating must have logged:
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, 50 hours of cross-country flight time as pilot in command, of which 10 hours must have been in a powered-lift; and
(2) Forty hours of actual or simulated instrument time in the areas of operation listed under paragraph (c) of this section, of which 15 hours must have been received from an authorized instructor who holds an instrument-powered-lift rating, and the instrument time includes:
(i) Three hours of instrument flight training from an authorized instructor in a powered-lift that is appropriate to the instrument-powered-lift rating within 2 calendar months before the date of the practical test; and
(ii) Instrument flight training on cross country flight procedures, including one cross country flight in a powered-lift with an authorized instructor that is performed under instrument flight rules, when a flight plan has been filed with an air traffic control facility, that involves—
(A) A flight of 250 nautical miles along airways or by directed routing from an air traffic control facility;
(B) An instrument approach at each airport; and
(C) Three different kinds of approaches with the use of navigation systems.
(g) An applicant for a combined private pilot certificate with an instrument rating may satisfy the cross-country flight time requirements of this section by crediting:
(1) For an instrument-airplane rating or an instrument-powered-lift rating, up to 45 hours of cross-country flight time performing the duties of pilot in command with an authorized instructor; or
(2) For an instrument-helicopter rating, up to 47 hours of cross-country flight time performing the duties of pilot in command with an authorized instructor.
(h)
Use of full flight simulators or flight training devices.
If the instrument time was provided by an authorized instructor in a full flight simulator or flight training device—
(1) A maximum of 30 hours may be performed in that full flight simulator or flight training device if the instrument time was completed in accordance with part 142 of this chapter; or
(2) A maximum of 20 hours may be performed in that full flight simulator or flight training device if the instrument time was not completed in accordance with part 142 of this chapter.
(i)
Use of an aviation training device.
A maximum of 10 hours of instrument time received in a basic aviation training device or a maximum of 20 hours of instrument time received in an advanced aviation training device may be credited for the instrument time requirements of this section if—
(1) The device is approved and authorized by the FAA;
(2) An authorized instructor provides the instrument time in the device; and
(3) The FAA approved the instrument training and instrument tasks performed in the device.
(j) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, a person may not credit more than 20 total hours of instrument time in a full flight simulator, flight training device, aviation training device, or a combination towards the instrument time requirements of this section.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40900, July 30, 1997; Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42554, Aug. 21, 2009; Amdt. 61-127, 76 FR 19267, Apr. 7, 2011; Amdt. 61-128, 76 FR 54106, Aug. 31, 2011; Docket FAA-2015-1846, Amdt. 61-136, 81 FR 21460, Apr. 12, 2016]
§ 61.66
Enhanced Flight Vision System Pilot Requirements.
(a)
Ground training.
(1) Except as provided under paragraphs (f) and (h) of this section, no person may manipulate the controls of an aircraft or act as pilot in command of an aircraft during an EFVS operation conducted under § 91.176(a) or (b) of this chapter, or serve as a required pilot flightcrew member during an EFVS operation conducted under § 91.176(a) of this chapter, unless that person—
(i) Receives and logs ground training under a training program approved by the Administrator; and
(ii) Obtains a logbook or training record endorsement from an authorized training provider certifying the person satisfactorily completed the ground training appropriate to the category of aircraft for which the person is seeking the EFVS privilege.
(2) The ground training must include the following subjects:
(i) Those portions of this chapter that relate to EFVS flight operations and limitations, including the Airplane Flight Manual or Rotorcraft Flight Manual limitations;
(ii) EFVS sensor imagery, required aircraft flight information, and flight symbology;
(iii) EFVS display, controls, modes, features, symbology, annunciations, and associated systems and components;
(iv) EFVS sensor performance, sensor limitations, scene interpretation, visual anomalies, and other visual effects;
(v) Preflight planning and operational considerations associated with using EFVS during taxi, takeoff, climb, cruise, descent and landing phases of flight, including the use of EFVS for instrument approaches, operating below DA/DH or MDA, executing missed approaches, landing, rollout, and balked landings;
(vi) Weather associated with low visibility conditions and its effect on EFVS performance;
(vii) Normal, abnormal, emergency, and crew coordination procedures when using EFVS; and
(viii) Interpretation of approach and runway lighting systems and their display characteristics when using an EFVS.
(b)
Flight training.
(1) Except as provided under paragraph (h) of this section, no person may manipulate the controls of an aircraft or act as pilot in command of an aircraft during an EFVS operation under § 91.176(a) or (b) of this chapter unless that person—
(i) Receives and logs flight training for the EFVS operation under a training program approved by the Administrator; and
(ii) Obtains a logbook or training record endorsement from an authorized training provider certifying the person is proficient in the use of EFVS in the category of aircraft in which the training was provided for the EFVS operation to be conducted.
(2) Flight training must include the following tasks:
(i) Preflight and inflight preparation of EFVS equipment for EFVS operations, including EFVS setup and use of display, controls, modes and associated systems, and adjustments for brightness and contrast under day and night conditions;
(ii) Proper piloting techniques associated with using EFVS during taxi, takeoff, climb, cruise, descent, landing, and rollout, including missed approaches and balked landings;
(iii) Proper piloting techniques for the use of EFVS during instrument approaches, to include operations below DA/DH or MDA as applicable to the EFVS operations to be conducted, under both day and night conditions;
(iv) Determining enhanced flight visibility;
(v) Identifying required visual references appropriate to EFVS operations;
(vi) Transitioning from EFVS sensor imagery to natural vision acquisition of required visual references and the runway environment;
(vii) Using EFVS sensor imagery, required aircraft flight information, and flight symbology to touchdown and rollout, if the person receiving training will conduct EFVS operations under § 91.176(a) of this chapter; and
(viii) Normal, abnormal, emergency, and crew coordination procedures when using an EFVS.
(c)
Supplementary EFVS training.
A person qualified to conduct an EFVS operation under § 91.176(a) or (b) of this chapter who seeks to conduct an additional EFVS operation for which that person has not received training must—
(1) Receive and log the ground and flight training required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, under a training program approved by the Administrator, appropriate to the additional EFVS operation to be conducted; and
(2) Obtain a logbook or training record endorsement from the authorized training provider certifying the person is proficient in the use of EFVS in the category of aircraft in which the training was provided for the EFVS operation to be conducted.
(d)
Recent flight experience: EFVS.
Except as provided in paragraphs (f) and (h) of this section, no person may manipulate the controls of an aircraft during an EFVS operation or act as pilot in command of an aircraft during an EFVS operation unless, within 6 calendar months preceding the month of the flight, that person performs and logs six instrument approaches as the sole manipulator of the controls using an EFVS under any weather conditions in the category of aircraft for which the person seeks the EFVS privilege. The instrument approaches may be performed in day or night conditions; and
(1) One approach must terminate in a full stop landing; and
(2) For persons authorized to exercise the privileges of § 91.176(a), the full stop landing must be conducted using the EFVS.
(e)
EFVS refresher training.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, a person who has failed to meet the recent flight experience requirements of paragraph (d) of this section for more than six calendar months may reestablish EFVS currency only by satisfactorily completing an approved EFVS refresher course in the category of aircraft for which the person seeks the EFVS privilege. The EFVS refresher course must consist of the subjects and tasks listed in paragraphs (a)(2) and (b)(2) of this section applicable to the EFVS operations to be conducted.
(2) The EFVS refresher course must be conducted by an authorized training provider whose instructor meets the training requirements of this section and, if conducting EFVS operations in an aircraft, the recent flight experience requirements of this section.
(f)
Military pilots and former military pilots in the U.S. Armed Forces.
(1) The training requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section applicable to EFVS operations conducted under § 91.176(a) of this chapter do not apply to a military pilot or former military pilot in the U.S. Armed Forces if that person documents satisfactory completion of ground and flight training in EFVS operations to touchdown and rollout by the U.S. Armed Forces.
(2) The training requirements in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section applicable to EFVS operations conducted under § 91.176(b) of this chapter do not apply to a military pilot or former military pilot in the U.S. Armed Forces if that person documents satisfactory completion of ground and flight training in EFVS operations to
100 feet above the touchdown zone elevation by the U.S. Armed Forces.
(3) A military pilot or former military pilot in the U.S. Armed Forces may satisfy the recent flight experience requirements of paragraph (d) of this section if he or she documents satisfactory completion of an EFVS proficiency check in the U.S. Armed Forces within 6 calendar months preceding the month of the flight, the check was conducted by a person authorized by the U.S. Armed Forces to administer the check, and the person receiving the check was a member of the U.S. Armed Forces at the time the check was administered.
(g)
Use of full flight simulators.
A level C or higher full flight simulator (FFS) equipped with an EFVS may be used to meet the flight training, recent flight experience, and refresher training requirements of this section. The FFS must be evaluated and qualified for EFVS operations by the Administrator, and must be:
(1) Qualified and maintained in accordance with part 60 of this chapter, or a previously qualified device, as permitted in accordance with § 60.17 of this chapter;
(2) Approved by the Administrator for the tasks and maneuvers to be conducted; and
(3) Equipped with a daylight visual display if being used to meet the flight training requirements of this section.
(h)
Exceptions.
(1) A person may manipulate the controls of an aircraft during an EFVS operation without meeting the requirements of this section in the following circumstances:
(i) When receiving flight training to meet the requirements of this section under an approved training program, provided the instructor meets the requirements in this section to perform the EFVS operation in the category of aircraft for which the training is being conducted.
(ii) During an EFVS operation performed in the course of satisfying the recent flight experience requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, provided another individual is serving as pilot in command of the aircraft during the EFVS operation and that individual meets the requirements in this section to perform the EFVS operation in the category of aircraft in which the flight is being conducted.
(iii) During an EFVS operation performed in the course of completing EFVS refresher training in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, provided the instructor providing the refresher training meets the requirements in this section to perform the EFVS operation in the category of aircraft for which the training is being conducted.
(2) The requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply if a person is conducting a flight or series of flights in an aircraft issued an experimental airworthiness certificate under § 21.191 of this chapter for the purpose of research and development or showing compliance with regulations, provided the person has knowledge of the subjects specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and has experience with the tasks specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section applicable to the EFVS operations to be conducted.
(3) The requirements specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section do not apply to a pilot who:
(i) Is employed by a part 119 certificate holder authorized to conduct operations under part 121, 125, or 135 when the pilot is conducting an EFVS operation for that certificate holder under part 91, 121, 125, or 135, as applicable, provided the pilot conducts the operation in accordance with the certificate holder's operations specifications for EFVS operations;
(ii) Is employed by a person who holds a letter of deviation authority issued under § 125.3 of this chapter when the pilot is conducting an EFVS operation for that person under part 125, provided the pilot is conducting the operation in accordance with that person's letter of authorization for EFVS operations; or
(iii) Is employed by a fractional ownership program manager to conduct operations under part 91 subpart K when the pilot is conducting an EFVS operation for that program manager under part 91, provided the pilot is conducting the operation in accordance with the program manager's management specifications for EFVS operations.
(4) The requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply if a person is conducting EFVS operations under § 91.176(b) of this chapter and that person documents that prior to March 13, 2018, that person satisfactorily completed ground and flight training on EFVS operations to 100 feet above the touchdown zone elevation.
[Docket FAA-2013-0485, Amdt. 61-139, 81 FR 90170, Dec. 13, 2016, as amended by Docket FAA-2013-0485, Amdt. 61-139, 81 FR 90172, Dec. 13, 2016]
§ 61.67
Category II pilot authorization requirements.
(a)
General.
A person who applies for a Category II pilot authorization must hold:
(1) At least a private or commercial pilot certificate with an instrument rating or an airline transport pilot certificate;
(2) A type rating for the aircraft for which the authorization is sought if that aircraft requires a type rating; and
(3) A category and class rating for the aircraft for which the authorization is sought.
(b)
Experience requirements.
An applicant for a Category II pilot authorization must have at least—
(1) 50 hours of night flight time as pilot in command.
(2) 75 hours of instrument time under actual or simulated instrument conditions that may include not more than—
(i) A combination of 25 hours of simulated instrument flight time in a flight simulator or flight training device; or
(ii) 40 hours of simulated instrument flight time if accomplished in an approved course conducted by an appropriately rated training center certificated under part 142 of this chapter.
(3) 250 hours of cross-country flight time as pilot in command.
(c)
Practical test requirements.
(1) A practical test must be passed by a person who applies for—
(i) Issuance or renewal of a Category II pilot authorization; and
(ii) The addition of another type aircraft to the applicant's Category II pilot authorization.
(2) To be eligible for the practical test for an authorization under this section, an applicant must—
(i) Meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section; and
(ii) If the applicant has not passed a practical test for this authorization during the 12 calendar months preceding the month of the test, then that person must—
(A) Meet the requirements of § 61.57(c); and
(B) Have performed at least six ILS approaches during the 6 calendar months preceding the month of the test, of which at least three of the approaches must have been conducted without the use of an approach coupler.
(3) The approaches specified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B) of this section—
(i) Must be conducted under actual or simulated instrument flight conditions;
(ii) Must be conducted to the decision height for the ILS approach in the type aircraft in which the practical test is to be conducted;
(iii) Need not be conducted to the decision height authorized for Category II operations;
(iv) Must be conducted to the decision height authorized for Category II operations only if conducted in a flight simulator or flight training device; and
(v) Must be accomplished in an aircraft of the same category and class, and type, as applicable, as the aircraft in which the practical test is to be conducted or in a flight simulator that—
(A) Represents an aircraft of the same category and class, and type, as applicable, as the aircraft in which the authorization is sought; and
(B) Is used in accordance with an approved course conducted by a training center certificated under part 142 of this chapter.
(4) The flight time acquired in meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B) of this section may be used to meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) of this section.
(d)
Practical test procedures.
The practical test consists of an oral increment and a flight increment.
(1)
Oral increment.
In the oral increment of the practical test an applicant must demonstrate knowledge of the following:
(i) Required landing distance;
(ii) Recognition of the decision height;
(iii) Missed approach procedures and techniques using computed or fixed attitude guidance displays;
(iv) Use and limitations of RVR;
(v) Use of visual clues, their availability or limitations, and altitude at which they are normally discernible at reduced RVR readings;
(vi) Procedures and techniques related to transition from nonvisual to visual flight during a final approach under reduced RVR;
(vii) Effects of vertical and horizontal windshear;
(viii) Characteristics and limitations of the ILS and runway lighting system;
(ix) Characteristics and limitations of the flight director system, auto approach coupler (including split axis type if equipped), auto throttle system (if equipped), and other required Category II equipment;
(x) Assigned duties of the second in command during Category II approaches, unless the aircraft for which authorization is sought does not require a second in command; and
(xi) Instrument and equipment failure warning systems.
(2)
Flight increment.
The following requirements apply to the flight increment of the practical test:
(i) The flight increment must be conducted in an aircraft of the same category, class, and type, as applicable, as the aircraft in which the authorization is sought or in a flight simulator that—
(A) Represents an aircraft of the same category and class, and type, as applicable, as the aircraft in which the authorization is sought; and
(B) Is used in accordance with an approved course conducted by a training center certificated under part 142 of this chapter.
(ii) The flight increment must consist of at least two ILS approaches to 100 feet AGL including at least one landing and one missed approach.
(iii) All approaches performed during the flight increment must be made with the use of an approved flight control guidance system, except if an approved auto approach coupler is installed, at least one approach must be hand flown using flight director commands.
(iv) If a multiengine airplane with the performance capability to execute a missed approach with one engine inoperative is used for the practical test, the flight increment must include the performance of one missed approach with an engine, which shall be the most critical engine, if applicable, set at idle or zero thrust before reaching the middle marker.
(v) If a multiengine flight simulator or multiengine flight training device is used for the practical test, the applicant must execute a missed approach with the most critical engine, if applicable, failed.
(vi) For an authorization for an aircraft that requires a type rating, the practical test must be performed in coordination with a second in command who holds a type rating in the aircraft in which the authorization is sought.
(vii) Oral questioning may be conducted at any time during a practical test.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40900, July 30, 1997]
§ 61.68
Category III pilot authorization requirements.
(a)
General.
A person who applies for a Category III pilot authorization must hold:
(1) At least a private pilot certificate or commercial pilot certificate with an instrument rating or an airline transport pilot certificate;
(2) A type rating for the aircraft for which the authorization is sought if that aircraft requires a type rating; and
(3) A category and class rating for the aircraft for which the authorization is sought.
(b)
Experience requirements.
An applicant for a Category III pilot authorization must have at least—
(1) 50 hours of night flight time as pilot in command.
(2) 75 hours of instrument flight time during actual or simulated instrument conditions that may include not more than—
(i) A combination of 25 hours of simulated instrument flight time in a flight simulator or flight training device; or
(ii) 40 hours of simulated instrument flight time if accomplished in an approved course conducted by an appropriately rated training center certificated under part 142 of this chapter.
(3) 250 hours of cross-country flight time as pilot in command.
(c)
Practical test requirements.
(1) A practical test must be passed by a person who applies for—
(i) Issuance or renewal of a Category III pilot authorization; and
(ii) The addition of another type of aircraft to the applicant's Category III pilot authorization.
(2) To be eligible for the practical test for an authorization under this section, an applicant must—
(i) Meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section; and
(ii) If the applicant has not passed a practical test for this authorization during the 12 calendar months preceding the month of the test, then that person must—
(A) Meet the requirements of § 61.57(c); and
(B) Have performed at least six ILS approaches during the 6 calendar months preceding the month of the test, of which at least three of the approaches must have been conducted without the use of an approach coupler.
(3) The approaches specified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B) of this section—
(i) Must be conducted under actual or simulated instrument flight conditions;
(ii) Must be conducted to the alert height or decision height for the ILS approach in the type aircraft in which the practical test is to be conducted;
(iii) Need not be conducted to the decision height authorized for Category III operations;
(iv) Must be conducted to the alert height or decision height, as applicable, authorized for Category III operations only if conducted in a flight simulator or flight training device; and
(v) Must be accomplished in an aircraft of the same category and class, and type, as applicable, as the aircraft in which the practical test is to be conducted or in a flight simulator that—
(A) Represents an aircraft of the same category and class, and type, as applicable, as the aircraft for which the authorization is sought; and
(B) Is used in accordance with an approved course conducted by a training center certificated under part 142 of this chapter.
(4) The flight time acquired in meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B) of this section may be used to meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) of this section.
(d)
Practical test procedures.
The practical test consists of an oral increment and a flight increment.
(1)
Oral increment.
In the oral increment of the practical test an applicant must demonstrate knowledge of the following:
(i) Required landing distance;
(ii) Determination and recognition of the alert height or decision height, as applicable, including use of a radar altimeter;
(iii) Recognition of and proper reaction to significant failures encountered prior to and after reaching the alert height or decision height, as applicable;
(iv) Missed approach procedures and techniques using computed or fixed attitude guidance displays and expected height loss as they relate to manual go-around or automatic go-around, and initiation altitude, as applicable;
(v) Use and limitations of RVR, including determination of controlling RVR and required transmissometers;
(vi) Use, availability, or limitations of visual cues and the altitude at which they are normally discernible at reduced RVR readings including—
(A) Unexpected deterioration of conditions to less than minimum RVR during approach, flare, and rollout;
(B) Demonstration of expected visual references with weather at minimum conditions;
(C) The expected sequence of visual cues during an approach in which visibility is at or above landing minima; and
(D) Procedures and techniques for making a transition from instrument reference flight to visual flight during a final approach under reduced RVR.
(vii) Effects of vertical and horizontal windshear;
(viii) Characteristics and limitations of the ILS and runway lighting system;
(ix) Characteristics and limitations of the flight director system auto approach coupler (including split axis type if equipped), auto throttle system (if equipped), and other Category III equipment;
(x) Assigned duties of the second in command during Category III operations, unless the aircraft for which authorization is sought does not require a second in command;
(xi) Recognition of the limits of acceptable aircraft position and flight path tracking during approach, flare, and, if applicable, rollout; and
(xii) Recognition of, and reaction to, airborne or ground system faults or abnormalities, particularly after passing alert height or decision height, as applicable.
(2)
Flight increment.
The following requirements apply to the flight increment of the practical test—
(i) The flight increment may be conducted in an aircraft of the same category and class, and type, as applicable, as the aircraft for which the authorization is sought, or in a flight simulator that—
(A) Represents an aircraft of the same category and class, and type, as applicable, as the aircraft in which the authorization is sought; and
(B) Is used in accordance with an approved course conducted by a training center certificated under part 142 of this chapter.
(ii) The flight increment must consist of at least two ILS approaches to 100 feet AGL, including one landing and one missed approach initiated from a very low altitude that may result in a touchdown during the go-around maneuver;
(iii) All approaches performed during the flight increment must be made with the approved automatic landing system or an equivalent landing system approved by the Administrator;
(iv) If a multiengine aircraft with the performance capability to execute a missed approach with one engine inoperative is used for the practical test, the flight increment must include the performance of one missed approach with the most critical engine, if applicable, set at idle or zero thrust before reaching the middle or outer marker;
(v) If a multiengine flight simulator or multiengine flight training device is used, a missed approach must be executed with an engine, which shall be the most critical engine, if applicable, failed;
(vi) For an authorization for an aircraft that requires a type rating, the practical test must be performed in coordination with a second in command who holds a type rating in the aircraft in which the authorization is sought;
(vii) Oral questioning may be conducted at any time during the practical test;
(viii) Subject to the limitations of this paragraph, for Category IIIb operations predicated on the use of a fail-passive rollout control system, at least one manual rollout using visual reference or a combination of visual and instrument references must be executed. The maneuver required by this paragraph shall be initiated by a fail-passive disconnect of the rollout control system—
(A) After main gear touchdown;
(B) Prior to nose gear touchdown;
(C) In conditions representative of the most adverse lateral touchdown displacement allowing a safe landing on the runway; and
(D) In weather conditions anticipated in Category IIIb operations.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40900, July 30, 1997]
§ 61.69
Glider and unpowered ultralight vehicle towing: Experience and training requirements.
(a) No person may act as pilot in command for towing a glider or unpowered ultralight vehicle unless that person—
(1) Holds a private, commercial or airline transport pilot certificate with a category rating for powered aircraft;
(2) Has logged at least 100 hours of pilot-in-command time in the aircraft category, class and type, if required, that the pilot is using to tow a glider or unpowered ultralight vehicle;
(3) Has a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor who certifies that the person has received ground and flight training in gliders or unpowered ultralight vehicles and is proficient in—
(i) The techniques and procedures essential to the safe towing of gliders or unpowered ultralight vehicles, including airspeed limitations;
(ii) Emergency procedures;
(iii) Signals used; and
(iv) Maximum angles of bank.
(4) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, has logged at least three flights as the sole manipulator of the controls of an aircraft while towing a glider or unpowered ultralight vehicle, or has simulated towing flight procedures in an aircraft while accompanied by a pilot who meets the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(5) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, has received a logbook endorsement from the pilot, described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, certifying that the person has accomplished at least 3 flights in an aircraft while towing a glider or unpowered ultralight vehicle, or while simulating towing flight procedures; and
(6) Within 24 calendar months before the flight has—
(i) Made at least three actual or simulated tows of a glider or unpowered ultralight vehicle while accompanied by a qualified pilot who meets the requirements of this section; or
(ii) Made at least three flights as pilot in command of a glider or unpowered ultralight vehicle towed by an aircraft.
(b) Any person who, before May 17, 1967, has made and logged 10 or more flights as pilot in command of an aircraft towing a glider or unpowered ultralight vehicle in accordance with a certificate of waiver need not comply with paragraphs (a)(4) and (a)(5) of this section.
(c) The pilot, described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, who endorses the logbook of a person seeking towing privileges must have—
(1) Met the requirements of this section prior to endorsing the logbook of the person seeking towing privileges; and
(2) Logged at least 10 flights as pilot in command of an aircraft while towing a glider or unpowered ultralight vehicle.
(d) If the pilot described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section holds only a private pilot certificate, then that pilot must have—
(1) Logged at least 100 hours of pilot-in-command time in airplanes, or 200 hours of pilot-in-command time in a combination of powered and other-than-powered aircraft; and
(2) Performed and logged at least three flights within the 12 calendar months preceding the month that pilot accompanies or endorses the logbook of a person seeking towing privileges—
(i) In an aircraft while towing a glider or unpowered ultralight vehicle accompanied by another pilot who meets the requirements of this section; or
(ii) As pilot in command of a glider or unpowered ultralight vehicle being towed by another aircraft.
[Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44866, July 27, 2004, as amended by Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42555, Aug. 21, 2009]
§ 61.71
Graduates of an approved training program other than under this part: Special rules.
(a) A person who graduates from an approved training program under part 141 or part 142 of this chapter is considered to have met the applicable aeronautical experience, aeronautical knowledge, and areas of operation requirements of this part if that person presents the graduation certificate and passes the required practical test within the 60-day period after the date of graduation.
(b) A person may apply for an airline transport pilot certificate, type rating, or both under this part, and will be considered to have met the applicable requirements under § 61.157, except for the airline transport pilot certification training program required by § 61.156, for that certificate and rating, if that person has:
(1) Satisfactorily accomplished an approved training curriculum and a proficiency check for that airplane type that includes all the tasks and maneuvers required by §§ 121.424 and 121.441 of this chapter to serve as pilot in command in operations conducted under part 121 of this chapter; and
(2) Applied for an airline transport pilot certificate, type rating, or both within the 60-day period from the date
the person satisfactorily accomplished the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) for that airplane type.
(c) A person who holds a foreign pilot license and is applying for an equivalent U.S. pilot certificate on the basis of a Bilateral Aviation Safety Agreement and associated Implementation Procedures for Licensing may be considered to have met the applicable aeronautical experience, aeronautical knowledge, and areas of operation requirements of this part.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40901, July 30, 1997; Amdt. 61-128, 76 FR 54107, Aug. 31, 2011; Amdt. 61-130, 78 FR 42374, July 15, 2013; Amdt. 61-144, 85 FR 10920, Feb. 25, 2020]
§ 61.73
Military pilots or former military pilots: Special rules.
(a)
General.
Except for a person who has been removed from flying status for lack of proficiency or because of a disciplinary action involving aircraft operations, a U.S. military pilot or former military pilot who meets the requirements of this section may apply, on the basis of his or her military pilot qualifications, for:
(1) A commercial pilot certificate with the appropriate aircraft category and class rating.
(2) An instrument rating with the appropriate aircraft rating.
(3) A type rating.
(b)
Military pilots and former military pilots in the U.S. Armed Forces.
A person who qualifies as a military pilot or former military pilot in the U.S. Armed Forces may apply for a pilot certificate and ratings under paragraph (a) of this section if that person—
(1) Presents evidentiary documents described under paragraphs (h)(1), (2), and (3) of this section that show the person's status in the U.S. Armed Forces.
(2) Has passed the military competency aeronautical knowledge test on the appropriate parts of this chapter for commercial pilot privileges and limitations, air traffic and general operating rules, and accident reporting rules.
(3) Presents official U.S. military records that show compliance with one of the following requirements—
(i) Before the date of the application, passing an official U.S. military pilot and instrument proficiency check in a military aircraft of the kind of aircraft category, class, and type, if class or type of aircraft is applicable, for the ratings sought; or
(ii) Before the date of application, logging 10 hours of pilot time as a military pilot in a U.S. military aircraft in the kind of aircraft category, class, and type, if a class rating or type rating is applicable, for the aircraft rating sought.
(c)
A military pilot in the Armed Forces of a foreign contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation.
A person who is a military pilot in the Armed Forces of a foreign contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation and is assigned to pilot duties in the U.S. Armed Forces, for purposes other than receiving flight training, may apply for a commercial pilot certificate and ratings under paragraph (a) of this section, provided that person—
(1) Presents evidentiary documents described under paragraph (h)(4) of this section that show the person is a military pilot in the Armed Forces of a foreign contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation, and is assigned to pilot duties in the U.S. Armed Forces, for purposes other than receiving flight training.
(2) Has passed the military competency aeronautical knowledge test on the appropriate parts of this chapter for commercial pilot privileges and limitations, air traffic and general operating rules, and accident reporting rules.
(3) Presents official U.S. military records that show compliance with one of the following requirements:
(i) Before the date of the application, passed an official U.S. military pilot and instrument proficiency check in a military aircraft of the kind of aircraft category, class, or type, if class or type of aircraft is applicable, for the ratings; or
(ii) Before the date of the application, logged 10 hours of pilot time as a military pilot in a U.S. military aircraft of the kind of category, class, and type of aircraft, if a class rating or
type rating is applicable, for the aircraft rating.
(d)
Instrument rating.
A person who is qualified as a U.S. military pilot or former military pilot may apply for an instrument rating to be added to a pilot certificate if that person—
(1) Has passed an instrument proficiency check in the U.S. Armed Forces in the aircraft category for the instrument rating sought; and
(2) Has an official U.S. Armed Forces record that shows the person is instrument pilot qualified by the U.S. Armed Forces to conduct instrument flying on Federal airways in that aircraft category and class for the instrument rating sought.
(e)
Aircraft type rating.
An aircraft type rating may only be issued for a type of aircraft that has a comparable civilian type designation by the Administrator.
(f)
Aircraft type rating placed on an airline transport pilot certificate.
A person who is a military pilot or former military pilot of the U.S. Armed Forces and requests an aircraft type rating to be placed on an existing U.S. airline transport pilot certificate may be issued the rating at the airline transport pilot certification level, provided that person:
(1) Holds a category and class rating for that type of aircraft at the airline transport pilot certification level; and
(2) Has passed an official U.S. military pilot check and instrument proficiency check in that type of aircraft.
(g)
Flight instructor certificate and ratings.
A person who can show official U.S. military documentation of being a U.S. military instructor pilot or U.S. military pilot examiner, or a former instructor pilot or pilot examiner may apply for and be issued a flight instructor certificate with the appropriate ratings if that person:
(1) Holds a commercial or airline transport pilot certificate with the appropriate aircraft category and class rating, if a class rating is appropriate, for the flight instructor rating sought;
(2) Holds an instrument rating, or has instrument privileges, on the pilot certificate that is appropriate to the flight instructor rating sought; and
(3) Presents the following documents:
(i) A knowledge test report that shows the person passed a knowledge test on the aeronautical knowledge areas listed under § 61.185(a) appropriate to the flight instructor rating sought and the knowledge test was passed within the preceding 24 calendar months prior to the month of application. If the U.S. military instructor pilot or pilot examiner already holds a flight instructor certificate, holding of a flight instructor certificate suffices for the knowledge test report.
(ii) An official U.S. Armed Forces record or order that shows the person is or was qualified as a U.S. Armed Forces military instructor pilot or pilot examiner for the flight instructor rating sought.
(iii) An official U.S. Armed Forces record or order that shows the person completed a U.S. Armed Forces' instructor pilot or pilot examiner training course and received an aircraft rating qualification as a military instructor pilot or pilot examiner that is appropriate to the flight instructor rating sought.
(iv) An official U.S. Armed Forces record or order that shows the person passed a U.S. Armed Forces instructor pilot or pilot examiner proficiency check in an aircraft as a military instructor pilot or pilot examiner that is appropriate to the flight instructor rating sought.
(h)
Documents for qualifying for a pilot certificate and rating.
The following documents are required for a person to apply for a pilot certificate and rating:
(1) An official U.S. Armed Forces record that shows the person is or was a military pilot.
(2) An official U.S. Armed Forces record that shows the person graduated from a U.S. Armed Forces undergraduate pilot training school and received a rating qualification as a military pilot.
(3) An official U.S. Armed Forces record that shows the pilot passed a pilot proficiency check and instrument proficiency check in an aircraft as a military pilot.
(4) If a person is a military pilot in the Armed Forces from a foreign contracting State to the Convention on
International Civil Aviation and is applying for a pilot certificate and rating, that person must present the following:
(i) An official U.S. Armed Forces record that shows the person is a military pilot in the U.S. Armed Forces;
(ii) An official U.S. Armed Forces record that shows the person is assigned as a military pilot in the U.S. Armed Forces for purposes other than receiving flight training;
(iii) An official record that shows the person graduated from a military undergraduate pilot training school from the Armed Forces from a foreign contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation or from the U.S. Armed Forces, and received a qualification as a military pilot; and
(iv) An official U.S. Armed Forces record that shows that the person passed a pilot proficiency check and instrument proficiency check in an aircraft as a military pilot in the U.S. Armed Forces.
[Docket FAA-2006-26661, 74 FR 42555, Aug. 21, 2009]
§ 61.75
Private pilot certificate issued on the basis of a foreign pilot license.
(a)
General.
A person who holds a foreign pilot license at the private pilot level or higher that was issued by a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation may apply for and be issued a U.S. private pilot certificate with the appropriate ratings if the foreign pilot license meets the requirements of this section.
(b)
Certificate issued.
A U.S. private pilot certificate issued under this section must specify the person's foreign license number and country of issuance. A person who holds a foreign pilot license issued by a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation may be issued a U.S. private pilot certificate based on the foreign pilot license without any further showing of proficiency, provided the applicant:
(1) Meets the requirements of this section;
(2) Holds a foreign pilot license, at the private pilot license level or higher, that does not contain a limitation stating that the applicant has not met all of the standards of ICAO for that license;
(3) Does not hold a U.S. pilot certificate other than a U.S. student pilot certificate;
(4) Holds a medical certificate issued under part 67 of this chapter or a medical license issued by the country that issued the person's foreign pilot license; and
(5) Is able to read, speak, write, and understand the English language. If the applicant is unable to meet one of these requirements due to medical reasons, then the Administrator may place such operating limitations on that applicant's pilot certificate as are necessary for the safe operation of the aircraft.
(c)
Aircraft ratings issued.
Aircraft ratings listed on a person's foreign pilot license, in addition to any issued after testing under the provisions of this part, may be placed on that person's U.S. pilot certificate for private pilot privileges only.
(d)
Instrument ratings issued.
A person who holds an instrument rating on the foreign pilot license issued by a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation may be issued an instrument rating on a U.S. pilot certificate provided:
(1) The person's foreign pilot license authorizes instrument privileges;
(2) Within 24 months preceding the month in which the person applies for the instrument rating, the person passes the appropriate knowledge test; and
(3) The person is able to read, speak, write, and understand the English language. If the applicant is unable to meet one of these requirements due to medical reasons, then the Administrator may place such operating limitations on that applicant's pilot certificate as are necessary for the safe operation of the aircraft.
(e)
Operating privileges and limitations.
A person who receives a U.S. private pilot certificate that has been issued under the provisions of this section:
(1) May act as pilot in command of a civil aircraft of the United States in accordance with the pilot privileges authorized by this part and the limitations placed on that U.S. pilot certificate;
(2) Is limited to the privileges placed on the certificate by the Administrator;
(3) Is subject to the limitations and restrictions on the person's U.S. certificate and foreign pilot license when exercising the privileges of that U.S. pilot certificate in an aircraft of U.S. registry operating within or outside the United States; and
(f)
Limitation on licenses used as the basis for a U.S. certificate.
A person may use only one foreign pilot license as a basis for the issuance of a U.S. pilot certificate. The foreign pilot license and medical certification used as a basis for issuing a U.S. pilot certificate under this section must be written in English or accompanied by an English transcription that has been signed by an official or representative of the foreign aviation authority that issued the foreign pilot license.
(g)
Limitation placed on a U.S. pilot certificate.
A U.S. pilot certificate issued under this section can only be exercised when the pilot has the foreign pilot license, upon which the issuance of the U.S. pilot certificate was based, in the holder's possession or readily accessible in the aircraft.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42556, Aug. 21, 2009]
§ 61.77
Special purpose pilot authorization: Operation of a civil aircraft of the United States and leased by a non-U.S. citizen.
(a)
General.
The holder of a foreign pilot license issued by a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation who meets the requirements of this section may be issued a special purpose pilot authorization by the Administrator for the purpose of performing pilot duties—
(1) On a civil aircraft of U.S. registry that is leased to a person who is not a citizen of the United States, and
(2) For carrying persons or property for compensation or hire for operations in—
(i) Scheduled international air services in turbojet-powered airplanes of U.S. registry;
(ii) Scheduled international air services in airplanes of U.S. registry having a configuration of more than nine passenger seats, excluding crewmember seats;
(iii) Nonscheduled international air transportation in airplanes of U.S. registry having a configuration of more than 30 passenger seats, excluding crewmember seats; or
(iv) Scheduled international air services, or nonscheduled international air transportation, in airplanes of U.S. registry having a payload capacity of more than 7,500 pounds.
(b)
Eligibility.
To be eligible for the issuance or renewal of a special purpose pilot authorization, an applicant must present the following to a Flight Standards office:
(1) A foreign pilot license issued by the aeronautical authority of a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation that contains the appropriate aircraft category, class, type rating, if appropriate, and instrument rating for the aircraft to be flown;
(2) A certification by the lessee of the aircraft—
(i) Stating that the applicant is employed by the lessee;
(ii) Specifying the aircraft type on which the applicant will perform pilot duties; and
(iii) Stating that the applicant has received ground and flight instruction that qualifies the applicant to perform the duties to be assigned on the aircraft.
(3) Documentation showing when the applicant will reach the age of 65 years (an official copy of the applicant's birth certificate or other official documentation);
(4) Documentation the applicant meets the medical standards for the issuance of the foreign pilot license from the aeronautical authority of that contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation; and
(5) A statement that the applicant does not already hold a special purpose pilot authorization; however, if the applicant already holds a special purpose pilot authorization, then that special purpose pilot authorization must be surrendered to either the Flight Standards office that issued it, or the Flight Standards office processing the application for the authorization, prior to
being issued another special purpose pilot authorization.
(c)
Privileges.
A person issued a special purpose pilot authorization under this section—
(1) May exercise the privileges prescribed on the special purpose pilot authorization; and
(2) Must comply with the limitations specified in this section and any additional limitations specified on the special purpose pilot authorization.
(d)
General limitations.
A special purpose pilot authorization may be used only—
(1) For flights between foreign countries or for flights in foreign air commerce within the time period allotted on the authorization.
(2) If the foreign pilot license required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the medical documentation required by paragraph (b)(4) of this section, and the special purpose pilot authorization issued under this section are in the holder's physical possession or immediately accessible in the aircraft.
(3) While the holder is employed by the person to whom the aircraft described in the certification required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section is leased.
(4) While the holder is performing pilot duties on the U.S.-registered aircraft described in the certification required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(5) If the holder has only one special purpose pilot authorization as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(e)
Age limitation.
No person who holds a special purpose pilot authorization issued under this part may serve as a pilot on a civil airplane of U.S. registry in the following operations if the person has reached his or her 60th birthday or, in the case of operations with more than one pilot, his or her 65th birthday:
(1) Scheduled international air services carrying passengers in turbojet-powered airplanes;
(2) Scheduled international air services carrying passengers in airplanes having a passenger-seat configuration of more than nine passenger seats, excluding each crewmember seat;
(3) Nonscheduled international air transportation for compensation or hire in airplanes having a passenger-seat configuration of more than 30 passenger seats, excluding each crewmember seat; or
(4) Scheduled international air services, or nonscheduled international air transportation for compensation or hire, in airplanes having a payload capacity of more than 7,500 pounds.
(f)
Definitions.
(1)
International air service,
as used in paragraph (e) of this section, means scheduled air service performed in airplanes for the public transport of passengers, mail, or cargo, in which the service passes through the air space over the territory of more than one country.
(2)
International air transportation,
as used in paragraph (e) of this section, means air transportation performed in airplanes for the public transport of passengers, mail, or cargo, in which service passes through the air space over the territory of more than one country.
(g)
Expiration date.
Each special purpose pilot authorization issued under this section expires—
(1) 60 calendar months from the month it was issued, unless sooner suspended or revoked;
(2) When the lease agreement for the aircraft expires or the lessee terminates the employment of the person who holds the special purpose pilot authorization;
(3) Whenever the person's foreign pilot license has been suspended, revoked, or is no longer valid; or
(4) When the person no longer meets the medical standards for the issuance of the foreign pilot license.
(h)
Renewal.
A person exercising the privileges of a special purpose pilot authorization may apply for a 60-calendar-month extension of that authorization, provided the person—
(1) Continues to meet the requirements of this section; and
(2) Surrenders the expired special purpose pilot authorization upon receipt of the new authorization.
(i)
Surrender.
The holder of a special purpose pilot authorization must surrender the authorization to the Administrator within 7 days after the date the authorization terminates.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 40901, July 30, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 61-123, 74 FR 34234, July 15, 2009; Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42557, Aug. 21, 2009; Amdt. 61-134, 80 FR 33401, June 12, 2015; Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 61-141, 83 FR 9170, Mar. 5, 2018]

# Subpart C—Student Pilots
§ 61.81
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes the requirements for the issuance of student pilot certificates, the conditions under which those certificates are necessary, and the general operating rules and limitations for the holders of those certificates.
§ 61.83
Eligibility requirements for student pilots.
To be eligible for a student pilot certificate, an applicant must:
(a) Be at least 16 years of age for other than the operation of a glider or balloon.
(b) Be at least 14 years of age for the operation of a glider or balloon.
(c) Be able to read, speak, write, and understand the English language. If the applicant is unable to meet one of these requirements due to medical reasons, then the Administrator may place such operating limitations on that applicant's pilot certificate as are necessary for the safe operation of the aircraft.
§ 61.85
Application.
An applicant for a student pilot certificate:
(a) Must make that application in a form acceptable to the Administrator; and
(b) Must submit the application to a Flight Standards office, a designated pilot examiner, an airman certification representative associated with a pilot school, a flight instructor, or other person authorized by the Administrator.
[Docket FAA-2010-1127, Amdt. 61-135, 81 FR 1306, Jan. 12, 2016, as amended by Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 61-141, 83 FR 9170, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 61.87
Solo requirements for student pilots.
(a)
General.
A student pilot may not operate an aircraft in solo flight unless that student has met the requirements of this section. The term “solo flight” as used in this subpart means that flight time during which a student pilot is the sole occupant of the aircraft or that flight time during which the student performs the duties of a pilot in command of a gas balloon or an airship requiring more than one pilot flight crewmember.
(b)
Aeronautical knowledge.
A student pilot must demonstrate satisfactory aeronautical knowledge on a knowledge test that meets the requirements of this paragraph:
(1) The test must address the student pilot's knowledge of—
(i) Applicable sections of parts 61 and 91 of this chapter;
(ii) Airspace rules and procedures for the airport where the solo flight will be performed; and
(iii) Flight characteristics and operational limitations for the make and model of aircraft to be flown.
(2) The student's authorized instructor must—
(i) Administer the test; and
(ii) At the conclusion of the test, review all incorrect answers with the student before authorizing that student to conduct a solo flight.
(c)
Pre-solo flight training.
Prior to conducting a solo flight, a student pilot must have:
(1) Received and logged flight training for the maneuvers and procedures of this section that are appropriate to the make and model of aircraft to be flown; and
(2) Demonstrated satisfactory proficiency and safety, as judged by an authorized instructor, on the maneuvers and procedures required by this section in the make and model of aircraft or similar make and model of aircraft to be flown.
(d)
Maneuvers and procedures for pre-solo flight training in a single-engine airplane.
A student pilot who is receiving training for a single-engine airplane rating or privileges must receive and log flight training for the following maneuvers and procedures:
(1) Proper flight preparation procedures, including preflight planning and preparation, powerplant operation, and aircraft systems;
(2) Taxiing or surface operations, including runups;
(3) Takeoffs and landings, including normal and crosswind;
(4) Straight and level flight, and turns in both directions;
(5) Climbs and climbing turns;
(6) Airport traffic patterns, including entry and departure procedures;
(7) Collision avoidance, windshear avoidance, and wake turbulence avoidance;
(8) Descents, with and without turns, using high and low drag configurations;
(9) Flight at various airspeeds from cruise to slow flight;
(10) Stall entries from various flight attitudes and power combinations with recovery initiated at the first indication of a stall, and recovery from a full stall;
(11) Emergency procedures and equipment malfunctions;
(12) Ground reference maneuvers;
(13) Approaches to a landing area with simulated engine malfunctions;
(14) Slips to a landing; and
(15) Go-arounds.
(e)
Maneuvers and procedures for pre-solo flight training in a multiengine airplane.
A student pilot who is receiving training for a multiengine airplane rating must receive and log flight training for the following maneuvers and procedures:
(1) Proper flight preparation procedures, including preflight planning and preparation, powerplant operation, and aircraft systems;
(2) Taxiing or surface operations, including runups;
(3) Takeoffs and landings, including normal and crosswind;
(4) Straight and level flight, and turns in both directions;
(5) Climbs and climbing turns;
(6) Airport traffic patterns, including entry and departure procedures;
(7) Collision avoidance, windshear avoidance, and wake turbulence avoidance;
(8) Descents, with and without turns, using high and low drag configurations;
(9) Flight at various airspeeds from cruise to slow flight;
(10) Stall entries from various flight attitudes and power combinations with recovery initiated at the first indication of a stall, and recovery from a full stall;
(11) Emergency procedures and equipment malfunctions;
(12) Ground reference maneuvers;
(13) Approaches to a landing area with simulated engine malfunctions; and
(14) Go-arounds.
(f)
Maneuvers and procedures for pre-solo flight training in a helicopter.
A student pilot who is receiving training for a helicopter rating must receive and log flight training for the following maneuvers and procedures:
(1) Proper flight preparation procedures, including preflight planning and preparation, powerplant operation, and aircraft systems;
(2) Taxiing or surface operations, including runups;
(3) Takeoffs and landings, including normal and crosswind;
(4) Straight and level flight, and turns in both directions;
(5) Climbs and climbing turns;
(6) Airport traffic patterns, including entry and departure procedures;
(7) Collision avoidance, windshear avoidance, and wake turbulence avoidance;
(8) Descents with and without turns;
(9) Flight at various airspeeds;
(10) Emergency procedures and equipment malfunctions;
(11) Ground reference maneuvers;
(12) Approaches to the landing area;
(13) Hovering and hovering turns;
(14) Go-arounds;
(15) Simulated emergency procedures, including autorotational descents with a power recovery and power recovery to a hover;
(16) Rapid decelerations; and
(17) Simulated one-engine-inoperative approaches and landings for multiengine helicopters.
(g)
Maneuvers and procedures for pre-solo flight training in a gyroplane.
A student pilot who is receiving training for a gyroplane rating or privileges must receive and log flight training for the following maneuvers and procedures:
(1) Proper flight preparation procedures, including preflight planning and
preparation, powerplant operation, and aircraft systems;
(2) Taxiing or surface operations, including runups;
(3) Takeoffs and landings, including normal and crosswind;
(4) Straight and level flight, and turns in both directions;
(5) Climbs and climbing turns;
(6) Airport traffic patterns, including entry and departure procedures;
(7) Collision avoidance, windshear avoidance, and wake turbulence avoidance;
(8) Descents with and without turns;
(9) Flight at various airspeeds;
(10) Emergency procedures and equipment malfunctions;
(11) Ground reference maneuvers;
(12) Approaches to the landing area;
(13) High rates of descent with power on and with simulated power off, and recovery from those flight configurations;
(14) Go-arounds; and
(15) Simulated emergency procedures, including simulated power-off landings and simulated power failure during departures.
(h)
Maneuvers and procedures for pre-solo flight training in a powered-lift.
A student pilot who is receiving training for a powered-lift rating must receive and log flight training in the following maneuvers and procedures:
(1) Proper flight preparation procedures, including preflight planning and preparation, powerplant operation, and aircraft systems;
(2) Taxiing or surface operations, including runups;
(3) Takeoffs and landings, including normal and crosswind;
(4) Straight and level flight, and turns in both directions;
(5) Climbs and climbing turns;
(6) Airport traffic patterns, including entry and departure procedures;
(7) Collision avoidance, windshear avoidance, and wake turbulence avoidance;
(8) Descents with and without turns;
(9) Flight at various airspeeds from cruise to slow flight;
(10) Stall entries from various flight attitudes and power combinations with recovery initiated at the first indication of a stall, and recovery from a full stall;
(11) Emergency procedures and equipment malfunctions;
(12) Ground reference maneuvers;
(13) Approaches to a landing with simulated engine malfunctions;
(14) Go-arounds;
(15) Approaches to the landing area;
(16) Hovering and hovering turns; and
(17) For multiengine powered-lifts, simulated one-engine-inoperative approaches and landings.
(i)
Maneuvers and procedures for pre-solo flight training in a glider.
A student pilot who is receiving training for a glider rating or privileges must receive and log flight training for the following maneuvers and procedures:
(1) Proper flight preparation procedures, including preflight planning, preparation, aircraft systems, and, if appropriate, powerplant operations;
(2) Taxiing or surface operations, including runups, if applicable;
(3) Launches, including normal and crosswind;
(4) Straight and level flight, and turns in both directions, if applicable;
(5) Airport traffic patterns, including entry procedures;
(6) Collision avoidance, windshear avoidance, and wake turbulence avoidance;
(7) Descents with and without turns using high and low drag configurations;
(8) Flight at various airspeeds;
(9) Emergency procedures and equipment malfunctions;
(10) Ground reference maneuvers, if applicable;
(11) Inspection of towline rigging and review of signals and release procedures, if applicable;
(12) Aerotow, ground tow, or self-launch procedures;
(13) Procedures for disassembly and assembly of the glider;
(14) Stall entry, stall, and stall recovery;
(15) Straight glides, turns, and spirals;
(16) Landings, including normal and crosswind;
(17) Slips to a landing;
(18) Procedures and techniques for thermalling; and
(19) Emergency operations, including towline break procedures.
(j)
Maneuvers and procedures for pre-solo flight training in an airship.
A student pilot who is receiving training for an airship rating or privileges must receive and log flight training for the following maneuvers and procedures:
(1) Proper flight preparation procedures, including preflight planning and preparation, powerplant operation, and aircraft systems;
(2) Taxiing or surface operations, including runups;
(3) Takeoffs and landings, including normal and crosswind;
(4) Straight and level flight, and turns in both directions;
(5) Climbs and climbing turns;
(6) Airport traffic patterns, including entry and departure procedures;
(7) Collision avoidance, windshear avoidance, and wake turbulence avoidance;
(8) Descents with and without turns;
(9) Flight at various airspeeds from cruise to slow flight;
(10) Emergency procedures and equipment malfunctions;
(11) Ground reference maneuvers;
(12) Rigging, ballasting, and controlling pressure in the ballonets, and superheating; and
(13) Landings with positive and with negative static trim.
(k)
Maneuvers and procedures for pre-solo flight training in a balloon.
A student pilot who is receiving training in a balloon must receive and log flight training for the following maneuvers and procedures:
(1) Layout and assembly procedures;
(2) Proper flight preparation procedures, including preflight planning and preparation, and aircraft systems;
(3) Ascents and descents;
(4) Landing and recovery procedures;
(5) Emergency procedures and equipment malfunctions;
(6) Operation of hot air or gas source, ballast, valves, vents, and rip panels, as appropriate;
(7) Use of deflation valves or rip panels for simulating an emergency;
(8) The effects of wind on climb and approach angles; and
(9) Obstruction detection and avoidance techniques.
(l)
Maneuvers and procedures for pre-solo flight training in a powered parachute.
A student pilot who is receiving training for a powered parachute rating or privileges must receive and log flight training for the following maneuvers and procedures:
(1) Proper flight preparation procedures, including preflight planning and preparation, preflight assembly and rigging, aircraft systems, and powerplant operations.
(2) Taxiing or surface operations, including run-ups.
(3) Takeoffs and landings, including normal and crosswind.
(4) Straight and level flight, and turns in both directions.
(5) Climbs, and climbing turns in both directions.
(6) Airport traffic patterns, including entry and departure procedures.
(7) Collision avoidance, windshear avoidance, and wake turbulence avoidance.
(8) Descents, and descending turns in both directions.
(9) Emergency procedures and equipment malfunctions.
(10) Ground reference maneuvers.
(11) Straight glides, and gliding turns in both directions.
(12) Go-arounds.
(13) Approaches to landing areas with a simulated engine malfunction.
(14) Procedures for canopy packing and aircraft disassembly.
(m)
Maneuvers and procedures for pre-solo flight training in a weight-shift-control aircraft.
A student pilot who is receiving training for a weight-shift-control aircraft rating or privileges must receive and log flight training for the following maneuvers and procedures:
(1) Proper flight preparation procedures, including preflight planning and preparation, preflight assembly and rigging, aircraft systems, and powerplant operations.
(2) Taxiing or surface operations, including run-ups.
(3) Takeoffs and landings, including normal and crosswind.
(4) Straight and level flight, and turns in both directions.
(5) Climbs, and climbing turns in both directions.
(6) Airport traffic patterns, including entry and departure procedures.
(7) Collision avoidance, windshear avoidance, and wake turbulence avoidance.
(8) Descents, and descending turns in both directions.
(9) Flight at various airspeeds from maximum cruise to slow flight.
(10) Emergency procedures and equipment malfunctions.
(11) Ground reference maneuvers.
(12) Stall entry, stall, and stall recovery.
(13) Straight glides, and gliding turns in both directions.
(14) Go-arounds.
(15) Approaches to landing areas with a simulated engine malfunction.
(16) Procedures for disassembly.
(n)
Limitations on student pilots operating an aircraft in solo flight.
A student pilot may not operate an aircraft in solo flight unless that student pilot has received an endorsement in the student's logbook for the specific make and model aircraft to be flown by an authorized instructor who gave the training within the 90 days preceding the date of the flight.
(o)
Limitations on student pilots operating an aircraft in solo flight at night.
A student pilot may not operate an aircraft in solo flight at night unless that student pilot has received:
(1) Flight training at night on night flying procedures that includes takeoffs, approaches, landings, and go-arounds at night at the airport where the solo flight will be conducted;
(2) Navigation training at night in the vicinity of the airport where the solo flight will be conducted; and
(3) An endorsement in the student's logbook for the specific make and model aircraft to be flown for night solo flight by an authorized instructor who gave the training within the 90-day period preceding the date of the flight.
(p)
Limitations on flight instructors authorizing solo flight.
No instructor may authorize a student pilot to perform a solo flight unless that instructor has—
(1) Given that student pilot training in the make and model of aircraft or a similar make and model of aircraft in which the solo flight is to be flown;
(2) Determined the student pilot is proficient in the maneuvers and procedures prescribed in this section;
(3) Determined the student pilot is proficient in the make and model of aircraft to be flown; and
(4) Endorsed the student pilot's logbook for the specific make and model aircraft to be flown, and that endorsement remains current for solo flight privileges, provided an authorized instructor updates the student's logbook every 90 days thereafter.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40902, July 30, 1997; Amdt. 61-104, 63 FR 20287, Apr. 23, 1998; Amdt. 61-110, 69 FR 44866, July 27, 2004; Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42557, Aug. 21, 2009; Docket FAA-2010-1127, Amdt. 61-135, 81 FR 1306, Jan. 12, 2016]
§ 61.89
General limitations.
(a) A student pilot may not act as pilot in command of an aircraft:
(1) That is carrying a passenger;
(2) That is carrying property for compensation or hire;
(3) For compensation or hire;
(4) In furtherance of a business;
(5) On an international flight, except that a student pilot may make solo training flights from Haines, Gustavus, or Juneau, Alaska, to White Horse, Yukon, Canada, and return over the province of British Columbia;
(6) With a flight or surface visibility of less than 3 statute miles during daylight hours or 5 statute miles at night;
(7) When the flight cannot be made with visual reference to the surface; or
(8) In a manner contrary to any limitations placed in the pilot's logbook by an authorized instructor.
(b) A student pilot may not act as a required pilot flight crewmember on any aircraft for which more than one pilot is required by the type certificate of the aircraft or regulations under which the flight is conducted, except when receiving flight training from an authorized instructor on board an airship, and no person other than a required flight crewmember is carried on the aircraft.
(c) A student pilot seeking a sport pilot certificate must comply with the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and may not act as pilot in command—
(1) Of an aircraft other than a light-sport aircraft;
(2) At night;
(3) At an altitude of more than 10,000 feet MSL or 2,000 feet AGL, whichever is higher;
(4) In Class B, C, and D airspace, at an airport located in Class B, C, or D airspace, and to, from, through, or on an airport having an operational control tower without having received the ground and flight training specified in § 61.94 and an endorsement from an authorized instructor;
(5) Of a light-sport aircraft without having received the applicable ground training, flight training, and instructor endorsements specified in § 61.327 (a) and (b).
(d) The holder of a student pilot certificate may act as pilot in command of an aircraft without holding a medical certificate issued under part 67 of this chapter provided the student pilot holds a valid U.S. driver's license, meets the requirements of § 61.23(c)(3), and the operation is conducted consistent with the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the conditions of § 61.113(i). Where the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section conflict with § 61.113(i), a student pilot must comply with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 61-110, 69 FR 44867, July 27, 2004; Amdt. 61-125, 75 FR 5220, Feb. 1, 2010; Docket FAA-2016-9157, Amdt. 61-140, 82 FR 3165, Jan. 11, 2017]
§ 61.91
[Reserved]
§ 61.93
Solo cross-country flight requirements.
(a)
General.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a student pilot must meet the requirements of this section before—
(i) Conducting a solo cross-country flight, or any flight greater than 25 nautical miles from the airport from where the flight originated.
(ii) Making a solo flight and landing at any location other than the airport of origination.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a student pilot who seeks solo cross-country flight privileges must:
(i) Have received flight training from an instructor authorized to provide flight training on the maneuvers and procedures of this section that are appropriate to the make and model of aircraft for which solo cross-country privileges are sought;
(ii) Have demonstrated cross-country proficiency on the appropriate maneuvers and procedures of this section to an authorized instructor;
(iii) Have satisfactorily accomplished the pre-solo flight maneuvers and procedures required by § 61.87 of this part in the make and model of aircraft or similar make and model of aircraft for which solo cross-country privileges are sought; and
(iv) Comply with any limitations included in the authorized instructor's endorsement that are required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(3) A student pilot who seeks solo cross-country flight privileges must have received ground and flight training from an authorized instructor on the cross-country maneuvers and procedures listed in this section that are appropriate to the aircraft to be flown.
(b)
Authorization to perform certain solo flights and cross-country flights.
A student pilot must obtain an endorsement from an authorized instructor to make solo flights from the airport where the student pilot normally receives training to another location. A student pilot who receives this endorsement must comply with the requirements of this paragraph.
(1) Solo flights may be made to another airport that is within 25 nautical miles from the airport where the student pilot normally receives training, provided—
(i) An authorized instructor has given the student pilot flight training at the other airport, and that training includes flight in both directions over the route, entering and exiting the traffic pattern, and takeoffs and landings at the other airport;
(ii) The authorized instructor who gave the training endorses the student pilot's logbook authorizing the flight;
(iii) The student pilot has a solo flight endorsement in accordance with § 61.87 of this part;
(iv) The authorized instructor has determined that the student pilot is proficient to make the flight; and
(v) The purpose of the flight is to practice takeoffs and landings at that other airport.
(2) Repeated specific solo cross-country flights may be made to another airport that is within 50 nautical miles of the airport from which the flight originated, provided—
(i) The authorized instructor has given the student flight training in both directions over the route, including entering and exiting the traffic patterns, takeoffs, and landings at the airports to be used;
(ii) The authorized instructor who gave the training has endorsed the student's logbook certifying that the student is proficient to make such flights;
(iii) The student has a solo flight endorsement in accordance with § 61.87 of this part; and
(iv) The student has a solo cross country flight endorsement in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section; however, for repeated solo cross country flights to another airport within 50 nautical miles from which the flight originated, separate endorsements are not required to be made for each flight.
(c)
Endorsements for solo cross-country flights.
Except as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a student pilot must have the endorsements prescribed in this paragraph for each cross-country flight:
(1) A student pilot must have a solo cross-country endorsement from the authorized instructor who conducted the training that is placed in that person's logbook for the specific category of aircraft to be flown.
(2) A student pilot must have a solo cross-country endorsement from an authorized instructor that is placed in that person's logbook for the specific make and model of aircraft to be flown.
(3) For each cross-country flight, the authorized instructor who reviews the cross-country planning must make an endorsement in the person's logbook after reviewing that person's cross-country planning, as specified in paragraph (d) of this section. The endorsement must—
(i) Specify the make and model of aircraft to be flown;
(ii) State that the student's preflight planning and preparation is correct and that the student is prepared to make the flight safely under the known conditions; and
(iii) State that any limitations required by the student's authorized instructor are met.
(d)
Limitations on authorized instructors to permit solo cross-country flights.
An authorized instructor may not permit a student pilot to conduct a solo cross-country flight unless that instructor has:
(1) Determined that the student's cross-country planning is correct for the flight;
(2) Reviewed the current and forecast weather conditions and has determined that the flight can be completed under VFR;
(3) Determined that the student is proficient to conduct the flight safely;
(4) Determined that the student has the appropriate solo cross-country endorsement for the make and model of aircraft to be flown; and
(5) Determined that the student's solo flight endorsement is current for the make and model aircraft to be flown.
(e)
Maneuvers and procedures for cross-country flight training in a single-engine airplane.
A student pilot who is receiving training for cross-country flight in a single-engine airplane must receive and log flight training in the following maneuvers and procedures:
(1) Use of aeronautical charts for VFR navigation using pilotage and dead reckoning with the aid of a magnetic compass;
(2) Use of aircraft performance charts pertaining to cross-country flight;
(3) Procurement and analysis of aeronautical weather reports and forecasts, including recognition of critical weather situations and estimating visibility while in flight;
(4) Emergency procedures;
(5) Traffic pattern procedures that include area departure, area arrival, entry into the traffic pattern, and approach;
(6) Procedures and operating practices for collision avoidance, wake turbulence precautions, and windshear avoidance;
(7) Recognition, avoidance, and operational restrictions of hazardous terrain features in the geographical area where the cross-country flight will be flown;
(8) Procedures for operating the instruments and equipment installed in the aircraft to be flown, including recognition and use of the proper operational procedures and indications;
(9) Use of radios for VFR navigation and two-way communication, except that a student pilot seeking a sport pilot certificate must only receive and log flight training on the use of radios installed in the aircraft to be flown;
(10) Takeoff, approach, and landing procedures, including short-field, soft-field, and crosswind takeoffs, approaches, and landings;
(11) Climbs at best angle and best rate; and
(12) Control and maneuvering solely by reference to flight instruments, including straight and level flight, turns, descents, climbs, use of radio aids, and ATC directives. For student pilots seeking a sport pilot certificate, the provisions of this paragraph only apply when receiving training for cross-country flight in an airplane that has a V
H
greater than 87 knots CAS.
(f)
Maneuvers and procedures for cross-country flight training in a multiengine airplane.
A student pilot who is receiving training for cross-country flight in a multiengine airplane must receive and log flight training in the following maneuvers and procedures:
(1) Use of aeronautical charts for VFR navigation using pilotage and dead reckoning with the aid of a magnetic compass;
(2) Use of aircraft performance charts pertaining to cross-country flight;
(3) Procurement and analysis of aeronautical weather reports and forecasts, including recognition of critical weather situations and estimating visibility while in flight;
(4) Emergency procedures;
(5) Traffic pattern procedures that include area departure, area arrival, entry into the traffic pattern, and approach;
(6) Procedures and operating practices for collision avoidance, wake turbulence precautions, and windshear avoidance;
(7) Recognition, avoidance, and operational restrictions of hazardous terrain features in the geographical area where the cross-country flight will be flown;
(8) Procedures for operating the instruments and equipment installed in the aircraft to be flown, including recognition and use of the proper operational procedures and indications;
(9) Use of radios for VFR navigation and two-way communications;
(10) Takeoff, approach, and landing procedures, including short-field, soft-field, and crosswind takeoffs, approaches, and landings;
(11) Climbs at best angle and best rate; and
(12) Control and maneuvering solely by reference to flight instruments, including straight and level flight, turns, descents, climbs, use of radio aids, and ATC directives.
(g)
Maneuvers and procedures for cross-country flight training in a helicopter.
A student pilot who is receiving training for cross-country flight in a helicopter must receive and log flight training for the following maneuvers and procedures:
(1) Use of aeronautical charts for VFR navigation using pilotage and dead reckoning with the aid of a magnetic compass;
(2) Use of aircraft performance charts pertaining to cross-country flight;
(3) Procurement and analysis of aeronautical weather reports and forecasts, including recognition of critical weather situations and estimating visibility while in flight;
(4) Emergency procedures;
(5) Traffic pattern procedures that include area departure, area arrival, entry into the traffic pattern, and approach;
(6) Procedures and operating practices for collision avoidance, wake turbulence precautions, and windshear avoidance;
(7) Recognition, avoidance, and operational restrictions of hazardous terrain features in the geographical area where the cross-country flight will be flown;
(8) Procedures for operating the instruments and equipment installed in the aircraft to be flown, including recognition and use of the proper operational procedures and indications;
(9) Use of radios for VFR navigation and two-way communications; and
(10) Takeoff, approach, and landing procedures.
(h)
Maneuvers and procedures for cross-country flight training in a gyroplane.
A student pilot who is receiving training for cross-country flight in a gyroplane must receive and log flight training in the following maneuvers and procedures:
(1) Use of aeronautical charts for VFR navigation using pilotage and dead reckoning with the aid of a magnetic compass;
(2) Use of aircraft performance charts pertaining to cross-country flight;
(3) Procurement and analysis of aeronautical weather reports and forecasts, including recognition of critical weather situations and estimating visibility while in flight;
(4) Emergency procedures;
(5) Traffic pattern procedures that include area departure, area arrival, entry into the traffic pattern, and approach;
(6) Procedures and operating practices for collision avoidance, wake turbulence precautions, and windshear avoidance;
(7) Recognition, avoidance, and operational restrictions of hazardous terrain features in the geographical area where the cross-country flight will be flown;
(8) Procedures for operating the instruments and equipment installed in the aircraft to be flown, including recognition and use of the proper operational procedures and indications;
(9) Use of radios for VFR navigation and two-way communication, except that a student pilot seeking a sport pilot certificate must only receive and log flight training on the use of radios installed in the aircraft to be flown; and
(10) Takeoff, approach, and landing procedures, including short-field and soft-field takeoffs, approaches, and landings.
(i)
Maneuvers and procedures for cross-country flight training in a powered-lift.
A student pilot who is receiving training for cross-country flight training in a powered-lift must receive and log flight training in the following maneuvers and procedures:
(1) Use of aeronautical charts for VFR navigation using pilotage and dead reckoning with the aid of a magnetic compass;
(2) Use of aircraft performance charts pertaining to cross-country flight;
(3) Procurement and analysis of aeronautical weather reports and forecasts, including recognition of critical weather situations and estimating visibility while in flight;
(4) Emergency procedures;
(5) Traffic pattern procedures that include area departure, area arrival, entry into the traffic pattern, and approach;
(6) Procedures and operating practices for collision avoidance, wake turbulence precautions, and windshear avoidance;
(7) Recognition, avoidance, and operational restrictions of hazardous terrain features in the geographical area where the cross-country flight will be flown;
(8) Procedures for operating the instruments and equipment installed in the aircraft to be flown, including recognition and use of the proper operational procedures and indications;
(9) Use of radios for VFR navigation and two-way communications;
(10) Takeoff, approach, and landing procedures that include high-altitude, steep, and shallow takeoffs, approaches, and landings; and
(11) Control and maneuvering solely by reference to flight instruments, including straight and level flight, turns, descents, climbs, use of radio aids, and ATC directives.
(j)
Maneuvers and procedures for cross-country flight training in a glider.
A student pilot who is receiving training for cross-country flight in a glider must receive and log flight training in the following maneuvers and procedures:
(1) Use of aeronautical charts for VFR navigation using pilotage and dead reckoning with the aid of a magnetic compass;
(2) Use of aircraft performance charts pertaining to cross-country flight;
(3) Procurement and analysis of aeronautical weather reports and forecasts, including recognition of critical weather situations and estimating visibility while in flight;
(4) Emergency procedures;
(5) Traffic pattern procedures that include area departure, area arrival, entry into the traffic pattern, and approach;
(6) Procedures and operating practices for collision avoidance, wake turbulence precautions, and windshear avoidance;
(7) Recognition, avoidance, and operational restrictions of hazardous terrain features in the geographical area where the cross-country flight will be flown;
(8) Procedures for operating the instruments and equipment installed in the aircraft to be flown, including recognition and use of the proper operational procedures and indications;
(9) Landings accomplished without the use of the altimeter from at least 2,000 feet above the surface; and
(10) Recognition of weather and upper air conditions favorable for cross-country soaring, ascending and descending flight, and altitude control.
(k)
Maneuvers and procedures for cross-country flight training in an airship.
A student pilot who is receiving training for cross-country flight in an airship must receive and log flight training for the following maneuvers and procedures:
(1) Use of aeronautical charts for VFR navigation using pilotage and dead reckoning with the aid of a magnetic compass;
(2) Use of aircraft performance charts pertaining to cross-country flight;
(3) Procurement and analysis of aeronautical weather reports and forecasts, including recognition of critical weather situations and estimating visibility while in flight;
(4) Emergency procedures;
(5) Traffic pattern procedures that include area departure, area arrival, entry into the traffic pattern, and approach;
(6) Procedures and operating practices for collision avoidance, wake turbulence precautions, and windshear avoidance;
(7) Recognition, avoidance, and operational restrictions of hazardous terrain features in the geographical area where the cross-country flight will be flown;
(8) Procedures for operating the instruments and equipment installed in the aircraft to be flown, including recognition and use of the proper operational procedures and indications;
(9) Use of radios for VFR navigation and two-way communication, except that a student pilot seeking a sport pilot certificate must only receive and log flight training on the use of radios installed in the aircraft to be flown;
(10) Control of air pressure with regard to ascending and descending flight and altitude control;
(11) Control of the airship solely by reference to flight instruments, except for a student pilot seeking a sport pilot certificate; and
(12) Recognition of weather and upper air conditions conducive for the direction of cross-country flight.
(l)
Maneuvers and procedures for cross-country flight training in a powered parachute.
A student pilot who is receiving training for cross-country flight in a powered parachute must receive and log flight training in the following maneuvers and procedures:
(1) Use of aeronautical charts for VFR navigation using pilotage and dead reckoning with the aid of a magnetic compass, as appropriate.
(2) Use of aircraft performance charts pertaining to cross-country flight.
(3) Procurement and analysis of aeronautical weather reports and forecasts, including recognizing critical weather situations and estimating visibility while in flight.
(4) Emergency procedures.
(5) Traffic pattern procedures that include area departure, area arrival, entry into the traffic pattern, and approach.
(6) Procedures and operating practices for collision avoidance, wake turbulence precautions, and windshear avoidance.
(7) Recognition, avoidance, and operational restrictions of hazardous terrain features in the geographical area where the cross-country flight will be flown.
(8) Procedures for operating the instruments and equipment installed in the aircraft to be flown, including recognition and use of the proper operational procedures and indications.
(9) If equipped for flight with navigation radios, the use of radios for VFR navigation.
(10) Recognition of weather and upper air conditions favorable for the cross-country flight.
(11) Takeoff, approach and landing procedures.
(m)
Maneuvers and procedures for cross-country flight training in a weight-shift-control aircraft.
A student pilot who is receiving training for cross-country flight in a weight-shift-control aircraft must receive and log flight training for the following maneuvers and procedures:
(1) Use of aeronautical charts for VFR navigation using pilotage and dead reckoning with the aid of a magnetic compass, as appropriate.
(2) Use of aircraft performance charts pertaining to cross-country flight.
(3) Procurement and analysis of aeronautical weather reports and forecasts, including recognizing critical weather situations and estimating visibility while in flight.
(4) Emergency procedures.
(5) Traffic pattern procedures that include area departure, area arrival, entry into the traffic pattern, and approach.
(6) Procedures and operating practices for collision avoidance, wake turbulence precautions, and windshear avoidance.
(7) Recognition, avoidance, and operational restrictions of hazardous terrain features in the geographical area where the cross-country flight will be flown.
(8) Procedures for operating the instruments and equipment installed in the aircraft to be flown, including recognition and use of the proper operational procedures and indications.
(9) If equipped for flight using navigation radios, the use of radios for VFR navigation.
(10) Recognition of weather and upper air conditions favorable for the cross-country flight.
(11) Takeoff, approach and landing procedures, including crosswind approaches and landings.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40902, July 30, 1997; Amdt. 61-110, 69 FR 44867, July 27, 2004; Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42557, Aug. 21, 2009; Amdt. 61-125, 75 FR 5220, Feb. 1, 2010; Docket FAA-2010-1127, Amdt. 61-135, 81 FR 1306, Jan. 12, 2016]
§ 61.94
Student pilot seeking a sport pilot certificate or a recreational pilot certificate: Operations at airports within, and in airspace located within, Class B, C, and D airspace, or at airports with an operational control tower in other airspace.
(a) A student pilot seeking a sport pilot certificate or a recreational pilot certificate who wants to obtain privileges to operate in Class B, C, and D airspace, at an airport located in Class B, C, or D airspace, and to, from, through, or at an airport having an operational control tower, must receive and log ground and flight training from an authorized instructor in the following aeronautical knowledge areas and areas of operation:
(1) The use of radios, communications, navigation systems and facilities, and radar services.
(2) Operations at airports with an operating control tower, to include three takeoffs and landings to a full stop, with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern, at an airport with an operating control tower.
(3) Applicable flight rules of part 91 of this chapter for operations in Class B, C, and D airspace and air traffic control clearances.
(4) Ground and flight training for the specific Class B, C, or D airspace for which the solo flight is authorized, if applicable, within the 90-day period preceding the date of the flight in that airspace. The flight training must be received in the specific airspace area for which solo flight is authorized.
(5) Ground and flight training for the specific airport located in Class B, C, or D airspace for which the solo flight is authorized, if applicable, within the 90-day period preceding the date of the flight at that airport. The flight and ground training must be received at the specific airport for which solo flight is authorized.
(b) The authorized instructor who provides the training specified in paragraph (a) of this section must provide a logbook endorsement that certifies the student has received that training and is proficient to conduct solo flight in that specific airspace or at that specific airport and in those aeronautical
knowledge areas and areas of operation specified in this section.
[Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44867, July 27, 2004]
§ 61.95
Operations in Class B airspace and at airports located within Class B airspace.
(a) A student pilot may not operate an aircraft on a solo flight in Class B airspace unless:
(1) The student pilot has received both ground and flight training from an authorized instructor on that Class B airspace area, and the flight training was received in the specific Class B airspace area for which solo flight is authorized;
(2) The logbook of that student pilot has been endorsed by the authorized instructor who gave the student pilot flight training, and the endorsement is dated within the 90-day period preceding the date of the flight in that Class B airspace area; and
(3) The logbook endorsement specifies that the student pilot has received the required ground and flight training, and has been found proficient to conduct solo flight in that specific Class B airspace area.
(b) A student pilot may not operate an aircraft on a solo flight to, from, or at an airport located within Class B airspace pursuant to § 91.131(b) of this chapter unless:
(1) The student pilot has received both ground and flight training from an instructor authorized to provide training to operate at that airport, and the flight and ground training has been received at the specific airport for which the solo flight is authorized;
(2) The logbook of that student pilot has been endorsed by an authorized instructor who gave the student pilot flight training, and the endorsement is dated within the 90-day period preceding the date of the flight at that airport; and
(3) The logbook endorsement specifies that the student pilot has received the required ground and flight training, and has been found proficient to conduct solo flight operations at that specific airport.
(c) This section does not apply to a student pilot seeking a sport pilot certificate or a recreational pilot certificate.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40902, July 30, 1997; Amdt. 61-110, 69 FR 44868, July 27, 2004]

# Subpart D—Recreational Pilots
§ 61.96
Applicability and eligibility requirements: General.
(a) This subpart prescribes the requirement for the issuance of recreational pilot certificates and ratings, the conditions under which those certificates and ratings are necessary, and the general operating rules for persons who hold those certificates and ratings.
(b) To be eligible for a recreational pilot certificate, a person who applies for that certificate must:
(1) Be at least 17 years of age;
(2) Be able to read, speak, write, and understand the English language. If the applicant is unable to meet one of these requirements due to medical reasons, then the Administrator may place such operating limitations on that applicant's pilot certificate as are necessary for the safe operation of the aircraft;
(3) Receive a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor who—
(i) Conducted the training or reviewed the applicant's home study on the aeronautical knowledge areas listed in § 61.97(b) of this part that apply to the aircraft category and class rating sought; and
(ii) Certified that the applicant is prepared for the required knowledge test.
(4) Pass the required knowledge test on the aeronautical knowledge areas listed in § 61.97(b) of this part;
(5) Receive flight training and a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor who—
(i) Conducted the training on the areas of operation listed in § 61.98(b) of this part that apply to the aircraft category and class rating sought; and
(ii) Certified that the applicant is prepared for the required practical test.
(6) Meet the aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.99 of this part that apply to the aircraft category and class rating sought before applying for the practical test;
(7) Pass the practical test on the areas of operation listed in § 61.98(b) that apply to the aircraft category and class rating;
(8) Comply with the sections of this part that apply to the aircraft category and class rating; and
(9) Hold either a student pilot certificate or sport pilot certificate.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40902, July 30, 1997; Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42558, Aug. 21, 2009]
§ 61.97
Aeronautical knowledge.
(a)
General.
A person who applies for a recreational pilot certificate must receive and log ground training from an authorized instructor or complete a home-study course on the aeronautical knowledge areas of paragraph (b) of this section that apply to the aircraft category and class rating sought.
(b)
Aeronautical knowledge areas.
(1) Applicable Federal Aviation Regulations of this chapter that relate to recreational pilot privileges, limitations, and flight operations;
(2) Accident reporting requirements of the National Transportation Safety Board;
(3) Use of the applicable portions of the “Aeronautical Information Manual” and FAA advisory circulars;
(4) Use of aeronautical charts for VFR navigation using pilotage with the aid of a magnetic compass;
(5) Recognition of critical weather situations from the ground and in flight, windshear avoidance, and the procurement and use of aeronautical weather reports and forecasts;
(6) Safe and efficient operation of aircraft, including collision avoidance, and recognition and avoidance of wake turbulence;
(7) Effects of density altitude on takeoff and climb performance;
(8) Weight and balance computations;
(9) Principles of aerodynamics, powerplants, and aircraft systems;
(10) Stall awareness, spin entry, spins, and spin recovery techniques, if applying for an airplane single-engine rating;
(11) Aeronautical decision making and judgment; and
(12) Preflight action that includes—
(i) How to obtain information on runway lengths at airports of intended use, data on takeoff and landing distances, weather reports and forecasts, and fuel requirements; and
(ii) How to plan for alternatives if the planned flight cannot be completed or delays are encountered.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40902, July 30, 1997]
§ 61.98
Flight proficiency.
(a)
General.
A person who applies for a recreational pilot certificate must receive and log ground and flight training from an authorized instructor on the areas of operation of this section that apply to the aircraft category and class rating sought.
(b)
Areas of operation.
(1)
For a single-engine airplane rating:
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Airport operations;
(iv) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(v) Performance maneuvers;
(vi) Ground reference maneuvers;
(vii) Navigation;
(viii) Slow flight and stalls;
(ix) Emergency operations; and
(x) Postflight procedures.
(2)
For a helicopter rating:
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Airport and heliport operations;
(iv) Hovering maneuvers;
(v) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(vi) Performance maneuvers;
(vii) Ground reference maneuvers;
(viii) Navigation;
(ix) Emergency operations; and
(x) Postflight procedures.
(3)
For a gyroplane rating:
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Airport operations;
(iv) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(v) Performance maneuvers;
(vi) Ground reference maneuvers;
(vii) Navigation;
(viii) Flight at slow airspeeds;
(ix) Emergency operations; and
(x) Postflight procedures.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40902, July 30, 1997]
§ 61.99
Aeronautical experience.
(a) A person who applies for a recreational pilot certificate must receive and log at least 30 hours of flight time that includes at least—
(1) 15 hours of flight training from an authorized instructor on the areas of operation listed in § 61.98 that consists of at least:
(i) Except as provided in § 61.100, 2 hours of flight training en route to an airport that is located more than 25 nautical miles from the airport where the applicant normally trains, which includes at least three takeoffs and three landings at the airport located more than 25 nautical miles from the airport where the applicant normally trains; and
(ii) Three hours of flight training with an authorized instructor in the aircraft for the rating sought in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test.
(2) Three hours of solo flying in the aircraft for the rating sought, on the areas of operation listed in § 61.98 that apply to the aircraft category and class rating sought.
(b) The holder of a sport pilot certificate may credit flight training received from a flight instructor with a sport pilot rating toward the aeronautical experience requirements of this section if the following conditions are met:
(1) The flight training was accomplished in the same category and class of aircraft for which the rating is sought;
(2) The flight instructor with a sport pilot rating was authorized to provide the flight training; and
(3) The flight training included training on areas of operation that are required for both a sport pilot certificate and a recreational pilot certificate.
[Docket FAA-2016-6142, Amdt. 61-142, 83 FR 30277, June 27, 2018
§ 61.100
Pilots based on small islands.
(a) An applicant located on an island from which the flight training required in § 61.99(a)(1) of this part cannot be accomplished without flying over water for more than 10 nautical miles from the nearest shoreline need not comply with the requirements of that section. However, if other airports that permit civil operations are available to which a flight may be made without flying over water for more than 10 nautical miles from the nearest shoreline, the applicant must show completion of a dual flight between two airports, which must include three landings at the other airport.
(b) An applicant who complies with paragraph (a) of this section and meets all requirements for the issuance of a recreational pilot certificate, except the requirements of § 61.99(a)(1) of this part, will be issued a pilot certificate with an endorsement containing the following limitation, “Passenger carrying prohibited on flights more than 10 nautical miles from (the appropriate island).” The limitation may be subsequently amended to include another island if the applicant complies with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section for another island.
(c) Upon meeting the requirements of § 61.99(a)(1) of this part, the applicant may have the limitation(s) in paragraph (b) of this section removed.
§ 61.101
Recreational pilot privileges and limitations.
(a) A person who holds a recreational pilot certificate may:
(1) Carry no more than one passenger; and
(2) Not pay less than the pro rata share of the operating expenses of a flight with a passenger, provided the expenses involve only fuel, oil, airport expenses, or aircraft rental fees.
(b) A person who holds a recreational pilot certificate may act as pilot in command of an aircraft on a flight within 50 nautical miles from the departure airport, provided that person has—
(1) Received ground and flight training for takeoff, departure, arrival, and landing procedures at the departure airport;
(2) Received ground and flight training for the area, terrain, and aids to navigation that are in the vicinity of the departure airport;
(3) Been found proficient to operate the aircraft at the departure airport and the area within 50 nautical miles from that airport; and
(4) Received from an authorized instructor a logbook endorsement, which is carried in the person's possession in the aircraft, that permits flight within 50 nautical miles from the departure airport.
(c) A person who holds a recreational pilot certificate may act as pilot in command of an aircraft on a flight that exceeds 50 nautical miles from the departure airport, provided that person has—
(1) Received ground and flight training from an authorized instructor on the cross-country training requirements of subpart E of this part that apply to the aircraft rating held;
(2) Been found proficient in cross-country flying; and
(3) Received from an authorized instructor a logbook endorsement, which is carried on the person's possession in the aircraft, that certifies the person has received and been found proficient in the cross-country training requirements of subpart E of this part that apply to the aircraft rating held.
(d) A person who holds a recreational pilot certificate may act as pilot in command of an aircraft in Class B, C, and D airspace, at an airport located in Class B, C, or D airspace, and to, from, through, or at an airport having an operational control tower, provided that person has—
(1) Received and logged ground and flight training from an authorized instructor on the following aeronautical knowledge areas and areas of operation, as appropriate to the aircraft rating held:
(i) The use of radios, communications, navigation system and facilities, and radar services.
(ii) Operations at airports with an operating control tower to include three takeoffs and landings to a full stop, with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern at an airport with an operating control tower.
(iii) Applicable flight rules of part 91 of this chapter for operations in Class B, C, and D airspace and air traffic control clearances;
(2) Been found proficient in those aeronautical knowledge areas and areas of operation specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section; and
(3) Received from an authorized instructor a logbook endorsement, which is carried on the person's possession or readily accessible in the aircraft, that certifies the person has received and been found proficient in those aeronautical knowledge areas and areas of operation specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(e) Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (i) of this section, a recreational pilot may not act as pilot in command of an aircraft—
(1) That is certificated—
(i) For more than four occupants;
(ii) With more than one powerplant;
(iii) With a powerplant of more than 180 horsepower, except aircraft certificated in the rotorcraft category; or
(iv) With retractable landing gear;
(2) That is classified as a multiengine airplane, powered-lift, glider, airship, balloon, powered parachute, or weight-shift-control aircraft;
(3) That is carrying a passenger or property for compensation or hire;
(4) For compensation or hire;
(5) In furtherance of a business;
(6) Between sunset and sunrise;
(7) In Class A, B, C, and D airspace, at an airport located in Class B, C, or D airspace, or to, from, through, or at an airport having an operational control tower;
(8) At an altitude of more than 10,000 feet MSL or 2,000 feet AGL, whichever is higher;
(9) When the flight or surface visibility is less than 3 statute miles;
(10) Without visual reference to the surface;
(11) On a flight outside the United States, unless authorized by the country in which the flight is conducted;
(12) To demonstrate that aircraft in flight as an aircraft salesperson to a prospective buyer;
(13) That is used in a passenger-carrying airlift and sponsored by a charitable organization; and
(14) That is towing any object.
(f) A recreational pilot may not act as a pilot flight crewmember on any aircraft for which more than one pilot is required by the type certificate of the aircraft or the regulations under which the flight is conducted, except when:
(1) Receiving flight training from a person authorized to provide flight training on board an airship; and
(2) No person other than a required flight crewmember is carried on the aircraft.
(g) A person who holds a recreational pilot certificate, has logged fewer than 400 flight hours, and has not logged pilot-in-command time in an aircraft within the 180 days preceding the flight shall not act as pilot in command of an aircraft until the pilot receives flight training and a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor, and the instructor certifies that the person is proficient to act as pilot in command of the aircraft. This requirement can be met in combination with the requirements of §§ 61.56 and 61.57 of this part, at the discretion of the authorized instructor.
(h) A recreational pilot certificate issued under this subpart carries the notation, “Holder does not meet ICAO requirements.”
(i) For the purpose of obtaining additional certificates or ratings while under the supervision of an authorized instructor, a recreational pilot may fly as the sole occupant of an aircraft:
(1) For which the pilot does not hold an appropriate category or class rating;
(2) Within airspace that requires communication with air traffic control; or
(3) Between sunset and sunrise, provided the flight or surface visibility is at least 5 statute miles.
(j) In order to fly solo as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, the recreational pilot must meet the appropriate aeronautical knowledge and flight training requirements of § 61.87 for that aircraft. When operating an aircraft under the conditions specified in paragraph (i) of this section, the recreational pilot shall carry the logbook that has been endorsed for each flight by an authorized instructor who:
(1) Has given the recreational pilot training in the make and model of aircraft in which the solo flight is to be made;
(2) Has found that the recreational pilot has met the applicable requirements of § 61.87; and
(3) Has found that the recreational pilot is competent to make solo flights in accordance with the logbook endorsement.
(k) A recreational pilot may act as pilot in command of an aircraft without holding a medical certificate issued under part 67 of this chapter provided the pilot holds a valid U.S. driver's license, meets the requirements of § 61.23(c)(3), and the operation is conducted consistent with this section and the conditions of § 61.113(i). Where the requirements of this section conflict with § 61.113(i), a recreational pilot must comply with this section.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 61-110, 69 FR 44868, July 27, 2004; Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42558, Aug. 21, 2009; Docket FAA-2016-9157, Amdt. 61-140, 82 FR 3165, Jan. 11, 2017]

# Subpart E—Private Pilots
§ 61.102
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes the requirements for the issuance of private pilot certificates and ratings, the conditions under which those certificates and ratings are necessary, and the general operating rules for persons who hold those certificates and ratings.
§ 61.103
Eligibility requirements: General.
To be eligible for a private pilot certificate, a person must:
(a) Be at least 17 years of age for a rating in other than a glider or balloon.
(b) Be at least 16 years of age for a rating in a glider or balloon.
(c) Be able to read, speak, write, and understand the English language. If the applicant is unable to meet one of these requirements due to medical reasons, then the Administrator may place such operating limitations on that applicant's pilot certificate as are necessary for the safe operation of the aircraft.
(d) Receive a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor who:
(1) Conducted the training or reviewed the person's home study on the aeronautical knowledge areas listed in § 61.105(b) of this part that apply to the aircraft rating sought; and
(2) Certified that the person is prepared for the required knowledge test.
(e) Pass the required knowledge test on the aeronautical knowledge areas listed in § 61.105(b) of this part.
(f) Receive flight training and a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor who:
(1) Conducted the training in the areas of operation listed in § 61.107(b) of this part that apply to the aircraft rating sought; and
(2) Certified that the person is prepared for the required practical test.
(g) Meet the aeronautical experience requirements of this part that apply to the aircraft rating sought before applying for the practical test.
(h) Pass a practical test on the areas of operation listed in § 61.107(b) of this part that apply to the aircraft rating sought.
(i) Comply with the appropriate sections of this part that apply to the aircraft category and class rating sought.
(j) Hold a U.S. student pilot certificate, sport pilot certificate, or recreational pilot certificate.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42558, Aug. 21, 2009]
§ 61.105
Aeronautical knowledge.
(a)
General.
A person who is applying for a private pilot certificate must receive and log ground training from an authorized instructor or complete a home-study course on the aeronautical knowledge areas of paragraph (b) of this section that apply to the aircraft category and class rating sought.
(b)
Aeronautical knowledge areas.
(1) Applicable Federal Aviation Regulations of this chapter that relate to private pilot privileges, limitations, and flight operations;
(2) Accident reporting requirements of the National Transportation Safety Board;
(3) Use of the applicable portions of the “Aeronautical Information Manual” and FAA advisory circulars;
(4) Use of aeronautical charts for VFR navigation using pilotage, dead reckoning, and navigation systems;
(5) Radio communication procedures;
(6) Recognition of critical weather situations from the ground and in flight, windshear avoidance, and the procurement and use of aeronautical weather reports and forecasts;
(7) Safe and efficient operation of aircraft, including collision avoidance, and recognition and avoidance of wake turbulence;
(8) Effects of density altitude on takeoff and climb performance;
(9) Weight and balance computations;
(10) Principles of aerodynamics, powerplants, and aircraft systems;
(11) Stall awareness, spin entry, spins, and spin recovery techniques for the airplane and glider category ratings;
(12) Aeronautical decision making and judgment; and
(13) Preflight action that includes—
(i) How to obtain information on runway lengths at airports of intended use, data on takeoff and landing distances, weather reports and forecasts, and fuel requirements; and
(ii) How to plan for alternatives if the planned flight cannot be completed or delays are encountered.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40902, July 30, 1997]
§ 61.107
Flight proficiency.
(a)
General.
A person who applies for a private pilot certificate must receive and log ground and flight training from an authorized instructor on the areas of operation of this section that apply to the aircraft category and class rating sought.
(b)
Areas of operation.
(1) For an airplane category rating with a single-engine class rating:
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Airport and seaplane base operations;
(iv) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(v) Performance maneuvers;
(vi) Ground reference maneuvers;
(vii) Navigation;
(viii) Slow flight and stalls;
(ix) Basic instrument maneuvers;
(x) Emergency operations;
(xi) Night operations, except as provided in § 61.110 of this part; and
(xii) Postflight procedures.
(2) For an airplane category rating with a multiengine class rating:
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Airport and seaplane base operations;
(iv) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(v) Performance maneuvers;
(vi) Ground reference maneuvers;
(vii) Navigation;
(viii) Slow flight and stalls;
(ix) Basic instrument maneuvers;
(x) Emergency operations;
(xi) Multiengine operations;
(xii) Night operations, except as provided in § 61.110 of this part; and
(xiii) Postflight procedures.
(3) For a rotorcraft category rating with a helicopter class rating:
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Airport and heliport operations;
(iv) Hovering maneuvers;
(v) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(vi) Performance maneuvers;
(vii) Navigation;
(viii) Emergency operations;
(ix) Night operations, except as provided in § 61.110 of this part; and
(x) Postflight procedures.
(4) For a rotorcraft category rating with a gyroplane class rating:
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Airport operations;
(iv) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(v) Performance maneuvers;
(vi) Ground reference maneuvers;
(vii) Navigation;
(viii) Flight at slow airspeeds;
(ix) Emergency operations;
(x) Night operations, except as provided in § 61.110 of this part; and
(xi) Postflight procedures.
(5) For a powered-lift category rating:
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Airport and heliport operations;
(iv) Hovering maneuvers;
(v) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(vi) Performance maneuvers;
(vii) Ground reference maneuvers;
(viii) Navigation;
(ix) Slow flight and stalls;
(x) Basic instrument maneuvers;
(xi) Emergency operations;
(xii) Night operations, except as provided in § 61.110 of this part; and
(xiii) Postflight procedures.
(6) For a glider category rating:
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Airport and gliderport operations;
(iv) Launches and landings;
(v) Performance speeds;
(vi) Soaring techniques;
(vii) Performance maneuvers;
(viii) Navigation;
(ix) Slow flight and stalls;
(x) Emergency operations; and
(xi) Postflight procedures.
(7) For a lighter-than-air category rating with an airship class rating:
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Airport operations;
(iv) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(v) Performance maneuvers;
(vi) Ground reference maneuvers;
(vii) Navigation;
(viii) Emergency operations; and
(ix) Postflight procedures.
(8) For a lighter-than-air category rating with a balloon class rating:
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Airport operations;
(iv) Launches and landings;
(v) Performance maneuvers;
(vi) Navigation;
(vii) Emergency operations; and
(viii) Postflight procedures.
(9) For a powered parachute category rating—
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Airport and seaplane base operations, as applicable;
(iv) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(v) Performance maneuvers;
(vi) Ground reference maneuvers;
(vii) Navigation;
(viii) Night operations, except as provided in § 61.110;
(ix) Emergency operations; and
(x) Post-flight procedures.
(10) For a weight-shift-control aircraft category rating—
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Airport and seaplane base operations, as applicable;
(iv) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(v) Performance maneuvers;
(vi) Ground reference maneuvers;
(vii) Navigation;
(viii) Slow flight and stalls;
(ix) Night operations, except as provided in § 61.110;
(x) Emergency operations; and
(xi) Post-flight procedures.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 61-110, 69 FR 44868, July 27, 2004]
§ 61.109
Aeronautical experience.
(a)
For an airplane single-engine rating.
Except as provided in paragraph (k) of this section, a person who applies for a private pilot certificate with an airplane category and single-engine class rating must log at least 40 hours of flight time that includes at least 20 hours of flight training from an authorized instructor and 10 hours of solo flight training in the areas of operation listed in § 61.107(b)(1) of this part, and the training must include at least—
(1) 3 hours of cross-country flight training in a single-engine airplane;
(2) Except as provided in § 61.110 of this part, 3 hours of night flight training in a single-engine airplane that includes—
(i) One cross-country flight of over 100 nautical miles total distance; and
(ii) 10 takeoffs and 10 landings to a full stop (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) at an airport.
(3) 3 hours of flight training in a single-engine airplane on the control and maneuvering of an airplane solely by reference to instruments, including straight and level flight, constant airspeed climbs and descents, turns to a heading, recovery from unusual flight attitudes, radio communications, and the use of navigation systems/facilities and radar services appropriate to instrument flight;
(4) 3 hours of flight training with an authorized instructor in a single-engine airplane in preparation for the practical test, which must have been performed within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test; and
(5) 10 hours of solo flight time in a single-engine airplane, consisting of at least—
(i) 5 hours of solo cross-country time;
(ii) One solo cross country flight of 150 nautical miles total distance, with full-stop landings at three points, and one segment of the flight consisting of a straight-line distance of more than 50 nautical miles between the takeoff and landing locations; and
(iii) Three takeoffs and three landings to a full stop (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) at an airport with an operating control tower.
(b)
For an airplane multiengine rating.
Except as provided in paragraph (k) of this section, a person who applies for a private pilot certificate with an airplane category and multiengine class rating must log at least 40 hours of flight time that includes at least 20 hours of flight training from an authorized instructor and 10 hours of solo flight training in the areas of operation listed in § 61.107(b)(2) of this part, and the training must include at least—
(1) 3 hours of cross-country flight training in a multiengine airplane;
(2) Except as provided in § 61.110 of this part, 3 hours of night flight training in a multiengine airplane that includes—
(i) One cross-country flight of over 100 nautical miles total distance; and
(ii) 10 takeoffs and 10 landings to a full stop (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) at an airport.
(3) 3 hours of flight training in a multiengine airplane on the control and maneuvering of an airplane solely by reference to instruments, including straight and level flight, constant airspeed climbs and descents, turns to a heading, recovery from unusual flight attitudes, radio communications, and the use of navigation systems/facilities and radar services appropriate to instrument flight;
(4) 3 hours of flight training with an authorized instructor in a multiengine airplane in preparation for the practical test, which must have been performed within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test; and
(5) 10 hours of solo flight time in an airplane consisting of at least—
(i) 5 hours of solo cross-country time;
(ii) One solo cross country flight of 150 nautical miles total distance, with
full-stop landings at three points, and one segment of the flight consisting of a straight-line distance of more than 50 nautical miles between the takeoff and landing locations; and
(iii) Three takeoffs and three landings to a full stop (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) at an airport with an operating control tower.
(c)
For a helicopter rating.
Except as provided in paragraph (k) of this section, a person who applies for a private pilot certificate with rotorcraft category and helicopter class rating must log at least 40 hours of flight time that includes at least 20 hours of flight training from an authorized instructor and 10 hours of solo flight training in the areas of operation listed in § 61.107(b)(3) of this part, and the training must include at least—
(1) 3 hours of cross-country flight training in a helicopter;
(2) Except as provided in § 61.110 of this part, 3 hours of night flight training in a helicopter that includes—
(i) One cross-country flight of over 50 nautical miles total distance; and
(ii) 10 takeoffs and 10 landings to a full stop (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) at an airport.
(3) 3 hours of flight training with an authorized instructor in a helicopter in preparation for the practical test, which must have been performed within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test; and
(4) 10 hours of solo flight time in a helicopter, consisting of at least—
(i) 3 hours cross-country time;
(ii) One solo cross country flight of 100 nautical miles total distance, with landings at three points, and one segment of the flight being a straight-line distance of more than 25 nautical miles between the takeoff and landing locations; and
(iii) Three takeoffs and three landings to a full stop (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) at an airport with an operating control tower.
(d)
For a gyroplane rating.
Except as provided in paragraph (k) of this section, a person who applies for a private pilot certificate with rotorcraft category and gyroplane class rating must log at least 40 hours of flight time that includes at least 20 hours of flight training from an authorized instructor and 10 hours of solo flight training in the areas of operation listed in § 61.107(b)(4) of this part, and the training must include at least—
(1) 3 hours of cross-country flight training in a gyroplane;
(2) Except as provided in § 61.110 of this part, 3 hours of night flight training in a gyroplane that includes—
(i) One cross-country flight of over 50 nautical miles total distance; and
(ii) 10 takeoffs and 10 landings to a full stop (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) at an airport.
(3) 3 hours of flight training with an authorized instructor in a gyroplane in preparation for the practical test, which must have been performed within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test; and
(4) 10 hours of solo flight time in a gyroplane, consisting of at least—
(i) 3 hours of cross-country time;
(ii) One solo cross country flight of 100 nautical miles total distance, with landings at three points, and one segment of the flight being a straight-line distance of more than 25 nautical miles between the takeoff and landing locations; and
(iii) Three takeoffs and three landings to a full stop (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) at an airport with an operating control tower.
(e)
For a powered-lift rating.
Except as provided in paragraph (k) of this section, a person who applies for a private pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating must log at least 40 hours of flight time that includes at least 20 hours of flight training from an authorized instructor and 10 hours of solo flight training in the areas of operation listed in § 61.107(b)(5) of this part, and the training must include at least—
(1) 3 hours of cross-country flight training in a powered-lift;
(2) Except as provided in § 61.110 of this part, 3 hours of night flight training in a powered-lift that includes—
(i) One cross-country flight of over 100 nautical miles total distance; and
(ii) 10 takeoffs and 10 landings to a full stop (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) at an airport.
(3) 3 hours of flight training in a powered-lift on the control and maneuvering of a powered-lift solely by reference to instruments, including straight and level flight, constant airspeed climbs and descents, turns to a heading, recovery from unusual flight attitudes, radio communications, and the use of navigation systems/facilities and radar services appropriate to instrument flight;
(4) 3 hours of flight training with an authorized instructor in a powered-lift in preparation for the practical test, which must have been performed within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test; and
(5) 10 hours of solo flight time in an airplane or powered-lift consisting of at least—
(i) 5 hours cross-country time;
(ii) One solo cross country flight of 150 nautical miles total distance, with full-stop landings at three points, and one segment of the flight consisting of a straight-line distance of more than 50 nautical miles between the takeoff and landing locations; and
(iii) Three takeoffs and three landings to a full stop (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) at an airport with an operating control tower.
(f)
For a glider category rating.
(1) If the applicant for a private pilot certificate with a glider category rating has not logged at least 40 hours of flight time as a pilot in a heavier-than-air aircraft, the applicant must log at least 10 hours of flight time in a glider in the areas of operation listed in § 61.107(b)(6) of this part, and that flight time must include at least—
(i) 20 flights in a glider in the areas of operations listed in § 61.107(b)(6) of this part, including at least 3 training flights with an authorized instructor in a glider in preparation for the practical test that must have been performed within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test; and
(ii) 2 hours of solo flight time in a glider in the areas of operation listed in § 61.107(b)(6) of this part, with not less than 10 launches and landings being performed.
(2) If the applicant has logged at least 40 hours of flight time in a heavier-than-air aircraft, the applicant must log at least 3 hours of flight time in a glider in the areas of operation listed in § 61.107(b)(6) of this part, and that flight time must include at least—
(i) 10 solo flights in a glider in the areas of operation listed in § 61.107(b)(6) of this part; and
(ii) 3 training flights with an authorized instructor in a glider in preparation for the practical test that must have been performed within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test.
(g)
For an airship rating.
A person who applies for a private pilot certificate with a lighter-than-air category and airship class rating must log at least:
(1) 25 hours of flight training in airships on the areas of operation listed in § 61.107(b)(7) of this part, which consists of at least:
(i) 3 hours of cross-country flight training in an airship;
(ii) Except as provided in § 61.110 of this part, 3 hours of night flight training in an airship that includes:
(A) A cross-country flight of over 25 nautical miles total distance; and
(B) Five takeoffs and five landings to a full stop (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) at an airport.
(2) 3 hours of flight training in an airship on the control and maneuvering of an airship solely by reference to instruments, including straight and level flight, constant airspeed climbs and descents, turns to a heading, recovery from unusual flight attitudes, radio communications, and the use of navigation systems/facilities and radar services appropriate to instrument flight;
(3) Three hours of flight training with an authorized instructor in an airship in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test; and
(4) 5 hours performing the duties of pilot in command in an airship with an authorized instructor.
(h)
For a balloon rating.
A person who applies for a private pilot certificate
with a lighter-than-air category and balloon class rating must log at least 10 hours of flight training that includes at least six training flights with an authorized instructor in the areas of operation listed in § 61.107(b)(8) of this part, that includes—
(1)
Gas balloon.
If the training is being performed in a gas balloon, at least two flights of 2 hours each that consists of—
(i) At least one training flight with an authorized instructor in a gas balloon in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test;
(ii) At least one flight performing the duties of pilot in command in a gas balloon with an authorized instructor; and
(iii) At least one flight involving a controlled ascent to 3,000 feet above the launch site.
(2)
Balloon with an airborne heater.
If the training is being performed in a balloon with an airborne heater, at least—
(i) At least two training flights of 1 hour each with an authorized instructor in a balloon with an airborne heater in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test;
(ii) One solo flight in a balloon with an airborne heater; and
(iii) At least one flight involving a controlled ascent to 2,000 feet above the launch site.
(i)
For a powered parachute rating.
A person who applies for a private pilot certificate with a powered parachute category rating must log at least 25 hours of flight time in a powered parachute that includes at least 10 hours of flight training with an authorized instructor, including 30 takeoffs and landings, and 10 hours of solo flight training in the areas of operation listed in § 61.107 (b)(9) and the training must include at least—
(1) One hour of cross-country flight training in a powered parachute that includes a 1-hour cross-country flight with a landing at an airport at least 25 nautical miles from the airport of departure;
(2) Except as provided in § 61.110, 3 hours of night flight training in a powered parachute that includes 10 takeoffs and landings (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) at an airport;
(3) Three hours of flight training with an authorized instructor in a powered parachute in preparation for the practical test, which must have been performed within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test;
(4) Three hours of solo flight time in a powered parachute, consisting of at least—
(i) One solo cross-country flight with a landing at an airport at least 25 nautical miles from the departure airport; and
(ii) Twenty solo takeoffs and landings to a full stop (with each landing involving a flight in a traffic pattern) at an airport; and
(5) Three takeoffs and landings (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) in an aircraft at an airport with an operating control tower.
(j)
For a weight-shift-control aircraft rating.
A person who applies for a private pilot certificate with a weight-shift-control rating must log at least 40 hours of flight time that includes at least 20 hours of flight training with an authorized instructor and 10 hours of solo flight training in the areas of operation listed in § 61.107(b)(10) and the training must include at least—
(1) Three hours of cross-country flight training in a weight-shift-control aircraft;
(2) Except as provided in § 61.110, 3 hours of night flight training in a weight-shift-control aircraft that includes—
(i) One cross-country flight of over 75 nautical miles total distance that includes a point of landing that is a straight-line distance of more than 50 nautical miles from the original point of departure; and
(ii) Ten takeoffs and landings (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) at an airport;
(3) Three hours of flight training with an authorized instructor in a weight-shift-control aircraft in preparation for the practical test, which must have been performed within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test;
(4) Ten hours of solo flight time in a weight-shift-control aircraft, consisting of at least—
(i) Five hours of solo cross-country time; and
(ii) One solo cross-country flight over 100 nautical miles total distance, with landings at a minimum of three points, and one segment of the flight being a straight line distance of at least 50 nautical miles between takeoff and landing locations; and
(5) Three takeoffs and landings (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) in an aircraft at an airport with an operating control tower.
(k)
Permitted credit for use of a full flight simulator or flight training device.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (k)(2) of this section, a maximum of 2.5 hours of training in a full flight simulator or flight training device representing the category, class, and type, if applicable, of aircraft appropriate to the rating sought, may be credited toward the flight training time required by this section, if received from an authorized instructor.
(2) A maximum of 5 hours of training in a flight simulator or flight training device representing the category, class, and type, if applicable, of aircraft appropriate to the rating sought, may be credited toward the flight training time required by this section if the training is accomplished in a course conducted by a training center certificated under part 142 of this chapter.
(3) Except when fewer hours are approved by the Administrator, an applicant for a private pilot certificate with an airplane, rotorcraft, or powered-lift rating, who has satisfactorily completed an approved private pilot course conducted by a training center certificated under part 142 of this chapter, need only have a total of 35 hours of aeronautical experience to meet the requirements of this section.
(l)
Permitted credit for flight training received from a flight instructor with a sport pilot rating.
The holder of a sport pilot certificate may credit flight training received from a flight instructor with a sport pilot rating toward the aeronautical experience requirements of this section if the following conditions are met:
(1) The flight training was accomplished in the same category and class of aircraft for which the rating is sought;
(2) The flight instructor with a sport pilot rating was authorized to provide the flight training; and
(3) The flight training included either—
(i) Training on areas of operation that are required for both a sport pilot certificate and a private pilot certificate; or
(ii) For airplanes with a V
H
greater than 87 knots CAS, training on the control and maneuvering of an airplane solely by reference to the flight instruments, including straight and level flight, turns, descents, climbs, use of radio aids, and ATC directives, provided the training was received from a flight instructor with a sport pilot rating who holds an endorsement required by § 61.412(c).
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 40902, July 30, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 61-104, 63 FR 20287, Apr. 23, 1998; Amdt. 61-110, 69 FR 44868, July 27, 2004; Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42558, Aug. 21, 2009; Amdt. 61-124A, 74 FR 53645, Oct. 20, 2009; Amdt. 61-125, 75 FR 5220, Feb. 1, 2010; Amdt. 61-142, 83 FR 30278, June 27, 2018]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 61.109 were published by Docket FAA-2023-1275, Amdt. 60-8, 89 FR 92485, Nov. 21, 2024, effective Jan. 21, 2025.
§ 61.110
Night flying exceptions.
(a) Subject to the limitations of paragraph (b) of this section, a person is not required to comply with the night flight training requirements of this subpart if the person receives flight training in and resides in the State of Alaska.
(b) A person who receives flight training in and resides in the State of Alaska but does not meet the night flight training requirements of this section:
(1) May be issued a pilot certificate with a limitation “Night flying prohibited”; and
(2) Must comply with the appropriate night flight training requirements of this subpart within the 12-calendar-month period after the issuance of the pilot certificate. At the end of that period, the certificate will become invalid for use until the person complies
with the appropriate night training requirements of this subpart. The person may have the “Night flying prohibited” limitation removed if the person—
(i) Accomplishes the appropriate night flight training requirements of this subpart; and
(ii) Presents to an examiner a logbook or training record endorsement from an authorized instructor that verifies accomplishment of the appropriate night flight training requirements of this subpart.
(c) A person who does not meet the night flying requirements in § 61.109(d)(2), (i)(2), or (j)(2) may be issued a private pilot certificate with the limitation “Night flying prohibited.” This limitation may be removed by an examiner if the holder complies with the requirements of § 61.109(d)(2), (i)(2), or (j)(2), as appropriate.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40904, July 30, 1997; Amdt. 61-110, 69 FR 44869, July 27, 2004]
§ 61.111
Cross-country flights: Pilots based on small islands.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an applicant located on an island from which the cross-country flight training required in § 61.109 of this part cannot be accomplished without flying over water for more than 10 nautical miles from the nearest shoreline need not comply with the requirements of that section.
(b) If other airports that permit civil operations are available to which a flight may be made without flying over water for more than 10 nautical miles from the nearest shoreline, the applicant must show completion of two round-trip solo flights between those two airports that are farthest apart, including a landing at each airport on both flights.
(c) An applicant who complies with paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of this section, and meets all requirements for the issuance of a private pilot certificate, except the cross-country training requirements of § 61.109 of this part, will be issued a pilot certificate with an endorsement containing the following limitation, “Passenger carrying prohibited on flights more than 10 nautical miles from (the appropriate island).” The limitation may be subsequently amended to include another island if the applicant complies with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section for another island.
(d) Upon meeting the cross-country training requirements of § 61.109 of this part, the applicant may have the limitation in paragraph (c) of this section removed.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40904, July 30, 1997]
§ 61.113
Private pilot privileges and limitations: Pilot in command.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section, no person who holds a private pilot certificate may act as pilot in command of an aircraft that is carrying passengers or property for compensation or hire; nor may that person, for compensation or hire, act as pilot in command of an aircraft.
(b) A private pilot may, for compensation or hire, act as pilot in command of an aircraft in connection with any business or employment if:
(1) The flight is only incidental to that business or employment; and
(2) The aircraft does not carry passengers or property for compensation or hire.
(c) A private pilot may not pay less than the pro rata share of the operating expenses of a flight with passengers, provided the expenses involve only fuel, oil, airport expenditures, or rental fees.
(d) A private pilot may act as pilot in command of a charitable, nonprofit, or community event flight described in § 91.146, if the sponsor and pilot comply with the requirements of § 91.146.
(e) A private pilot may be reimbursed for aircraft operating expenses that are directly related to search and location operations, provided the expenses involve only fuel, oil, airport expenditures, or rental fees, and the operation is sanctioned and under the direction and control of:
(1) A local, State, or Federal agency; or
(2) An organization that conducts search and location operations.
(f) A private pilot who is an aircraft salesman and who has at least 200
hours of logged flight time may demonstrate an aircraft in flight to a prospective buyer.
(g) A private pilot who meets the requirements of § 61.69 may act as a pilot in command of an aircraft towing a glider or unpowered ultralight vehicle.
(h) A private pilot may act as pilot in command for the purpose of conducting a production flight test in a light-sport aircraft intended for certification in the light-sport category under § 21.190 of this chapter, provided that—
(1) The aircraft is a powered parachute or a weight-shift-control aircraft;
(2) The person has at least 100 hours of pilot-in-command time in the category and class of aircraft flown; and
(3) The person is familiar with the processes and procedures applicable to the conduct of production flight testing, to include operations conducted under a special flight permit and any associated operating limitations.
(i) A private pilot may act as pilot in command or serve as a required flightcrew member of an aircraft without holding a medical certificate issued under part 67 of this chapter provided the pilot holds a valid U.S. driver's license, meets the requirements of § 61.23(c)(3), and complies with this section and all of the following conditions and limitations:
(1) The aircraft is authorized to carry not more than 7 occupants, has a maximum takeoff weight of not more than 12,500 pounds, is operated with no more than 6 passengers on board, and is not a transport category rotorcraft certified to airworthiness standards under part 29 of this chapter; and
(2) The flight, including each portion of the flight, is not carried out—
(i) At an altitude that is more than 18,000 feet above mean sea level;
(ii) Outside the United States unless authorized by the country in which the flight is conducted; or
(iii) At an indicated airspeed exceeding 250 knots; and
(3) The pilot has available in his or her logbook—
(i) The completed medical examination checklist required under § 68.7 of this chapter; and
(ii) The certificate of course completion required under § 61.23(c)(3).
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 61-110, 69 FR 44869, July 27, 2004; Amdt. 61-115, 72 FR 6910, Feb. 13, 2007; Amdt. 61-125, 75 FR 5220, Feb. 1, 2010; Docket FAA-2016-9157, Amdt. 61-140, 82 FR 3165, Jan. 11, 2017; Docket FAA-2021-1040, Amdt. 61-152, 87 FR 71237, Nov. 22, 2022; Docket FAA-2024-2580, Amdt. 61-158, 89 FR 90577, Nov. 18, 2024]
§ 61.115
Balloon rating: Limitations.
(a) If a person who applies for a private pilot certificate with a balloon rating takes a practical test in a balloon with an airborne heater:
(1) The pilot certificate will contain a limitation restricting the exercise of the privileges of that certificate to a balloon with an airborne heater; and
(2) The limitation may be removed when the person obtains the required aeronautical experience in a gas balloon and receives a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor who attests to the person's accomplishment of the required aeronautical experience and ability to satisfactorily operate a gas balloon.
(b) If a person who applies for a private pilot certificate with a balloon rating takes a practical test in a gas balloon:
(1) The pilot certificate will contain a limitation restricting the exercise of the privilege of that certificate to a gas balloon; and
(2) The limitation may be removed when the person obtains the required aeronautical experience in a balloon with an airborne heater and receives a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor who attests to the person's accomplishment of the required aeronautical experience and ability to satisfactorily operate a balloon with an airborne heater.
§ 61.117
Private pilot privileges and limitations: Second in command of aircraft requiring more than one pilot.
Except as provided in § 61.113 of this part, no private pilot may, for compensation or hire, act as second in command of an aircraft that is type certificated for more than one pilot, nor may that pilot act as second in command of
such an aircraft that is carrying passengers or property for compensation or hire.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40904, July 30, 1997]
§§ 61.118-61.120
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Commercial Pilots
§ 61.121
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes the requirements for the issuance of commercial pilot certificates and ratings, the conditions under which those certificates and ratings are necessary, and the general operating rules for persons who hold those certificates and ratings.
§ 61.123
Eligibility requirements: General.
To be eligible for a commercial pilot certificate, a person must:
(a) Be at least 18 years of age;
(b) Be able to read, speak, write, and understand the English language. If the applicant is unable to meet one of these requirements due to medical reasons, then the Administrator may place such operating limitations on that applicant's pilot certificate as are necessary for the safe operation of the aircraft.
(c) Receive a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor who:
(1) Conducted the required ground training or reviewed the person's home study on the aeronautical knowledge areas listed in § 61.125 of this part that apply to the aircraft category and class rating sought; and
(2) Certified that the person is prepared for the required knowledge test that applies to the aircraft category and class rating sought.
(d) Pass the required knowledge test on the aeronautical knowledge areas listed in § 61.125 of this part;
(e) Receive the required training and a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor who:
(1) Conducted the training on the areas of operation listed in § 61.127(b) of this part that apply to the aircraft category and class rating sought; and
(2) Certified that the person is prepared for the required practical test.
(f) Meet the aeronautical experience requirements of this subpart that apply to the aircraft category and class rating sought before applying for the practical test;
(g) Pass the required practical test on the areas of operation listed in § 61.127(b) of this part that apply to the aircraft category and class rating sought;
(h) Hold at least a private pilot certificate issued under this part or meet the requirements of § 61.73; and
(i) Comply with the sections of this part that apply to the aircraft category and class rating sought.
§ 61.125
Aeronautical knowledge.
(a)
General.
A person who applies for a commercial pilot certificate must receive and log ground training from an authorized instructor, or complete a home-study course, on the aeronautical knowledge areas of paragraph (b) of this section that apply to the aircraft category and class rating sought.
(b)
Aeronautical knowledge areas.
(1) Applicable Federal Aviation Regulations of this chapter that relate to commercial pilot privileges, limitations, and flight operations;
(2) Accident reporting requirements of the National Transportation Safety Board;
(3) Basic aerodynamics and the principles of flight;
(4) Meteorology to include recognition of critical weather situations, windshear recognition and avoidance, and the use of aeronautical weather reports and forecasts;
(5) Safe and efficient operation of aircraft;
(6) Weight and balance computations;
(7) Use of performance charts;
(8) Significance and effects of exceeding aircraft performance limitations;
(9) Use of aeronautical charts and a magnetic compass for pilotage and dead reckoning;
(10) Use of air navigation facilities;
(11) Aeronautical decision making and judgment;
(12) Principles and functions of aircraft systems;
(13) Maneuvers, procedures, and emergency operations appropriate to the aircraft;
(14) Night and high-altitude operations;
(15) Procedures for operating within the National Airspace System; and
(16) Procedures for flight and ground training for lighter-than-air ratings.
§ 61.127
Flight proficiency.
(a)
General.
A person who applies for a commercial pilot certificate must receive and log ground and flight training from an authorized instructor on the areas of operation of this section that apply to the aircraft category and class rating sought.
(b)
Areas of operation.
(1) For an airplane category rating with a single-engine class rating:
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Airport and seaplane base operations;
(iv) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(v) Performance maneuvers;
(vi) Ground reference maneuvers;
(vii) Navigation;
(viii) Slow flight and stalls;
(ix) Emergency operations;
(x) High-altitude operations; and
(xi) Postflight procedures.
(2) For an airplane category rating with a multiengine class rating:
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Airport and seaplane base operations;
(iv) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(v) Performance maneuvers;
(vi) Navigation;
(vii) Slow flight and stalls;
(viii) Emergency operations;
(ix) Multiengine operations;
(x) High-altitude operations; and
(xi) Postflight procedures.
(3) For a rotorcraft category rating with a helicopter class rating:
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Airport and heliport operations;
(iv) Hovering maneuvers;
(v) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(vi) Performance maneuvers;
(vii) Navigation;
(viii) Emergency operations;
(ix) Special operations; and
(x) Postflight procedures.
(4) For a rotorcraft category rating with a gyroplane class rating:
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Airport operations;
(iv) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(v) Performance maneuvers;
(vi) Ground reference maneuvers;
(vii) Navigation;
(viii) Flight at slow airspeeds;
(ix) Emergency operations; and
(x) Postflight procedures.
(5) For a powered-lift category rating:
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Airport and heliport operations;
(iv) Hovering maneuvers;
(v) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(vi) Performance maneuvers;
(vii) Navigation;
(viii) Slow flight and stalls;
(ix) Emergency operations;
(x) High-altitude operations;
(xi) Special operations; and
(xii) Postflight procedures.
(6) For a glider category rating:
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Airport and gliderport operations;
(iv) Launches and landings;
(v) Performance speeds;
(vi) Soaring techniques;
(vii) Performance maneuvers;
(viii) Navigation;
(ix) Slow flight and stalls;
(x) Emergency operations; and
(xi) Postflight procedures.
(7) For a lighter-than-air category rating with an airship class rating:
(i) Fundamentals of instructing;
(ii) Technical subjects;
(iii) Preflight preparation;
(iv) Preflight lesson on a maneuver to be performed in flight;
(v) Preflight procedures;
(vi) Airport operations;
(vii) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(viii) Performance maneuvers;
(ix) Navigation;
(x) Emergency operations; and
(xi) Postflight procedures.
(8) For a lighter-than-air category rating with a balloon class rating:
(i) Fundamentals of instructing;
(ii) Technical subjects;
(iii) Preflight preparation;
(iv) Preflight lesson on a maneuver to be performed in flight;
(v) Preflight procedures;
(vi) Airport operations;
(vii) Launches and landings;
(viii) Performance maneuvers;
(ix) Navigation;
(x) Emergency operations; and
(xi) Postflight procedures.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42558, Aug. 21, 2009]
§ 61.129
Aeronautical experience.
(a)
For an airplane single-engine rating.
Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, a person who applies for a commercial pilot certificate with an airplane category and single-engine class rating must log at least 250 hours of flight time as a pilot that consists of at least:
(1) 100 hours in powered aircraft, of which 50 hours must be in airplanes.
(2) 100 hours of pilot-in-command flight time, which includes at least—
(i) 50 hours in airplanes; and
(ii) 50 hours in cross-country flight of which at least 10 hours must be in airplanes.
(3) 20 hours of training on the areas of operation listed in § 61.127(b)(1) of this part that includes at least—
(i) Ten hours of instrument training using a view-limiting device including attitude instrument flying, partial panel skills, recovery from unusual flight attitudes, and intercepting and tracking navigational systems. Five hours of the 10 hours required on instrument training must be in a single engine airplane;
(ii) 10 hours of training in a complex airplane, a turbine-powered airplane, or a technically advanced airplane (TAA) that meets the requirements of paragraph (j) of this section, or any combination thereof. The airplane must be appropriate to land or sea for the rating sought;
(iii) One 2-hour cross country flight in a single engine airplane in daytime conditions that consists of a total straight-line distance of more than 100 nautical miles from the original point of departure;
(iv) One 2-hour cross country flight in a single engine airplane in nighttime conditions that consists of a total straight-line distance of more than 100 nautical miles from the original point of departure; and
(v) Three hours in a single-engine airplane with an authorized instructor in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test.
(4) Ten hours of solo flight time in a single engine airplane or 10 hours of flight time performing the duties of pilot in command in a single engine airplane with an authorized instructor on board (either of which may be credited towards the flight time requirement under paragraph (a)(2) of this section), on the areas of operation listed under § 61.127(b)(1) that include—
(i) One cross-country flight of not less than 300 nautical miles total distance, with landings at a minimum of three points, one of which is a straight-line distance of at least 250 nautical miles from the original departure point. However, if this requirement is being met in Hawaii, the longest segment need only have a straight-line distance of at least 150 nautical miles; and
(ii) 5 hours in night VFR conditions with 10 takeoffs and 10 landings (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) at an airport with an operating control tower.
(b)
For an airplane multiengine rating.
Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, a person who applies for a commercial pilot certificate with an airplane category and multiengine class rating must log at least 250 hours of flight time as a pilot that consists of at least:
(1) 100 hours in powered aircraft, of which 50 hours must be in airplanes.
(2) 100 hours of pilot-in-command flight time, which includes at least—
(i) 50 hours in airplanes; and
(ii) 50 hours in cross-country flight of which at least 10 hours must be in airplanes.
(3) 20 hours of training on the areas of operation listed in § 61.127(b)(2) of this part that includes at least—
(i) Ten hours of instrument training using a view-limiting device including attitude instrument flying, partial panel skills, recovery from unusual flight attitudes, and intercepting and tracking navigational systems. Five
hours of the 10 hours required on instrument training must be in a multiengine airplane;
(ii) 10 hours of training in a multiengine complex or turbine-powered airplane; or for an applicant seeking a multiengine seaplane rating, 10 hours of training in a multiengine seaplane that has flaps and a controllable pitch propeller, including seaplanes equipped with an engine control system consisting of a digital computer and associated accessories for controlling the engine and propeller, such as a full authority digital engine control;
(iii) One 2-hour cross country flight in a multiengine airplane in daytime conditions that consists of a total straight-line distance of more than 100 nautical miles from the original point of departure;
(iv) One 2-hour cross country flight in a multiengine airplane in nighttime conditions that consists of a total straight-line distance of more than 100 nautical miles from the original point of departure; and
(v) Three hours in a multiengine airplane with an authorized instructor in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test.
(4) 10 hours of solo flight time in a multiengine airplane or 10 hours of flight time performing the duties of pilot in command in a multiengine airplane with an authorized instructor (either of which may be credited towards the flight time requirement in paragraph (b)(2) of this section), on the areas of operation listed in § 61.127(b)(2) of this part that includes at least—
(i) One cross-country flight of not less than 300 nautical miles total distance with landings at a minimum of three points, one of which is a straight-line distance of at least 250 nautical miles from the original departure point. However, if this requirement is being met in Hawaii, the longest segment need only have a straight-line distance of at least 150 nautical miles; and
(ii) 5 hours in night VFR conditions with 10 takeoffs and 10 landings (with each landing involving a flight with a traffic pattern) at an airport with an operating control tower.
(c)
For a helicopter rating.
Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, a person who applies for a commercial pilot certificate with a rotorcraft category and helicopter class rating must log at least 150 hours of flight time as a pilot that consists of at least:
(1) 100 hours in powered aircraft, of which 50 hours must be in helicopters.
(2) 100 hours of pilot-in-command flight time, which includes at least—
(i) 35 hours in helicopters; and
(ii) 10 hours in cross-country flight in helicopters.
(3) 20 hours of training on the areas of operation listed in § 61.127(b)(3) of this part that includes at least—
(i) Five hours on the control and maneuvering of a helicopter solely by reference to instruments using a view-limiting device including attitude instrument flying, partial panel skills, recovery from unusual flight attitudes, and intercepting and tracking navigational systems. This aeronautical experience may be performed in an aircraft, full flight simulator, flight training device, or an aviation training device;
(ii) One 2-hour cross country flight in a helicopter in daytime conditions that consists of a total straight-line distance of more than 50 nautical miles from the original point of departure;
(iii) One 2-hour cross country flight in a helicopter in nighttime conditions that consists of a total straight-line distance of more than 50 nautical miles from the original point of departure; and
(iv) Three hours in a helicopter with an authorized instructor in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test.
(4) Ten hours of solo flight time in a helicopter or 10 hours of flight time performing the duties of pilot in command in a helicopter with an authorized instructor on board (either of which may be credited towards the flight time requirement under paragraph (c)(2) of this section), on the areas of operation listed under § 61.127(b)(3) that includes—
(i) One cross-country flight with landings at a minimum of three points, with one segment consisting of a straight-line distance of at least 50
nautical miles from the original point of departure; and
(ii) 5 hours in night VFR conditions with 10 takeoffs and 10 landings (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern).
(d)
For a gyroplane rating.
A person who applies for a commercial pilot certificate with a rotorcraft category and gyroplane class rating must log at least 150 hours of flight time as a pilot (of which 5 hours may have been accomplished in a full flight simulator or flight training device that is representative of a gyroplane) that consists of at least:
(1) 100 hours in powered aircraft, of which 25 hours must be in gyroplanes.
(2) 100 hours of pilot-in-command flight time, which includes at least—
(i) 10 hours in gyroplanes; and
(ii) 3 hours in cross-country flight in gyroplanes.
(3) 20 hours of training on the areas of operation listed in § 61.127(b)(4) of this part that includes at least—
(i) 2.5 hours on the control and maneuvering of a gyroplane solely by reference to instruments using a view-limiting device including attitude instrument flying, partial panel skills, recovery from unusual flight attitudes, and intercepting and tracking navigational systems. This aeronautical experience may be performed in an aircraft, full flight simulator, flight training device, or an aviation training device;
(ii) One 2-hour cross country flight in a gyroplane in daytime conditions that consists of a total straight-line distance of more than 50 nautical miles from the original point of departure;
(iii) Two hours of flight training during nighttime conditions in a gyroplane at an airport, that includes 10 takeoffs and 10 landings to a full stop (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern); and
(iv) Three hours in a gyroplane with an authorized instructor in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test.
(4) Ten hours of solo flight time in a gyroplane or 10 hours of flight time performing the duties of pilot in command in a gyroplane with an authorized instructor on board (either of which may be credited towards the flight time requirement under paragraph (d)(2) of this section), on the areas of operation listed in § 61.127(b)(4) that includes—
(i) One cross-country flight with landings at a minimum of three points, with one segment consisting of a straight-line distance of at least 50 nautical miles from the original point of departure; and
(ii) 5 hours in night VFR conditions with 10 takeoffs and 10 landings (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern).
(e)
For a powered-lift rating.
Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, a person who applies for a commercial pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating must log at least 250 hours of flight time as a pilot that consists of at least:
(1) 100 hours in powered aircraft, of which 50 hours must be in a powered-lift.
(2) 100 hours of pilot-in-command flight time, which includes at least—
(i) 50 hours in a powered-lift; and
(ii) 50 hours in cross-country flight of which 10 hours must be in a powered-lift.
(3) 20 hours of training on the areas of operation listed in § 61.127(b)(5) of this part that includes at least—
(i) Ten hours of instrument training using a view-limiting device including attitude instrument flying, partial panel skills, recovery from unusual flight attitudes, and intercepting and tracking navigational systems. Five hours of the 10 hours required on instrument training must be in a powered-lift;
(ii) One 2-hour cross country flight in a powered-lift in daytime conditions that consists of a total straight-line distance of more than 100 nautical miles from the original point of departure;
(iii) One 2-hour cross country flight in a powered-lift in nighttime conditions that consists of a total straight-line distance of more than 100 nautical miles from the original point of departure; and
(iv) 3 hours in a powered-lift with an authorized instructor in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test.
(4) Ten hours of solo flight time in a powered-lift or 10 hours of flight time performing the duties of pilot in command in a powered-lift with an authorized instructor on board (either of which may be credited towards the flight time requirement under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, on the areas of operation listed in § 61.127(b)(5) that includes—
(i) One cross-country flight of not less than 300 nautical miles total distance with landings at a minimum of three points, one of which is a straight-line distance of at least 250 nautical miles from the original departure point. However, if this requirement is being met in Hawaii the longest segment need only have a straight-line distance of at least 150 nautical miles; and
(ii) 5 hours in night VFR conditions with 10 takeoffs and 10 landings (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) at an airport with an operating control tower.
(f)
For a glider rating.
A person who applies for a commercial pilot certificate with a glider category rating must log at least—
(1) 25 hours of flight time as a pilot in a glider and that flight time must include at least 100 flights in a glider as pilot in command, including at least—
(i) Three hours of flight training in a glider with an authorized instructor or 10 training flights in a glider with an authorized instructor on the areas of operation listed in § 61.127(b)(6) of this part, including at least 3 training flights in a glider with an authorized instructor in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test; and
(ii) 2 hours of solo flight that include not less than 10 solo flights in a glider on the areas of operation listed in § 61.127(b)(6) of this part; or
(2) 200 hours of flight time as a pilot in heavier-than-air aircraft and at least 20 flights in a glider as pilot in command, including at least—
(i) Three hours of flight training in a glider or 10 training flights in a glider with an authorized instructor on the areas of operation listed in § 61.127(b)(6) of this part including at least 3 training flights in a glider with an authorized instructor in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test; and
(ii) 5 solo flights in a glider on the areas of operation listed in § 61.127(b)(6) of this part.
(g)
For an airship rating.
A person who applies for a commercial pilot certificate with a lighter-than-air category and airship class rating must log at least 200 hours of flight time as a pilot, which includes at least the following hours:
(1) 50 hours in airships.
(2) Thirty hours of pilot in command flight time in airships or performing the duties of pilot in command in an airship with an authorized instructor aboard, which consists of—
(i) 10 hours of cross-country flight time in airships; and
(ii) 10 hours of night flight time in airships.
(3) Forty hours of instrument time to include—
(i) Instrument training using a view-limiting device for attitude instrument flying, partial panel skills, recovery from unusual flight attitudes, and intercepting and tracking navigational systems; and
(ii) Twenty hours of instrument flight time, of which 10 hours must be in flight in airships.
(4) 20 hours of flight training in airships on the areas of operation listed in § 61.127(b)(7) of this part, which includes at least—
(i) Three hours in an airship with an authorized instructor in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test;
(ii) One hour cross country flight in an airship in daytime conditions that consists of a total straight-line distance of more than 25 nautical miles from the point of departure; and
(iii) One hour cross country flight in an airship in nighttime conditions that consists of a total straight-line distance of more than 25 nautical miles from the point of departure.
(5) 10 hours of flight training performing the duties of pilot in command with an authorized instructor on the areas of operation listed in § 61.127(b)(7) of this part, which includes at least—
(i) One cross-country flight with landings at a minimum of three points, with one segment consisting of a straight-line distance of at least 25 nautical miles from the original point of departure; and
(ii) 5 hours in night VFR conditions with 10 takeoffs and 10 landings (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern).
(h)
For a balloon rating.
A person who applies for a commercial pilot certificate with a lighter-than-air category and a balloon class rating must log at least 35 hours of flight time as a pilot, which includes at least the following requirements:
(1) 20 hours in balloons;
(2) 10 flights in balloons;
(3) Two flights in balloons as the pilot in command; and
(4) 10 hours of flight training that includes at least 10 training flights with an authorized instructor in balloons on the areas of operation listed in § 61.127(b)(8) of this part, which consists of at least—
(i) For a gas balloon—
(A) Two training flights of 2 hours each in a gas balloon with an authorized instructor in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test;
(B) 2 flights performing the duties of pilot in command in a gas balloon with an authorized instructor on the appropriate areas of operation; and
(C) One flight involving a controlled ascent to 5,000 feet above the launch site.
(ii) For a balloon with an airborne heater—
(A) Two training flights of 1 hour each in a balloon with an airborne heater with an authorized instructor in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test;
(B) Two solo flights in a balloon with an airborne heater on the appropriate areas of operation; and
(C) One flight involving a controlled ascent to 3,000 feet above the launch site.
(i)
Permitted credit for use of a flight simulator or flight training device.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, an applicant who has not accomplished the training required by this section in a course conducted by a training center certificated under part 142 of this chapter may:
(i) Credit a maximum of 50 hours toward the total aeronautical experience requirements for an airplane or powered-lift rating, provided the aeronautical experience was obtained from an authorized instructor in a full flight simulator or flight training device that represents that class of airplane or powered-lift category and type, if applicable, appropriate to the rating sought; and
(ii) Credit a maximum of 25 hours toward the total aeronautical experience requirements of this section for a helicopter rating, provided the aeronautical experience was obtained from an authorized instructor in a full flight simulator or flight training device that represents a helicopter and type, if applicable, appropriate to the rating sought.
(2) An applicant who has accomplished the training required by this section in a course conducted by a training center certificated under part 142 of this chapter may:
(i) Credit a maximum of 100 hours toward the total aeronautical experience requirements of this section for an airplane and powered-lift rating, provided the aeronautical experience was obtained from an authorized instructor in a full flight simulator or flight training device that represents that class of airplane or powered-lift category and type, if applicable, appropriate to the rating sought; and
(ii) Credit a maximum of 50 hours toward the total aeronautical experience requirements of this section for a helicopter rating, provided the aeronautical experience was obtained from an authorized instructor in a full flight simulator or flight training device that represents a helicopter and type, if applicable, appropriate to the rating sought.
(3) Except when fewer hours are approved by the FAA, an applicant for the commercial pilot certificate with the airplane or powered-lift rating who has completed 190 hours of aeronautical experience is considered to
have met the total aeronautical experience requirements of this section, provided the applicant satisfactorily completed an approved commercial pilot course under part 142 of this chapter and the approved course was appropriate to the commercial pilot certificate and aircraft rating sought.
(j)
Technically advanced airplane.
Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, a technically advanced airplane must be equipped with an electronically advanced avionics system that includes the following installed components:
(1) An electronic Primary Flight Display (PFD) that includes, at a minimum, an airspeed indicator, turn coordinator, attitude indicator, heading indicator, altimeter, and vertical speed indicator;
(2) An electronic Multifunction Display (MFD) that includes, at a minimum, a moving map using Global Positioning System (GPS) navigation with the aircraft position displayed;
(3) A two axis autopilot integrated with the navigation and heading guidance system; and
(4) The display elements described in paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section must be continuously visible.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-101, 62 FR 16892, Apr. 8, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40904, July 30, 1997; Amdt. 61-104, 63 FR 20288, Apr. 23, 1998; Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42558, Aug. 21, 2009; Amdt. 61-124A, 74 FR 53645, Oct. 20, 2009; Amdt. 61-142, 83 FR 30278, June 27, 2018]
§ 61.131
Exceptions to the night flying requirements.
(a) Subject to the limitations of paragraph (b) of this section, a person is not required to comply with the night flight training requirements of this subpart if the person receives flight training in and resides in the State of Alaska.
(b) A person who receives flight training in and resides in the State of Alaska but does not meet the night flight training requirements of this section:
(1) May be issued a pilot certificate with the limitation “night flying prohibited.”
(2) Must comply with the appropriate night flight training requirements of this subpart within the 12-calendar-month period after the issuance of the pilot certificate. At the end of that period, the certificate will become invalid for use until the person complies with the appropriate night flight training requirements of this subpart. The person may have the “night flying prohibited” limitation removed if the person—
(i) Accomplishes the appropriate night flight training requirements of this subpart; and
(ii) Presents to an examiner a logbook or training record endorsement from an authorized instructor that verifies accomplishment of the appropriate night flight training requirements of this subpart.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40905, July 30, 1997]
§ 61.133
Commercial pilot privileges and limitations.
(a)
Privileges
—(1)
General.
A person who holds a commercial pilot certificate may act as pilot in command of an aircraft—
(i) Carrying persons or property for compensation or hire, provided the person is qualified in accordance with this part and with the applicable parts of this chapter that apply to the operation; and
(ii) For compensation or hire, provided the person is qualified in accordance with this part and with the applicable parts of this chapter that apply to the operation.
(2)
Commercial pilots with lighter-than-air category ratings.
A person with a commercial pilot certificate with a lighter-than-air category rating may—
(i)
For an airship
—(A) Give flight and ground training in an airship for the issuance of a certificate or rating;
(B) Give an endorsement for a pilot certificate with an airship rating;
(C) Endorse a pilot's logbook for solo operating privileges in an airship;
(D) Act as pilot in command of an airship under IFR or in weather conditions less than the minimum prescribed for VFR flight; and
(E) Give flight and ground training and endorsements that are required for a flight review, an operating privilege or recency-of-experience requirements of this part.
(ii)
For a balloon
—(A) Give flight and ground training in a balloon for the issuance of a certificate or rating;
(B) Give an endorsement for a pilot certificate with a balloon rating;
(C) Endorse a pilot's logbook for solo operating privileges in a balloon; and
(D) Give ground and flight training and endorsements that are required for a flight review, an operating privilege, or recency-of-experience requirements of this part.
(b)
Limitations.
(1) A person who applies for a commercial pilot certificate with an airplane category or powered-lift category rating and does not hold an instrument rating in the same category and class will be issued a commercial pilot certificate that contains the limitation, “The carriage of passengers for hire in (airplanes) (powered-lifts) on cross-country flights in excess of 50 nautical miles or at night is prohibited.” The limitation may be removed when the person satisfactorily accomplishes the requirements listed in § 61.65 of this part for an instrument rating in the same category and class of aircraft listed on the person's commercial pilot certificate.
(2) If a person who applies for a commercial pilot certificate with a balloon rating takes a practical test in a balloon with an airborne heater—
(i) The pilot certificate will contain a limitation restricting the exercise of the privileges of that certificate to a balloon with an airborne heater.
(ii) The limitation specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section may be removed when the person obtains the required aeronautical experience in a gas balloon and receives a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor who attests to the person's accomplishment of the required aeronautical experience and ability to satisfactorily operate a gas balloon.
(3) If a person who applies for a commercial pilot certificate with a balloon rating takes a practical test in a gas balloon—
(i) The pilot certificate will contain a limitation restricting the exercise of the privileges of that certificate to a gas balloon.
(ii) The limitation specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section may be removed when the person obtains the required aeronautical experience in a balloon with an airborne heater and receives a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor who attests to the person's accomplishment of the required aeronautical experience and ability to satisfactorily operate a balloon with an airborne heater.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40905, July 30, 1997; Docket FAA-2010-1127, Amdt. 61-135, 81 FR 1306, Jan. 12, 2016]
§§ 61.135-61.141
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Airline Transport Pilots
§ 61.151
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes the requirements for the issuance of airline transport pilot certificates and ratings, the conditions under which those certificates and ratings are necessary, and the general operating rules for persons who hold those certificates and ratings.
§ 61.153
Eligibility requirements: General.
To be eligible for an airline transport pilot certificate, a person must:
(a) Meet the following age requirements:
(1) For an airline transport pilot certificate obtained under the aeronautical experience requirements of §§ 61.159, 61.161, or 61.163, be at least 23 years of age; or
(2) For an airline transport pilot certificate obtained under the aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.160, be at least 21 years of age.
(b) Be able to read, speak, write, and understand the English language. If the applicant is unable to meet one of these requirements due to medical reasons, then the Administrator may place such operating limitations on that applicant's pilot certificate as are necessary for the safe operation of the aircraft;
(c) Be of good moral character;
(d) Meet at least one of the following requirements:
(1) Holds a commercial pilot certificate with an instrument rating issued under this part;
(2) Meet the military experience requirements under § 61.73 of this part to
qualify for a commercial pilot certificate, and an instrument rating if the person is a rated military pilot or former rated military pilot of an Armed Force of the United States; or
(3) Holds either a foreign airline transport pilot license with instrument privileges, or a foreign commercial pilot license with an instrument rating, that—
(i) Was issued by a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation; and
(ii) Contains no geographical limitations.
(e) For an airline transport pilot certificate with an airplane category multiengine class rating or an airline transport pilot certificate obtained concurrently with a multiengine airplane type rating, receive a graduation certificate from an authorized training provider certifying completion of the airline transport pilot certification training program specified in § 61.156 before applying for the knowledge test required by paragraph (g) of this section;
(f) Meet the aeronautical experience requirements of this subpart that apply to the aircraft category and class rating sought before applying for the practical test;
(g) Pass a knowledge test on the aeronautical knowledge areas of § 61.155(c) of this part that apply to the aircraft category and class rating sought;
(h) Pass the practical test on the areas of operation listed in § 61.157(e) of this part that apply to the aircraft category and class rating sought; and
(i) Comply with the sections of this subpart that apply to the aircraft category and class rating sought.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40905, July 30, 1997; Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42559, Aug. 21, 2009; Amdt. 61-130, 78 FR 42374, July 15, 2013; Amdt. 61-149, 86 FR 62087, Nov. 9, 2021]
§ 61.155
Aeronautical knowledge.
(a)
General.
The knowledge test for an airline transport pilot certificate is based on the aeronautical knowledge areas listed in paragraph (c) of this section that are appropriate to the aircraft category and class rating sought.
(b)
Aircraft type rating.
A person who is applying for an additional aircraft type rating to be added to an airline transport pilot certificate is not required to pass a knowledge test if that person's airline transport pilot certificate lists the aircraft category and class rating that is appropriate to the type rating sought.
(c)
Aeronautical knowledge areas.
(1) Applicable Federal Aviation Regulations of this chapter that relate to airline transport pilot privileges, limitations, and flight operations;
(2) Meteorology, including knowledge of and effects of fronts, frontal characteristics, cloud formations, icing, and upper-air data;
(3) General system of weather and NOTAM collection, dissemination, interpretation, and use;
(4) Interpretation and use of weather charts, maps, forecasts, sequence reports, abbreviations, and symbols;
(5) National Weather Service functions as they pertain to operations in the National Airspace System;
(6) Windshear and microburst awareness, identification, and avoidance;
(7) Principles of air navigation under instrument meteorological conditions in the National Airspace System;
(8) Air traffic control procedures and pilot responsibilities as they relate to en route operations, terminal area and radar operations, and instrument departure and approach procedures;
(9) Aircraft loading, weight and balance, use of charts, graphs, tables, formulas, and computations, and their effect on aircraft performance;
(10) Aerodynamics relating to an aircraft's flight characteristics and performance in normal and abnormal flight regimes;
(11) Human factors;
(12) Aeronautical decision making and judgment;
(13) Crew resource management to include crew communication and coordination; and
(14) For an airline transport pilot certificate with an airplane category multiengine class rating or an airline transport pilot certificate obtained concurrently with a multiengine airplane type rating, the content of the
airline transport pilot certification training program in § 61.156.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 61-130, 78 FR 42374, July 15, 2013; Amdt. 61-130C, 81 FR 2, Jan. 4, 2016; Amdt. 61-149, 86 FR 62087, Nov. 9, 2021]
§ 61.156
Training requirements: Airplane category—multiengine class or multiengine airplane type rating concurrently with an airline transport pilot certificate.
A person who applies for the knowledge test for an airline transport pilot certificate with an airplane category multiengine class rating must present a graduation certificate from an authorized training provider under part 121, 135, 141, or 142 of this chapter certifying the applicant has completed the following training in a course approved by the Administrator.
(a)
Academic training.
The applicant for the knowledge test must receive at least 30 hours of classroom instruction that includes the following:
(1) At least 8 hours of instruction on aerodynamics including high altitude operations;
(2) At least 2 hours of instruction on meteorology, including adverse weather phenomena and weather detection systems; and
(3) At least 14 hours of instruction on air carrier operations, including the following areas:
(i) Physiology;
(ii) Communications;
(iii) Checklist philosophy;
(iv) Operational control;
(v) Minimum equipment list/configuration deviation list;
(vi) Ground operations;
(vii) Turbine engines;
(viii) Transport category aircraft performance;
(ix) Automation, navigation, and flight path warning systems.
(4) At least 6 hours of instruction on leadership, professional development, crew resource management, and safety culture.
(b)
FSTD training.
The applicant for the knowledge test must receive at least 10 hours of training in a flight simulation training device qualified under part 60 of this chapter that represents a multiengine turbine airplane. The training must include the following:
(1) At least 6 hours of training in a Level C or higher full flight simulator qualified under part 60 of this chapter that represents a multiengine turbine airplane with a maximum takeoff weight of 40,000 pounds or greater. The training must include the following areas:
(i) Low energy states/stalls;
(ii) Upset recovery techniques; and
(iii) Adverse weather conditions, including icing, thunderstorms, and crosswinds with gusts.
(2) The remaining FSTD training may be completed in a Level 4 or higher flight simulation training device. The training must include the following areas:
(i) Navigation including flight management systems; and
(ii) Automation including autoflight.
(c)
Deviation authority.
The Administrator may issue deviation authority from the weight requirement in paragraph (b)(1) of this section upon a determination that the objectives of the training can be met in an alternative device.
[Docket FAA-2010-0100, 78 FR 42375, July 15, 2013, as amended by Amdt. 61-149, 86 FR 62087, Nov. 9, 2021]
§ 61.157
Flight proficiency.
(a)
General.
(1) The practical test for an airline transport pilot certificate is given for—
(i) An airplane category and single engine class rating.
(ii) An airplane category and multiengine class rating.
(iii) A rotorcraft category and helicopter class rating.
(iv) A powered-lift category rating.
(v) An aircraft type rating.
(2) A person who is applying for an airline transport pilot practical test must meet—
(i) The eligibility requirements of § 61.153; and
(ii) The aeronautical knowledge and aeronautical experience requirements of this subpart that apply to the aircraft category and class rating sought.
(b)
Aircraft type rating.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a person who applies for an aircraft type rating to be added to an airline transport pilot certificate or applies for a
type rating to be concurrently completed with an airline transport pilot certificate:
(1) Must receive and log ground and flight training from an authorized instructor on the areas of operation under this section that apply to the aircraft type rating;
(2) Must receive a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor that certifies the applicant completed the training on the areas of operation listed under paragraph (e) of this section that apply to the aircraft type rating; and
(3) Must perform the practical test in actual or simulated instrument conditions, except as provided under paragraph (g) of this section.
(c)
Exceptions.
A person who applies for an aircraft type rating to be added to an airline transport pilot certificate or an aircraft type rating concurrently with an airline transport pilot certificate, and who is an employee of a certificate holder operating under part 121 or part 135 of this chapter, does not need to comply with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section if the applicant presents a training record that shows completion of that certificate holder's approved training program for the aircraft type rating.
(d)
Upgrading type ratings.
Any type rating(s) and limitations on a pilot certificate of an applicant who completes an airline transport pilot practical test will be included at the airline transport pilot certification level, provided the applicant passes the practical test in the same category and class of aircraft for which the applicant holds the type rating(s).
(e)
Areas of Operation.
A practical test will include normal and abnormal procedures, as applicable, within the areas of operation for practical tests for an airplane category and powered-lift category rating. (1) For an airplane category—single engine class rating:
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Takeoffs and Landings;
(iv) In-flight maneuvers;
(v) Stall Prevention;
(vi) Instrument procedures;
(vii) Emergency operations; and
(viii) Postflight procedures.
(2) For an airplane category—multiengine class rating:
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Takeoffs and Landings;
(iv) In-flight maneuvers;
(v) Stall Prevention.
(vi) Instrument procedures;
(vii) Emergency operations; and
(viii) Postflight procedures.
(3) For a powered-lift category rating:
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Takeoffs and Departure phase;
(iv) In-flight maneuvers;
(v) Instrument procedures;
(vi) Landings and approaches to landings;
(vii) Emergency operations; and
(viii) Postflight procedures.
(4) For a rotorcraft category—helicopter class rating:
(i) Preflight preparation;
(ii) Preflight procedures;
(iii) Takeoff and departure phase;
(iv) In-flight maneuvers;
(v) Instrument procedures;
(vi) Landings and approaches to landings;
(vii) Normal and abnormal procedures;
(viii) Emergency procedures; and
(ix) Postflight procedures.
(f)
Proficiency and competency checks conducted under part 121, part 135, or subpart K of part 91.
(1) Successful completion of any of the following checks satisfies the flight proficiency requirements of this section for the issuance of an airline transport pilot certificate and/or the appropriate aircraft rating:
(i) A proficiency check under § 121.441 of this chapter.
(ii) Both a competency check under § 135.293(a)(2) and § 135.293(b) of this chapter and pilot-in-command instrument proficiency check under § 135.297 of this chapter.
(iii) Both a competency check under § 91.1065 of this chapter and a pilot-in-command instrument proficiency check under § 91.1069 of this chapter.
(2) The checks specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section must be conducted by one of the following:
(i) An FAA Aviation Safety Inspector.
(ii) An Aircrew Program Designee who is authorized to perform proficiency and/or competency checks for the air carrier whose approved training program has been satisfactorily completed by the pilot applicant.
(iii) A Training Center Evaluator with appropriate certification authority who is also authorized to perform the portions of the competency and/or proficiency checks required by paragraph (f)(1) of this section for the air carrier whose approved training program has been satisfactorily completed by the pilot applicant.
(g)
Aircraft not capable of instrument maneuvers and procedures.
An applicant may add a type rating to an airline transport pilot certificate with an aircraft that is not capable of the instrument maneuvers and procedures required on the practical test under the following circumstances—
(1) The rating is limited to “VFR only.”
(2) The type rating is added to an airline transport pilot certificate that has instrument privileges in that category and class of aircraft.
(3) The “VFR only” limitation may be removed for that aircraft type after the applicant:
(i) Passes a practical test in that type of aircraft on the appropriate instrument maneuvers and procedures in § 61.157; or
(ii) Becomes qualified in § 61.73(d) for that type of aircraft.
(h)
Multiengine airplane with a single-pilot station.
An applicant for a type rating, at the ATP certification level, in a multiengine airplane with a single-pilot station must perform the practical test in the multi-seat version of that airplane. The practical test may be performed in the single-seat version of that airplane if the Examiner is in a position to observe the applicant during the practical test in the case where there is no multi-seat version of that multiengine airplane.
(i)
Single engine airplane with a single-pilot station.
An applicant for a type rating, at the ATP certification level, in a single engine airplane with a single-pilot station must perform the practical test in the multi-seat version of that single engine airplane. The practical test may be performed in the single-seat version of that airplane if the Examiner is in a position to observe the applicant during the practical test in the case where there is no multi-seat version of that single engine airplane.
(j)
Waiver authority.
An Examiner who conducts a practical test may waive any task for which the FAA has provided waiver authority.
[Docket FAA-2006-26661, 74 FR 42560, Aug. 21, 2009; Amdt. 61-124A, 74 FR 53647, Oct. 20, 2009, as amended by Amdt. 61-130, 78 FR 42375, July 15, 2013; Docket FAA-2022-1463, Amdt. 61-153, 89 FR 22517, Apr. 1, 2024]
§ 61.158
[Reserved]
§ 61.159
Aeronautical experience: Airplane category rating.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, a person who is applying for an airline transport pilot certificate with an airplane category and class rating must have at least 1,500 hours of total time as a pilot that includes at least:
(1) 500 hours of cross-country flight time.
(2) 100 hours of night flight time.
(3) 50 hours of flight time in the class of airplane for the rating sought. A maximum of 25 hours of training in a full flight simulator representing the class of airplane for the rating sought may be credited toward the flight time requirement of this paragraph if the training was accomplished as part of an approved training course in parts 121, 135, 141, or 142 of this chapter. A flight training device or aviation training device may not be used to satisfy this requirement.
(4) 75 hours of instrument flight time, in actual or simulated instrument conditions, subject to the following:
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, an applicant may not receive credit for more than a total of 25 hours of simulated instrument time in a full flight simulator or flight training device.
(ii) A maximum of 50 hours of training in a full flight simulator or flight training device may be credited toward the instrument flight time requirements of paragraph (a)(4) of this section if the training was accomplished in a course conducted by a training
center certificated under part 142 of this chapter.
(iii) Training in a full flight simulator or flight training device must be accomplished in a full flight simulator or flight training device, representing an airplane.
(5) 250 hours of flight time in an airplane as a pilot in command, or as second in command performing the duties of pilot in command while under the supervision of a pilot in command, or any combination thereof, subject to the following:
(i) The flight time requirement must include at least—
(A) 100 hours of cross-country flight time; and
(B) 25 hours of night flight time.
(ii) Except for a person who has been removed from flying status for lack of proficiency or because of a disciplinary action involving aircraft operations, a U.S. military pilot or former U.S. military pilot who meets the requirements of § 61.73(b)(1), or a military pilot in the Armed Forces of a foreign contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation who meets the requirements of § 61.73(c)(1), may credit flight time in a powered-lift aircraft operated in horizontal flight toward the flight time requirement.
(6) Not more than 100 hours of the total aeronautical experience requirements of paragraph (a) of this section or § 61.160 may be obtained in a full flight simulator or flight training device provided the device represents an airplane and the aeronautical experience was accomplished as part of an approved training course in parts 121, 135, 141, or 142 of this chapter.
(b) A person who has performed at least 20 night takeoffs and landings to a full stop may substitute each additional night takeoff and landing to a full stop for 1 hour of night flight time to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section; however, not more than 25 hours of night flight time may be credited in this manner.
(c) A commercial pilot may log second-in-command pilot time toward the aeronautical experience requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and the aeronautical experience requirements in § 61.160, provided the pilot is employed by a part 119 certificate holder authorized to conduct operations under part 135 of this chapter and the second-in-command pilot time is obtained in operations conducted for the certificate holder under part 91 or 135 of this chapter when a second pilot is not required under the type certification of the aircraft or the regulations under which the flight is being conducted, and the following requirements are met—
(1) The experience must be accomplished as part of a second-in-command professional development program approved by the Administrator under § 135.99 of this chapter;
(2) The flight operation must be conducted in accordance with the certificate holder's operations specification for the second-in-command professional development program;
(3) The pilot in command of the operation must certify in the pilot's logbook that the second-in-command pilot time was accomplished under this section; and
(4) The pilot time may not be logged as pilot-in-command time even when the pilot is the sole manipulator of the controls and may not be used to meet the aeronautical experience requirements in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(d) A commercial pilot may log the following flight engineer flight time toward the 1,500 hours of total time as a pilot required by paragraph (a) of this section and the total time as a pilot required by § 61.160:
(1) Flight-engineer time, provided the time—
(i) Is acquired in an airplane required to have a flight engineer by the airplane's flight manual or type certificate;
(ii) Is acquired while engaged in operations under part 121 of this chapter for which a flight engineer is required;
(iii) Is acquired while the person is participating in a pilot training program approved under part 121 of this chapter; and
(iv) Does not exceed more than 1 hour for each 3 hours of flight engineer flight time for a total credited time of no more than 500 hours.
(2) Flight-engineer time, provided the flight time—
(i) Is acquired as a U.S. Armed Forces' flight engineer crewmember in an airplane that requires a flight engineer crewmember by the flight manual;
(ii) Is acquired while the person is participating in a flight engineer crewmember training program for the U.S. Armed Forces; and
(iii) Does not exceed 1 hour for each 3 hours of flight engineer flight time for a total credited time of no more than 500 hours.
(e) An applicant who credits time under paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section and § 61.51(f)(4) is issued an airline transport pilot certificate with the limitation “Holder does not meet the pilot in command aeronautical experience requirements of ICAO,” as prescribed under Article 39 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation.
(f) An applicant is entitled to an airline transport pilot certificate without the ICAO limitation specified under paragraph (e) of this section when the applicant presents satisfactory evidence of having met the ICAO requirements under paragraph (e) of this section and otherwise meets the aeronautical experience requirements of this section.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40906, July 30, 1997; Amdt. 61-104, 63 FR 20288, Apr. 23, 1998; Amdt. 61-109, 68 FR 54560, Sept. 17, 2003; Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42561, Aug. 21, 2009; Amdt. 61-130, 78 FR 42375, July 15, 2013; Admt. 61-130A, 78 FR 44874, July 25, 2013; Amdt. 61-130B, 78 FR 77573, Dec. 24, 2013; Amdt. 61-142, 83 FR 30278, June 27, 2018; Amdt. 61-150, 87 FR 57590, Sept. 21, 2022; Docket FAA-2023-1351, Amdt. 61-156, 89 FR 80340, Oct. 2, 2024]
§ 61.160
Aeronautical experience—airplane category restricted privileges.
(a) Except for a person who has been removed from flying status for lack of proficiency or because of a disciplinary action involving aircraft operations, a U.S. military pilot or former U.S. military pilot may apply for an airline transport pilot certificate with an airplane category multiengine class rating or an airline transport pilot certificate concurrently with a multiengine airplane type rating with a minimum of 750 hours of total time as a pilot if the pilot presents:
(1) An official Form DD-214 (Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty) indicating that the person was honorably discharged from the U.S. Armed Forces or an official U.S. Armed Forces record that shows the pilot is currently serving in the U.S. Armed Forces; and
(2) An official U.S. Armed Forces record that shows the person graduated from a U.S. Armed Forces undergraduate pilot training school and received a rating qualification as a military pilot.
(b) A person may apply for an airline transport pilot certificate with an airplane category multiengine class rating or an airline transport pilot certificate concurrently with a multiengine airplane type rating with a minimum of 1,000 hours of total time as a pilot if the person:
(1) Holds a Bachelor's degree with an aviation major from an institution of higher education, as defined in § 61.1, that has been issued a letter of authorization by the Administrator under § 61.169;
(2) Completes 60 semester credit hours of aviation and aviation-related coursework that has been recognized by the Administrator as coursework designed to improve and enhance the knowledge and skills of a person seeking a career as a professional pilot;
(3) Holds a commercial pilot certificate with an airplane category and instrument rating if:
(i) The required ground training was completed as part of an approved part 141 curriculum at the institution of higher education; and
(ii) The required flight training was completed as part of an approved part 141 curriculum at the institution of higher education or at a part 141 pilot school that has a training agreement under § 141.26 of this chapter with the institution of higher education; and
(4) Presents official transcripts or other documentation acceptable to the Administrator from the institution of higher education certifying that the graduate has satisfied the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
(c) A person may apply for an airline transport pilot certificate with an airplane category multiengine class rating or an airline transport pilot certificate concurrently with a multiengine airplane type rating with a minimum of 1,250 hours of total time as a pilot if the person:
(1) Holds an Associate's degree with an aviation major from an institution of higher education, as defined in § 61.1, that has been issued a letter of authorization by the Administrator under § 61.169;
(2) Completes at least 30 semester credit hours of aviation and aviation-related coursework that has been recognized by the Administrator as coursework designed to improve and enhance the knowledge and skills of a person seeking a career as a professional pilot;
(3) Holds a commercial pilot certificate with an airplane category and instrument rating if:
(i) The required ground training was completed as part of an approved part 141 curriculum at the institution of higher education; and
(ii) The required flight training was completed as part of an approved part 141 curriculum at the institution of higher education or at a part 141 pilot school that has a written training agreement under § 141.26 of this chapter with the institution of higher education; and
(4) Presents official transcripts or other documentation acceptable to the Administrator from the institution of higher education certifying that the graduate has satisfied the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(d) A graduate of an institution of higher education who completes fewer than 60 semester credit hours but at least 30 credit hours and otherwise satisfies the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section may apply for an airline transport pilot certificate with an airplane category multiengine class rating or an airline transport pilot certificate concurrently with a multiengine airplane type rating with a minimum of 1,250 hours of total time as a pilot.
(e) A person who applies for an airline transport pilot certificate under the total flight times listed in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section must otherwise meet the aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.159, except that the person may apply for an airline transport pilot certificate with 200 hours of cross-country flight time.
(f) A person may apply for an airline transport pilot certificate with an airplane category multiengine class rating or an airline transport pilot certificate concurrently with a multiengine airplane type rating if the person has 1,500 hours total time as a pilot, 200 hours of cross-country flight time, and otherwise meets the aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.159.
(g) An airline transport pilot certificate obtained under this section is subject to the pilot in command limitations set forth in § 61.167(b) and must contain the following limitation, “Restricted in accordance with 14 CFR 61.167.” The pilot is entitled to an airline transport pilot certificate without the limitation specified in this paragraph when the applicant presents satisfactory evidence of having met the aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.159 and the age requirement of § 61.153(a)(1).
(h) An applicant who meets the aeronautical experience requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section is issued an airline transport pilot certificate with the limitation, “Holder does not meet the pilot in command aeronautical experience requirements of ICAO,” as prescribed under Article 39 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation if the applicant does not meet the ICAO requirements contained in Annex 1 “Personnel Licensing” to the Convention on International Civil Aviation. An applicant is entitled to an airline transport pilot certificate without the ICAO limitation specified under this paragraph when the applicant presents satisfactory evidence of having met the ICAO requirements and otherwise meets the aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.159.
[Docket FAA-2010-0100, 78 FR 42375, July 15, 2013, as amended by Amdt. 61-149, 86 FR 62087, Nov. 9, 2021]
§ 61.161
Aeronautical experience: Rotorcraft category and helicopter class rating.
(a) A person who is applying for an airline transport pilot certificate with a rotorcraft category and helicopter class rating, must have at least 1,200 hours of total time as a pilot that includes at least:
(1) 500 hours of cross-country flight time;
(2) 100 hours of night flight time, of which 15 hours are in helicopters;
(3) 200 hours of flight time in helicopters, which includes at least 75 hours as a pilot in command, or as second in command performing the duties of a pilot in command under the supervision of a pilot in command, or any combination thereof; and
(4) 75 hours of instrument flight time in actual or simulated instrument meteorological conditions, of which at least 50 hours are obtained in flight with at least 25 hours in helicopters as a pilot in command, or as second in command performing the duties of a pilot in command under the supervision of a pilot in command, or any combination thereof.
(b) Training in a full flight simulator or flight training device may be credited toward the instrument flight time requirements of paragraph (a)(4) of this section, subject to the following:
(1) Training in a full flight simulator or a flight training device must be accomplished in a full flight simulator or flight training device that represents a rotorcraft.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, an applicant may receive credit for not more than a total of 25 hours of simulated instrument time in a full flight simulator and flight training device.
(3) A maximum of 50 hours of training in a full flight simulator or flight training device may be credited toward the instrument flight time requirements of paragraph (a)(4) of this section if the aeronautical experience is accomplished in an approved course conducted by a training center certificated under part 142 of this chapter.
(c) Flight time logged under § 61.159(c) may be counted toward the 1,200 hours of total time as a pilot required by paragraph (a) of this section and the flight time requirements of paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (4) of this section, except for the specific helicopter flight time requirements.
(d) An applicant who credits time under paragraph (c) of this section and § 61.51(f)(4) is issued an airline transport pilot certificate with the limitation “Holder does not meet the pilot in command aeronautical experience requirements of ICAO,” as prescribed under Article 39 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation.
(e) An applicant is entitled to an airline transport pilot certificate without the ICAO limitation specified under paragraph (d) of this section when the applicant presents satisfactory evidence of having met the ICAO requirements under paragraph (d) of this section and otherwise meets the aeronautical experience requirements of this section.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40906, July 30, 1997; Amdt. 61-104, 63 FR 20289, Apr. 23, 1998; Docket FAA-2016-6142, Amdt. 61-142, 83 FR 30279, June 27, 2018; Docket FAA-2023-1351, Amdt. 61-156, 89 FR 80340, Oct. 2, 2024]
§ 61.163
Aeronautical experience: Powered-lift category rating.
(a) A person who is applying for an airline transport pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating must have at least 1,500 hours of total time as a pilot that includes at least:
(1) 500 hours of cross-country flight time;
(2) 100 hours of night flight time;
(3) 250 hours in a powered-lift as a pilot in command, or as a second in command performing the duties of a pilot in command under the supervision of a pilot in command, or any combination thereof, which includes at least—
(i) 100 hours of cross-country flight time; and
(ii) 25 hours of night flight time.
(4) 75 hours of instrument flight time in actual or simulated instrument conditions, subject to the following:
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, an applicant may not receive credit for more than a total of 25 hours of simulated instrument time in a flight simulator or flight training device.
(ii) A maximum of 50 hours of training in a flight simulator or flight training device may be credited toward the instrument flight time requirements of paragraph (a)(4) of this section if the training was accomplished in a course conducted by a training center certificated under part 142 of this chapter.
(iii) Training in a flight simulator or flight training device must be accomplished in a flight simulator or flight training device that represents a powered-lift.
(b) Not more than 100 hours of the total aeronautical experience requirements of paragraph (a) of this section may be obtained in a flight simulator or flight training device that represents a powered-lift, provided the aeronautical experience was obtained in an approved course conducted by a training center certificated under part 142 of this chapter.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40906, July 30, 1997; Amdt. 61-104, 63 FR 20289, Apr. 23, 1998]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 61.163 were published by Docket FAA-2023-1275, Amdt. 60-8, 89 FR 92485, Nov. 21, 2024, effective Jan. 21, 2025.
§ 61.165
Additional aircraft category and class ratings.
(a)
Rotorcraft category and helicopter class rating.
A person applying for an airline transport certificate with a rotorcraft category and helicopter class rating who holds an airline transport pilot certificate with another aircraft category rating must:
(1) Meet the eligibility requirements of § 61.153 of this part;
(2) Pass a knowledge test on the aeronautical knowledge areas of § 61.155(c) of this part;
(3) Comply with the requirements in § 61.157(b) of this part, if appropriate;
(4) Meet the applicable aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.161 of this part; and
(5) Pass the practical test on the areas of operation of § 61.157(e)(4) of this part.
(b)
Airplane category rating with a single-engine class rating.
A person applying for an airline transport certificate with an airplane category and single-engine class rating who holds an airline transport pilot certificate with another aircraft category rating must:
(1) Meet the eligibility requirements of § 61.153 of this part;
(2) Pass a knowledge test on the aeronautical knowledge areas of § 61.155(c) of this part;
(3) Comply with the requirements in § 61.157(b) of this part, if appropriate;
(4) Meet the applicable aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.159 of this part; and
(5) Pass the practical test on the areas of operation of § 61.157(e)(1) of this part.
(c)
Airplane category rating with a multiengine class rating.
A person applying for an airline transport certificate with an airplane category and multiengine class rating who holds an airline transport certificate with another aircraft category rating must:
(1) Meet the eligibility requirements of § 61.153 of this part;
(2) Successfully complete the airline transport pilot certification training program specified in § 61.156;
(3) Pass a knowledge test for an airplane category multiengine class rating or type rating on the aeronautical knowledge areas of § 61.155(c);
(4) Comply with the requirements in § 61.157(b) of this part, if appropriate;
(5) Meet the aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.159 or § 61.160; and
(6) Pass the practical test on the areas of operation of § 61.157(e)(2) of this part.
(d)
Powered-lift category.
A person applying for an airline transport pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating who holds an airline transport certificate with another aircraft category rating must:
(1) Meet the eligibility requirements of § 61.153 of this part;
(2) Pass a required knowledge test on the aeronautical knowledge areas of § 61.155(c) of this part;
(3) Comply with the requirements in § 61.157(b) of this part, if appropriate;
(4) Meet the applicable aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.163 of this part; and
(5) Pass the required practical test on the areas of operation of § 61.157(e)(3) of this part.
(e)
Additional class rating within the same aircraft category.
Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, a person applying for an airline transport pilot certificate with an additional class rating who holds an airline transport certificate in the same aircraft category must—
(1) Meet the eligibility requirements of § 61.153, except paragraph (g) of that section;
(2) Comply with the requirements in § 61.157(b) of this part, if applicable;
(3) Meet the applicable aeronautical experience requirements of subpart G of this part; and
(4) Pass a practical test on the areas of operation of § 61.157(e) appropriate to the aircraft rating sought.
(f)
Adding a multiengine class rating to an airline transport pilot certificate with a single engine class rating.
A person applying to add a multiengine class rating, or a multiengine class rating concurrently with a multiengine airplane type rating, to an airline transport pilot certificate with an airplane category single engine class rating must—
(1) Meet the eligibility requirements of § 61.153;
(2) Pass a required knowledge test on the aeronautical knowledge areas of § 61.155(c), as applicable to multiengine airplanes;
(3) Comply with the requirements in § 61.157(b), if applicable;
(4) Meet the applicable aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.159; and
(5) Pass a practical test on the areas of operation of § 61.157(e)(2).
(g)
Category class ratings for the operation of aircraft with experimental certificates.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section, a person holding an airline transport certificate may apply for a category and class rating limited to a specific make and model of experimental aircraft, provided—
(1) The person has logged at least 5 hours flight time while acting as pilot in command in the same category, class, make, and model of aircraft that has been issued an experimental certificate;
(2) The person has received a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor who has determined that he or she is proficient to act as pilot in command of the same category, class, make, and model of aircraft for which application is made; and
(3) The flight time specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section must be logged between September 1, 2004 and August 31, 2005.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40906, July 30, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 61-110, 69 FR 44869, July 27, 2004; Amdt. 61-130, 78 FR 42376, July 15, 2013; Amdt. 61-130B, 78 FR 77574, Dec. 24, 2013; Amdt. 61-130C, 81 FR 2, Jan. 4, 2016]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 61.165 were published by Docket FAA-2023-1275, Amdt. 60-8, 89 FR 92485, Nov. 21, 2024, effective Jan. 21, 2025.
§ 61.167
Airline transport pilot privileges and limitations.
(a)
Privileges.
(1) A person who holds an airline transport pilot certificate is entitled to the same privileges as a person who holds a commercial pilot certificate with an instrument rating.
(2) A person who holds an airline transport pilot certificate and has met the aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.159 or § 61.161, and the age requirements of § 61.153(a)(1) of this part may instruct—
(i) Other pilots in air transportation service in aircraft of the category, class, and type, as applicable, for which the airline transport pilot is rated and endorse the logbook or other training record of the person to whom training has been given;
(ii) In flight simulators, and flight training devices representing the aircraft referenced in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, when instructing under the provisions of this section and endorse the logbook or other training record of the person to whom training has been given;
(iii) Only as provided in this section, except that an airline transport pilot who also holds a flight instructor certificate can exercise the instructor privileges under subpart H of this part for which he or she is rated; and
(iv) In an aircraft, only if the aircraft has functioning dual controls, when instructing under the provisions of this section.
(3) Excluding briefings and debriefings, an airline transport pilot may not instruct in aircraft, flight
simulators, and flight training devices under this section—
(i) For more than 8 hours in any 24-consecutive-hour period; or
(ii) For more than 36 hours in any 7-consecutive-day period.
(4) An airline transport pilot may not instruct in Category II or Category III operations unless he or she has been trained and successfully tested under Category II or Category III operations, as applicable.
(b)
Limitations.
A person who holds an airline transport pilot certificate and has not satisfied the age requirement of § 61.153(a)(1) and the aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.159 may not:
(1) Act as pilot in command in operations conducted under part 121, § 91.1053(a)(2)(i), or § 135.243(a)(1) of this chapter, or
(2) Serve as second in command in flag or supplemental operations in part 121 of this chapter requiring three or more pilots.
[Docket FAA-2010-0100, 78 FR 42376, July 15, 2013, as amended by Amdt. 61-130B, 78 FR 77574, Dec. 24, 2013; Amdt. 61-130C, 81 FR 2, Jan. 4, 2016]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 61.167 were published by Docket FAA-2023-1275, Amdt. 60-8, 89 FR 92485, Nov. 21, 2024, effective Jan. 21, 2025.
§ 61.169
Letters of authorization for institutions of higher education.
(a) An institution of higher education that is accredited, as defined in § 61.1, may apply for a letter of authorization for the purpose of certifying its graduates for an airline transport pilot certificate under the academic and aeronautical experience requirements in § 61.160. The application must be in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator.
(b) An institution of higher education must comply with the provisions of the letter of authorization and may not certify a graduate unless it determines that the graduate has satisfied the requirements of § 61.160, as appropriate.
(c) The Administrator may rescind or amend a letter of authorization if the Administrator determines that the institution of higher education is not complying or is unable to comply with the provisions of the letter of authorization.
[Docket FAA-2010-0100, 78 FR 42377, July 15, 2013]
§§ 61.170-69.171
[Reserved]

# Subpart H—Flight Instructors Other than Flight Instructors With a Sport Pilot Rating
§ 61.181
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes the requirements for the issuance of flight instructor certificates and ratings (except for flight instructor certificates with a sport pilot rating), the conditions under which those certificates and ratings are necessary, and the limitations on those certificates and ratings.
[Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44869, July 27, 2004]
§ 61.183
Eligibility requirements.
To be eligible for a flight instructor certificate or rating a person must:
(a) Be at least 18 years of age;
(b) Be able to read, speak, write, and understand the English language. If the applicant is unable to meet one of these requirements due to medical reasons, then the Administrator may place such operating limitations on that applicant's flight instructor certificate as are necessary;
(c) Hold either a commercial pilot certificate or airline transport pilot certificate with:
(1) An aircraft category and class rating that is appropriate to the flight instructor rating sought; and
(2) An instrument rating, or privileges on that person's pilot certificate that are appropriate to the flight instructor rating sought, if applying for—
(i) A flight instructor certificate with an airplane category and single-engine class rating;
(ii) A flight instructor certificate with an airplane category and multiengine class rating;
(iii) A flight instructor certificate with a powered-lift rating; or
(iv) A flight instructor certificate with an instrument rating.
(d) Receive a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor on the fundamentals of instructing listed in § 61.185 of this part appropriate to the required knowledge test;
(e) Pass a knowledge test on the areas listed in § 61.185(a)(1) of this part, unless the applicant:
(1) Holds a flight instructor certificate or ground instructor certificate issued under this part;
(2) Holds a teacher's certificate issued by a State, county, city, or municipality that authorizes the person to teach at an educational level of the 7th grade or higher; or
(3) Is employed as a teacher at an accredited college or university.
(f) Pass a knowledge test on the aeronautical knowledge areas listed in § 61.185(a)(2) and (a)(3) of this part that are appropriate to the flight instructor rating sought;
(g) Receive a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor on the areas of operation listed in § 61.187(b) of this part, appropriate to the flight instructor rating sought;
(h) Pass the required practical test that is appropriate to the flight instructor rating sought in an:
(1) Aircraft that is representative of the category and class of aircraft for the aircraft rating sought; or
(2) Flight simulator or approved flight training device that is representative of the category and class of aircraft for the rating sought, and used in accordance with a course at a training center certificated under part 142 of this chapter.
(i) Accomplish the following for a flight instructor certificate with an airplane or a glider rating:
(1) Receive a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor indicating that the applicant is competent and possesses instructional proficiency in stall awareness, spin entry, spins, and spin recovery procedures after providing the applicant with flight training in those training areas in an airplane or glider, as appropriate, that is certificated for spins; and
(2) Demonstrate instructional proficiency in stall awareness, spin entry, spins, and spin recovery procedures. However, upon presentation of the endorsement specified in paragraph (i)(1) of this section an examiner may accept that endorsement as satisfactory evidence of instructional proficiency in stall awareness, spin entry, spins, and spin recovery procedures for the practical test, provided that the practical test is not a retest as a result of the applicant failing the previous test for deficiencies in the knowledge or skill of stall awareness, spin entry, spins, or spin recovery instructional procedures. If the retest is a result of deficiencies in the ability of an applicant to demonstrate knowledge or skill of stall awareness, spin entry, spins, or spin recovery instructional procedures, the examiner must test the person on stall awareness, spin entry, spins, and spin recovery instructional procedures in an airplane or glider, as appropriate, that is certificated for spins;
(j) Log at least 15 hours as pilot in command in the category and class of aircraft that is appropriate to the flight instructor rating sought; and
(k) Comply with the appropriate sections of this part that apply to the flight instructor rating sought.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40907, July 30, 1997; Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42561, Aug. 21, 2009]
§ 61.185
Aeronautical knowledge.
(a) A person who is applying for a flight instructor certificate must receive and log ground training from an authorized instructor on:
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the fundamentals of instructing, including:
(i) The learning process;
(ii) Elements of effective teaching;
(iii) Student evaluation and testing;
(iv) Course development;
(v) Lesson planning; and
(vi) Classroom training techniques.
(2) The aeronautical knowledge areas for a recreational, private, and commercial pilot certificate applicable to the aircraft category for which flight instructor privileges are sought; and
(3) The aeronautical knowledge areas for the instrument rating applicable to the category for which instrument flight instructor privileges are sought.
(b) The following applicants do not need to comply with paragraph (a)(1) of this section:
(1) The holder of a flight instructor certificate or ground instructor certificate issued under this part;
(2) The holder of a current teacher's certificate issued by a State, county, city, or municipality that authorizes the person to teach at an educational level of the 7th grade or higher; or
(3) A person employed as a teacher at an accredited college or university.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40907, July 30, 1997]
§ 61.187
Flight proficiency.
(a)
General.
A person who is applying for a flight instructor certificate must receive and log flight and ground training from an authorized instructor on the areas of operation listed in this section that apply to the flight instructor rating sought. The applicant's logbook must contain an endorsement from an authorized instructor certifying that the person is proficient to pass a practical test on those areas of operation.
(b)
Areas of operation.
(1) For an airplane category rating with a single-engine class rating:
(i) Fundamentals of instructing;
(ii) Technical subject areas;
(iii) Preflight preparation;
(iv) Preflight lesson on a maneuver to be performed in flight;
(v) Preflight procedures;
(vi) Airport and seaplane base operations;
(vii) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(viii) Fundamentals of flight;
(ix) Performance maneuvers;
(x) Ground reference maneuvers;
(xi) Slow flight, stalls, and spins;
(xii) Basic instrument maneuvers;
(xiii) Emergency operations; and
(xiv) Postflight procedures.
(2) For an airplane category rating with a multiengine class rating:
(i) Fundamentals of instructing;
(ii) Technical subject areas;
(iii) Preflight preparation;
(iv) Preflight lesson on a maneuver to be performed in flight;
(v) Preflight procedures;
(vi) Airport and seaplane base operations;
(vii) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(viii) Fundamentals of flight;
(ix) Performance maneuvers;
(x) Ground reference maneuvers;
(xi) Slow flight and stalls;
(xii) Basic instrument maneuvers;
(xiii) Emergency operations;
(xiv) Multiengine operations; and
(xv) Postflight procedures.
(3) For a rotorcraft category rating with a helicopter class rating:
(i) Fundamentals of instructing;
(ii) Technical subject areas;
(iii) Preflight preparation;
(iv) Preflight lesson on a maneuver to be performed in flight;
(v) Preflight procedures;
(vi) Airport and heliport operations;
(vii) Hovering maneuvers;
(viii) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(ix) Fundamentals of flight;
(x) Performance maneuvers;
(xi) Emergency operations;
(xii) Special operations; and
(xiii) Postflight procedures.
(4) For a rotorcraft category rating with a gyroplane class rating:
(i) Fundamentals of instructing;
(ii) Technical subject areas;
(iii) Preflight preparation;
(iv) Preflight lesson on a maneuver to be performed in flight;
(v) Preflight procedures;
(vi) Airport operations;
(vii) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(viii) Fundamentals of flight;
(ix) Performance maneuvers;
(x) Flight at slow airspeeds;
(xi) Ground reference maneuvers;
(xii) Emergency operations; and
(xiii) Postflight procedures.
(5) For a powered-lift category rating:
(i) Fundamentals of instructing;
(ii) Technical subject areas;
(iii) Preflight preparation;
(iv) Preflight lesson on a maneuver to be performed in flight;
(v) Preflight procedures;
(vi) Airport and heliport operations;
(vii) Hovering maneuvers;
(viii) Takeoffs, landings, and go-arounds;
(ix) Fundamentals of flight;
(x) Performance maneuvers;
(xi) Ground reference maneuvers;
(xii) Slow flight and stalls;
(xiii) Basic instrument maneuvers;
(xiv) Emergency operations;
(xv) Special operations; and
(xvi) Postflight procedures.
(6) For a glider category rating:
(i) Fundamentals of instructing;
(ii) Technical subject areas;
(iii) Preflight preparation;
(iv) Preflight lesson on a maneuver to be performed in flight;
(v) Preflight procedures;
(vi) Airport and gliderport operations;
(vii) Launches and landings;
(viii) Fundamentals of flight;
(ix) Performance speeds;
(x) Soaring techniques;
(xi) Performance maneuvers;
(xii) Slow flight, stalls, and spins;
(xiii) Emergency operations; and
(xiv) Postflight procedures.
(7) For an instrument rating with the appropriate aircraft category and class rating:
(i) Fundamentals of instructing;
(ii) Technical subject areas;
(iii) Preflight preparation;
(iv) Preflight lesson on a maneuver to be performed in flight;
(v) Air traffic control clearances and procedures;
(vi) Flight by reference to instruments;
(vii) Navigation aids;
(viii) Instrument approach procedures;
(ix) Emergency operations; and
(x) Postflight procedures.
(c) The flight training required by this section may be accomplished:
(1) In an aircraft that is representative of the category and class of aircraft for the rating sought; or
(2) In a flight simulator or flight training device representative of the category and class of aircraft for the rating sought, and used in accordance with an approved course at a training center certificated under part 142 of this chapter.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40907, July 30, 1997; Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42561, Aug. 21, 2009]
§ 61.189
Flight instructor records.
(a) A flight instructor must sign the logbook of each person to whom that instructor has given flight training or ground training.
(b) A flight instructor must maintain a record in a logbook or a separate document that contains the following:
(1) The name of each person whose logbook that instructor has endorsed for solo flight privileges, and the date of the endorsement; and
(2) The name of each person that instructor has endorsed for a knowledge test or practical test, and the record shall also indicate the kind of test, the date, and the results.
(c) Each flight instructor must retain the records required by this section for at least 3 years.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997, as amended by Docket FAA-2010-1127, Amdt. 61-135, 81 FR 1306, Jan. 12, 2016]
§ 61.191
Additional flight instructor ratings.
(a) A person who applies for an additional flight instructor rating on a flight instructor certificate must meet the eligibility requirements listed in § 61.183 of this part that apply to the flight instructor rating sought.
(b) A person who applies for an additional rating on a flight instructor certificate is not required to pass the knowledge test on the areas listed in § 61.185(a)(1) of this part.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40907, July 30, 1997]
§ 61.193
Flight instructor privileges.
(a) A person who holds a flight instructor certificate is authorized within the limitations of that person's flight instructor certificate and ratings to conduct ground training, flight training, certain checking events, and to issue endorsements related to:
(1) A student pilot certificate;
(2) A pilot certificate;
(3) A flight instructor certificate;
(4) A ground instructor certificate;
(5) An aircraft rating;
(6) An instrument rating;
(7) A flight review, operating privilege, or recency of experience requirement of this part, or training to maintain or improve the skills of a certificated pilot;
(8) A practical test; and
(9) A knowledge test.
(b) A person who holds a flight instructor certificate is authorized, in a
form and manner acceptable to the Administrator, to:
(1) Accept an application for a student pilot certificate or, for an applicant who holds a pilot certificate (other than a student pilot certificate) issued under part 61 of this chapter and meets the flight review requirements specified in § 61.56, a remote pilot certificate with a small UAS rating;
(2) Verify the identity of the applicant; and
(3) Verify that an applicant for a student pilot certificate meets the eligibility requirements in § 61.83 or an applicant for a remote pilot certificate with a small UAS rating meets the eligibility requirements in § 107.61 of this chapter.
(c) The privileges authorized in this section do not permit a person who holds a flight instructor certificate to conduct operations that would otherwise require an air carrier or operating certificate or specific authorization from the Administrator.
[Docket FAA-2010-1127, Amdt. 61-135, 81 FR 1306, Jan. 12, 2016, as amended by Docket FAA-2015-0150, Amdt. 61-137, 81 FR 42208, June 28, 2016; Docket FAA-2023-1351, Amdt. 61-156, 89 FR 80340, Oct. 2, 2024]
§ 61.195
Flight instructor limitations and qualifications.
A person who holds a flight instructor certificate is subject to the following limitations:
(a)
Hours of training.
In any 24-consecutive-hour period, a flight instructor may not conduct more than 8 hours of flight training.
(b)
Aircraft ratings.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a flight instructor may not conduct flight training in any aircraft unless the flight instructor:
(1) Holds a flight instructor certificate with the applicable category and class rating;
(2) Holds a pilot certificate with the applicable category and class rating; and
(3) Meets the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section, if applicable.
(c)
Instrument rating.
A flight instructor may conduct instrument training for the issuance of an instrument rating, a type rating not limited to VFR, or the instrument training required for commercial pilot and airline transport pilot certificates if the following requirements are met:
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the flight instructor must hold an instrument rating appropriate to the aircraft used for the instrument training on his or her flight instructor certificate, and—
(i) Meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section; or
(ii) Hold a commercial pilot certificate or airline transport pilot certificate with the appropriate category and class ratings for the aircraft in which the instrument training is conducted provided the pilot receiving instrument training holds a pilot certificate with category and class ratings appropriate to the aircraft in which the instrument training is being conducted.
(2) If the flight instructor is conducting the instrument training in a multiengine airplane, the flight instructor must hold an instrument rating appropriate to the aircraft used for the instrument training on his or her flight instructor certificate and meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Limitations on endorsements.
A flight instructor may not endorse a:
(1) Student pilot's logbook for solo flight privileges, unless that flight instructor has—
(i) Given that student the flight training required for solo flight privileges required by this part; and
(ii) Determined that the student is prepared to conduct the flight safely under known circumstances, subject to any limitations listed in the student's logbook that the instructor considers necessary for the safety of the flight.
(2) Student pilot's logbook for a solo cross-country flight, unless that flight instructor has determined the student's flight preparation, planning, equipment, and proposed procedures are adequate for the proposed flight under the existing conditions and within any limitations listed in the logbook that the instructor considers necessary for the safety of the flight;
(3) Student pilot's logbook for solo flight in a Class B airspace area or at an airport within Class B airspace unless that flight instructor has—
(i) Given that student ground and flight training in that Class B airspace or at that airport; and
(ii) Determined that the student is proficient to operate the aircraft safely.
(4) Logbook of a recreational pilot, unless that flight instructor has—
(i) Given that pilot the ground and flight training required by this part; and
(ii) Determined that the recreational pilot is proficient to operate the aircraft safely.
(5) Logbook of a pilot for a flight review, unless that instructor has conducted a review of that pilot in accordance with the requirements of § 61.56(a) of this part; or
(6) Logbook of a pilot for an instrument proficiency check, unless that instructor has tested that pilot in accordance with the requirements of § 61.57(d) of this part.
(e)
Training in an aircraft that requires a type rating.
A flight instructor may not give flight instruction, including instrument training, in an aircraft that requires the pilot in command to hold a type rating unless the flight instructor holds a type rating for that aircraft on his or her pilot certificate.
(f)
Training received in a multiengine airplane, a helicopter, or a powered-lift.
A flight instructor may not give training required for the issuance of a certificate or rating in a multiengine airplane, a helicopter, or a powered-lift unless that flight instructor has at least 5 flight hours of pilot-in-command time in the specific make and model of multiengine airplane, helicopter, or powered-lift, as appropriate.
(g)
Position in aircraft and required pilot stations for providing flight training.
(1) A flight instructor must perform all training from in an aircraft that complies with the requirements of § 91.109 of this chapter.
(2) A flight instructor who provides flight training for a pilot certificate or rating issued under this part must provide that flight training in an aircraft that meets the following requirements—
(i) The aircraft must have at least two pilot stations and be of the same category, class, and type, if appropriate, that applies to the pilot certificate or rating sought.
(ii) For single-place aircraft, the pre-solo flight training must have been provided in an aircraft that has two pilot stations and is of the same category, class, and type, if appropriate.
(h)
Qualifications to provide ground or flight training to initial flight instructor applicants
—(1)
Ground training.
The ground training provided to an initial applicant for a flight instructor certificate must be given by an authorized instructor who—
(i) Holds a ground or flight instructor certificate with the appropriate rating, has held that certificate for at least 24 calendar months, and has given at least 40 hours of ground training; or
(ii) Holds a ground or flight instructor certificate with the appropriate rating, and has given at least 100 hours of ground training in an FAA-approved course.
(2)
Flight training.
A flight instructor who provides flight training to an initial applicant for a flight instructor certificate must meet the eligibility requirements prescribed in § 61.183; hold the appropriate flight instructor certificate and rating; meet the requirements of the part under which the flight training is provided; and meet one of the following requirements—
(i) Have held a flight instructor certificate for at least 24 calendar months; and
(A) For training in preparation for an airplane, rotorcraft, or powered-lift rating, have given at least 200 hours of flight training as a flight instructor; or
(B) For training in preparation for a glider rating, have given at least 80 hours of flight training as a flight instructor;
(ii) Have trained and endorsed, during the preceding 24 calendar months, at least five applicants for a practical test for a pilot certificate or rating, and at least 80 percent of all applicants endorsed in that period passed that test on their first attempt; or
(iii) After completing the flight training requirements in paragraph (h)(2)(i)(A) or (B) of this section, as appropriate, have graduated from an FAA-approved flight instructor enhanced qualification training program
that satisfies the requirements specified in paragraph (h)(3) of this section.
(3)
Flight instructor enhanced qualification training program.
A flight instructor enhanced qualification training program must be approved and conducted under part 141 or 142 of this chapter, and meet the following requirements-
(i) The ground training must include at least 25 hours of instruction that includes the following subjects:
(A) Flight instructor responsibilities, functions, lesson planning, and risk management, including how to instruct an initial flight instructor applicant on these subjects.
(B) Teaching methods, procedures, and techniques applicable to instructing an initial flight instructor applicant.
(C) Methods of proper evaluation of an initial flight instructor applicant to detect improper and insufficient transfer of instructional knowledge, training, and performance of the initial flight instructor applicant.
(D) Corrective action in the case of unsatisfactory training progress.
(ii) The flight training must include at least 10 hours of training that includes the following areas:
(A) Scenario-based training to develop the flight instructor's ability to instruct an initial flight instructor applicant how to satisfactorily perform the procedures and maneuvers while giving effective flight training.
(B) Instructional knowledge and proficiency to teach an initial flight instructor applicant in abnormal and emergency procedures, which must include stall awareness, spin entry, spins, and spin recovery procedures, if applicable to the category and class of aircraft used in the flight instructor enhanced qualification training program.
(C) Risk management and potential results of improper, untimely, or non-execution of safety measures critical to flight training.
(D) Methods of proper evaluation of an initial flight instructor applicant to detect improper and insufficient transfer of instructional knowledge, training, and performance of the initial flight instructor applicant.
(E) Corrective action in the case of unsatisfactory training progress.
(F) Methods to detect personal characteristics of an initial flight instructor applicant that could adversely affect safety.
(iii) Each flight instructor enrolled in the flight instructor enhanced qualification training program must satisfactorily complete an end-of-course written test specific to the ground training subjects in paragraph (h)(3)(i) of this section and an end-of-course instructional proficiency flight test specific to the flight training areas in paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section.
(iv) A full flight simulator or flight training device may be used to meet the flight training requirements of paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section. The FFS or FTD must be—
(A) Qualified and maintained in accordance with part 60 of this chapter, or a previously qualified device as permitted in accordance with § 60.17 of this chapter;
(B) Approved by the Administrator pursuant to § 61.4(a); and
(C) Used in accordance with the part under which the FAA-approved course is conducted.
(v) A maximum of 5 hours of training received in an advanced aviation training device may be used to meet the flight training requirements of paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section for part 141 flight instructor enhanced qualification training programs. The advanced aviation training device must be-
(A) Approved by the Administrator pursuant to § 61.4(c); and
(B) Used in accordance with part 141 of this chapter.
(vi) No certificate holder may use a person, nor may any person serve, as an instructor of the flight instructor enhanced qualification training program unless the instructor holds a flight instructor certificate or ground instructor certificate and meets one of the following qualifications:
(A) Serves as a chief instructor or assistant chief instructor in a part 141 pilot school;
(B) Serves as a training center program manager or assistant training center program manager of a part 142 training center; or
(C) Meets the qualifications of an assistant chief instructor, pursuant to § 141.36(d).
(vii) A part 141 pilot school or part 142 training center must issue a graduation certificate to each flight instructor who successfully completes the flight instructor enhanced qualification training program.
(i)
Prohibition against self-endorsements.
A flight instructor shall not make any self-endorsement for a certificate, rating, flight review, authorization, operating privilege, practical test, or knowledge test that is required by this part.
(j)
Additional qualifications required to give training in Category II or Category III operations.
A flight instructor may not give training in Category II or Category III operations unless the flight instructor has been trained and tested in Category II or Category III operations, pursuant to § 61.67 or § 61.68 of this part, as applicable.
(k)
Training for night vision goggle operations.
A flight instructor may not conduct training for night vision goggle operations unless the flight instructor:
(1) Has a pilot and flight instructor certificate with the applicable category and class rating for the training;
(2) If appropriate, has a type rating on his or her pilot certificate for the aircraft;
(3) Is pilot in command qualified for night vision goggle operations, in accordance with § 61.31(k);
(4) Has logged 100 night vision goggle operations as the sole manipulator of the controls;
(5) Has logged 20 night vision goggle operations as the sole manipulator of the controls in the category and class, and type of aircraft, if aircraft class and type is appropriate, that the training will be given in;
(6) Is qualified to act as pilot in command in night vision goggle operations under § 61.57(f) or (g); and
(7) Has a logbook endorsement from an FAA Aviation Safety Inspector or a person who is authorized by the FAA to provide that logbook endorsement that states the flight instructor is authorized to perform the night vision goggle pilot in command qualification and recent flight experience requirements under § 61.31(k) and § 61.57(f) and (g).
(l)
Training on control and maneuvering an aircraft solely by reference to the instruments.
A flight instructor may conduct flight training on control and maneuvering an airplane solely by reference to the flight instruments, provided the flight instructor—
(1) Holds a flight instructor certificate with the applicable category and class rating; or
(2) Holds an instrument rating appropriate to the aircraft used for the training on his or her flight instructor certificate, and holds a commercial pilot certificate or airline transport pilot certificate with the appropriate category and class ratings for the aircraft in which the training is conducted provided the pilot receiving the training holds a pilot certificate with category and class ratings appropriate to the aircraft in which the training is being conducted.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40907, July 30, 1997; Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42561, Aug. 21, 2009; Docket FAA-2010-1127, Amdt. 61-135, 81 FR 1307, Jan. 12, 2016; Docket FAA-2016-6142, Amdt. 61-142, 83 FR 30729, June 27, 2018; Docket FAA-2023-0825, Amdt. 61-155, 89 FR 80051, Oct. 1, 2024]
§ 61.197
Recent experience requirements for flight instructor certification.
(a) A person may exercise the privileges of the person's flight instructor certificate only if, within the preceding 24 calendar months, that person has satisfied one of the recent experience requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The 24 calendar month period during which the flight instructor must establish recent experience shall start from one of the following—
(1) The month the FAA issued the flight instructor certificate;
(2) The month the recent experience requirements of paragraph (b) of this section are accomplished; or
(3) The last month of the flight instructor's current recent experience period provided the recent experience requirements of paragraph (b) of this section are accomplished within the 3 calendar months preceding the last month of the certificate holder's current recent experience period.
(b) A person who holds a flight instructor certificate may establish recent experience by satisfying one of the following requirements—
(1) Passing a practical test for—
(i) One of the ratings listed on the flight instructor certificate; or
(ii) An additional flight instructor rating; or
(2) Satisfactorily completing one of the following recent experience requirements, and submitting documentation of such in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator—
(i) During the preceding 24 calendar months, the flight instructor has endorsed at least 5 applicants for a practical test for a certificate or rating and at least 80 percent of all applicants endorsed passed that test on the first attempt.
(ii) Within the preceding 24 calendar months, the flight instructor has served as a company check pilot, chief flight instructor, company check airman, or flight instructor in a part 121 or 135 operation, or in a position involving the regular evaluation of pilots.
(iii) Within the preceding 3 calendar months, the person has successfully completed an approved flight instructor refresher course consisting of ground training or flight training, or a combination of both.
(iv) Within the preceding 24 calendar months from the month of application, the flight instructor passed an official U.S. Armed Forces military instructor pilot or pilot examiner proficiency check in an aircraft for which the military instructor already holds a rating or in an aircraft for an additional rating.
(v) Within the preceding 24 calendar months from the month of application, the flight instructor has served as a flight instructor in an FAA-sponsored pilot proficiency program, provided the flight instructor meets the following requirements—
(A) Holds a flight instructor certificate and meets the appropriate flight instructor recent experience requirements of this part;
(B) Has satisfactorily completed at least one phase of an FAA-sponsored pilot proficiency program in the preceding 12 calendar months; and
(C) Has conducted at least 15 flight activities recognized under the FAA-sponsored pilot proficiency program, during which the flight instructor evaluated at least 5 different pilots and has made the necessary endorsements in the logbooks of each pilot for each activity.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, a person who fails to establish recent experience in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section during the 24 calendar month period specified in paragraph (a) of this section may not exercise flight instructor privileges until those privileges are reinstated in accordance with § 61.199.
(d) The practical test required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be accomplished in a full flight simulator or flight training device if the test is accomplished pursuant to an approved course conducted by a training center certificated under part 142 of this chapter.
(e) A person who holds an unexpired flight instructor certificate issued before December 1, 2024, may renew that certificate by establishing recent experience in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section prior to the month of expiration on that person's flight instructor certificate. Except as provided in § 61.40, if that person fails to establish recent experience prior to the expiration of that person's flight instructor certificate, that person may not exercise flight instructor privileges until those privileges are reinstated in accordance with § 61.199.
(f) A person who qualifies for the relief prescribed in § 61.40 may establish recent experience in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, provided the requirements of § 61.40 are met.
[Docket FAA-2023-0825, Amdt. 61-155, 89 FR 80051, Oct. 1, 2024]
§ 61.199
Reinstatement of flight instructor privileges.
(a)
Flight instructor privileges.
The holder of a flight instructor certificate who has not complied with the flight instructor recent experience requirements of § 61.197 may reinstate their flight instructor privileges by filing a completed and signed application with the FAA and satisfactorily completing
one of the following reinstatement requirements:
(1) If 3 calendar months or less have passed since the last month of the flight instructor's recent experience period, the flight instructor may successfully complete an approved flight instructor refresher course consisting of ground training or flight training, or a combination of both, or satisfy one of the requirements specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2) If more than 3 calendar months have passed since the last month of the flight instructor's recent experience period, the flight instructor must satisfactorily complete one of the following:
(i) A flight instructor certification practical test, as prescribed by § 61.183(h), for one of the ratings held on the flight instructor certificate; or
(ii) A flight instructor certification practical test for an additional rating.
(3) For military instructor pilots and pilot examiners, provide a record showing that, within the preceding 6 calendar months from the date of application for reinstatement, the person—
(i) Passed a U.S. Armed Forces instructor pilot or pilot examiner proficiency check; or
(ii) Completed a U.S. Armed Forces instructor pilot or pilot examiner training course and received an additional aircraft qualification as a military instructor pilot or pilot examiner that is appropriate to the flight instructor rating sought.
(b)
Flight instructor ratings.
(1) A flight instructor rating or a limited flight instructor rating on a pilot certificate is no longer valid and may not be exchanged for a similar rating or a flight instructor certificate.
(2) The holder of a flight instructor rating or a limited flight instructor rating on a pilot certificate may be issued a flight instructor certificate with the current ratings, but only if the person passes the required knowledge and practical test prescribed in this subpart for the issuance of the current flight instructor certificate and rating.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 61-104, 63 FR 20289, Apr. 23, 1998; Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42562, Aug. 21, 2009; Amdt. 61-142, 83 FR 30279, June 27, 2018; Docket FAA-2023-0825, Amdt. 61-155, 89 FR 80052, Oct. 1, 2024]
§ 61.201
[Reserved]

# Subpart I—Ground Instructors
§ 61.211
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes the requirements for the issuance of ground instructor certificates and ratings, the conditions under which those certificates and ratings are necessary, and the limitations upon those certificates and ratings.
§ 61.213
Eligibility requirements.
(a) To be eligible for a ground instructor certificate or rating a person must:
(1) Be at least 18 years of age;
(2) Be able to read, write, speak, and understand the English language. If the applicant is unable to meet one of these requirements due to medical reasons, then the Administrator may place such operating limitations on that applicant's ground instructor certificate as are necessary;
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, pass a knowledge test on the fundamentals of instructing to include—
(i) The learning process;
(ii) Elements of effective teaching;
(iii) Student evaluation and testing;
(iv) Course development;
(v) Lesson planning; and
(vi) Classroom training techniques.
(4) Pass a knowledge test on the aeronautical knowledge areas in—
(i) For a basic ground instructor rating §§ 61.97, 61.105, and 61.309;
(ii) For an advanced ground instructor rating §§ 61.97, 61.105, 61.125, 61.155, and 61.309; and
(iii) For an instrument ground instructor rating, § 61.65.
(b) The knowledge test specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section is not required if the applicant:
(1) Holds a ground instructor certificate or flight instructor certificate issued under this part;
(2) Holds a teacher's certificate issued by a State, county, city, or municipality that authorizes the person to teach at an educational level of the 7th grade or higher; or
(3) Is employed as a teacher at an accredited college or university.
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 61-110, 69 FR 44869, July 27, 2004; Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42562, Aug. 21, 2009]
§ 61.215
Ground instructor privileges.
(a) A person who holds a basic ground instructor rating is authorized to provide—
(1) Ground training in the aeronautical knowledge areas required for the issuance of a sport pilot certificate, recreational pilot certificate, private pilot certificate, or associated ratings under this part;
(2) Ground training required for a sport pilot, recreational pilot, and private pilot flight review; and
(3) A recommendation for a knowledge test required for the issuance of a sport pilot certificate, recreational pilot certificate, or private pilot certificate under this part.
(b) A person who holds an advanced ground instructor rating is authorized to provide:
(1) Ground training on the aeronautical knowledge areas required for the issuance of any certificate or rating under this part except for the aeronautical knowledge areas required for an instrument rating.
(2) The ground training required for any flight review except for the training required for an instrument rating.
(3) A recommendation for a knowledge test required for the issuance of any certificate or rating under this part except for an instrument rating.
(c) A person who holds an instrument ground instructor rating is authorized to provide:
(1) Ground training in the aeronautical knowledge areas required for the issuance of an instrument rating under this part;
(2) Ground training required for an instrument proficiency check; and
(3) A recommendation for a knowledge test required for the issuance of an instrument rating under this part.
(d) A person who holds a ground instructor certificate is authorized, within the limitations of the ratings on the ground instructor certificate, to endorse the logbook or other training record of a person to whom the holder has provided the training or recommendation specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(e) Ground training provided to an initial applicant for a flight instructor certificate may only be provided by an authorized instructor in accordance with § 61.195(h)(1).
[Docket 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 61-110, 69 FR 44869, July 27, 2004; Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42562, Aug. 21, 2009; Docket FAA-2023-0825, Amdt. 61-155, 89 FR 80052, Oct. 1, 2024]
§ 61.217
Recent experience requirements.
The holder of a ground instructor certificate may not perform the duties of a ground instructor unless the person can show that one of the following occurred during the preceding 12 calendar months:
(a) Employment or activity as a ground instructor giving pilot, flight instructor, or ground instructor training;
(b) Employment or activity as a flight instructor giving pilot, flight instructor, or ground instructor ground or flight training;
(c) Completion of an approved flight instructor refresher course and receipt of a graduation certificate for that course; or
(d) An endorsement from an authorized instructor certifying that the person has demonstrated knowledge in the subject areas prescribed under § 61.213(a)(3) and (a)(4), as appropriate.
[Docket FAA-2006-26661, 74 FR 42562, Aug. 21, 2009]

# Subpart J—Sport Pilots

# Source:
Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44869, July 27, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 61.301
What is the purpose of this subpart and to whom does it apply?
(a) This subpart prescribes the following requirements that apply to a sport pilot certificate:
(1) Eligibility.
(2) Aeronautical knowledge.
(3) Flight proficiency.
(4) Aeronautical experience.
(5) Endorsements.
(6) Privileges and limits.
(b) Other provisions of this part apply to the logging of flight time and testing.
(c) This subpart applies to applicants for, and holders of, sport pilot certificates. It also applies to holders of recreational pilot certificates and higher, as provided in § 61.303.
[Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44869, July 27, 2004, as amended by Amdt. 61-125, 75 FR 5221, Feb. 1, 2010]
§ 61.303
If I want to operate a light-sport aircraft, what operating limits and endorsement requirements in this subpart must I comply with?
(a) Use the following table to determine what operating limits and endorsement requirements in this subpart, if any, apply to you when you operate a light-sport aircraft. The medical certificate specified in this table must be in compliance with § 61.2 in regards to currency and validity. If you hold a recreational pilot certificate, but not a medical certificate, you must comply with cross country requirements in § 61.101 (c), even if your flight does not exceed 50 nautical miles from your departure airport. You must also comply with requirements in other subparts of this part that apply to your certificate and the operation you conduct.
If you hold
And you hold
Then you may operate
And
(1) A medical certificate
(i) A sport pilot certificate,
(A) Any light-sport aircraft for which you hold the endorsements required for its category and class
(
1
) You must hold any other endorsements required by this subpart, and comply with the limitations in § 61.315.
(ii) At least a recreational pilot certificate with a category and class rating,
(A) Any light-sport aircraft in that category and class,
(
1
) You do not have to hold any of the endorsements required by this subpart, nor do you have to comply with the limitations in § 61.315.
(iii) At least a recreational pilot certificate but not a rating for the category and class of light sport aircraft you operate,
(A) That light-sport aircraft, only if you hold the endorsements required in § 61.321 for its category and class,
(
1
) You must comply with the limitations in § 61.315, except § 61.315(c)(14) and, if a private pilot or higher, § 61.315(c)(7).
(2) Only a U.S. driver's license
(i) A sport pilot certificate,
(A) Any light-sport aircraft for which you hold the endorsements required for its category and class.
(
1
) You must hold any other endorsements required by this subpart, and comply with the limitations in § 61.315.
(ii) At least a recreational pilot certificate with a category and class rating,
(A) Any light-sport aircraft in that category and class,
(
1
) You do not have to hold any of the endorsements required by this subpart, but you must comply with the limitations in § 61.315.
(iii) At least a recreational pilot certificate but not a rating for the category and class of light-sport aircraft you operate,
(A) That light-sport aircraft, only if you hold the endorsements required in § 61.321 for its category and class,
(
1
) You must comply with the limitations in § 61.315, except § 61.315(c)(14) and, if a private pilot or higher, § 61.315(c)(7).
(3) Neither a medical certificate nor a U.S. driver's license
(i) A sport pilot certificate,
(A) Any light-sport glider or balloon for which you hold the endorsements required for its category and class
(
1
) You must hold any other endorsements required by this subpart, and comply with the limitations in § 61.315.
(ii) At least a private pilot certificate with a category and class rating for glider or balloon,
(A) Any light-sport glider or balloon in that category and class
(
1
) You do not have to hold any of the endorsements required by this subpart, nor do you have to comply with the limitations in § 61.315.
(iii) At least a private pilot certificate but not a rating for glider or balloon,
(A) Any light-sport glider or balloon, only if you hold the endorsements required in § 61.321 for its category and class
(
1
) You must comply with the limitations in § 61.315, except § 61.315(c)(14) and, if a private pilot or higher, § 61.315(c)(7).
(b) A person using a U.S. driver's license to meet the requirements of this paragraph must—
(1) Comply with each restriction and limitation imposed by that person's U.S. driver's license and any judicial or administrative order applying to the operation of a motor vehicle;
(2) Have been found eligible for the issuance of at least a third-class airman medical certificate at the time of his or her most recent application (if the person has applied for a medical certificate);
(3) Not have had his or her most recently issued medical certificate (if the person has held a medical certificate) suspended or revoked or most recent Authorization for a Special Issuance of a Medical Certificate withdrawn; and
(4) Not know or have reason to know of any medical condition that would make that person unable to operate a light-sport aircraft in a safe manner.
[Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44869, July 27, 2004, as amended by Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42562, Aug. 21, 2009; Amdt. 61-125, 75 FR 5221, Feb. 1, 2010]
§ 61.305
What are the age and language requirements for a sport pilot certificate?
(a) To be eligible for a sport pilot certificate you must:
(1) Be at least 17 years old (or 16 years old if you are applying to operate a glider or balloon).
(2) Be able to read, speak, write, and understand English. If you cannot read, speak, write, and understand English because of medical reasons, the FAA may place limits on your certificate as are necessary for the safe operation of light-sport aircraft.
§ 61.307
What tests do I have to take to obtain a sport pilot certificate?
To obtain a sport pilot certificate, you must pass the following tests:
(a)
Knowledge test.
You must pass a knowledge test on the applicable aeronautical knowledge areas listed in § 61.309. Before you may take the knowledge test for a sport pilot certificate, you must receive a logbook endorsement from the authorized instructor who trained you or reviewed and evaluated your home-study course on the aeronautical knowledge areas listed in § 61.309 certifying you are prepared for the test.
(b)
Practical test.
You must pass a practical test on the applicable areas of operation listed in §§ 61.309 and 61.311. Before you may take the practical test for a sport pilot certificate, you must receive a logbook endorsement from the authorized instructor who provided you with flight training on the areas of operation specified in §§ 61.309 and 61.311 in preparation for the practical test. This endorsement certifies that you meet the applicable aeronautical knowledge and experience requirements and are prepared for the practical test.
§ 61.309
What aeronautical knowledge must I have to apply for a sport pilot certificate?
To apply for a sport pilot certificate you must receive and log ground training from an authorized instructor or complete a home-study course on the following aeronautical knowledge areas:
(a) Applicable regulations of this chapter that relate to sport pilot privileges, limits, and flight operations.
(b) Accident reporting requirements of the National Transportation Safety Board.
(c) Use of the applicable portions of the aeronautical information manual and FAA advisory circulars.
(d) Use of aeronautical charts for VFR navigation using pilotage, dead reckoning, and navigation systems, as appropriate.
(e) Recognition of critical weather situations from the ground and in flight, windshear avoidance, and the
procurement and use of aeronautical weather reports and forecasts.
(f) Safe and efficient operation of aircraft, including collision avoidance, and recognition and avoidance of wake turbulence.
(g) Effects of density altitude on takeoff and climb performance.
(h) Weight and balance computations.
(i) Principles of aerodynamics, powerplants, and aircraft systems.
(j) Stall awareness, spin entry, spins, and spin recovery techniques, as applicable.
(k) Aeronautical decision making and risk management.
(l) Preflight actions that include—
(1) How to get information on runway lengths at airports of intended use, data on takeoff and landing distances, weather reports and forecasts, and fuel requirements; and
(2) How to plan for alternatives if the planned flight cannot be completed or if you encounter delays.
[Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44869, July 27, 2004, as amended by Amdt. 61-125, 75 FR 5221, Feb. 1, 2010]
§ 61.311
What flight proficiency requirements must I meet to apply for a sport pilot certificate?
To apply for a sport pilot certificate you must receive and log ground and flight training from an authorized instructor on the following areas of operation, as appropriate, for airplane single-engine land or sea, glider, gyroplane, airship, balloon, powered parachute land or sea, and weight-shift-control aircraft land or sea privileges:
(a) Preflight preparation.
(b) Preflight procedures.
(c) Airport, seaplane base, and gliderport operations, as applicable.
(d) Takeoffs (or launches), landings, and go-arounds.
(e) Performance maneuvers, and for gliders, performance speeds.
(f) Ground reference maneuvers (not applicable to gliders and balloons).
(g) Soaring techniques (applicable only to gliders).
(h) Navigation.
(i) Slow flight (not applicable to lighter-than-air aircraft and powered parachutes).
(j) Stalls (not applicable to lighter-than-air aircraft, gyroplanes, and powered parachutes).
(k) Emergency operations.
(l) Post-flight procedures.
[Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44869, July 27, 2004, as amended by Amdt. 61-125, 75 FR 5221, Feb. 1, 2010]
§ 61.313
What aeronautical experience must I have to apply for a sport pilot certificate?
Use the following table to determine the aeronautical experience you must have to apply for a sport pilot certificate:
If you are applying for a sport pilot certificate with . . .
Then you must log at least . . .
Which must include at least . . .
(a) Airplane category and single-engine land or sea class privileges,
(1) 20 hours of flight time, including at least 15 hours of flight training from an authorized instructor in a single-engine airplane and at least 5 hours of solo flight training in the areas of operation listed in § 61.311,
(i) 2 hours of cross-country flight training, (ii) 10 takeoffs and landings to a full stop (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) at an airport, (iii) One solo cross-country flight of at least 75 nautical miles total distance, with a full-stop landing at a minimum of two points and one segment of the flight consisting of a straight-line distance of at least 25 nautical miles between the takeoff and landing locations, and (iv) 2 hours of flight training with an authorized instructor on those areas of operation specified in § 61.311 in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test.
(b) Glider category privileges, and you have not logged at least 20 hours of flight time in a heavier-than-air aircraft,
(1) 10 hours of flight time in a glider, including 10 flights in a glider receiving flight training from an authorized instructor and at least 2 hours of solo flight training in the areas of operation listed in § 61.311,
(i) Five solo launches and landings, and (ii) at least 3 training flights with an authorized instructor on those areas of operation specified in § 61.311 in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test.
(c) Glider category privileges, and you have logged 20 hours flight time in a heavier-than-air aircraft,
(1) 3 hours of flight time in a glider, including five flights in a glider while receiving flight training from an authorized instructor and at least 1 hour of solo flight training in the areas of operation listed in § 61.311,
(i) Three solo launches and landings, and (ii) at least 3 training flights with an authorized instructor on those areas of operation specified in § 61.311 in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test.
(d) Rotorcraft category and gyroplane class privileges,
(1) 20 hours of flight time, including 15 hours of flight training from an authorized instructor in a gyroplane and at least 5 hours of solo flight training in the areas of operation listed in § 61.311,
(i) 2 hours of cross-country flight training, (ii) 10 takeoffs and landings to a full stop (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) at an airport, (iii) One solo cross-country flight of at least 50 nautical miles total distance, with a full-stop landing at a minimum of two points, and one segment of the flight consisting of a straight-line distance of at least 25 nautical miles between the takeoff and landing locations, and (iv) 2 hours of flight training with an authorized instructor on those areas of operation specified in § 61.311 in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test.
(e) Lighter-than-air category and airship class privileges,
(1) 20 hours of flight time, including 15 hours of flight training from an authorized instructor in an airship and at least 3 hours performing the duties of pilot in command in an airship with an authorized instructor in the areas of operation listed in § 61.311,
(i) 2 hours of cross-country flight training, (ii) Three takeoffs and landings to a full stop (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) at an airport, (iii) One cross-country flight of at least 25 nautical miles between the takeoff and landing locations, and (iv) 2 hours of flight training with an authorized instructor on those areas of operation specified in § 61.311 in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test.
(f) Lighter-than-air category and balloon class privileges,
(1) 7 hours of flight time in a balloon, including three flights with an authorized instructor and one flight performing the duties of pilot in command in a balloon with an authorized instructor in the areas of operation listed in § 61.311,
(i) 2 hours of cross-country flight training, and (ii) 1 hours of flight training with an authorized instructor on those areas of operation specified in § 61.311 in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test.
(g) Powered parachute category land or sea class privileges,
(1) 12 hours of flight time in a powered parachute, including 10 hours of flight training from an authorized instructor in a powered parachute, and at least 2 hours of solo flight training in the areas of operation listed in § 61.311
(i) 1 hour of cross-country flight training, (ii) 20 takeoffs and landings to a full stop in a powered parachute with each landing involving flight in the traffic pattern at an airport; (iii) 10 solo takeoffs and landings to a full stop (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) at an airport, (iv) One solo flight with a landing at a different airport and one segment of the flight consisting of a straight-line distance of at least 10 nautical miles between takeoff and landing locations, and (v) 1 hours of flight training with an authorized instructor on those areas of operation specified in § 61.311 in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test.
(h) Weight-shift-control aircraft category land or sea class privileges,
(1) 20 hours of flight time, including 15 hours of flight training from an authorized instructor in a weight-shift-control aircraft and at least 5 hours of solo flight training in the areas of operation listed in § 61.311,
(i) 2 hours of cross-country flight training, (ii) 10 takeoffs and landings to a full stop (with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern) at an airport, (iii) One solo cross-country flight of at least 50 nautical miles total distance, with a full-stop landing at a minimum of two points, and one segment of the flight consisting of a straight-line distance of at least 25 nautical miles between takeoff and landing locations, and (iv) 2 hours of flight training with an authorized instructor on those areas of operation specified in § 61.311 in preparation for the practical test within the preceding 2 calendar months from the month of the test.
[Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44869, July 27, 2004; Amdt. 61-124A, 74 FR 53647, Oct. 20, 2009; Amdt. 61-125, 75 FR 5221, Feb. 1, 2010; Docket FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 61-151, 87 FR 75845, Dec. 9, 2022]
§ 61.315
What are the privileges and limits of my sport pilot certificate?
(a) If you hold a sport pilot certificate you may act as pilot in command of a light-sport aircraft, except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) You may share the operating expenses of a flight with a passenger, provided the expenses involve only fuel, oil, airport expenses, or aircraft rental fees. You must pay at least half the operating expenses of the flight.
(c) You may not act as pilot in command of a light-sport aircraft:
(1) That is carrying a passenger or property for compensation or hire.
(2) For compensation or hire.
(3) In furtherance of a business.
(4) While carrying more than one passenger.
(5) At night.
(6) In Class A airspace.
(7) In Class B, C, and D airspace, at an airport located in Class B, C, or D airspace, and to, from, through, or at an airport having an operational control tower unless you have met the requirements specified in § 61.325.
(8) Outside the United States, unless you have prior authorization from the country in which you seek to operate. Your sport pilot certificate carries the limit “Holder does not meet ICAO requirements.”
(9) To demonstrate the aircraft in flight to a prospective buyer if you are an aircraft salesperson.
(10) In a passenger-carrying airlift sponsored by a charitable organization.
(11) At an altitude of more than 10,000 feet MSL or 2,000 feet AGL, whichever is higher.
(12) When the flight or surface visibility is less than 3 statute miles.
(13) Without visual reference to the surface.
(14) If the aircraft:
(i) Has a V
H
greater than 87 knots CAS, unless you have met the requirements of § 61.327(b).
(ii) Has a V
H
less than or equal to 87 knots CAS, unless you have met the requirements of § 61.327(a) or have logged flight time as pilot in command of an airplane with a V
H
less than or equal to 87 knots CAS before April 2, 2010.
(15) Contrary to any operating limitation placed on the airworthiness certificate of the aircraft being flown.
(16) Contrary to any limit on your pilot certificate or airman medical certificate, or any other limit or endorsement from an authorized instructor.
(17) Contrary to any restriction or limitation on your U.S. driver's license or any restriction or limitation imposed by judicial or administrative order when using your driver's license to satisfy a requirement of this part.
(18) While towing any object.
(19) As a pilot flight crewmember on any aircraft for which more than one pilot is required by the type certificate
of the aircraft or the regulations under which the flight is conducted.
[Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44869, July 27, 2004, as amended by Amdt. 61-125, 75 FR 5221, Feb. 1, 2010; Amdt. 61-125A, 75 FR 15610, Mar. 30, 2010]
§ 61.317
Is my sport pilot certificate issued with aircraft category and class ratings?
Your sport pilot certificate does not list aircraft category and class ratings. When you successfully pass the practical test for a sport pilot certificate, regardless of the light-sport aircraft privileges you seek, the FAA will issue you a sport pilot certificate without any category and class ratings. The FAA will provide you with a logbook endorsement for the category and class of aircraft in which you are authorized to act as pilot in command.
[Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44869, July 27, 2004, as amended by Amdt. 61-125, 75 FR 5222, Feb. 1, 2010; Amdt. 61-125A, 75 FR 15610, Mar. 30, 2010]
§ 61.319
[Reserved]
§ 61.321
How do I obtain privileges to operate an additional category or class of light-sport aircraft?
If you hold a sport pilot certificate and seek to operate an additional category or class of light-sport aircraft, you must—
(a) Receive a logbook endorsement from the authorized instructor who trained you on the applicable aeronautical knowledge areas specified in § 61.309 and areas of operation specified in § 61.311. The endorsement certifies you have met the aeronautical knowledge and flight proficiency requirements for the additional light-sport aircraft privilege you seek;
(b) Successfully complete a proficiency check from an authorized instructor, other than the instructor who trained you, consisting of the tasks in the appropriate areas of operation contained in the applicable Practical Test Standards (incorporated by reference, see § 61.14) as listed in appendix A of this part for the additional light-sport aircraft privilege you seek;
(c) Complete an application for those privileges on a form and in a manner acceptable to the FAA and present this application to the authorized instructor who conducted the proficiency check specified in paragraph (b) of this section; and
(d) Receive a logbook endorsement from the instructor who conducted the proficiency check specified in paragraph (b) of this section certifying you are proficient in the applicable areas of operation and aeronautical knowledge areas, and that you are authorized for the additional category and class light-sport aircraft privilege.
[Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44869, July 27, 2004, as amended by Docket FAA-2022-1463, Amdt. 61-153, 89 FR 22518, Apr. 1, 2024]
§ 61.323
[Reserved]
§ 61.325
How do I obtain privileges to operate a light-sport aircraft at an airport within, or in airspace within, Class B, C, and D airspace, or in other airspace with an airport having an operational control tower?
If you hold a sport pilot certificate and seek privileges to operate a light-sport aircraft in Class B, C, or D airspace, at an airport located in Class B, C, or D airspace, or to, from, through, or at an airport having an operational control tower, you must receive and log ground and flight training. The authorized instructor who provides this training must provide a logbook endorsement that certifies you are proficient in the following aeronautical knowledge areas and areas of operation:
(a) The use of radios, communications, navigation system/facilities, and radar services.
(b) Operations at airports with an operating control tower to include three takeoffs and landings to a full stop, with each landing involving a flight in the traffic pattern, at an airport with an operating control tower.
(c) Applicable flight rules of part 91 of this chapter for operations in Class B, C, and D airspace and air traffic control clearances.
§ 61.327
Are there specific endorsement requirements to operate a light-sport aircraft based on V
H
?
(a) Except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, if you hold a sport
pilot certificate and you seek to operate a light-sport aircraft that is an airplane with a V
H
less than or equal to 87 knots CAS you must—
(1) Receive and log ground and flight training from an authorized instructor in an airplane that has a V
H
less than or equal to 87 knots CAS; and
(2) Receive a logbook endorsement from the authorized instructor who provided the training specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section certifying that you are proficient in the operation of light-sport aircraft that is an airplane with a V
H
less than or equal to 87 knots CAS.
(b) If you hold a sport pilot certificate and you seek to operate a light-sport aircraft that has a V
H
greater than 87 knots CAS you must—
(1) Receive and log ground and flight training from an authorized instructor in an aircraft that has a V
H
greater than 87 knots CAS; and
(2) Receive a logbook endorsement from the authorized instructor who provided the training specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section certifying that you are proficient in the operation of light-sport aircraft with a V
H
greater than 87 knots CAS.
(c) The training and endorsements required by paragraph (a) of this section are not required if you have logged flight time as pilot in command of an airplane with a V
H
less than or equal to 87 knots CAS prior to April 2, 2010.
[Docket FAA-2007-29015, 75 FR 5222, Feb. 1, 2010; Amdt. 61-125A, 75 FR 15610, Mar. 30, 2010]

# Subpart K—Flight Instructors With a Sport Pilot Rating

# Source:
Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44875, July 27, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 61.401
What is the purpose of this subpart?
(a) This part prescribes the following requirements that apply to a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating:
(1) Eligibility.
(2) Aeronautical knowledge.
(3) Flight proficiency.
(4) Endorsements.
(5) Privileges and limits.
(b) Other provisions of this part apply to the logging of flight time and testing.
[Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44875, July 27, 2004, as amended by Amdt. 61-125, 75 FR 5222, Feb. 1, 2010]
§ 61.403
What are the age, language, and pilot certificate requirements for a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating?
To be eligible for a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating you must:
(a) Be at least 18 years old.
(b) Be able to read, speak, write, and understand English. If you cannot read, speak, write, and understand English because of medical reasons, the FAA may place limits on your certificate as are necessary for the safe operation of light-sport aircraft.
(c) Hold at least a sport pilot certificate with category and class ratings or privileges, as applicable, that are appropriate to the flight instructor privileges sought.
[Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44875, July 27, 2004, as amended by Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42562, Aug. 21, 2009]
§ 61.405
What tests do I have to take to obtain a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating?
To obtain a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating you must pass the following tests:
(a)
Knowledge test.
Before you take a knowledge test, you must receive a logbook endorsement certifying you are prepared for the test from an authorized instructor who trained you or evaluated your home-study course on the aeronautical knowledge areas listed in § 61.407. You must pass knowledge tests on—
(1) The fundamentals of instructing listed in § 61.407(a), unless you meet the requirements of § 61.407(c); and
(2) The aeronautical knowledge areas for a sport pilot certificate applicable to the aircraft category and class for which flight instructor privileges are sought.
(b)
Practical test.
(1) Before you take the practical test, you must—
(i) Receive a logbook endorsement from the authorized instructor who provided you with flight training on
the areas of operation specified in § 61.409 that apply to the category and class of aircraft privileges you seek. This endorsement certifies you meet the applicable aeronautical knowledge and experience requirements and are prepared for the practical test;
(ii) If you are seeking privileges to provide instruction in an airplane or glider, receive a logbook endorsement from an authorized instructor indicating that you are competent and possess instructional proficiency in stall awareness, spin entry, spins, and spin recovery procedures after you have received flight training in those training areas in an airplane or glider, as appropriate, that is certificated for spins;
(2) You must pass a practical test—
(i) On the areas of operation listed in § 61.409 that are appropriate to the category and class of aircraft privileges you seek;
(ii) In an aircraft representative of the category and class of aircraft for the privileges you seek;
(iii) In which you demonstrate that you are able to teach stall awareness, spin entry, spins, and spin recovery procedures if you are seeking privileges to provide instruction in an airplane or glider. If you have not failed a practical test based on deficiencies in your ability to demonstrate knowledge or skill in these areas and you provide the endorsement required by paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, an examiner may accept the endorsement instead of the demonstration required by this paragraph. If you are taking a test because you previously failed a test based on not meeting the requirements of this paragraph, you must pass a practical test on stall awareness, spin entry, spins, and spin recovery instructional competency and proficiency in the applicable category and class of aircraft that is certificated for spins.
§ 61.407
What aeronautical knowledge must I have to apply for a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating?
(a) Except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section you must receive and log ground training from an authorized instructor on the fundamentals of instruction that includes:
(1) The learning process.
(2) Elements of effective teaching.
(3) Student evaluation and testing.
(4) Course development.
(5) Lesson planning.
(6) Classroom training techniques.
(b) You must receive and log ground training from an authorized instructor on the aeronautical knowledge areas applicable to a sport pilot certificate for the aircraft category and class in which you seek flight instructor privileges.
(c) You do not have to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if you—
(1) Hold a flight instructor certificate or ground instructor certificate issued under this part;
(2) Hold a teacher's certificate issued by a State, county, city, or municipality; or
(3) Are employed as a teacher at an accredited college or university.
[Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44875, July 27, 2004, as amended by Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42562, Aug. 21, 2009]
§ 61.409
What flight proficiency requirements must I meet to apply for a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating?
You must receive and log ground and flight training from an authorized instructor on the following areas of operation for the aircraft category and class in which you seek flight instructor privileges:
(a) Technical subject areas.
(b) Preflight preparation.
(c) Preflight lesson on a maneuver to be performed in flight.
(d) Preflight procedures.
(e) Airport, seaplane base, and gliderport operations, as applicable.
(f) Takeoffs (or launches), landings, and go-arounds.
(g) Fundamentals of flight.
(h) Performance maneuvers and for gliders, performance speeds.
(i) Ground reference maneuvers (except for gliders and lighter-than-air).
(j) Soaring techniques.
(k) Slow flight (not applicable to lighter-than-air and powered parachutes).
(l) Stalls (not applicable to lighter-than-air, powered parachutes, and gyroplanes).
(m) Spins (applicable to airplanes and gliders).
(n) Emergency operations.
(o) Tumble entry and avoidance techniques (applicable to weight-shift-control aircraft).
(p) Post-flight procedures.
§ 61.411
What aeronautical experience must I have to apply for a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating?
Use the following table to determine the experience you must have for each aircraft category and class:
If you are applying for a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating
for . . .
Then you must log at least . . .
Which must include at least . . .
(a) Airplane category and single-engine class privileges,
(1) 150 hours of flight time as a pilot,
(i) 100 hours of flight time as pilot in command in powered aircraft,
(ii) 50 hours of flight time in a single-engine airplane,
(iii) 25 hours of cross-country flight time,
(iv) 10 hours of cross-country flight time in a single-engine airplane, and
(v) 15 hours of flight time as pilot in command in a single-engine airplane that is a light-sport aircraft.
(b) Glider category privileges,
(1) 25 hours of flight time as pilot in command in a glider, 100 flights in a glider, and 15 flights as pilot in command in a glider that is a light-sport aircraft, or
(2) 100 hours in heavier-than-air aircraft, 20 flights in a glider, and 15 flights as pilot in command in a glider that is a light-sport aircraft
(c) Rotorcraft category and gyroplane class privileges,
(1) 125 hours of flight time as a pilot,
(i) 100 hours of flight time as pilot in command in powered aircraft,
(ii) 50 hours of flight time in a gyroplane,
(iii) 10 hours of cross-country flight time,
(iv) 3 hours of cross-country flight time in a gyroplane, and
(v) 15 hours of flight time as pilot in command in a gyroplane that is a light-sport aircraft.
(d) Lighter-than-air category and airship class privileges,
(1) 100 hours of flight time as a pilot,
(i) 40 hours of flight time in an airship,
(ii) 20 hours of pilot in command time in an airship,
(iii) 10 hours of cross-country flight time,
(iv) 5 hours of cross-country flight time in an airship, and
(v) 15 hours of flight time as pilot in command in an airship that is a light-sport aircraft.
(e) Lighter-than-air category and balloon class privileges,
(1) 35 hours of flight time as pilot-in-command,
(i) 20 hours of flight time in a balloon,
(ii) 10 flights in a balloon, and
(iii) 5 flights as pilot in command in a balloon that is a light-sport aircraft.
(f) Weight-shift-control aircraft category privileges,
(1) 150 hours of flight time as a pilot,
(i) 100 hours of flight time as pilot in command in powered aircraft,
(ii) 50 hours of flight time in a weight-shift-control aircraft,
(iii) 25 hours of cross-country flight time,
(iv) 10 hours of cross-country flight time in a weight-shift-control aircraft, and
(v) 15 hours of flight time as pilot in command in a weight-shift-control aircraft that is a light-sport aircraft.
(g) Powered-parachute category privileges,
(1) 100 hours of flight time as a pilot,
(i) 75 hours of flight time as pilot in command in powered aircraft,
(ii) 50 hours of flight time in a powered parachute,
(iii) 15 hours of cross-country flight time,
(iv) 5 hours of cross-country flight time in a powered parachute, and
(v) 15 hours of flight time as pilot in command in a powered parachute that is a light-sport aircraft.
§ 61.412
Do I need additional training to provide instruction on control and maneuvering an airplane solely by reference to the instruments in a light-sport aircraft based on V
H
?
To provide flight training under § 61.93(e)(12) on control and maneuvering an airplane solely by reference to the flight instruments for the purpose of issuing a solo cross-country endorsement under § 61.93(c)(1) to a student pilot seeking a sport pilot certificate, a flight instructor with a sport pilot rating must:
(a) Hold an endorsement required by § 61.327(b);
(b) Receive and log a minimum of 1 hour of ground training and 3 hours of flight training from an authorized instructor in an airplane with a V
H
greater than 87 knots CAS or in a full flight simulator, flight training device, or aviation training device that replicates an airplane with a V
H
greater than 87 knots CAS; and
(c) Receive a one-time endorsement in his or her logbook from an instructor authorized under subpart H of this part who certifies that the person is proficient in providing training on control and maneuvering solely by reference to the flight instruments in an airplane with a V
H
greater than 87 knots CAS. This flight training must include straight and level flight, turns, descents, climbs, use of radio navigation aids, and ATC directives.
[Amdt. 61-142, 83 FR 30280, June 27, 2018]
§ 61.413
What are the privileges of my flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating?
(a) If you hold a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating, you are authorized, within the limits of your certificate and rating, to conduct ground training, flight training, certain checking events, and to issue endorsements related to:
(1) A student pilot seeking a sport pilot certificate;
(2) A sport pilot certificate;
(3) A flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating;
(4) A powered parachute or weight-shift-control aircraft rating;
(5) Sport pilot privileges;
(6) A flight review or operating privilege for a sport pilot, or training to maintain or improve the skills of a sport pilot;
(7) A practical test for a sport pilot certificate, a private pilot certificate with a powered parachute or weight-shift-control aircraft rating or a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating;
(8) A knowledge test for a sport pilot certificate, a private pilot certificate with a powered parachute or weight-shift-control aircraft rating or a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating; and
(9) A proficiency check for an additional category or class privilege for a sport pilot certificate or a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating.
(b) A person who holds a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating is authorized, in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator, to:
(1) Accept an application for a student pilot certificate or, for an applicant who holds a pilot certificate (other than a student pilot certificate) issued under part 61 of this chapter and meets the flight review requirements specified in § 61.56, a remote pilot certificate with a small UAS rating;
(2) Verify the identity of the applicant; and
(3) Verify that an applicant for a student pilot certificate meets the eligibility requirements in § 61.83.
(c) The privileges authorized in this section do not permit a person who holds a flight instructor certificate
with a sport pilot rating to conduct operations that would otherwise require an air carrier or operating certificate or specific authorization from the Administrator.
[Docket FAA-2010-1127, Amdt. 61-135, 81 FR 1307, Jan. 12, 2016, as amended by Docket FAA-2015-0150, Amdt. 61-137, 81 FR 42208, June 28, 2016; Docket FAA-2023-1351; Amdt. 61-156, 89 FR 80340, Oct. 2, 2024]
§ 61.415
What are the limits of a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating?
If you hold a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating, you may only provide flight training in a light-sport aircraft and are subject to the following limits:
(a) You may not provide ground or flight training in any aircraft for which you do not hold:
(1) A sport pilot certificate with applicable category and class privileges or a pilot certificate with the applicable category and class rating; and
(2) Applicable category and class privileges for your flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating.
(b) You may not provide ground or flight training for a private pilot certificate with a powered parachute or weight-shift-control aircraft rating unless you hold:
(1) At least a private pilot certificate with the applicable category and class rating; and
(2) Applicable category and class privileges for your flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating.
(c) You may not conduct more than 8 hours of flight training in any 24-consecutive-hour period.
(d) You may not endorse a:
(1) Student pilot's logbook for solo flight privileges, unless you have—
(i) Given that student the flight training required for solo flight privileges required by this part; and
(ii) Determined that the student is prepared to conduct the flight safely under known circumstances, subject to any limitations listed in the student's logbook that you consider necessary for the safety of the flight.
(2) Student pilot's logbook for a solo cross-country flight, unless you have determined the student's flight preparation, planning, equipment, and proposed procedures are adequate for the proposed flight under the existing conditions and within any limitations listed in the logbook that you consider necessary for the safety of the flight.
(3) Student pilot's logbook for solo flight in Class B, C, and D airspace areas, at an airport within Class B, C, or D airspace and to from, through or on an airport having an operational control tower, unless you have—
(i) Given that student ground and flight training in that airspace or at that airport; and
(ii) Determined that the student is proficient to operate the aircraft safely.
(4) Logbook of a pilot for a flight review, unless you have conducted a review of that pilot in accordance with the requirements of § 61.56.
(e) You may not provide training to operate a light-sport aircraft in Class B, C, and D airspace, at an airport located in Class B, C, or D airspace, and to, from, through, or at an airport having an operational control tower, unless you have the endorsement specified in § 61.325, or are otherwise authorized to conduct operations in this airspace and at these airports.
(f) You may not provide training in a light-sport aircraft that is an airplane with a V
H
less than or equal to 87 knots CAS unless you have the endorsement specified in § 61.327 (a), or are otherwise authorized to operate that light-sport aircraft.
(g) You may not provide training in a light-sport aircraft with a V
H
greater than 87 knots CAS unless you have the endorsement specified in § 61.327 (b), or are otherwise authorized to operate that light-sport aircraft.
(h) You may not provide training on the control and maneuvering of an aircraft solely by reference to the instruments in a light sport airplane with a V
h
greater than 87 knots CAS unless you meet the requirements in § 61.412.
(i) You must perform all training in an aircraft that complies with the requirements of § 91.109 of this chapter.
(j) If you provide flight training for a certificate, rating or privilege, you must provide that flight training in an aircraft that meets the following:
(1) The aircraft must have at least two pilot stations and be of the same
category and class appropriate to the certificate, rating or privilege sought.
(2) For single place aircraft, pre-solo flight training must be provided in an aircraft that has two pilot stations and is of the same category and class appropriate to the certificate, rating, or privilege sought.
[Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44875, July 27, 2004, as amended by Amdt. 61-125, 75 FR 5222, Feb. 1, 2010; Amdt. 61-125A, 75 FR 15610, Mar. 30, 2010; Docket FAA-2010-1127, Amdt. 61-135, 81 FR 1307, Jan. 12, 2016; Amdt. 61-142, 83 FR 30280, June 27, 2018]
§ 61.417
Will my flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating list aircraft category and class ratings?
Your flight instructor certificate does not list aircraft category and class ratings. When you successfully pass the practical test for a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating, regardless of the light-sport aircraft privileges you seek, the FAA will issue you a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating without any category and class ratings. The FAA will provide you with a logbook endorsement for the category and class of light-sport aircraft you are authorized to provide training in.
§ 61.419
How do I obtain privileges to provide training in an additional category or class of light-sport aircraft?
If you hold a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating and seek to provide training in an additional category or class of light-sport aircraft you must—
(a) Receive a logbook endorsement from the authorized instructor who trained you on the applicable areas of operation specified in § 61.409 certifying you have met the aeronautical knowledge and flight proficiency requirements for the additional category and class flight instructor privilege you seek;
(b) Successfully complete a proficiency check from an authorized instructor, other than the instructor who trained you, consisting of the tasks in the appropriate areas of operation contained in the applicable Practical Test Standards (incorporated by reference, see § 61.14) as listed in appendix A of this part for the additional category and class flight instructor privilege you seek;
(c) Complete an application for those privileges on a form and in a manner acceptable to the FAA and present this application to the authorized instructor who conducted the proficiency check specified in paragraph (b) of this section; and
(d) Receive a logbook endorsement from the instructor who conducted the proficiency check specified in paragraph (b) of this section certifying you are proficient in the areas of operation and authorized for the additional category and class flight instructor privilege.
[Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44875, July 27, 2004, as amended by Docket FAA-2022-1463, Amdt. 61-153, 89 FR 22518, Apr. 1, 2024]
§ 61.421
May I give myself an endorsement?
No. If you hold a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating, you may not give yourself an endorsement for any certificate, privilege, rating, flight review, authorization, practical test, knowledge test, or proficiency check required by this part.
§ 61.423
What are the recordkeeping requirements for a flight instructor with a sport pilot rating?
(a) As a flight instructor with a sport pilot rating you must:
(1) Sign the logbook of each person to whom you have given flight training or ground training.
(2) Keep a record of the name, date, and type of endorsement for:
(i) Each person whose logbook you have endorsed for solo flight privileges.
(ii) Each person for whom you have provided an endorsement for a knowledge test, practical test, or proficiency check, and the record must indicate the kind of test or check, and the results.
(iii) Each person whose logbook you have endorsed as proficient to operate—
(A) An additional category or class of light-sport aircraft;
(B) In Class B, C, and D airspace; at an airport located in Class B, C, or D airspace; and to, from, through, or at an airport having an operational control tower;
(C) A light-sport aircraft that is an airplane with a V
H
less than or equal to 87 knots CAS; and
(D) A light-sport aircraft with a V
H
greater than 87 knots CAS.
(iv) Each person whose logbook you have endorsed as proficient to provide flight training in an additional category or class of light-sport aircraft.
(b) Within 10 days after providing an endorsement for a person to operate or provide training in an additional category and class of light-sport aircraft you must—
(1) Complete, sign, and submit to the FAA the application presented to you to obtain those privileges; and
(2) Retain a copy of the form.
(c) You must keep the records listed in this section for 3 years. You may keep these records in a logbook or a separate document.
[Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44875, July 27, 2004, as amended by Amdt. 61-125, 75 FR 5222, Feb. 1, 2010; Amdt. 61-125A, 75 FR 15610, Mar. 30, 2010; Docket FAA-2010-1127, Amdt. 61-135, 81 FR 1307, Jan. 12, 2016]
§ 61.425
How do I establish recent experience for my flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating?
(a) If you hold a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating issued after December 1, 2024, you must establish recent experience in accordance with § 61.197.
(b) If you hold an unexpired flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating issued before December 1, 2024, you must renew your certificate by establishing recent experience in accordance with § 61.197 prior to the month of expiration on your flight instructor certificate. If you fail to establish recent experience prior to the expiration of your flight instructor certificate, you may not exercise flight instructor privileges until you reinstate those privileges in accordance with § 61.427.
[Docket FAA-2023-0825, Amdt. 61-155, 89 FR 80052, Oct. 1, 2024]
§ 61.427
How do I reinstate my flight instructor privileges if I fail to establish recent experience for my flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating?
If you fail to establish recent experience for your flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating, you must reinstate your flight instructor privileges by satisfactorily completing one of the following reinstatement requirements:
(a) If 3 calendar months or less have passed since the last month of your recent experience period, you must successfully complete an approved flight instructor refresher course consisting of ground training or flight training, or a combination of both, or satisfy the requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) If more than 3 calendar months have passed since the last month of the flight instructor's recent experience period, you must pass a practical test as prescribed in § 61.405(b) or § 61.183(h) for one of the ratings listed on your flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating. The FAA will reinstate any privilege authorized by that flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating.
[Docket FAA-2023-0825, Amdt. 61-155, 89 FR 80053, Oct. 1, 2024]
§ 61.429
May I exercise the privileges of a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating if I hold a flight instructor certificate with another rating?
If you hold a flight instructor certificate, a commercial pilot certificate with an airship rating, or a commercial pilot certificate with a balloon rating issued under this part, and you seek to exercise the privileges of a flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating, you may do so without any further showing of proficiency, subject to the following limits:
(a) You are limited to the aircraft category and class ratings listed on your flight instructor certificate, commercial pilot certificate with an airship rating, or commercial pilot certificate with a balloon rating, as appropriate, when exercising your flight instructor privileges and the privileges specified in § 61.413.
(b) You must comply with the limits specified in § 61.415 and the recordkeeping requirements of § 61.423.
(c) If you want to exercise the privileges of your flight instructor certificate in a category or class of light-sport aircraft for which you are not
currently rated, you must meet all applicable requirements to provide training in an additional category or class of light-sport aircraft specified in § 61.419.
[Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44875, July 27, 2004, as amended by Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42562, Aug. 21, 2009; Amdt. 61-125, 75 FR 5222, Feb. 1, 2010]
Pt. 61, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 61—Airman Certification Standards and Practical Test Standards
If you are seeking this certificate, rating, and/or privilege . . .
Then this ACS/PTS (incorporated by reference, see § 61.14) is
applicable:
Airline Transport Pilot Certificate; Airplane Category—Single-Engine Land Rating, Airplane Category—Single-Engine Sea Rating, Airplane Category—Multiengine Land Rating, Airplane Category—Multiengine Sea Rating
FAA-S-ACS-11A, Airline Transport Pilot and Type Rating for Airplane Category Airman Certification Standards, November 2023.
Airline Transport Pilot Certificate; Rotorcraft Category—Helicopter Rating
FAA-S-8081-20A, Airline Transport Pilot and Aircraft Type Rating Practical Test Standards for Rotorcraft Category Helicopter Rating, November 2023.
Airline Transport Pilot Certificate; Powered-Lift Category
FAA-S-ACS-17, Airline Transport Pilot and Type Rating for Powered-Lift Category Airman Certification Standards, November 2023.
Commercial Pilot Certificate; Airplane Category—Single-Engine Land Rating, Airplane Category—Single-Engine Sea Rating, Airplane Category—Multiengine Land Rating, Airplane Category—Multiengine Sea Rating
FAA-S-ACS-7B, Commercial Pilot for Airplane Category Airman Certification Standards, November 2023.
Commercial Pilot Certificate; Rotorcraft Category—Helicopter Rating
FAA-S-ACS-16, Commercial Pilot for Rotorcraft Category Helicopter Rating Airman Certification Standards, November 2023.
Commercial Pilot Certificate; Rotorcraft Category—Gyroplane Rating
FAA-S-8081-16C, Commercial Pilot Practical Test Standards for Rotorcraft Category Gyroplane Rating, November 2023.
Commercial Pilot Certificate; Powered-Lift Category
FAA-S-ACS-2, Commercial Pilot for Powered-Lift Category Airman Certification Standards, November 2023.
Commercial Pilot Certificate; Glider Category
FAA-S-8081-23B, Commercial Pilot Practical Test Standards for Glider Category, November 2023.
Commercial Pilot Certificate; Lighter-Than-Air Category—Airship Rating, Lighter-Than-Air Category—Balloon Rating
FAA-S-8081-18A, Commercial Pilot Practical Test Standards for Lighter-Than-Air Category, November 2023.
Private Pilot Certificate; Airplane Category—Single-Engine Land Rating, Airplane Category—Single-Engine Sea Rating, Airplane Category—Multiengine Land Rating, Airplane Category—Multiengine Sea Rating
FAA-S-ACS-6C, Private Pilot for Airplane Category Airman Certification Standards, November 2023.
Private Pilot Certificate; Rotorcraft Category—Helicopter Rating
FAA-S-ACS-15, Private Pilot for Rotorcraft Category Helicopter Rating Airman Certification Standards, November 2023.
Private Pilot Certificate; Rotorcraft Category—Gyroplane Rating
FAA-S-8081-15B, Private Pilot Practical Test Standards for Rotorcraft Category Gyroplane Rating, November 2023.
Private Pilot Certificate; Powered-Lift Category
FAA-S-ACS-13, Private Pilot for Powered-Lift Category Airman Certification Standards, November 2023.
Private Pilot Certificate; Glider Category
FAA-S-8081-22A, Private Pilot Practical Test Standards for Glider Category, November 2023.
Private Pilot Certificate; Lighter-Than-Air Category—Airship Rating, Lighter-Than-Air Category—Balloon Rating
FAA-S-8081-17A, Private Pilot Practical Test Standards for Lighter-Than-Air Category, November 2023.
Private Pilot Certificate; Powered Parachute Category—Land Rating, Powered Parachute Category—Sea Rating, Weight-Shift-Control Aircraft Category—Land Rating, Weight-Shift-Control Aircraft Category—Sea Rating
FAA-S-8081-32A, Private Pilot Practical Test Standards for Powered Parachute Category and Weight-Shift-Control Category, November 2023.
Recreational Pilot Certificate; Airplane Category—Single-Engine Land Rating, Airplane Category—Single-Engine Sea Rating, Rotorcraft Category—Helicopter Rating, Rotorcraft Category—Gyroplane Rating
FAA-S-8081-3B, Recreational Pilot Practical Test Standards for Airplane Category and Rotorcraft Category, November 2023.
Sport Pilot Certificate; Airplane Category—Single-Engine Land Privileges, Airplane Category—Single-Engine Sea Privileges, Rotorcraft Category—Gyroplane Privileges, Glider Category
FAA-S-8081-29A, Sport Pilot and Sport Pilot Flight Instructor Rating Practical Test Standards for Airplane Category, Rotorcraft Category, and Glider Category, November 2023.
Flight Instructor Certificate with a Sport Pilot Rating; Airplane Category—Single-Engine Privileges, Rotorcraft Category—Gyroplane Privileges, Glider Category.
Sport Pilot Certificate; Lighter-Than-Air Category—Airship Privileges, Lighter-Than-Air Category—Balloon Privileges
FAA-S-8081-30A, Sport Pilot and Sport Pilot Flight Instructor Rating Practical Test Standards for Lighter-Than-Air Category, November 2023.
Flight Instructor Certificate with a Sport Pilot Rating; Lighter-Than-Air Category—Airship Privileges, Lighter-Than-Air Category—Balloon Privileges.
Sport Pilot Certificate; Powered Parachute Category—Land Privileges, Powered Parachute Category—Sea Privileges, Weight-Shift-Control Aircraft Category—Land Privileges, Weight-Shift-Control Aircraft Category—Sea Privileges
FAA-S-8081-31A, Sport Pilot and Sport Pilot Flight Instructor Rating Practical Test Standards for Powered Parachute Category and Weight-Shift-Control Category, November 2023.
Flight Instructor Certificate with a Sport Pilot Rating; Powered Parachute Category Privileges, Weight-Shift-Control Aircraft Category Privileges.
Instrument Rating—Airplane Instrument Proficiency Check—Airplane
FAA-S-ACS-8C, Instrument Rating—Airplane Airman Certification Standards, November 2023.
Instrument Rating—Helicopter Instrument Proficiency Check—Helicopter
FAA-S-ACS-14, Instrument Rating—Helicopter Airman Certification Standards, November 2023.
Instrument Rating—Powered-Lift Instrument Proficiency Check—Powered-Lift
FAA-S-ACS-3, Instrument Rating—Powered-Lift Airman Certification Standards, November 2023.
Flight Instructor Certificate; Airplane Category—Single Engine Rating Airplane Category—Multiengine Rating
FAA-S-ACS-25, Flight Instructor for Airplane Category Airman Certification Standards, November 2023.
Flight Instructor Certificate; Rotorcraft Category—Helicopter Rating
FAA-S-ACS-29, Flight Instructor for Rotorcraft Category Helicopter Rating Airman Certification Standards, November 2023.
Flight Instructor Certificate; Rotorcraft Category—Gyroplane Rating
FAA-S-8081-7C, Flight Instructor Practical Test Standards for Rotorcraft Category Gyroplane Rating, November 2023.
Flight Instructor Certificate; Powered-lift Category
FAA-S-ACS-27, Flight Instructor for Powered-Lift Category Airman Certification Standards, November 2023.
Flight Instructor Certificate; Glider Category
FAA-S-8081-8C, Flight Instructor Practical Test Standards for Glider Category, November 2023.
Flight Instructor Certificate; Instrument—Airplane Rating, Instrument—Helicopter Rating
FAA-S-8081-9E, Flight Instructor Instrument Practical Test Standards for Airplane Rating and Helicopter Rating, November 2023.
Flight Instructor Certificate; Instrument—Powered-Lift Rating
FAA-S-ACS-28, Flight Instructor—Instrument Rating Powered-Lift Airman Certification Standards, November 2023.
Aircraft Type Rating—Airplane
FAA-S-ACS-11A, Airline Transport Pilot and Type Rating for Airplane Category Airman Certification Standards, November 2023.
Aircraft Type Rating—Helicopter
FAA-S-8081-20A, Airline Transport Pilot and Aircraft Type Rating Practical Test Standards for Rotorcraft Category Helicopter Rating, November 2023.
Aircraft Type Rating—Powered-Lift
FAA-S-ACS-17, Airline Transport Pilot and Type Rating for Powered-Lift Category Airman Certification Standards, November 2023.
Pilot-in-Command Proficiency Check—Airplane
FAA-S-ACS-11A, Airline Transport Pilot and Type Rating for Airplane Category Airman Certification Standards; November 2023.
Pilot-in-Command Proficiency Check—Helicopter
FAA-S-8081-20A, Airline Transport Pilot and Aircraft Type Rating Practical Test Standards for Rotorcraft Category Helicopter Rating, November 2023.
Pilot-in-Command Proficiency Check—Powered-Lift
FAA-S-ACS-17, Airline Transport Pilot and Type Rating for Powered-Lift Category Airman Certification Standards, November 2023.
[Docket FAA-2022-1463, Amdt. 61-153, 89 FR 22518, Apr. 1, 2024]
Pt. 63

# PART 63—CERTIFICATION: FLIGHT CREWMEMBERS OTHER THAN PILOTS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
63.1
Applicability.
63.2
Certification of foreign flight crewmembers other than pilots.
63.3
Certificates and ratings required.
63.11
Application and issue.
63.12
Offenses involving alcohol or drugs.
63.12a
Refusal to submit to an alcohol test or to furnish test results.
63.12b
[Reserved]
63.13
Temporary certificate.
63.14
[Reserved]
63.15
Duration of certificates.
63.15a
[Reserved]
63.16
Change of name; replacement of lost or destroyed certificate.
63.17
Tests: General procedure.
63.18
Written tests: Cheating or other unauthorized conduct.
63.19
Operations during physical deficiency.
63.20
Applications, certificates, logbooks, reports, and records; falsification, reproduction, or alteration.
63.21
Change of address.
63.23
Special purpose flight engineer and flight navigator certificates: Operation of U.S.-registered civil airplanes leased by a person not a U.S. citizen.

# Subpart B—Flight Engineers
63.31
Eligibility requirements; general.
63.33
Aircraft ratings.
63.35
Knowledge requirements.
63.37
Aeronautical experience requirements.
63.39
Skill requirements.
63.41
Retesting after failure.
63.42
Flight engineer certificate issued on basis of a foreign flight engineer license.
63.43
Flight engineer courses.

# Subpart C—Flight Navigators
63.51
Eligibility requirements; general.
63.53
Knowledge requirements.
63.55
Experience requirements.
63.57
Skill requirements.
63.59
Retesting after failure.
63.61
Flight navigator courses.
Appendix A to Part 63—Test Requirements for Flight Navigator Certificate
Appendix B to Part 63—Flight Navigator Training Course Requirements
Appendix C to Part 63—Flight Engineer Training Course Requirements

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(f), 40113, 44701-44703, 44707, 44709-44711, 45102-45103, 45301-45302.

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
Docket 1179, 27 FR 7969, Aug. 10, 1962, unless otherwise noted.
§ 63.1
Applicability.
This part prescribes the requirements for issuing flight engineer and flight navigator certificates and the general operating rules for holders of those certificates.
§ 63.2
Certification of foreign flight crewmembers other than pilots.
A person who is neither a United States citizen nor a resident alien is issued a certificate under this part (other than under § 63.23 or § 63.42) outside the United States only when the Administrator finds that the certificate is needed for the operation of a U.S.-registered civil aircraft.
(Secs. 313, 601, 602, Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (49 U.S.C. 1354, 1421, and 1422); sec. 6(c), Department of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)); Title V, Independent Offices Appropriations Act of 1952 (31 U.S.C. 483(a)); sec. 28, International Air Transportation Competition Act of 1979 (49 U.S.C. 1159(b)))
[Docket 22052, 47 FR 35693, Aug. 18, 1982]
§ 63.3
Certificates and ratings required.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, no person may act as a flight engineer of a civil aircraft of U.S. registry unless that person has in his or her physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft:
(1) A current flight engineer certificate with appropriate ratings issued to that person under this part;
(2) A document conveying temporary authority to exercise certificate privileges issued by the Airman Certification Branch under § 63.16(f); or
(3) When engaged in a flight operation within the United States for a part 119 certificate holder authorized to conduct operations under part 121 of this chapter, a temporary document provided by that certificate holder under an approved certificate verification plan.
(b) A person may act as a flight engineer of an aircraft only if that person holds a current second-class (or higher) medical certificate issued to that person under part 67 of this chapter, or other documentation acceptable to the FAA, that is in that person's physical possession or readily accessible in the aircraft.
(c) When the aircraft is operated within a foreign country, a current flight engineer certificate issued by the country in which the aircraft is operated, with evidence of current medical qualification for that certificate, may be used. Also, in the case of a flight engineer certificate issued under § 63.42, evidence of current medical qualification accepted for the issue of that certificate is used in place of a medical certificate.
(d) No person may act as a flight navigator of a civil aircraft of U.S. registry unless that person has in his or her physical possession a current flight navigator certificate issued to him or her under this part and a second-class (or higher) medical certificate issued to him or her under part 67 of this chapter within the preceding 12 months. However, when the aircraft is operated within a foreign country, a current flight navigator certificate
issued by the country in which the aircraft is operated, with evidence of current medical qualification for that certificate, may be used.
(e) Each person who holds a flight engineer or flight navigator certificate, medical certificate, or temporary document in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall present it for inspection upon the request of the Administrator or an authorized representative of the National Transportation Safety Board, or of any Federal, State, or local law enforcement officer.
[Amdt. 63-41, 83 FR 30280, June 27, 2018]
§ 63.11
Application and issue.
(a) An application for a certificate and appropriate class rating, or for an additional rating, under this part must be made on a form and in a manner prescribed by the Administrator. Each person who applies for airmen certification services to be administered outside the United States for any certificate or rating issued under this part must show evidence that the fee prescribed in appendix A of part 187 of this chapter has been paid.
(b) An applicant who meets the requirements of this part is entitled to an appropriate certificate and appropriate class ratings.
(c) Unless authorized by the Administrator, a person whose flight engineer certificate is suspended may not apply for any rating to be added to that certificate during the period of suspension.
(d) Unless the order of revocation provides otherwise, a person whose flight engineer or flight navigator certificate is revoked may not apply for the same kind of certificate for 1 year after the date of revocation.
(Secs. 313, 601, 602, Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (49 U.S.C. 1354, 1421, and 1422); sec. 6(c), Department of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)); Title V, Independent Offices Appropriations Act of 1952 (31 U.S.C. 483(a)); sec. 28, International Air Transportation Competition Act of 1979 (49 U.S.C. 1159(b)))
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7969, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 63-3, 30 FR 14559, Nov. 23, 1965; Amdt. 63-7, 31 FR 13523, Oct. 20, 1966; Amdt. 63-22, 47 FR 35693, Aug. 16, 1982; Amdt. 63-35, 72 FR 18558, Apr. 12, 2007]
§ 63.12
Offenses involving alcohol or drugs.
(a) A conviction for the violation of any Federal or state statute relating to the growing, processing, manufacture, sale, disposition, possession, transportation, or importation of narcotic drugs, marihuana, or depressant or stimulant drugs or substances is grounds for—
(1) Denial of an application for any certificate or rating issued under this part for a period of up to 1 year after the date of final conviction; or
(2) Suspension or revocation of any certificate or rating issued under this part.
(b) The commission of an act prohibited by § 91.17(a) or § 91.19(a) of this chapter is grounds for—
(1) Denial of an application for a certificate or rating issued under this part for a period of up to 1 year after the date of that act; or
(2) Suspension or revocation of any certificate or rating issued under this part.
[Docket 21956, 50 FR 15379, Apr. 17, 1985, as amended by Amdt. 63-27, 54 FR 34330, Aug. 18, 1989]
§ 63.12a
Refusal to submit to an alcohol test or to furnish test results.
A refusal to submit to a test to indicate the percentage by weight of alcohol in the blood, when requested by a law enforcement officer in accordance with § 91.11(c) of this chapter, or a refusal to furnish or authorize the release of the test results when requested by the Administrator in accordance with § 91.17 (c) or (d) of this chapter, is grounds for—
(a) Denial of an application for any certificate or rating issued under this part for a period of up to 1 year after the date of that refusal; or
(b) Suspension or revocation of any certificate or rating issued under this part.
[Docket 21956, 51 FR 1229, Jan. 9, 1986, as amended by Amdt. 63-27, 54 FR 34330, Aug. 18, 1989]
§ 63.12b
[Reserved]
§ 63.13
Temporary certificate.
A certificate effective for a period of not more than 120 days may be issued
to a qualified applicant, pending review of his application and supplementary documents and the issue of the certificate for which he applied.
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7969, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 63-19, 43 FR 22639, May 25, 1978]
§ 63.14
[Reserved]
§ 63.15
Duration of certificates.
(a) Except as provided in § 63.23 and paragraph (b) of this section, a certificate or rating issued under this part is effective until it is surrendered, suspended, or revoked.
(b) A flight engineer certificate (with any amendment thereto) issued under § 63.42 expires at the end of the 24th month after the month in which the certificate was issued or renewed. However, the holder may exercise the privileges of that certificate only while the foreign flight engineer license on which that certificate is based is effective.
(c) Any certificate issued under this part ceases to be effective if it is surrendered, suspended, or revoked. The holder of any certificate issued under this part that is suspended or revoked shall, upon the Administrator's request, return it to the Administrator.
(d) Except for temporary certificate issued under § 63.13, the holder of a paper certificate issued under this part may not exercise the privileges of that certificate after March 31, 2013.
(Sec. 6, 80 Stat. 937, 49 U.S.C. 1655; secs. 313, 601, 602, Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (49 U.S.C. 1354, 1421, and 1422); sec. 6(c), Department of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)); Title V, Independent Offices Appropriations Act of 1952 (31 U.S.C. 483(a)); sec. 28, International Air Transportation Competition Act of 1979 (49 U.S.C. 1159(b)))
[Docket 8846, 33 FR 18613, Dec. 17, 1968, as amended by Amdt. 63-22, 47 FR 35693, Aug. 16, 1982; Amdt. 63-36, 73 FR 10668, Feb. 28, 2008]
§ 63.15a
[Reserved]
§ 63.16
Change of name; replacement of lost or destroyed certificate.
(a) An application for a change of name on a certificate issued under this part must be accompanied by the applicant's current certificate and the marriage license, court order, or other document verifying the change. The documents are returned to the applicant after inspection.
(b) A request for a replacement of a lost or destroyed airman certificate issued under this part must be made:
(1) By letter to the Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Airman Certification Branch, Post Office Box 25082, Oklahoma City, OK 73125 and must be accompanied by a check or money order for the appropriate fee payable to the FAA; or
(2) In any other form and manner approved by the Administrator including a request to Airman Services at
http://www.faa.gov,
and must be accompanied by acceptable form of payment for the appropriate fee.
(c) A request for the replacement of a lost or destroyed medical certificate must be made:
(1) By letter to the Department of Transportation, FAA, Aerospace Medical Certification Division, P.O. Box 26200, Oklahoma City, OK 73125, and must be accompanied by a check or money order for the appropriate fee payable to the FAA; or
(2) In any other manner and form approved by the Administrator and must be accompanied by acceptable form of payment for the appropriate fee.
(d) A request for the replacement of a lost or destroyed knowledge test report must be made:
(1) By letter to the Department of Transportation, FAA, Airmen Certification Branch, P.O. Box 25082, Oklahoma City, OK 73125, and must be accompanied by a check or money order for the appropriate fee payable to the FAA; or
(2) In any other manner and form approved by the Administrator and must be accompanied by acceptable form of payment for the appropriate fee.
(e) The letter requesting replacement of a lost or destroyed airman certificate, medical certificate, or knowledge test report must state:
(1) The name of the person;
(2) The permanent mailing address (including ZIP code), or if the permanent mailing address includes a post office box number, then the person's current residential address;
(3) The certificate holder's date and place of birth; and
(4) Any information regarding the—
(i) Grade, number, and date of issuance of the airman certificate and ratings, if appropriate;
(ii) Class of medical certificate, the place and date of the medical exam, name of the Airman Medical Examiner (AME), and the circumstances concerning the loss of the original medical certificate, as appropriate; and
(iii) Date the knowledge test was taken, if appropriate.
(f) A person who has lost an airman certificate, medical certificate, or knowledge test report may obtain in a form or manner approved by the Administrator, a document conveying temporary authority to exercise certificate privileges from the FAA Aeromedical Certification Branch or the Airman Certification Branch, as appropriate, and the—
(1) Document may be carried as an airman certificate, medical certificate, or knowledge test report, as appropriate, for a period not to exceed 60 days pending the person's receiving a duplicate under paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section, unless the person has been notified that the certificate has been suspended or revoked.
(2) Request for such a document must include the date on which a duplicate certificate or knowledge test report was previously requested.
[Amdt. 63-41, 83 FR 30280, June 27, 2018]
§ 63.17
Tests: General procedure.
(a) Tests prescribed by or under this part are given at times and places, and by persons, designated by the Administrator.
(b) The minimum passing grade for each test is 70 percent.
§ 63.18
Written tests: Cheating or other unauthorized conduct.
(a) Except as authorized by the Administrator, no person may—
(1) Copy, or intentionally remove, a written test under this part;
(2) Give to another, or receive from another, any part or copy of that test;
(3) Give help on that test to, or receive help on that test from, any person during the period that test is being given.
(4) Take any part of that test in behalf of another person;
(5) Use any material or aid during the period that test is being given; or
(6) Intentionally cause, assist, or participate in any act prohibited by this paragraph.
(b) No person who commits an act prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section is eligible for any airman or ground instructor certificate or rating under this chapter for a period of 1 year after the date of that act. In addition, the commission of that act is a basis for suspending or revoking any airman or ground instructor certificate or rating held by that person.
[Docket 4086, 30 FR 2196, Feb. 18, 1965]
§ 63.19
Operations during physical deficiency.
No person may serve as a flight engineer or flight navigator during a period of known physical deficiency, or increase in physical deficiency, that would make him unable to meet the physical requirements for his current medical certificate.
§ 63.20
Applications, certificates, logbooks, reports, and records; falsification, reproduction, or alteration.
(a) No person may make or cause to be made—
(1) Any fraudulent or intentionally false statement on any application for a certificate or rating under this part;
(2) Any fraudulent or intentionally false entry in any logbook, record, or report that is required to be kept, made, or used, to show compliance with any requirement for any certificate or rating under this part;
(3) Any reproduction, for fraudulent purpose, of any certificate or rating under this part; or
(4) Any alteration of any certificate or rating under this part.
(b) The commission by any person of an act prohibited under paragraph (a) of this section is a basis for suspending or revoking any airman or ground instructor certificate or rating held by that person.
[Docket 4086, 30 FR 2196, Feb. 18, 1965]
§ 63.21
Change of address.
Within 30 days after any change in his permanent mailing address, the holder of a certificate issued under this
part shall notify the Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Airman Certification Branch, Post Office Box 25082, Oklahoma City, OK 73125, in writing, of his new address.
[Docket 10536, 35 FR 14075, Sept. 4, 1970]
§ 63.23
Special purpose flight engineer and flight navigator certificates: Operation of U.S.-registered civil airplanes leased by a person not a U.S. citizen.
(a)
General.
The holder of a current foreign flight engineer or flight navigator certificate, license, or authorization issued by a foreign contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation, who meets the requirements of this section, may hold a special purpose flight engineer or flight navigator certificate, as appropriate, authorizing the holder to perform flight engineer or flight navigator duties on a civil airplane of U.S. registry, leased to a person not a citizen of the United States, carrying persons or property for compensation or hire. Special purpose flight engineer and flight navigator certificates are issued under this section only for airplane types that can have a maximum passenger seating configuration, excluding any flight crewmember seat, of more than 30 seats or a maximum payload capacity (as defined in § 135.2(e) of this chapter) of more than 7,500 pounds.
(b)
Eligibility.
To be eligible for the issuance, or renewal, of a certificate under this section, an applicant must present the following to the Administrator:
(1) A current foreign flight engineer or flight navigator certificate, license, or authorization issued by the aeronautical authority of a foreign contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation or a facsimile acceptable to the Administrator. The certificate or license must authorize the applicant to perform the flight engineer or flight navigator duties to be authorized by a certificate issued under this section on the same airplane type as the leased airplane.
(2) A current certification by the lessee of the airplane—
(i) Stating that the applicant is employed by the lessee;
(ii) Specifying the airplane type on which the applicant will perform flight engineer or flight navigator duties; and
(iii) Stating that the applicant has received ground and flight instruction which qualifies the applicant to perform the duties to be assigned on the airplane.
(3) Documentation showing that the applicant currently meets the medical standards for the foreign flight engineer or flight navigator certificate, license, or authorization required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, except that a U.S. medical certificate issued under part 67 of this chapter is not evidence that the applicant meets those standards unless the State which issued the applicant's foreign flight engineer or flight navigator certificate, license, or authorization accepts a U.S. medical certificate as evidence of medical fitness for a flight engineer or flight navigator certificate, license, or authorization.
(c)
Privileges.
The holder of a special purpose flight engineer or flight navigator certificate issued under this section may exercise the same privileges as those shown on the certificate, license, or authorization specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, subject to the limitations specified in this section.
(d)
Limitations.
Each certificate issued under this section is subject to the following limitations:
(1) It is valid only—
(i) For flights between foreign countries and for flights in foreign air commerce;
(ii) While it and the certificate, license, or authorization required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section are in the certificate holder's personal possession and are current;
(iii) While the certificate holder is employed by the person to whom the airplane described in the certification required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section is leased;
(iv) While the certificate holder is performing flight engineer or flight navigator duties on the U.S.-registered civil airplane described in the certification required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(v) While the medical documentation required by paragraph (b)(3) of this section is in the certificate holder's personal possession and is currently valid.
(2) Each certificate issued under this section contains the following:
(i) The name of the person to whom the U.S.-registered civil airplane is leased.
(ii) The type of airplane.
(iii) The limitation: “Issued under, and subject to, § 63.23 of the Federal Aviation Regulations.”
(iv) The limitation: “Subject to the privileges and limitations shown on the holder's foreign flight (engineer or navigator) certificate, license, or authorization.”
(3) Any additional limitations placed on the certificate which the Administrator considers necessary.
(e)
Termination.
Each special purpose flight engineer or flight navigator certificate issued under this section terminates—
(1) When the lease agreement for the airplane described in the certification required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section terminates;
(2) When the foreign flight engineer or flight navigator certificate, license, or authorization, or the medical documentation required by paragraph (b) of this section is suspended, revoked, or no longer valid; or
(3) After 24 months after the month in which the special purpose flight engineer or flight navigator certificate was issued.
(f)
Surrender of certificate.
The certificate holder shall surrender the special purpose flight engineer or flight navigator certificate to the Administrator within 7 days after the date it terminates.
(g)
Renewal.
The certificate holder may have the certificate renewed by complying with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section at the time of application for renewal.
(Secs. 313(a), 601, and 602, Federal Aviation Act of 1958; as amended (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, and 1422); sec. 6(c), Department of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)))
[Docket 19300, 45 FR 5672, Jan. 24, 1980]

# Subpart B—Flight Engineers

# Authority:
Secs. 313(a), 601, and 602, Federal Aviation Act of 1958; 49 U.S.C. 1354, 1421, 1422.

# Source:
Docket 6458, 30 FR 14559, Nov. 23, 1965, unless otherwise noted.
§ 63.31
Eligibility requirements; general.
To be eligible for a flight engineer certificate, a person must—
(a) Be at least 21 years of age;
(b) Be able to read, speak, and understand the English language, or have an appropriate limitation placed on his flight engineer certificate;
(c) Hold at least a second-class medical certificate issued under part 67 of this chapter within the 12 months before the date he applies, or other evidence of medical qualification accepted for the issue of a flight engineer certificate under § 63.42; and
(d) Comply with the requirements of this subpart that apply to the rating he seeks.
(Sec. 6, 80 Stat. 937, 49 U.S.C. 1655)
[Docket 6458, 30 FR 14559, Nov. 23, 1965, as amended by Amdt. 63-9, 33 FR 18614, Dec. 17, 1968]
§ 63.33
Aircraft ratings.
(a) The aircraft class ratings to be placed on flight engineer certificates are—
(1) Reciprocating engine powered;
(2) Turbopropeller powered; and
(3) Turbojet powered.
(b) To be eligible for an additional aircraft class rating after his flight engineer certificate with a class rating is issued to him, an applicant must pass the written test that is appropriate to the class of airplane for which an additional rating is sought, and—
(1) Pass the flight test for that class of aircraft; or
(2) Satisfactorily complete an approved flight engineer training program that is appropriate to the additional class rating sought.
§ 63.35
Knowledge requirements.
(a) An applicant for a flight engineer certificate must pass a written test on the following:
(1) The regulations of this chapter that apply to the duties of a flight engineer.
(2) The theory of flight and aerodynamics.
(3) Basic meteorology with respect to engine operations.
(4) Center of gravity computations.
(b) An applicant for the original or additional issue of a flight engineer class rating must pass a written test for that airplane class on the following:
(1) Preflight.
(2) Airplane equipment.
(3) Airplane systems.
(4) Airplane loading.
(5) Airplane procedures and engine operations with respect to limitations.
(6) Normal operating procedures.
(7) Emergency procedures.
(8) Mathematical computation of engine operations and fuel consumption.
(c) Before taking the written tests prescribed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, an applicant for a flight engineer certificate must present satisfactory evidence of having completed one of the experience requirements of § 63.37. However, the applicant may take the written tests before acquiring the flight training required by § 63.37.
(d) An applicant for a flight engineer certificate or rating must have passed the written tests required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section since the beginning of the 24th calendar month before the month in which the flight is taken. However, this limitation does not apply to an applicant for a flight engineer certificate or rating if—
(1) The applicant—
(i) Within the period ending 24 calendar months after the month in which the applicant passed the written test, is employed as a flight crewmember or mechanic by a U.S. air carrier or commercial operator operating either under part 121 or as a commuter air carrier under part 135 (as defined in part 298 of this title) and is employed by such a certificate holder at the time of the flight test;
(ii) If employed as a flight crewmember, has completed initial training, and, if appropriate, transition or upgrade training; and
(iii) Meets the recurrent training requirements of the applicable part or, for mechanics, meets the recency of experience requirements of part 65 of this chapter;
(2) Within the period ending 24 calendar months after the month in which the applicant passed the written test, the applicant participated in a flight engineer or maintenance training program of a U.S. scheduled military air transportation service and is currently participating in that program; or
(3) An applicant is eligible to take a practical test for a flight engineer certificate or rating under this part with an expired written test report in accordance with § 61.40 of this chapter.
(e) An air carrier or commercial operator with an approved training program under part 121 of this chapter may, when authorized by the Administrator, provide as part of that program a written test that it may administer to satisfy the test required for an additional rating under paragraph (b) of this section.
(Sec. 6, 80 Stat. 937, 49 U.S.C. 1655; secs. 313(a), 601 through 605 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421 through 1425); sec. 6(c), Department of Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 1655(c)); and 14 CFR 11.49)
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7969, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 63-17, 40 FR 32830, Aug. 5, 1975; Docket 63-21, 47 FR 13316, Mar. 29, 1982; Docket FAA-2023-0825, Amdt. 63-47, 89 FR 80053, Oct. 1, 2024]
§ 63.37
Aeronautical experience requirements.
(a) Except as otherwise specified therein, the flight time used to satisfy the aeronautical experience requirements of paragraph (b) of this section must have been obtained on an airplane—
(1) On which a flight engineer is required by this chapter; or
(2) That has at least three engines that are rated at least 800 horsepower each or the equivalent in turbine-powered engines.
(b) An applicant for a flight engineer certificate with a class rating must present, for the class rating sought, satisfactory evidence of one of the following:
(1) At least 3 years of diversified practical experience in aircraft and aircraft engine maintenance (of which at
least 1 year was in maintaining multiengine aircraft with engines rated at least 800 horsepower each, or the equivalent in turbine engine powered aircraft), and at least 5 hours of flight training in the duties of a flight engineer.
(2) Graduation from at least a 2-year specialized aeronautical training course in maintaining aircraft and aircraft engines (of which at least 6 calendar months were in maintaining multiengine aircraft with engines rated at least 800 horsepower each or the equivalent in turbine engine powered aircraft), and at least 5 hours of flight training in the duties of a flight engineer.
(3) A degree in aeronautical, electrical, or mechanical engineering from a recognized college, university, or engineering school; at least 6 calendar months of practical experience in maintaining multiengine aircraft with engines rated at least 800 horsepower each, or the equivalent in turbine engine powered aircraft; and at least 5 hours of flight training in the duties of a flight engineer.
(4) At least a commercial pilot certificate with an instrument rating and at least 5 hours of flight training in the duties of a flight engineer.
(5) At least 200 hours of flight time in a transport category airplane (or in a military airplane with at least two engines and at least equivalent weight and horsepower) as pilot in command or second in command performing the functions of a pilot in command under the supervision of a pilot in command.
(6) At least 100 hours of flight time as a flight engineer.
(7) Within the 90-day period before he applies, successful completion of an approved flight engineer ground and flight course of instruction as provided in appendix C of this part.
(Sec. 6, 80 Stat. 937, 49 U.S.C. 1655)
[Docket 6458, 30 FR 14559, Nov. 23, 1965, as amended by Amdt. 63-5, 31 FR 9047, July 1, 1966; Amdt. 63-17, 40 FR 32830, Aug. 5, 1975]
§ 63.39
Skill requirements.
(a) An applicant for a flight engineer certificate with a class rating must pass a practical test in the class of airplane for which a rating is sought. To pass the practical test for a flight engineer certificate, the applicant must satisfactorily demonstrate the objectives in the areas of operation specified in the Flight Engineer Practical Test Standards for Reciprocating Engine, Turbopropeller, and Turbojet Powered Aircraft (incorporated by reference, see paragraph (c) of this section). The test may only be given in an airplane specified in § 63.37(a).
(b) The applicant must—
(1) Show that the applicant can satisfactorily perform preflight inspection, servicing, starting, pretakeoff, and postlanding procedures;
(2) In flight, show that the applicant can satisfactorily perform the normal duties and procedures relating to the airplane, airplane engines, propellers (if appropriate), systems, and appliances; and
(3) In flight, in an airplane simulator, or in an approved flight engineer training device, show that the applicant can satisfactorily perform emergency duties and procedures and recognize and take appropriate action for malfunctions of the airplane, engines, propellers (if appropriate), systems and appliances.
(c) FAA-S-8081-21A, Flight Engineer Practical Test Standards for Reciprocating Engine, Turbopropeller, and Turbojet Powered Aircraft, November 2023, is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact FAA, Training and Certification Group, 202-267-1100,
ACSPTSinquiries@faa.gov, www.faa.gov/training_testing.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
The material may be obtained from FAA, 800 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20591, 866-835-5322,
www.faa.gov/training_testing.
[Docket FAA-2022-1463; Amdt. 63-46, 89 FR 22519, Apr. 1, 2024]
§ 63.41
Retesting after failure.
An applicant for a flight engineer certificate who fails a written test or practical test for that certificate may apply for retesting—
(a) After 30 days after the date he failed that test; or
(b) After he has received additional practice or instruction (flight, synthetic trainer, or ground training, or any combination thereof) that is necessary, in the opinion of the Administrator or the applicant's instructor (if the Administrator has authorized him to determine the additional instruction necessary) to prepare the applicant for retesting.
§ 63.42
Flight engineer certificate issued on basis of a foreign flight engineer license.
(a)
Certificates issued.
The holder of a current foreign flight engineer license issued by a contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation, who meets the requirements of this section, may have a flight engineer certificate issued to him for the operation of civil aircraft of U.S. registry. Each flight engineer certificate issued under this section specifies the number and State of issuance of the foreign flight engineer license on which it is based. If the holder of the certificate cannot read, speak, or understand the English language, the Administrator may place any limitation on the certificate that he considers necessary for safety.
(b)
Medical standards and certification.
An applicant must submit evidence that he currently meets the medical standards for the foreign flight engineer license on which the application for a certificate under this section is based. A current medical certificate issued under part 67 of this chapter will be excepted as evidence that the applicant meets those standards. However, a medical certificate issued under part 67 of this chapter is not evidence that the applicant meets those standards outside the United States unless the State that issued the applicant's foreign flight engineer license also accepts that medical certificate as evidence of the applicant's physical fitness for his foreign flight engineer license.
(c)
Ratings issued.
Aircraft class ratings listed on the applicant's foreign flight engineer license, in addition to any issued to him after testing under the provisions of this part, are placed on the applicant's flight engineer certificate. An applicant without an aircraft class rating on his foreign flight engineer license may be issued a class rating if he shows that he currently meets the requirements for exercising the privileges of his foreign flight engineer license on that class of aircraft.
(d)
Privileges and limitations.
The holder of a flight engineer certificate issued under this section may act as a flight engineer of a civil aircraft of U.S. registry subject to the limitations of this part and any additional limitations placed on his certificate by the Administrator. He is subject to these limitations while he is acting as a flight engineer of the aircraft within or outside the United States. However, he may not act as flight engineer or in any other capacity as a required flight crewmember, of a civil aircraft of U.S. registry that is carrying persons or property for compensation or hire.
(e)
Renewal of certificate and ratings.
The holder of a certificate issued under this section may have that certificate and the ratings placed thereon renewed if, at the time of application for renewal, the foreign flight engineer license on which that certificate is based is in effect. Application for the renewal of the certificate and ratings thereon must be made before the expiration of the certificate.
(Sec. 6, 80 Stat. 937, 49 U.S.C. 1655)
[Docket 8846, 33 FR 18614, Dec. 17, 1968, as amended by Amdt. 63-20, 45 FR 5673, Jan. 24, 1980]
§ 63.43
Flight engineer courses.
An applicant for approval of a flight engineer course must submit a letter to the Administrator requesting approval, and must also submit three copies of each course outline, a description of the facilities and equipment, and a list of the instructors and their qualifications. An air carrier or commercial operator with an approved flight engineer training course under part 121 of this chapter may apply for approval of a training course under this part by letter without submitting
the additional information required by this paragraph. Minimum requirements for obtaining approval of a flight engineer course are set forth in appendix C of this part.

# Subpart C—Flight Navigators

# Authority:
Secs. 313(a), 314, 601, and 607; 49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1355, 1421, and 1427.

# Source:
Docket 1179, 27 FR 7970, Aug. 10, 1962, unless otherwise noted.
§ 63.51
Eligibility requirements; general.
To be eligible for a flight navigator certificate, a person must—
(a) Be at least 21 years of age;
(b) Be able to read, write, speak, and understand the English language;
(c) Hold at least a second-class medical certificate issued under part 67 of this chapter within the 12 months before the date he applies; and
(d) Comply with §§ 63.53, 63.55, and 63.57.
§ 63.53
Knowledge requirements.
(a) An applicant for a flight navigator certificate must pass a written test on—
(1) The regulations of this chapter that apply to the duties of a flight navigator;
(2) The fundamentals of flight navigation, including flight planning and cruise control;
(3) Practical meteorology, including analysis of weather maps, weather reports, and weather forecasts; and weather sequence abbreviations, symbols, and nomenclature;
(4) The types of air navigation facilities and procedures in general use;
(5) Calibrating and using air navigation instruments;
(6) Navigation by dead reckoning;
(7) Navigation by celestial means;
(8) Navigation by radio aids;
(9) Pilotage and map reading; and
(10) Interpretation of navigation aid identification signals.
(b) A report of the test is mailed to the applicant. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a passing grade is evidence, for a period of 24 calendar months after the test, that the applicant has complied with this section.
(c) An applicant is eligible to take a practical test for a flight navigator certificate under this part with an expired written test report in accordance with § 61.40 of this chapter.
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7970, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 63-19, 43 FR 22639, May 25, 1978; Docket FAA-2023-0825, Amdt. 63-47, 89 FR 80053, Oct. 1, 2024]
§ 63.55
Experience requirements.
(a) An applicant for a flight navigator certificate must be a graduate of a flight navigator course approved by the Administrator or present satisfactory documentary evidence of—
(1) Satisfactory determination of his position in flight at least 25 times by night by celestial observations and at least 25 times by day by celestial observations in conjunction with other aids; and
(2) At least 200 hours of satisfactory flight navigation including celestial and radio navigation and dead reckoning.
A pilot who has logged 500 hours of cross-country flight time, of which at least 100 hours were at night, may be credited with not more than 100 hours for the purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(b) Flight time used exclusively for practicing long-range navigation methods, with emphasis on celestial navigation and dead reckoning, is considered to be satisfactory navigation experience for the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section. It must be substantiated by a logbook, by records of an armed force or a certificated air carrier, or by a letter signed by a certificated flight navigator and attached to the application.
§ 63.57
Skill requirements.
(a) An applicant for a flight navigator certificate must pass a practical test in navigating aircraft by—
(1) Dead reckoning;
(2) Celestial means; and
(3) Radio aids to navigation.
(b) An applicant must pass the written test prescribed by § 63.53 before taking the test under this section. However, if a delay in taking the test under this section would inconvenience the applicant or an air carrier, he may take it before he receives the result of
the written test, or after he has failed the written test.
(c) The test requirements for this section are set forth in appendix A of this part.
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7970, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 63-19, 43 FR 22639, May 25, 1978]
§ 63.59
Retesting after failure.
(a) An applicant for a flight navigator certificate who fails a written or practical test for that certificate may apply for retesting—
(1) After 30 days after the date he failed that test; or
(2) Before the 30 days have expired if the applicant presents a signed statement from a certificated flight navigator, certificated ground instructor, or any other qualified person approved by the Administrator, certifying that that person has given the applicant additional instruction in each of the subjects failed and that person considers the applicant ready for retesting.
(b) A statement from a certificated flight navigator, or from an operations official of an approved navigator course, is acceptable, for the purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, for the written test and for the flight test. A statement from a person approved by the Administrator is acceptable for the written tests. A statement from a supervising or check navigator with the United States Armed Forces is acceptable for the written test and for the practical test.
(c) If the applicant failed the flight test, the additional instruction must have been administered in flight.
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7970, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 63-19, 43 FR 22640, May 25, 1978]
§ 63.61
Flight navigator courses.
An applicant for approval of a flight navigator course must submit a letter to the Administrator requesting approval, and must also submit three copies of the course outline, a description of his facilities and equipment, and a list of the instructors and their qualifications. Requirements for the course are set forth in appendix B to this part.
Pt. 63, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 63—Test Requirements for Flight Navigator Certificate
(a)
Demonstration of skill.
An applicant will be required to pass practical tests on the prescribed subjects. These tests may be given by FAA inspectors and designated flight navigator examiners.
(b)
The examination.
The practical examination consists of a ground test and a flight test as itemized on the examination check sheet. Each item must be completed satisfactorily in order for the applicant to obtain a passing grade. Items 5, 6, 7 of the ground test may be completed orally, and items 17, 22, 23, 34, 36, 37, 38, and 39 of the flight test may be completed by an oral examination when a lack of ground facilities or navigation equipment makes such procedure necessary. In these cases a notation to that effect shall be made in the “Remarks” space on the check sheet.
(c)
Examination procedure.
(1) An applicant will provide an aircraft in which celestial observations can be taken in all directions. Minimum equipment shall include a table for plotting, a drift meter or absolute altimeter, an instrument for taking visual bearings, and a radio direction finder.
(2) More than one flight may be used to complete the flight test and any type of flight pattern may be used. The test will be conducted chiefly over water whenever practicable, and without regard to radio range legs or radials. If the test is conducted chiefly over land, a chart should be used which shows very little or no topographical and aeronautical data. The total flight time will cover a period of at least four hours. Only one applicant may be examined at one time, and no applicant may perform other than navigator duties during the examination.
(3) When the test is conducted with an aircraft belonging to an air carrier, the navigation procedures should conform with those set forth in the carrier's operations manual. Items of the flight test which are not performed during the routine navigation of the flight will be completed by oral examination after the flight or at times during flight which the applicant indicates may be used for tests on those items. Since in-flight weather conditions, the reliability of the weather forecast, and the stability of the aircraft will have considerable effect on an applicant's performance, good judgment must be used by the agent or examiner in evaluating the tests.
(d)
Ground test.
For the ground test, in the order of the numbered items on the examination check sheet, an applicant will be required to:
(1) Identify without a star identifier, at least six navigational stars and all planets available for navigation at the time of the examination and explain the method of identification.
(2) Identify two additional stars with a star identifier or sky diagrams and explain identification procedure.
(3) Precompute a time-altitude curve for a period of about 20 minutes and take 10 single observations of a celestial body which is rising or setting rapidly. The intervals between observations should be at least one minute. Mark each observation on the graph to show accuracy. All observations, after corrections, shall plot within 8 minutes of arc from the time-altitude curve, and the average error shall not exceed 5 minutes of arc.
(4) Take and plot one 3-star fix and 3 LOP's of the sun. Plotted fix or an average of LOP's must fall within 5 miles of the actual position of the observer.
(5) Demonstrate or explain the compensation and swinging of a liquid-type magnetic compass.
(6) Demonstrate or explain a method of aligning one type of drift meter.
(7) Demonstrate or explain a method of aligning an astro-compass or periscopic sextant.
(e)
Flight test.
For the flight test, in the order of the numbered items on the examination check sheet, an applicant will be required to:
(1) Demonstrate his ability to read weather symbols and interpret synoptic surface and upper air weather maps with particular emphasis being placed on winds.
(2) Prepare a flight plan by zones from the forecast winds or pressure data of an upper air chart and the operator's data.
(3) Compute from the operator's data the predicted fuel consumption for each zone of the flight, including the alternate.
(4) Determine the point-of-no-return for the flight with all engines running and the equitime point with one engine inoperative. Graphical methods which are part of the company's operations manual may be used for these computations.
(5) Prepare a cruise control (howgozit) chart from the operator's data.
(6) Enter actual fuel consumed on the cruise control chart and interpret the variations of the actual curve from the predicted curve.
(7) Check the presence on board and operating condition of all navigation equipment. Normally a check list will be used. This check will include a time tick or chronometer comparison. Any lack of thoroughness during this check will justify this item being graded unsatisfactory.
(8) Locate emergency equipment, such as, the nearest fire extinguisher, life preserver, life rafts, exits, axe, first aid kits, etc.
(9) Recite the navigator's duties and stations during emergencies for the type of aircraft used for the test.
(10) Demonstrate the proper use of a flux gate compass or gyrosyn compass (when available), with special emphasis on the caging methods and the location of switches, circuit breakers, and fuses. If these compasses are not part of the aircraft's equipment, an oral examination will be given.
(11) Be accurate and use good judgment when setting and altering headings. Erroneous application of variation, deviation, or drift correction, or incorrect measurement of course on the chart will be graded as unsatisfactory.
(12) Demonstrate or explain the use of characteristics of various chart projections used in long-range air navigation, including the plotting of courses and bearings, and the measuring of distances.
(13) Demonstrate ability to identify designated landmarks by the use of a sectional or WAC chart.
(14) Use a computer with facility and accuracy for the computation of winds, drift correction and drift angles, ground speeds, ETA's, fuel loads, etc.
(15) Determine track, ground speed, and wind by the double drift method. When a drift meter is not part of the aircraft's equipment, an oral examination on the use of the drift meter and a double drift problem shall be completed.
(16) Determine ground speed and wind by the timing method with a drift meter. When a drift meter is not part of the aircraft's equipment, an oral examination on the procedure and a problem shall be completed.
(17) Demonstrate the use of air plot for determining wind between fixes and for plotting pressure lines of position when using pressure and absolute altimeter comparisons.
(18) Give ETA's to well defined check points at least once each hour after the second hour of flight. The average error shall not be more than 5 percent of the intervening time intervals, and the maximum error of any one ETA shall not be more than 10 percent.
(19) Demonstrate knowledge and use of D/F equipment and radio facility information. Grading on this item will be based largely on the applicant's selection of those radio aids which will be of most value to his navigation, the manner with which he uses equipment, including filter box controls, and the precision with which he reads bearings. The aircraft's compass heading and all compass corrections must be considered for each bearing.
(20) Use care in tuning to radio stations to insure maximum reception of signal and check for interference signals. Receiver will be checked to ascertain that antenna and
BFO (Voice-CW) switches are in correct positions.
(21) Identify at least three radio stations using International Morse code only for identification. The agent or examiner will tune in these stations so that the applicant will have no knowledge of the direction, distance, or frequency of the stations.
(22) Take at least one radio bearing by manual use of the loop. The agent or examiner will check the applicant's bearing by taking a manual bearing on the same station immediately after the applicant.
(23) Show the use of good judgment in evaluating radio bearings, and explain why certain bearings may be of doubtful value.
(24) Determine and apply correctly the correction required to be made to radio bearings before plotting them on a Mercator chart, and demonstrate the ability to plot bearings accurately on charts of the Mercator and Lambert conformal projections.
(25) Compute the compass heading, ETA, and fuel remaining if it is assumed that the flight would be diverted to an alternate airport at a time specified by the agent or examiner.
(26)-(28) [Reserved]
(29) Demonstrate the ability to properly operate and read an absolute altimeter.
(30) Determine the “D” factors for a series of compared readings of an absolute altimeter and a pressure altimeter.
(31) Determine drift angle or lateral displacement from the true headingline by application of Bellamy's formula or a variation thereof.
(32) Interpret the altimeter comparison data with respect to the pressure system found at flight level. From this data evaluate the accuracy of the prognostic weather map used for flight planning and apply this analysis to the navigation of the flight.
(33) Interpret single LOP's for most probable position, and show how a series of single LOP's of the same body may be used to indicate the probable track and ground speed. Also, show how a series of single LOP's (celestial or radio) from the same celestial body or radio station may be used to determine position when the change of azimuth or bearing is 30° or more between observations.
(34) Select one of the celestial LOP's used during the flight and explain how to make a single line of position approach to a point selected by the agent or examiner, giving headings, times, and ETA's.
(35) Demonstrate the proper use of an astro-compass or periscopic sextant for taking bearings.
(36) Determine compass deviation as soon as possible after reaching cruising altitude and whenever there is a change of compass heading of 15° or more.
(37) Take celestial fixes at hourly intervals when conditions permit. The accuracy of these fixes shall be checked by means of a radio or visual fix whenever practicable. After allowing for the probable error of a radio or visual fix, a celestial fix under favorable conditions should plot within 10 miles of the actual position.
(38) Select celestial bodies for observation, when possible, whose azimuths will differ by approximately 120° for a 3-body fix and will differ by approximately 90° for a 2-body fix. The altitudes of the selected bodies should be between 25° and 75° whenever practicable.
(39) Have POMAR and any other required reports ready for transmission at time of schedule, and be able to inform the pilot in command promptly with regard to the aircraft's position and progress in comparison with the flight plan.
(40) Keep a log with sufficient legible entries to provide a record from which the flight could be retraced.
(41) Note significant weather changes which might influence the drift or ground speed of the aircraft, such as, temperature, “D” factors, frontal conditions, turbulence, etc.
(42) Determine the wind between fixes as a regular practice.
(43) Estimate the time required and average ground speed during a letdown, under conditions specified by the pilot in command.
(44) Work with sufficient speed to determine the aircraft's position hourly by celestial means and also make all other observations and records pertinent to the navigation. The applicant should be able to take the observation, compute, and plot a celestial LOP within a time limit of 8 minutes; observe the absolute and pressure altimeters and compute the drift or lateral displacement within a time limit of 3 minutes.
(45) Be accurate in reading instruments and making computations. Errors which are made and corrected without affecting the navigation will be disregarded unless they cause considerable loss of time.
An uncorrected error in computation (including reading instruments and books) which will affect the reported position more than 25 miles, the heading more than 3°, or any ETA more than 15 minutes will cause this item to be graded unsatisfactory.
(46) Be alert to changing weather or other conditions during flight which might affect the navigation. An applicant should not fail to take celestial observations just prior to encountering a broken or overcast sky condition; and he should not fail to take a bearing on a radio station, which operates at scheduled intervals and which would be a valuable aid to the navigation.
(47) Show a logical choice and sequence in using the various navigation methods according to time and accuracy, and check the positions determined by one method against positions determined by other methods.
(48) Use a logical sequence in performing the various duties of a navigator and plan work according to a schedule. The more important duties should not be neglected for others of less importance.
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7970, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Docket FAA-2017-0733, Amdt. 63-39, 82 FR 34398, July 25, 2017]
Pt. 63, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 63—Flight Navigator Training Course Requirements
(a)
Training course outline
—(1)
Format.
The ground course outline and the flight course outline shall be combined in one looseleaf binder and shall include a table of contents, divided into two parts—ground course and flight course. Each part of the table of contents must contain a list of the major subjects, together with hours allotted to each subject and the total classroom and flight hours.
(2)
Ground course outline.
(i) It is not mandatory that a course outline have the subject headings arranged exactly as listed in this paragraph. Any arrangement of general headings and subheadings will be satisfactory provided all the subject material listed here is included and the acceptable minimum number of hours is assigned to each subject. Each general subject shall be broken down into detail showing items to be covered.
(ii) If any agency desires to include additional subjects in the ground training curriculum, such as international law, flight hygiene, or others which are not required, the hours allotted these additional subjects may not be included in the minimum classroom hours.
(iii) The following subjects with classroom hours are considered the minimum coverage for a ground training course for flight navigators:
Subject
Classroom hours
Federal Aviation Administration
5
To include Parts 63, 91, and 121 of this chapter.
Meteorology
40
To include:
Basic weather principles.
Temperature.
Pressure.
Winds.
Moisture in the atmosphere.
Stability.
Clouds.
Hazards.
Air masses.
Front weather.
Fog.
Thunderstorms.
Icing.
World weather and climate.
Weather maps and weather reports.
Forecasting.
International Morse code:
Ability to receive code groups of letters and numerals at a speed of eight words per minute
Navigation instruments (exclusive of radio and radar)
20
To include:
Compasses.
Pressure altimeters.
Airspeed indicators.
Driftmeters.
Bearing indicators.
Aircraft octants.
Instrument calibration and alignment.
Charts and pilotage
15
To include:
Chart projections.
Chart symbols.
Principles of pilotage.
Dead reckoning
30
To include:
Air plot.
Ground plot.
Calculation of ETA.
Vector analysis.
Use of computer.
Search.
Absolute altimeter with:
Applications
15
To include:
Principles of construction.
Operating instructions.
Use of Bellamy's formula.
Flight planning with single drift correction.
Radio and long-range navigational aids
35
To include:
Principles of radio transmission and reception
Radio aids to navigation
Government publications
Airborne D/F equipment
Errors of radio bearings
Quadrantal correction
Plotting radio bearings
ICAO Q code for direction finding
Celestial navigation
150
To include:
The solar system.
The celestial sphere.
The astronomical triangle.
Theory of lines of position.
Use of the Air Almanac.
Time and its applications.
Navigation tables.
Precomputation.
Celestial line of position approach.
Star identification.
Corrections to celestial observations.
Flight planning and cruise control
25
To include:
The flight plan.
Fuel consumption charts.
Methods of cruise control.
Flight progress chart.
Point-of-no-return.
Equitime point.
Long-range flight problems
15
Total (exclusive of final examinations)
350
(3)
Flight course outline.
(i) A minimum of 150 hours of supervised flight training shall be given, of which at least 50 hours of flight training must be given at night, and celestial navigation must be used during flights which total at least 125 hours.
(ii) A maximum of 50 hours of the required flight training may be obtained in acceptable types of synthetic flight navigator training devices.
(iii) Flights should be at least four hours in length and should be conducted off civil airways. Some training on long-range flights is desirable, but is not required. There is no limit to the number of students that may be trained on one flight, but at least one astrodrome or one periscopic sextant mounting must be provided for each group of four students.
(iv) Training must be given in dead reckoning, pilotage, radio navigation, celestial navigation, and the use of the absolute altimeter.
(b)
Equipment.
(1) Classroom equipment shall include one table at least 24″ × 32″ in dimensions for each student.
(2) Aircraft suitable for the flight training must be available to the approved course operator to insure that the flight training may be completed without undue delay.
The approved course operator may contract or obtain written agreements with aircraft operators for the use of suitable aircraft. A copy of the contract or written agreement with an aircraft operator shall be attached to each of the three copies of the course outline submitted for approval. In all cases, the approved course operator is responsible for the nature and quality of instruction given during flight.
(c)
Instructors.
(1) Sufficient classroom instructors must be available to prevent an excessive ratio of students to instructors. Any ratio in excess of 20 to 1 will be considered unsatisfactory.
(2) At least one ground instructor must hold a valid flight navigator certificate, and be utilized to coordinate instruction of ground school subjects.
(3) Each instructor who conducts flight training must hold a valid flight navigator certificate.
(d)
Revision of training course.
(1) Requests for revisions to course outlines, facilities, and equipment shall follow procedures for original approval of the course. Revisions should be submitted in such form that an entire page or pages of the approved outline can be removed and replaced by the revisions.
(2) The list of instructors may be revised at any time without request for approval, provided the minimum requirement of paragraph (e) of this section is maintained.
(e)
Credit for previous training and experience.
(1) Credit may be granted by an operator to students for previous training and experience which is provable and comparable to portions of the approved curriculum. When granting such credit, the approved course operator should be fully cognizant of the fact that he is responsible for the proficiency of his graduates in accordance with subdivision (i) of paragraph (3) of this section.
(2) Where advanced credit is allowed, the operator shall evaluate the student's previous training and experience in accordance with the normal practices of accredited technical schools. Before credit is given for any ground school subject or portion thereof, the student must pass an appropriate examination given by the operator. The results of the examination, the basis for credit allowance, and the hours credited shall be incorporated as a part of the student's records.
(3) Credit up to a maximum of 50 hours toward the flight training requirement may be given to pilots who have logged at least 500 hours while a member of a flight crew which required a certificated flight navigator or the Armed Forces equivalent. A similar credit may also be given to a licensed deck officer of the Maritime Service who has served as such for at least one year on ocean-going vessels. One-half of the flight time credited under the terms of this paragraph may be applied toward the 50 hours of flight training required at night.
(f)
Students records and reports.
Approval of a course shall not be continued in effect unless the course operator keeps an accurate record of each student, including a chronological log of all instruction, subjects covered and course examinations and grades, and unless he prepares and transmits to the responsible Flight Standards office not later than January 31 of each year, a report containing the following information for the previous calendar year:
(1) The names of all students graduated, together with their school grades for ground and flight subjects.
(2) The names of all students failed or dropped, together with their school grades and reasons for dropping.
(g)
Quality of instruction.
Approval of a course shall not be continued in effect unless at least 80 percent of the students who apply within 90 days after graduation are able to qualify on the first attempt for certification as flight navigators.
(h)
Statement of graduation.
Each student who successfully completes an approved flight navigator course shall be given a statement of graduation.
(i)
Inspections.
Approved course operations will be inspected by authorized representatives of the Administrator as often as deemed necessary to insure that instruction is maintained at the required standards, but the period between inspections shall not exceed 12 months.
(j)
Change of ownership, name, or location
—(1)
Change of ownership.
Approval of a flight navigator course shall not be continued in effect after the course has changed ownership. The new owner must obtain a new approval by following the procedure prescribed for original approval.
(2)
Change in name.
An approved course changed in name but not changed in ownership shall remain valid if the change is reported by the approved course operator to the responsible Flight Standards office. A letter of approval under the new name will be issued by the responsible Flight Standards office.
(3)
Change in location.
An approved course shall remain in effect even though the approved course operator changes location if the change is reported without delay by the operator to the responsible Flight Standards office, which will inspect the facilities to be used. If they are found to be adequate, a letter of approval showing the new location will be issued by the responsible Flight Standards office.
(k)
Cancellation of approval.
(1) Failure to meet or maintain any of the requirements set forth in this section for the approval or operation of an approved flight navigator course shall be considered sufficient reason for cancellation of the approval.
(2) If an operator should desire voluntary cancellation of his approved course, he should submit the effective letter of approval and a written request for cancellation to the Administrator through the responsible Flight Standards office.
(l)
Duration.
The authority to operate an approved flight navigator course shall expire 24 months after the last day of the month of issuance.
(m)
Renewal.
Application for renewal of authority to operate an approved flight navigator course may be made by letter to the responsible Flight Standards office at any time within 60 days before to the expiration date. Renewal of approval will depend upon the course operator meeting the current conditions for approval and having a satisfactory record as an operator.
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7970, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 63-6, 31 FR 9211, July 6, 1966; Amdt. 63-28, 54 FR 39291, Sept. 25, 1989; Docket FAA-2017-0733, Amdt. 63-39, 82 FR 34398, July 25, 2017; Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 63-40, 83 FR 9170, Mar. 5, 2018]
Pt. 63, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 63—Flight Engineer Training Course Requirements
(a)
Training course outline
—(1)
Format.
The ground course outline and the flight course outline are independent. Each must be contained in a looseleaf binder to include a table of contents. If an applicant desires approval of both a ground school course and a flight school course, they must be combined in one looseleaf binder that includes a separate table of contents for each course. Separate course outlines are required for each type of airplane.
(2)
Ground course outline.
(i) It is not mandatory that the subject headings be arranged exactly as listed in this paragraph. Any arrangement of subjects is satisfactory if all the subject material listed here is included and at least the minimum programmed hours are assigned to each subject. Each general subject must be broken down into detail showing the items to be covered.
(ii) If any course operator desires to include additional subjects in the ground course curriculum, such as international law, flight hygiene, or others that are not required, the hours allotted these additional subjects may not be included in the minimum programmed classroom hours.
(iii) The following subjects and classroom hours are the minimum programmed coverage for the initial approval of a ground training course for flight engineers. Subsequent to initial approval of a ground training course an applicant may apply to the Administrator for a reduction in the programmed hours. Approval of a reduction in the approved programmed hours is based on improved training effectiveness due to improvements in methods, training aids, quality of instruction, or any combination thereof.
Subject
Classroom hours
Federal Aviation Regulations
10
To include the regulations of this chapter that apply to flight engineers
Theory of Flight and Aerodynamics
10
Airplane Familiarization
90
To include as appropriate:
Specifications.
Construction features.
Flight controls.
Hydraulic systems.
Pneumatic systems.
Electrical systems.
Anti-icing and de-icing systems.
Pressurization and air-conditioning systems.
Vacuum systems.
Pilot static systems.
Instrument systems.
Fuel and oil systems.
Emergency equipment.
Engine Familiarization
45
To include as appropriate:
Specifications.
Construction features.
Lubrication.
Ignition.
Carburetor and induction, supercharging and fuel control systems
Accessories.
Propellers.
Instrumentation.
Emergency equipment.
Normal Operations (Ground and Flight)
50
To include as appropriate:
Servicing methods and procedures.
Operation of all the airplane systems.
Operation of all the engine systems.
Loading and center of gravity computations.
Cruise control (normal, long range, maximum endurance)
Power and fuel computation.
Meteorology as applicable to engine operation
Emergency Operations
80
To include as appropriate:
Landing gear, brakes, flaps, speed brakes, and leading edge devices
Pressurization and air-conditioning.
Portable fire extinguishers.
Fuselage fire and smoke control.
Loss of electrical power.
Engine fire control.
Engine shut-down and restart.
Oxygen.
Total (exclusive of final tests)
235
The above subjects, except Theory of Flight and Aerodynamics, and Regulations must apply to the same type of airplane in which the student flight engineer is to receive flight training.
(3) Flight Course Outline. (i) The flight training curriculum must include at least 10 hours of flight instruction in an airplane specified in § 63.37(a). The flight time required for the practical test may not be credited as part of the required flight instruction.
(ii) All of the flight training must be given in the same type airplane.
(iii) As appropriate to the airplane type, the following subjects must be taught in the flight training course:

# Subject

# normal duties, procedures and operations
To include as appropriate:
Airplane preflight.
Engine starting, power checks, pretakeoff, postlanding and shut-down procedures.
Power control.
Temperature control.
Engine operation analysis.
Operation of all systems.
Fuel management.
Logbook entries.
Pressurization and air conditioning.

# recognition and correction of in-flight malfunctions
To include:
Analysis of abnormal engine operation.
Analysis of abnormal operation of all systems.
Corrective action.

# emergency operations in flight
To include as appropriate:
Engine fire control.
Fuselage fire control.
Smoke control.
Loss of power or pressure in each system.
Engine overspeed.
Fuel dumping.
Landing gear, spoilers, speed brakes, and flap extension and retraction.
Engine shut-down and restart.
Use of oxygen.
(iv) If the Administrator finds a simulator or flight engineer training device to accurately reproduce the design, function, and control characteristics, as pertaining to the duties and responsibilities of a flight engineer on the type of airplane to be flown, the flight training time may be reduced by a ratio of 1 hour of flight time to 2 hours of airplane simulator time, or 3 hours of flight engineer training device time, as the case may be, subject to the following limitations:
(
a
) Except as provided in subdivision (
b
) of this paragraph, the required flight instruction time in an airplane may not be less than 5 hours.
(
b
) As to a flight engineer student holding at least a commercial pilot certificate with an instrument rating, airplane simulator or a combination of airplane simulator and flight engineer training device time may be submitted for up to all 10 hours of the required flight instruction time in an airplane. However, not more than 15 hours of flight engineer training device time may be substituted for flight instruction time.
(v) To obtain credit for flight training time, airplane simulator time, or flight engineer training device time, the student must occupy the flight engineer station and operate the controls.
(b)
Classroom equipment.
Classroom equipment should consist of systems and procedural training devices, satisfactory to the Administrator, that duplicate the operation of the systems of the airplane in which the student is to receive his flight training.
(c)
Contracts or agreements.
(1) An approved flight engineer course operator may contract with other persons to obtain suitable airplanes, airplane simulators, or other training devices or equipment.
(2) An operator who is approved to conduct both the flight engineer ground course and the flight engineer flight course may contract with others to conduct one course or the other in its entirety but may not contract with others to conduct both courses for the same airplane type.
(3) An operator who has approval to conduct a flight engineer ground course or flight course for a type of airplane, but not both courses, may not contract with another person to conduct that course in whole or in part.
(4) An operator who contracts with another to conduct a flight engineer course may not authorize or permit the course to be conducted in whole or in part by a third person.
(5) In all cases, the course operator who is approved to operate the course is responsible for the nature and quality of the instruction given.
(6) A copy of each contract authorized under this paragraph must be attached to each of the 3 copies of the course outline submitted for approval.
(d)
Instructors.
(1) Only certificated flight engineers may give the flight instruction required by this appendix in an airplane, simulator, or flight engineer training device.
(2) There must be a sufficient number of qualified instructors available to prevent an excess ratio of students to instructors.
(e)
Revisions.
(1) Requests for revisions of the course outlines, facilities or equipment must follow the procedures for original approval of the course. Revisions must be submitted in such form that an entire page or pages of the approved outline can be removed and replaced by the revisions.
(2) The list of instructors may be revised at any time without request for approval, if the requirements of paragraph (d) of this appendix are maintained.
(f)
Ground school credits.
(1) Credit may be granted a student in the ground school course by the course operator for comparable previous training or experience that the student can show by written evidence: however, the course operator must still meet the quality of instruction as described in paragraph (h) of this appendix.
(2) Before credit for previous training or experience may be given, the student must pass a test given by the course operator on the subject for which the credit is to be given. The course operator shall incorporate results of the test, the basis for credit allowance, and the hours credited as part of the student's records.
(g)
Records and reports.
(1) The course operator must maintain, for at least two years after a student graduates, fails, or drops from a course, a record of the student's training, including a chronological log of the subject course, attendance examinations, and grades.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (3) of this section, the course operator must submit to the Administrator, not later than January 31 of each year, a report for the previous calendar year's training, to include:
(i) Name, enrollment and graduation date of each student;
(ii) Ground school hours and grades of each student;
(iii) Flight, airplane simulator, flight engineer training device hours, and grades of each student; and
(iv) Names of students failed or dropped, together with their school grades and reasons for dropping.
(3) Upon request, the Administrator may waive the reporting requirements of paragraph (2) of this section for an approved flight engineer course that is part of an approved training course under subpart N of part 121 of this chapter.
(h)
Quality of instruction.
(1) Approval of a ground course is discontinued whenever less than 80 percent of the students pass the FAA written test on the first attempt.
(2) Approval of a flight course is discontinued whenever less than 80 percent of the students pass the FAA practical test on the first attempt.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2) of this section, approval of a ground or flight course may be continued when the Administrator finds—
(i) That the failure rate was based on less than a representative number of students; or
(ii) That the course operator has taken satisfactory means to improve the effectiveness of the training.
(i)
Time limitation.
Each student must apply for the written test and the flight test within 90 days after completing the ground school course.
(j)
Statement of course completion.
(1) The course operator shall give to each student who successfully completes an approved flight engineer ground school training course, and passes the FAA written test, a statement of successful completion of the course that indicates the date of training, the type of airplane on which the ground course training was based, and the number of hours received in the ground school course.
(2) The course operator shall give each student who successfully completes an approved flight engineer flight course, and passed the FAA practical test, a statement of successful
completion of the flight course that indicates the dates of the training, the type of airplane used in the flight course, and the number of hours received in the flight course.
(3) A course operator who is approved to conduct both the ground course and the flight course may include both courses in a single statement of course completion if the provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this section are included.
(4) The requirements of this paragraph do not apply to an air carrier or commercial operator with an approved training course under part 121 of this chapter providing the student receives a flight engineer certificate upon completion of that course.
(k)
Inspections.
Each course operator shall allow the Administrator at any time or place, to make any inspection necessary to ensure that the quality and effectiveness of the instruction are maintained at the required standards.
(l)
Change of ownership, name, or location.
(1) Approval of a flight engineer ground course or flight course is discontinued if the ownership of the course changes. The new owner must obtain a new approval by following the procedure prescribed for original approval.
(2) Approval of a flight engineer ground course or flight course does not terminate upon a change in the name of the course that is reported to the Administrator within 30 days. The Administrator issues a new letter of approval, using the new name, upon receipt of notice within that time.
(3) Approval of a flight engineer ground course or flight course does not terminate upon a change in location of the course that is reported to the Administrator within 30 days. The Administrator issues a new letter of approval, showing the new location, upon receipt of notice within that time, if he finds the new facilities to be adequate.
(m)
Cancellation of approval.
(1) Failure to meet or maintain any of the requirements of this appendix for the approval of a flight engineer ground course or flight course is reason for cancellation of the approval.
(2) If a course operator desires to voluntarily terminate the course, he should notify the Administrator in writing and return the last letter of approval.
(n)
Duration.
Except for a course operated as part of an approved training course under subpart N of part 121 of this chapter, the approval to operate a flight engineer ground course or flight course terminates 24 months after the last day of the month of issue.
(o)
Renewal.
(1) Renewal of approval to operate a flight engineer ground course or flight course is conditioned upon the course operator's meeting the requirements of this appendix.
(2) Application for renewal may be made to the Administrator at any time after 60 days before the termination date.
(p)
Course operator approvals.
An applicant for approval of a flight engineer ground course, or flight course, or both, must meet all of the requirements of this appendix concerning application, approval, and continuing approval of that course or courses.
(q)
Practical test eligibility.
An applicant for a flight engineer certificate and class rating under the provisions of § 63.37(b)(6) is not eligible to take the practical test unless he has successfully completed an approved flight engineer ground school course in the same type of airplane for which he has completed an approved flight engineer flight course.
[Docket 6458, 30 FR 14560, Nov. 23, 1965, as amended by Amdt. 63-15, 37 FR 9758, May 17, 1972]
Pt. 65

# PART 65—CERTIFICATION: AIRMEN OTHER THAN FLIGHT CREWMEMBERS
Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 103

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
65.1
Applicability.
65.3
Certification of foreign airmen other than flight crewmembers.
65.11
Application and issue.
65.12
Offenses involving alcohol or drugs.
65.13
Temporary certificate.
65.14
[Reserved]
65.15
Duration of certificates.
65.16
Change of name: Replacement of lost or destroyed certificate.
65.17
Tests: General procedure.
65.18
Written tests: Cheating or other unauthorized conduct.
65.19
Retesting after failure.
65.20
Applications, certificates, logbooks, reports, and records: Falsification reproduction, or alteration.
65.21
Change of address.
65.23
Incorporation by reference.

# Subpart B—Air Traffic Control Tower Operators
65.31
Required credentials, certificates, and ratings or qualifications.
65.33
Eligibility requirements: General.
65.35
Knowledge requirements.
65.37
Skill requirements: Operating positions.
65.39
Practical experience requirements: Facility rating.
65.41
Skill requirements: Facility ratings.
65.43
[Reserved]
65.45
Performance of duties.
65.46-65.46b
[Reserved]
65.47
Maximum hours.
65.49
General operating rules.
65.50
Currency requirements.

# Subpart C—Aircraft Dispatchers
65.51
Certificate required.
65.53
Eligibility requirements: General.
65.55
Knowledge requirements.
65.57
Experience or training requirements.
65.59
Skill requirements.
65.61
Aircraft dispatcher certification courses: Content and minimum hours.
65.63
Aircraft dispatcher certification courses: Application, duration, and other general requirements.
65.65
Aircraft dispatcher certification courses: Training facilities.
65.67
Aircraft dispatcher certification courses: Personnel.
65.70
Aircraft dispatcher certification courses: Records.

# Subpart D—Mechanics
65.71
Eligibility requirements: General.
65.73
Ratings.
65.75
Knowledge requirements.
65.77
Experience requirements.
65.79
Skill requirements.
65.80
Certificated aviation maintenance technician school students.
65.81
General privileges and limitations.
65.83
Recent experience requirements.
65.85
Airframe rating; additional privileges.
65.87
Powerplant rating; additional privileges.
65.89
Display of certificate.
65.91
Inspection authorization.
65.92
Inspection authorization: Duration.
65.93
Inspection authorization: Renewal.
65.95
Inspection authorization: Privileges and limitations.

# Subpart E—Repairmen
65.101
Eligibility requirements: General.
65.103
Repairman certificate: Privileges and limitations.
65.104
Repairman certificate—experimental aircraft builder—Eligibility, privileges and limitations.
65.105
Display of certificate.
65.107
Repairman certificate (light-sport aircraft): Eligibility, privileges, and limits.

# Subpart F—Parachute Riggers
65.111
Certificate required.
65.113
Eligibility requirements: General.
65.115
Senior parachute rigger certificate: Experience, knowledge, and skill requirements.
65.117
Military riggers or former military riggers: Special certification rule.
65.119
Master parachute rigger certificate: Experience, knowledge, and skill requirements.
65.121
Type ratings.
65.123
Additional type ratings: Requirements.
65.125
Certificates: Privileges.
65.127
Facilities and equipment.
65.129
Performance standards.
65.131
Records.
65.133
Seal.
Appendix A to Part 65—Aircraft Dispatcher Courses

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(f), 40113, 44701-44703, 44707, 44709-44711, 45102-45103, 45301-45302.

# Source:
Docket 1179, 27 FR 7973, Aug. 10, 1962, unless otherwise noted.
Pt. 65, SFAR No. 103

# Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 103—Process for Requesting Waiver of Mandatory Separation Age for a Federal Aviation Administration Air Traffic Control Specialist In Flight Service Stations, Enroute or Terminal Facilities, and the David J. Hurley Air Traffic Control System Command Center
1.
To whom does this SFAR apply?
This Special Federal Aviation Regulation (SFAR) applies to you if you are an air traffic control specialist (ATCS) employed by the FAA in flight service stations, enroute facilities, terminal facilities, or at the David J. Hurley Air Traffic Control System Command Center who wishes to obtain a waiver of the mandatory separation age as provided by 5 U.S.C. section 8335(a).
2.
When must I file for a waiver?
No earlier than the beginning of the twelfth month before, but no later than the beginning of the sixth month before, the month in which you turn 56, your official chain-of-command must receive your written request asking for a waiver of mandatory separation.
3.
What if I do not file a request before six months before the month in which I turn 56?
If your official chain-of-command does not receive your written request for a waiver of mandatory separation before the beginning of the sixth month before the month in which you turn 56, your request will be denied.
4.
How will the FAA determine if my request meets the filing time requirements of this SFAR?
a. We consider your request to be filed in a timely manner under this SFAR if your official chain-of-command receives it or it is postmarked:
i. After 12 a.m. on the first day of the twelfth month before the month in which you turn 56; and
ii. Before 12 a.m. of the first day of the sixth month before the month in which you turn 56.
b. If you file your request by mail and the postmark is not legible, we will consider it to comply with paragraph a.2 of this section if we receive it by 12 p.m. of the fifth day of the sixth month before the month in which you turn 56.
c. If the last day of the time period specified in paragraph a.2 or paragraph b falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, we will consider the time period to end at 12 p.m. of the next business day.
5.
Where must I file my request for waiver and what must it include?
a. You must file your request for waiver of mandatory separation in writing with the Air Traffic Manager in flight service stations, enroute facilities, terminal facilities, or the David J. Hurley Air Traffic Control System Command Center in which you are employed.
b. Your request for waiver must include all of the following:
i. Your name.
ii. Your current facility.
iii. Your starting date at the facility.
iv. A list of positions at the facility that you are certified in and how many hours it took to achieve certification at the facility.
v. Your area of specialty at the facility.
vi. Your shift schedule.
vii. [Reserved]
viii. A list of all facilities where you have worked as a certified professional controller (CPC) including facility level and dates at each facility;
ix. Evidence of your exceptional skills and experience as a controller; and
x. Your signature.
6.
How will my waiver request be reviewed?
a. Upon receipt of your request for waiver, the Air Traffic Manager of your facility will make a written recommendation that the Administrator either approve or deny your request. If the manager recommends approval of your request, he or she will certify in writing the accuracy of the information you provided as evidence of your exceptional skills and experience as a controller.
b. The Air Traffic Manager will then forward the written recommendation with a copy of your request to the senior executive manager in the Air Traffic Manager's regional chain-of-command.
c. The senior executive manager in the regional chain-of-command will make a written recommendation that the Administrator either approve or deny your request. If the senior executive manager recommends approval of your request, he or she will certify in writing the accuracy of the information you have provided as evidence of exceptional skills and experience.
d. The senior executive manager in the regional chain-of-command will then forward his or her recommendation with a copy of your request to the appropriate Vice President at FAA Headquarters. Depending on the facility in which you are employed, the request will be forwarded to either the Vice President for Flight Services, the Vice President for Enroute and Oceanic Services, the Vice President for Terminal Services or the Vice President for Systems Operations. For example, if you work at a flight service station at the time that you request a waiver, the request will be forwarded to the Vice President for Flight Services.
e. The appropriate Vice President will review your request and make a written recommendation that the Administrator either approve or deny your request, which will be forwarded to the Administrator.
f. The Administrator will issue the final decision on your request.
7.
If I am granted a waiver, when will it expire?
a. Waivers will be granted for a period of one year.
b. No later than 90-days prior to expiration of a waiver, you may request that the waiver be extended using the same process identified in section 6.
c. If you timely request an extension of the waiver and it is denied, you will receive a 60-day advance notice of your separation date simultaneously with notification of the denial.
d. If you do not request an extension of the waiver granted, you will receive a 60-day advance notice of your separation date.
e. Action to separate you from your covered position becomes effective on the last day of the month in which the 60-day notice expires.
8.
Under what circumstances may my waiver be terminated?
a. The FAA/DOT may terminate your waiver under the following circumstances:
i. The needs of the FAA; or
ii. If you are identified as a primary contributor to an operational error/deviation or runway incursion.
b. If the waiver is terminated for either of the reasons identified in paragraph 1 of this section, the air traffic control specialist will receive a 60-day advance notice.
c. Action to separate you from your covered position becomes effective on the last day of the month in which the 60-day notice expires.
9.
Appeal of denial or termination of waiver request:
The denial or termination of a waiver of mandatory separation request is neither appealable nor grievable.
[Docket FAA-2004-17334, 70 FR 1636, Jan. 7, 2005, as amended by Amdt. 65-55, 76 FR 12, Jan. 3, 2011]

# Subpart A—General
§ 65.1
Applicability.
This part prescribes the requirements for issuing the following certificates and associated ratings and the general operating rules for the holders of those certificates and ratings:
(a) Air-traffic control-tower operators.
(b) Aircraft dispatchers.
(c) Mechanics.
(d) Repairmen.
(e) Parachute riggers.
§ 65.3
Certification of foreign airmen other than flight crewmembers.
A person who is neither a U.S. citizen nor a resident alien is issued a certificate under subpart D of this part, outside the United States, only when the Administrator finds that the certificate is needed for the operation or continued airworthiness of a U.S.-registered civil aircraft.
[Docket 65-28, 47 FR 35693, Aug. 16, 1982]
§ 65.11
Application and issue.
(a) Application for a certificate and appropriate class rating, or for an additional rating, under this part must be made on a form and in a manner prescribed by the Administrator. Each person who applies for airmen certification services to be administered outside the United States or for any certificate or rating issued under this part must show evidence that the fee prescribed in appendix A of part 187 of this chapter has been paid.
(b) Except for FAA Credential holders with tower ratings, an applicant who meets the requirements of this part is entitled to an appropriate certificate and rating.
(c) Unless authorized by the Administrator, a person whose air traffic control tower operator, mechanic, or parachute rigger certificate is suspended may not apply for any rating to be added to that certificate during the period of suspension.
(d) Unless the order of revocation provides otherwise—
(1) A person whose air traffic control tower operator, aircraft dispatcher, or parachute rigger certificate is revoked may not apply for the same kind of certificate for 1 year after the date of revocation; and
(2) A person whose mechanic or repairman certificate is revoked may not apply for either of those kinds of certificates for 1 year after the date of revocation.
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7973, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 65-9, 31 FR 13524, Oct. 20, 1966; Amdt. 65-28, 47 FR 35693, Aug. 16, 1982; Amdt. 65-49, 72 FR 18559, Apr. 12, 2007; Amdt. 65-56, 79 FR 74611, Dec. 16, 2014]
§ 65.12
Offenses involving alcohol or drugs.
(a) A conviction for the violation of any Federal or state statute relating to the growing, processing, manufacture, sale, disposition, possession, transportation, or importation of narcotic drugs, marihuana, or depressant or stimulant drugs or substances is grounds for—
(1) Denial of an application for any certificate or rating issued under this part for a period of up to 1 year after the date of final conviction; or
(2) Suspension or revocation of any certificate or rating issued under this part.
(b) The commission of an act prohibited by § 91.19(a) of this chapter is grounds for—
(1) Denial of an application for a certificate or rating issued under this part for a period of up to 1 year after the date of that act; or
(2) Suspension or revocation of any certificate or rating issued under this part.
[Docket 21956, 50 FR 15379, Apr. 17, 1985, as amended by Amdt. 65-34, 54 FR 34330, Aug. 18, 1989]
§ 65.13
Temporary certificate.
A certificate and ratings effective for a period of not more than 120 days may be issued to a qualified applicant, pending review of his application and supplementary documents and the issue of the certificate and ratings for which he applied.
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7973, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 65-23, 43 FR 22640, May 25, 1978]
§ 65.14
[Reserved]
§ 65.15
Duration of certificates.
(a) Except for repairman certificates, a certificate or rating issued under this part is effective until it is surrendered, suspended, or revoked.
(b) Unless it is sooner surrendered, suspended, or revoked, a repairman certificate is effective until the holder is relieved from the duties for which the holder was employed and certificated.
(c) The holder of a certificate issued under this part that is suspended, revoked, or no longer effective shall return it to the Administrator.
(d) Except for temporary certificates issued under § 65.13, the holder of a paper certificate issued under this part may not exercise the privileges of that certificate after March 31, 2013.
[Docket 22052, 47 FR 35693, Aug. 16, 1982, as amended by Amdt. 65-51, 73 FR 10668, Feb. 28, 2008]
§ 65.16
Change of name: Replacement of lost or destroyed certificate.
(a) An application for a change of name on a certificate issued under this part must be accompanied by the applicant's current certificate and the marriage license, court order, or other document verifying the change. The documents are returned to the applicant after inspection.
(b) An application for a replacement of a lost or destroyed certificate is made by letter to the Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Airman Certification Branch, Post Office Box 25082, Oklahoma City, OK 73125. The letter must—
(1) Contain the name in which the certificate was issued, the permanent mailing address (including zip code), social security number (if any), and date and place of birth of the certificate holder, and any available information regarding the grade, number, and date of issue of the certificate, and the ratings on it; and
(2) Be accompanied by a check or money order for $2, payable to the Federal Aviation Administration.
(c) An application for a replacement of a lost or destroyed medical certificate is made by letter to the Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Aerospace Medical Certification Division, Post Office Box 26200, Oklahoma City, OK 73125, accompanied by a check or money order for $2.00.
(d) A person whose certificate issued under this part or medical certificate, or both, has been lost may obtain a telegram from the FAA confirming that it was issued. The telegram may be carried as a certificate for a period not to exceed 60 days pending his receiving a duplicate certificate under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, unless he has been notified that the certificate has been suspended or revoked. The request for such a telegram may be made by prepaid telegram, stating the date upon which a duplicate certificate was requested, or including the request for a duplicate and a money order for the necessary amount. The request for a telegraphic certificate should be sent to the office prescribed in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, as appropriate. However, a request for both at the same time should be sent to the office prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section.
[Docket 7258, 31 FR 13524, Oct. 20, 1966, as amended by Docket 8084, 32 FR 5769, Apr. 11, 1967; Amdt. 65-16, 35 FR 14075, Sept. 4, 1970; Amdt. 65-17, 36 FR 2865, Feb. 11, 1971; Amdt. 65-52, 73 FR 43065, July 24, 2008]
§ 65.17
Tests: General procedure.
(a) Tests prescribed by or under this part are given at times and places, and by persons, designated by the Administrator.
(b) The minimum passing grade for each test is 70 percent.
§ 65.18
Written tests: Cheating or other unauthorized conduct.
(a) Except as authorized by the Administrator, no person may—
(1) Copy, or intentionally remove, a written test under this part;
(2) Give to another, or receive from another, any part or copy of that test;
(3) Give help on that test to, or receive help on that test from, any person during the period that test is being given;
(4) Take any part of that test in behalf of another person;
(5) Use any material or aid during the period that test is being given; or
(6) Intentionally cause, assist, or participate in any act prohibited by this paragraph.
(b) No person who commits an act prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section is eligible for any airman or ground instructor certificate or rating under this chapter for a period of 1 year after the date of that act. In addition, the commission of that act is a basis for suspending or revoking any airman or ground instructor certificate or rating held by that person.
[Docket 4086, 30 FR 2196, Feb. 18, 1965]
§ 65.19
Retesting after failure.
An applicant for a written, oral, or practical test for a certificate and rating, or for an additional rating under this part, may apply for retesting—
(a) After 30 days after the date the applicant failed the test; or
(b) Before the 30 days have expired if the applicant presents a signed statement from an airman holding the certificate and rating sought by the applicant, certifying that the airman has given the applicant additional instruction in each of the subjects failed and that the airman considers the applicant ready for retesting.
[Docket 16383, 43 FR 22640, May 25, 1978]
§ 65.20
Applications, certificates, logbooks, reports, and records: Falsification, reproduction, or alteration.
(a) No person may make or cause to be made—
(1) Any fraudulent or intentionally false statement on any application for a certificate or rating under this part;
(2) Any fraudulent or intentionally false entry in any logbook, record, or report that is required to be kept, made, or used, to show compliance with any requirement for any certificate or rating under this part;
(3) Any reproduction, for fraudulent purpose, of any certificate or rating under this part; or
(4) Any alteration of any certificate or rating under this part.
(b) The commission by any person of an act prohibited under paragraph (a) of this section is a basis for suspending or revoking any airman or ground instructor certificate or rating held by that person.
[Docket 4086, 30 FR 2196, Feb. 18, 1965]
§ 65.21
Change of address.
Within 30 days after any change in his permanent mailing address, the holder of a certificate issued under this part shall notify the Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Airman Certification Branch, Post Office Box 25082, Oklahoma City, OK 73125, in writing, of his new address.
[Docket 10536, 35 FR 14075, Sept. 4, 1970]
§ 65.23
Incorporation by reference.
Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This material is available for inspection at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact FAA, Certification and Training Group, 202-267-1100,
ACSPTSinquiries@faa.gov.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.
The material may be obtained from the source in the following paragraph of this section.
(a) Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20591, 866-835-5322,
www.faa.gov/training_testing.
(1) FAA-S-8081-10E, Aircraft Dispatcher Practical Test Standards, November 2023; IBR approved for § 65.59.
(2) FAA-S-8081-25C, Parachute Rigger Practical Test Standards, November 2023; IBR approved for §§ 65.115, 65.119, and 65.123.
(3) FAA-S-ACS-1, Aviation Mechanic General, Airframe, and Powerplant Airman Certification Standards, November 1, 2021; IBR approved for §§ 65.75 and 65.79.
(b) [Reserved]
[Docket FAA-2021-0237; Amdt. 65-63, 87 FR 31414, May 24, 2022, as amended by Docket FAA-2022-1463; Amdt. 65-64, 89 FR 22520, Apr. 1, 2024]

# Subpart B—Air Traffic Control Tower Operators

# Source:
Docket 10193, 35 FR 12326, Aug. 1, 1970, unless otherwise noted.
§ 65.31
Required credentials, certificates, and ratings or qualifications.
No person may act as an air traffic control tower operator at an air traffic control tower in connection with civil aircraft unless he or she—
(a) Holds an FAA Credential with a tower rating or an air traffic control tower operator certificate issued under this subpart;
(b) Holds a facility rating for that control tower issued under this subpart, or has qualified for the operating position at which he or she acts and is under the supervision of the holder of a facility rating for that control tower; and
(c) Except for a person employed by the FAA or employed by, or on active duty with, the Department of the Air Force, Army, or Navy or the Coast Guard, holds at least a second-class medical certificate issued under part 67 of this chapter.
[Docket 10193, 35 FR 12326, Aug. 1, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 65-25, 45 FR 18911, Mar. 24, 1980; Amdt. 65-31, 52 FR 17518, May 8, 1987; Amdt. 65-56, 79 FR 74611, Dec. 16, 2014]
§ 65.33
Eligibility requirements: General.
To be eligible for an air traffic control tower operator certificate a person must—
(a) Be at least 18 years of age;
(b) Be of good moral character;
(c) Be able to read, write, and understand the English language and speak it without accent or impediment of speech that would interfere with two-way radio conversation;
(d) Except for a person employed by the FAA or employed by, or on active duty with, the Department of the Air Force, Army, or Navy or the Coast Guard, hold at least a second-class medical certificate issued under part 67 of this chapter within the 12 months before the date application is made; and
(e) Comply with § 65.35.
[Docket 10193, 35 FR 12326, Aug. 1, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 65-25, 45 FR 18911, Mar. 24, 1980; Amdt. 65-31, 52 FR 17518, May 8, 1987]
§ 65.35
Knowledge requirements.
Each applicant for an air traffic control tower operator certificate must pass a written test on—
(a) The flight rules in part 91 of this chapter:
(b) Airport traffic control procedures, and this subpart:
(c) En route traffic control procedures;
(d) Communications operating procedures;
(e) Flight assistance service;
(f) Air navigation, and aids to air navigation; and
(g) Aviation weather.
§ 65.37
Skill requirements: Operating positions.
No person may act as an air traffic control tower operator at any operating position unless he has passed a practical test on—
(a) Control tower equipment and its use;
(b) Weather reporting procedures and use of reports;
(c) Notices to Airmen, and use of the Airman's Information Manual;
(d) Use of operational forms;
(e) Performance of noncontrol operational duties; and
(f) Each of the following procedures that is applicable to that operating position and is required by the person performing the examination:
(1) The airport, including rules, equipment, runways, taxiways, and obstructions.
(2) The terrain features, visual checkpoints, and obstructions within the lateral boundaries of the surface areas of Class B, Class C, Class D, or Class E airspace designated for the airport.
(3) Traffic patterns and associated procedures for use of preferential runways and noise abatement.
(4) Operational agreements.
(5) The center, alternate airports, and those airways, routes, reporting points, and air navigation aids used for terminal air traffic control.
(6) Search and rescue procedures.
(7) Terminal air traffic control procedures and phraseology.
(8) Holding procedures, prescribed instrument approach, and departure procedures.
(9) Radar alignment and technical operation.
(10) The application of the prescribed radar and nonradar separation standard, as appropriate.
[Docket 10193, 35 FR 12326, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 65-36, 56 FR 65653, Dec. 17, 1991]
§ 65.39
Practical experience requirements: Facility rating.
Each applicant for a facility rating at any air traffic control tower must have satisfactorily served—
(a) As an air traffic control tower operator at that control tower without a facility rating for at least 6 months; or
(b) As an air traffic control tower operator with a facility rating at a different control tower for at least 6 months before the date he applies for the rating.
However, an applicant who is a member of an Armed Force of the United States meets the requirements of this section if he has satisfactorily served as an air traffic control tower operator for at least 6 months.
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7973, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 65-19, 36 FR 21280, Nov. 5, 1971]
§ 65.41
Skill requirements: Facility ratings.
Each applicant for a facility rating at an air traffic control tower must have passed a practical test on each item listed in § 65.37 of this part that is applicable to each operating position at the control tower at which the rating is sought.
§ 65.43
[Reserved]
§ 65.45
Performance of duties.
(a) An air traffic control tower operator shall perform his duties in accordance with the limitations on his certificate and the procedures and practices prescribed in air traffic control manuals of the FAA, to provide for the safe, orderly, and expeditious flow of air traffic.
(b) An operator with a facility rating may control traffic at any operating position at the control tower at which he holds a facility rating. However, he may not issue an air traffic clearance for IFR flight without authorization from the appropriate facility exercising IFR control at that location.
(c) An operator who does not hold a facility rating for a particular control tower may act at each operating position for which he has qualified, under the supervision of an operator holding a facility rating for that control tower.
[Docket 10193, 35 FR 12326, Aug. 1, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 65-16, 35 FR 14075, Sept. 4, 1970]
§§ 65.46-65.46b
[Reserved]
§ 65.47
Maximum hours.
Except in an emergency, a certificated air traffic control tower operator must be relieved of all duties for at least 24 consecutive hours at least once during each 7 consecutive days. Such an operator may not serve or be required to serve—
(a) For more than 10 consecutive hours; or
(b) For more than 10 hours during a period of 24 consecutive hours, unless he has had a rest period of at least 8 hours at or before the end of the 10 hours of duty.
§ 65.49
General operating rules.
(a) Except for a person employed by the FAA or employed by, or on active duty with, the Department of the Air Force, Army, or Navy, or the Coast Guard, no person may act as an air traffic control tower operator under a certificate issued to him or her under this part unless he or she has in his or her personal possession an appropriate current medical certificate issued under part 67 of this chapter.
(b) Each person holding an air traffic control tower operator certificate shall keep it readily available when performing duties in an air traffic control tower, and shall present that certificate or his medical certificate or both for inspection upon the request of the Administrator or an authorized representative of the National Transportation Safety Board, or of any Federal, State, or local law enforcement officer.
(c) A certificated air traffic control tower operator who does not hold a facility rating for a particular control tower may not act at any operating position at the control tower concerned unless there is maintained at that control tower, readily available to persons named in paragraph (b) of this section, a current record of the operating positions at which he has qualified.
(d) An air traffic control tower operator may not perform duties under his certificate during any period of known physical deficiency that would make him unable to meet the physical requirements for his current medical certificate. However, if the deficiency is temporary, he may perform duties that are not affected by it whenever another certificated and qualified operator is present and on duty.
(e) A certificated air traffic control tower operator may not control air traffic with equipment that the Administrator has found to be inadequate.
(f) The holder of an air traffic control tower operator certificate, or an applicant for one, shall, upon the reasonable request of the Administrator, cooperate fully in any test that is made of him.
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7973, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 65-31, 52 FR 17519, May 8, 1987]
§ 65.50
Currency requirements.
The holder of an air traffic control tower operator certificate may not perform any duties under that certificate unless—
(a) He has served for at least three of the preceding 6 months as an air traffic control tower operator at the control tower to which his facility rating applies, or at the operating positions for which he has qualified; or
(b) He has shown that he meets the requirements for his certificate and facility rating at the control tower concerned, or for operating at positions for which he has previously qualified.

# Subpart C—Aircraft Dispatchers

# Source:
Docket FAA-1998-4553, 64 FR 68923, Dec. 8, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 65.51
Certificate required.
(a) No person may act as an aircraft dispatcher (exercising responsibility with the pilot in command in the operational control of a flight) in connection with any civil aircraft in air commerce unless that person has in his or her personal possession an aircraft dispatcher certificate issued under this subpart.
(b) Each person who holds an aircraft dispatcher certificate must present it for inspection upon the request of the Administrator or an authorized representative of the National Transportation Safety Board, or of any Federal, State, or local law enforcement officer.
§ 65.53
Eligibility requirements: General.
(a) To be eligible to take the aircraft dispatcher knowledge test, a person must be at least 21 years of age.
(b) To be eligible for an aircraft dispatcher certificate, a person must—
(1) Be at least 23 years of age;
(2) Be able to read, speak, write, and understand the English language;
(3) Pass the required knowledge test prescribed by § 65.55 of this part;
(4) Pass the required practical test prescribed by § 65.59 of this part; and
(5) Comply with the requirements of § 65.57 of this part.
§ 65.55
Knowledge requirements.
(a) A person who applies for an aircraft dispatcher certificate must pass a knowledge test on the following aeronautical knowledge areas:
(1) Applicable Federal Aviation Regulations of this chapter that relate to airline transport pilot privileges, limitations, and flight operations;
(2) Meteorology, including knowledge of and effects of fronts, frontal characteristics, cloud formations, icing, and upper-air data;
(3) General system of weather and NOTAM collection, dissemination, interpretation, and use;
(4) Interpretation and use of weather charts, maps, forecasts, sequence reports, abbreviations, and symbols;
(5) National Weather Service functions as they pertain to operations in the National Airspace System;
(6) Windshear and microburst awareness, identification, and avoidance;
(7) Principles of air navigation under instrument meteorological conditions in the National Airspace System;
(8) Air traffic control procedures and pilot responsibilities as they relate to enroute operations, terminal area and radar operations, and instrument departure and approach procedures;
(9) Aircraft loading, weight and balance, use of charts, graphs, tables, formulas, and computations, and their effect on aircraft performance;
(10) Aerodynamics relating to an aircraft's flight characteristics and performance in normal and abnormal flight regimes;
(11) Human factors;
(12) Aeronautical decision making and judgment; and
(13) Crew resource management, including crew communication and coordination.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the applicant must present documentary evidence satisfactory to the Administrator of having passed an aircraft dispatcher knowledge test within the preceding 24 calendar months.
(c) An applicant is eligible to take a practical test for an aircraft dispatcher certificate under this part with an expired written test report in accordance with § 61.40 of this chapter.
[Docket FAA-2023-0825, Amdt. 65-65, 89 FR 80053, Oct. 1, 2024]
§ 65.57
Experience or training requirements.
An applicant for an aircraft dispatcher certificate must present documentary evidence satisfactory to the Administrator that he or she has the experience prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section or has accomplished the training described in paragraph (b) of this section as follows:
(a) A total of at least 2 years experience in the 3 years before the date of application, in any one or in any combination of the following areas:
(1) In military aircraft operations as a—
(i) Pilot;
(ii) Flight navigator; or
(iii) Meteorologist.
(2) In aircraft operations conducted under part 121 of this chapter as—
(i) An assistant in dispatching air carrier aircraft, under the direct supervision of a dispatcher certificated under this subpart;
(ii) A pilot;
(iii) A flight engineer; or
(iv) A meteorologist.
(3) In aircraft operations as—
(i) An Air Traffic Controller; or
(ii) A Flight Service Specialist.
(4) In aircraft operations, performing other duties that the Administrator finds provide equivalent experience.
(b) A statement of graduation issued or revalidated in accordance with § 65.70(b) of this part, showing that the person has successfully completed an approved aircraft dispatcher course.
§ 65.59
Skill requirements.
An applicant for an aircraft dispatcher certificate must pass a practical test given by the Administrator, with respect to any one type of large aircraft used in air carrier operations. To pass the practical test for an aircraft dispatcher certificate, the applicant must satisfactorily demonstrate the objectives in the areas of operation specified in the Aircraft Dispatcher Practical Test Standards (incorporated by reference, see § 65.23).
[Docket FAA-2022-1463, Amdt. 65-64, 89 FR 22520, Apr. 1, 2024]
§ 65.61
Aircraft dispatcher certification courses: Content and minimum hours.
(a) An approved aircraft dispatcher certification course must:
(1) Provide instruction in the areas of knowledge and topics listed in appendix A of this part;
(2) Include a minimum of 200 hours of instruction.
(b) An applicant for approval of an aircraft dispatcher course must submit an outline that describes the major topics and subtopics to be covered and the number of hours proposed for each.
(c) Additional subject headings for an aircraft dispatcher certification course may also be included, however the hours proposed for any subjects not listed in appendix A of this part must be in addition to the minimum 200 course hours required in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) For the purpose of completing an approved course, a student may substitute previous experience or training for a portion of the minimum 200 hours of training. The course operator determines the number of hours of credit based on an evaluation of the experience or training to determine if it is comparable to portions of the approved course curriculum. The credit allowed, including the total hours and the basis for it, must be placed in the student's record required by § 65.70(a) of this part.
§ 65.63
Aircraft dispatcher certification courses: Application, duration, and other general requirements.
(a)
Application.
Application for original approval of an aircraft dispatcher certification course or the renewal of approval of an aircraft dispatcher certification course under this part must be:
(1) Made in writing to the Administrator;
(2) Accompanied by two copies of the course outline required under § 65.61(b) of this part, for which approval is sought;
(3) Accompanied by a description of the equipment and facilities to be used; and
(4) Accompanied by a list of the instructors and their qualifications.
(b)
Duration.
Unless withdrawn or canceled, an approval of an aircraft dispatcher certification course of study expires:
(1) On the last day of the 24th month from the month the approval was issued; or
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, on the date that any change in ownership of the school occurs.
(c)
Renewal.
Application for renewal of an approved aircraft dispatcher certification course must be made within 30 days preceding the month the approval expires, provided the course operator meets the following requirements:
(1) At least 80 percent of the graduates from that aircraft dispatcher certification course, who applied for the practical test required by § 65.59 of this part, passed the practical test on their first attempt; and
(2) The aircraft dispatcher certification course continues to meet the requirements of this subpart for course approval.
(d)
Course revisions.
Requests for approval of a revision of the course outline, facilities, or equipment must be in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. Proposed revisions of the course outline or the description of facilities and equipment must be submitted in a format that will allow an entire page or pages of the approved outline or description to be removed and replaced by any approved revision. The list of instructors may be revised at any time without request for approval, provided the minimum requirements of § 65.67 of this part are maintained and the Administrator is notified in writing.
(e)
Withdrawal or cancellation of approval.
Failure to continue to meet the requirements of this subpart for the approval or operation of an approved aircraft dispatcher certification course is grounds for withdrawal of approval of the course. A course operator may request cancellation of course approval by a letter to the Administrator. The operator must forward any records to the FAA as requested by the Administrator.
(f)
Change in ownership.
A change in ownership of a part 65, appendix A-approved course does not terminate that aircraft dispatcher certification course approval if, within 10 days after the date that any change in ownership of the school occurs:
(1) Application is made for an appropriate amendment to the approval; and
(2) No change in the facilities, personnel, or approved aircraft dispatcher certification course is involved.
(g)
Change in name or location.
A change in name or location of an approved aircraft dispatcher certification course does not invalidate the approval if, within 10 days after the date that any change in name or location occurs, the course operator of the part 65, appendix A-approved course notifies the Administrator, in writing, of the change.
§ 65.65
Aircraft dispatcher certification courses: Training facilities.
An applicant for approval of authority to operate an aircraft dispatcher course of study must have facilities, equipment, and materials adequate to provide each student the theoretical and practical aspects of aircraft dispatching. Each room, training booth, or other space used for instructional purposes must be temperature controlled, lighted, and ventilated to conform to local building, sanitation, and health codes. In addition, the training facility must be so located that the students in that facility are not distracted by the instruction conducted in other rooms.
§ 65.67
Aircraft dispatcher certification courses: Personnel.
(a) Each applicant for an aircraft dispatcher certification course must meet the following personnel requirements:
(1) Each applicant must have adequate personnel, including one instructor who holds an aircraft dispatcher certificate and is available to coordinate all training course instruction.
(2) Each applicant must not exceed a ratio of 25 students for one instructor.
(b) The instructor who teaches the practical dispatch applications area of the appendix A course must hold an aircraft dispatchers certificate
§ 65.70
Aircraft dispatcher certification courses: Records.
(a) The operator of an aircraft dispatcher course must maintain a record for each student, including a chronological log of all instructors, subjects covered, and course examinations and results. The record must be retained for at least 3 years after graduation. The course operator also must prepare, for its records, and transmit to the Administrator not later than January 31 of each year, a report containing the following information for the previous year:
(1) The names of all students who graduated, together with the results of their aircraft dispatcher certification courses.
(2) The names of all the students who failed or withdrew, together with the results of their aircraft dispatcher certification courses or the reasons for their withdrawal.
(b) Each student who successfully completes the approved aircraft dispatcher certification course must be given a written statement of graduation, which is valid for 90 days. After 90 days, the course operator may revalidate the graduation certificate for an additional 90 days if the course operator determines that the student remains proficient in the subject areas listed in appendix A of this part.

# Subpart D—Mechanics
§ 65.71
Eligibility requirements: General.
(a) To be eligible for a mechanic certificate and associated ratings, a person must—
(1) Be at least 18 years of age;
(2) Be able to read, write, speak, and understand the English language, or in the case of an applicant who does not meet this requirement and who is employed outside of the United States by a U.S. air carrier, have his certificate endorsed “Valid only outside the United States”;
(3) Have passed all of the prescribed tests within a period of 24 months; and
(4) Comply with the sections of this subpart that apply to the rating the applicant seeks.
(b) A certificated mechanic who applies for an additional rating must meet the requirements of § 65.77 and, within a period of 24 calendar months, pass the tests prescribed by §§ 65.75 and 65.79 for the additional rating sought, except as provided in § 65.75(d).
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7973, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 65-6, 31 FR 5950, Apr. 19, 1966; Docket FAA-2023-0825, Amdt. 65-65, 89 FR 80053, Oct. 1, 2024]
§ 65.73
Ratings.
(a) The following ratings are issued under this subpart:
(1) Airframe.
(2) Powerplant.
(b) A mechanic certificate with an aircraft or aircraft engine rating, or both, that was issued before, and was valid on, June 15, 1952, is equal to a mechanic certificate with an airframe or powerplant rating, or both, as the case may be, and may be exchanged for such
a corresponding certificate and rating or ratings.
§ 65.75
Knowledge requirements.
(a) Except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, each applicant for a mechanic certificate or rating must, after meeting the applicable experience requirements of § 65.77, pass a written test, appropriate to the rating sought, which includes the aeronautical knowledge subject areas contained in the Aviation Mechanic General, Airframe, and Powerplant Airman Certification Standards (incorporated by reference, see § 65.23), as appropriate to the rating sought.
(b) The applicant must pass each section of the test before applying for the oral and practical tests prescribed by § 65.79. A report of the written test is sent to the applicant.
(c) An applicant for a mechanic certificate or rating may take the mechanic general written test prior to meeting the applicable experience requirements of § 65.77, provided the applicant presents an authenticated document from a certificated aviation maintenance technician school that demonstrates satisfactory completion of the general portion of the school's curriculum and specifies the completion date.
(d) An applicant is eligible to take a practical test for a mechanic certificate or rating under this part with an expired written test report in accordance with § 61.40 of this chapter.
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7973, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 65-1, 27 FR 10410, Oct. 25, 1962; Docket FAA-2021-0237, Amdt. 65-63, 87 FR 31414, May 24, 2022; Docket FAA-2023-0825, Amdt. 65-65, 89 FR 80053, Oct. 1, 2024]
§ 65.77
Experience requirements.
Each applicant for a mechanic certificate or rating must present either—
(a) An authenticated document from a certificated aviation maintenance technician school in accordance with § 147.21 of this chapter; or
(b) Documentary evidence, satisfactory to the Administrator, of—
(1) At least 18 months of practical experience with the procedures, practices, materials, tools, machine tools, and equipment generally used in constructing, maintaining, or altering airframes or powerplants, appropriate to the rating sought; or
(2) At least 30 months of practical experience concurrently performing the duties appropriate to both the airframe and powerplant ratings.
[Docket FAA-2021-0237, Amdt. 65-63, 87 FR 31415, May 24, 2022]
§ 65.79
Skill requirements.
Each applicant for a mechanic certificate or rating must pass an oral test and a practical test, as appropriate to the rating sought, by demonstrating satisfactory understanding of the knowledge, risk management, and skill elements for each subject contained in the Aviation Mechanic General, Airframe, and Powerplant Airmen Certification Standards (incorporated by reference, see § 65.23), as appropriate to the rating sought.
[Docket FAA-2021-0237, Amdt. 65-63, 87 FR 31415, May 24, 2022]
§ 65.80
Certificated aviation maintenance technician school students.
Whenever an aviation maintenance technician school certificated under part 147 of this chapter shows to the Administrator that any of its students has made satisfactory progress at the school and is prepared to take the oral and practical tests prescribed by § 65.79, that student may take those tests during the final subjects of the student's training in the curriculum required under part 147, before the student meets the applicable experience requirements of § 65.77 and before the student passes each section of the written test prescribed by § 65.75.
[Docket FAA-2021-0237, Amdt. 65-63, 87 FR 31415, May 24, 2022]
§ 65.81
General privileges and limitations.
(a) A certificated mechanic may perform or supervise the maintenance, preventive maintenance or alteration of an aircraft or appliance, or a part thereof, for which he is rated (but excluding major repairs to, and major alterations of, propellers, and any repair to, or alteration of, instruments), and may perform additional duties in accordance with §§ 65.85, 65.87, and 65.95. However, he may not supervise the
maintenance, preventive maintenance, or alteration of, or approve and return to service, any aircraft or appliance, or part thereof, for which he is rated unless he has satisfactorily performed the work concerned at an earlier date. If he has not so performed that work at an earlier date, he may show his ability to do it by performing it to the satisfaction of the Administrator or under the direct supervision of a certificated and appropriately rated mechanic, or a certificated repairman, who has had previous experience in the specific operation concerned.
(b) A certificated mechanic may not exercise the privileges of his certificate and rating unless he understands the current instructions of the manufacturer, and the maintenance manuals, for the specific operation concerned.
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7973, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 65-2, 29 FR 5451, Apr. 23, 1964; Amdt. 65-26, 45 FR 46737, July 10, 1980]
§ 65.83
Recent experience requirements.
A certificated mechanic may not exercise the privileges of his certificate and rating unless, within the preceding 24 months—
(a) The Administrator has found that he is able to do that work; or
(b) He has, for at least 6 months—
(1) Served as a mechanic under his certificate and rating;
(2) Technically supervised other mechanics;
(3) Supervised, in an executive capacity, the maintenance or alteration of aircraft; or
(4) Been engaged in any combination of paragraph (b) (1), (2), or (3) of this section.
§ 65.85
Airframe rating; additional privileges.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a certificated mechanic with an airframe rating may approve and return to service an airframe, or any related part or appliance, after he has performed, supervised, or inspected its maintenance or alteration (excluding major repairs and major alterations). In addition, he may perform the 100-hour inspection required by part 91 of this chapter on an airframe, or any related part or appliance, and approve and return it to service.
(b) A certificated mechanic with an airframe rating can approve and return to service an airframe, or any related part or appliance, of an aircraft with a special airworthiness certificate in the light-sport category after performing and inspecting a major repair or major alteration for products that are not produced under an FAA approval provided the work was performed in accordance with instructions developed by the manufacturer or a person acceptable to the FAA.
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7973, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 65-10, 32 FR 5770, Apr. 11, 1967; Amdt. 65-45, 69 FR 44879, July 27, 2004]
§ 65.87
Powerplant rating; additional privileges.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a certificated mechanic with a powerplant rating may approve and return to service a powerplant or propeller or any related part or appliance, after he has performed, supervised, or inspected its maintenance or alteration (excluding major repairs and major alterations). In addition, he may perform the 100-hour inspection required by part 91 of this chapter on a powerplant or propeller, or any part thereof, and approve and return it to service.
(b) A certificated mechanic with a powerplant rating can approve and return to service a powerplant or propeller, or any related part or appliance, of an aircraft with a special airworthiness certificate in the light-sport category after performing and inspecting a major repair or major alteration for products that are not produced under an FAA approval, provided the work was performed in accordance with instructions developed by the manufacturer or a person acceptable to the FAA.
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7973, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 65-10, 32 FR 5770, Apr. 11, 1967; Amdt. 65-45, 69 FR 44879, July 27, 2004]
§ 65.89
Display of certificate.
Each person who holds a mechanic certificate shall keep it within the immediate area where he normally exercises the privileges of the certificate and shall present it for inspection upon
the request of the Administrator or an authorized representative of the National Transportation Safety Board, or of any Federal, State, or local law enforcement officer.
[Docket 7258, 31 FR 13524, Oct. 20, 1966, as amended by Docket 8084, 32 FR 5769, Apr. 11, 1967]
§ 65.91
Inspection authorization.
(a) An application for an inspection authorization is made on a form and in a manner prescribed by the Administrator.
(b) An applicant who meets the requirements of this section is entitled to an inspection authorization.
(c) To be eligible for an inspection authorization, an applicant must—
(1) Hold a currently effective mechanic certificate with both an airframe rating and a powerplant rating, each of which is currently effective and has been in effect for a total of at least 3 years;
(2) Have been actively engaged, for at least the 2-year period before the date he applies, in maintaining aircraft certificated and maintained in accordance with this chapter;
(3) Have a fixed base of operations at which he may be located in person or by telephone during a normal working week but it need not be the place where he will exercise his inspection authority;
(4) Have available to him the equipment, facilities, and inspection data necessary to properly inspect airframes, powerplants, propellers, or any related part or appliance; and
(5) Pass a written test on his ability to inspect according to safety standards for returning aircraft to service after major repairs and major alterations and annual and progressive inspections performed under part 43 of this chapter.
An applicant who fails the test prescribed in paragraph (c)(5) of this section may not apply for retesting until at least 90 days after the date he failed the test.
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7973, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 65-5, 31 FR 3337, Mar. 3, 1966; Amdt. 65-22, 42 FR 46279, Sept. 15, 1977; Amdt. 65-30, 50 FR 15700, Apr. 19, 1985]
§ 65.92
Inspection authorization: Duration.
(a) Each inspection authorization expires on March 31 of each odd-numbered year. However, the holder may exercise the privileges of that authorization only while he holds a currently effective mechanic certificate with both a currently effective airframe rating and a currently effective powerplant rating.
(b) An inspection authorization ceases to be effective whenever any of the following occurs:
(1) The authorization is surrendered, suspended, or revoked.
(2) The holder no longer has a fixed base of operation.
(3) The holder no longer has the equipment, facilities, and inspection data required by § 65.91(c) (3) and (4) for issuance of his authorization.
(c) The holder of an inspection authorization that is suspended or revoked shall, upon the Administrator's request, return it to the Administrator.
[Docket 12537, 42 FR 46279, Sept. 15, 1977, as amended by Amdt. 65-50, 72 FR 4404, Jan. 30, 2007]
§ 65.93
Inspection authorization: Renewal.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, to be eligible for renewal of an inspection authorization for a 2-year period an applicant must present evidence during the month of March of each odd-numbered year, at the responsible Flight Standards office, that the applicant still meets the requirements of § 65.91(c)(1) through (4). In addition, during the time the applicant held the inspection authorization, the applicant must show completion of one of the activities in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section by March 31 of the first year of the 2-year inspection authorization period, and completion of one of the five activities during the second year of the 2-year period:
(1) Performed at least one annual inspection for each 90 days that the applicant held the current authority; or
(2) Performed at least two major repairs or major alterations for each 90 days that the applicant held the current authority; or
(3) Performed or supervised and approved at least one progressive inspection in accordance with standards prescribed by the Administrator; or
(4) Attended and successfully completed a refresher course, acceptable to the Administrator, of not less than 8 hours of instruction; or
(5) Passed an oral test by an FAA inspector to determine that the applicant's knowledge of applicable regulations and standards is current.
(b) The holder of an inspection authorization that has been in effect:
(1) for less than 90 days before the expiration date need not comply with paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.
(2) for less than 90 days before March 31 of an even-numbered year need not comply with paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section for the first year of the 2-year inspection authorization period.
(c) An inspection authorization holder who does not complete one of the activities set forth in § 65.93(a) (1) through (5) of this section by March 31 of the first year of the 2-year inspection authorization period may not exercise inspection authorization privileges after March 31 of the first year. The inspection authorization holder may resume exercising inspection authorization privileges after passing an oral test from an FAA inspector to determine that the applicant's knowledge of the applicable regulations and standards is current. An inspection authorization holder who passes this oral test is deemed to have completed the requirements of § 65.93(a) (1) through (5) by March 31 of the first year.
(d) A person who qualifies for the relief prescribed in § 61.40 of this chapter is eligible to renew an expired inspection authorization under this section, provided the requirements of § 61.40 of this chapter are met.
[Docket FAA-2007-27108, 72 FR 4404, Jan. 30, 2007, as amended by Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 65-57A, 83 FR 9171, Mar. 5, 2018; Docket FAA-2023-0825, Amdt. 65-65, 89 FR 80053, Oct. 1, 2024]
§ 65.95
Inspection authorization: Privileges and limitations.
(a) The holder of an inspection authorization may—
(1) Inspect and approve for return to service any aircraft or related part or appliance (except any aircraft maintained in accordance with a continuous airworthiness program under part 121 of this chapter) after a major repair or major alteration to it in accordance with part 43 [New] of this chapter, if the work was done in accordance with technical data approved by the Administrator; and
(2) Perform an annual, or perform or supervise a progressive inspection according to §§ 43.13 and 43.15 of this chapter.
(b) When he exercises the privileges of an inspection authorization the holder shall keep it available for inspection by the aircraft owner, the mechanic submitting the aircraft, repair, or alteration for approval (if any), and shall present it upon the request of the Administrator or an authorized representative of the National Transportation Safety Board, or of any Federal, State, or local law enforcement officer.
(c) If the holder of an inspection authorization changes his fixed base of operation, he may not exercise the privileges of the authorization until he has notified the responsible Flight Standards office or International Field Office for the area in which the new base is located, in writing, of the change.
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7973, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 65-2, 29 FR 5451, Apr. 23, 1964; Amdt. 65-4, 30 FR 3638, Mar. 14, 1965; Amdt. 65-5, 31 FR 3337, Mar. 3, 1966; Amdt. 65-9, 31 FR 13524, Oct. 20, 1966; 32 FR 5769, Apr. 11, 1967; Amdt. 65-35, 54 FR 39292, Sept. 25, 1989; Amdt. 65-41, 66 FR 21066, Apr. 27, 2001; Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 65-57A, 83 FR 9171, Mar. 5, 2018]

# Subpart E—Repairmen
§ 65.101
Eligibility requirements: General.
(a) To be eligible for a repairman certificate a person must—
(1) Be at least 18 years of age;
(2) Be specially qualified to perform maintenance on aircraft or components thereof, appropriate to the job for which he is employed;
(3) Be employed for a specific job requiring those special qualifications by a certificated repair station, or by a
certificated commercial operator or certificated air carrier, that is required by its operating certificate or approved operations specifications to provide a continuous airworthiness maintenance program according to its maintenance manuals;
(4) Be recommended for certification by his employer, to the satisfaction of the Administrator, as able to satisfactorily maintain aircraft or components, appropriate to the job for which he is employed;
(5) Have either—
(i) At least 18 months of practical experience in the procedures, practices, inspection methods, materials, tools, machine tools, and equipment generally used in the maintenance duties of the specific job for which the person is to be employed and certificated; or
(ii) Completed formal training that is acceptable to the Administrator and is specifically designed to qualify the applicant for the job on which the applicant is to be employed; and
(6) Be able to read, write, speak, and understand the English language, or, in the case of an applicant who does not meet this requirement and who is employed outside the United States by a certificated repair station, a certificated U.S. commercial operator, or a certificated U.S. air carrier, described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, have this certificate endorsed “Valid only outside the United States.”
(b) This section does not apply to the issuance of a repairman certificate (experimental aircraft builder) under § 65.104 or to a repairman certificate (light-sport aircraft) under § 65.107.
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7973, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 65-11, 32 FR 13506, Sept. 27, 1967; Amdt. 65-24, 44 FR 46781, Aug. 9, 1979; Amdt. 65-27, 47 FR 13316, Mar. 29, 1982; Amdt. 65-45, 69 FR 44879, July 27, 2004; 72 FR 7739, Feb. 20, 2007]
§ 65.103
Repairman certificate: Privileges and limitations.
(a) A certificated repairman may perform or supervise the maintenance, preventive maintenance, or alteration of aircraft or aircraft components appropriate to the job for which the repairman was employed and certificated, but only in connection with duties for the certificate holder by whom the repairman was employed and recommended.
(b) A certificated repairman may not perform or supervise duties under the repairman certificate unless the repairman understands the current instructions of the certificate holder by whom the repairman is employed and the manufacturer's instructions for continued airworthiness relating to the specific operations concerned.
(c) This section does not apply to the holder of a repairman certificate (light-sport aircraft) while that repairman is performing work under that certificate.
[Docket 18241, 45 FR 46738, July 10, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 65-45, 69 FR 44879, July 27, 2004]
§ 65.104
Repairman certificate—experimental aircraft builder—Eligibility, privileges and limitations.
(a) To be eligible for a repairman certificate (experimental aircraft builder), an individual must—
(1) Be at least 18 years of age;
(2) Be the primary builder of the aircraft to which the privileges of the certificate are applicable;
(3) Show to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the individual has the requisite skill to determine whether the aircraft is in a condition for safe operations; and
(4) Be a citizen of the United States or an individual citizen of a foreign country who has lawfully been admitted for permanent residence in the United States.
(b) The holder of a repairman certificate (experimental aircraft builder) may perform condition inspections on the aircraft constructed by the holder in accordance with the operating limitations of that aircraft.
(c) Section 65.103 does not apply to the holder of a repairman certificate (experimental aircraft builder) while performing under that certificate.
[Docket 18739, 44 FR 46781, Aug. 9, 1979]
§ 65.105
Display of certificate.
Each person who holds a repairman certificate shall keep it within the immediate area where he normally exercises the privileges of the certificate and shall present it for inspection upon the request of the Administrator or an
authorized representative of the National Transportation Safety Board, or of any Federal, State, or local law enforcement officer.
[Docket 7258, 31 FR 13524, Oct. 20, 1966, as amended by Docket 8084, 32 FR 5769, Apr. 11, 1967]
§ 65.107
Repairman certificate (light-sport aircraft): Eligibility, privileges, and limits.
(a) Use the following table to determine your eligibility for a repairman certificate (light-sport aircraft) and appropriate rating:
To be eligible for
You must
(1) A repairman certificate (light-sport aircraft)
(i) Be at least 18 years old,
(ii) Be able to read, speak, write, and understand English. If for medical reasons you cannot meet one of these requirements, the FAA may place limits on your repairman certificate necessary to safely perform the actions authorized by the certificate and rating,
(iii) Demonstrate the requisite skill to determine whether a light-sport aircraft is in a condition for safe operation, and
(iv) Be a citizen of the United States, or a citizen of a foreign country who has been lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States.
(2) A repairman certificate (light-sport aircraft) with an inspection rating
(i) Meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and
(ii) Complete a 16-hour training course acceptable to the FAA on inspecting the particular class of experimental light-sport aircraft for which you intend to exercise the privileges of this rating.
(3) A repairman certificate (light-sport aircraft) with a maintenance rating
(i) Meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and
(ii) Complete a training course acceptable to the FAA on maintaining the particular class of light-sport aircraft for which you intend to exercise the privileges of this rating. The training course must, at a minimum, provide the following number of hours of instruction:
(A) For airplane class privileges—120-hours,
(B) For weight-shift control aircraft class privileges—104 hours,
(C) For powered parachute class privileges—104 hours,
(D) For lighter than air class privileges—80 hours,
(E) For glider class privileges—80 hours.
(b) The holder of a repairman certificate (light-sport aircraft) with an inspection rating may perform the annual condition inspection on a light-sport aircraft:
(1) That is owned by the holder;
(2) That has been issued an experimental certificate for operating a light-sport aircraft under § 21.191(i) of this chapter; and
(3) That is in the same class of light-sport-aircraft for which the holder has completed the training specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.
(c) The holder of a repairman certificate (light-sport aircraft) with a maintenance rating may—
(1) Approve and return to service an aircraft that has been issued a special airworthiness certificate in the light-sport category under § 21.190 of this chapter, or any part thereof, after performing or inspecting maintenance (to include the annual condition inspection and the 100-hour inspection required by § 91.327 of this chapter), preventive maintenance, or an alteration (excluding a major repair or a major alteration on a product produced under an FAA approval);
(2) Perform the annual condition inspection on a light-sport aircraft that has been issued an experimental certificate for operating a light-sport aircraft under § 21.191(i) of this chapter; and
(3) Only perform maintenance, preventive maintenance, and an alteration on a light-sport aircraft that is in the same class of light-sport aircraft for which the holder has completed the training specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section. Before performing a major repair, the holder must complete additional training acceptable to the FAA and appropriate to the repair performed.
(d) The holder of a repairman certificate (light-sport aircraft) with a maintenance rating may not approve for return to service any aircraft or part
thereof unless that person has previously performed the work concerned satisfactorily. If that person has not previously performed that work, the person may show the ability to do the work by performing it to the satisfaction of the FAA, or by performing it under the direct supervision of a certificated and appropriately rated mechanic, or a certificated repairman, who has had previous experience in the specific operation concerned. The repairman may not exercise the privileges of the certificate unless the repairman understands the current instructions of the manufacturer and the maintenance manuals for the specific operation concerned.
[Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44879, July 27, 2004]

# Subpart F—Parachute Riggers
§ 65.111
Certificate required.
(a) No person may pack, maintain, or alter any personnel-carrying parachute intended for emergency use in connection with civil aircraft of the United States (including the reserve parachute of a dual parachute system to be used for intentional parachute jumping) unless that person holds an appropriate current certificate and type rating issued under this subpart and complies with §§ 65.127 through 65.133.
(b) No person may pack any main parachute of a dual-parachute system to be used for intentional parachute jumping in connection with civil aircraft of the United States unless that person—
(1) Has an appropriate current certificate issued under this subpart;
(2) Is under the supervision of a current certificated parachute rigger;
(3) Is the person making the next parachute jump with that parachute in accordance with § 105.43(a) of this chapter; or
(4) Is the parachutist in command making the next parachute jump with that parachute in a tandem parachute operation conducted under § 105.45(b)(1) of this chapter.
(c) No person may maintain or alter any main parachute of a dual-parachute system to be used for intentional parachute jumping in connection with civil aircraft of the United States unless that person—
(1) Has an appropriate current certificate issued under this subpart; or
(2) Is under the supervision of a current certificated parachute rigger;
(d) Each person who holds a parachute rigger certificate shall present it for inspection upon the request of the Administrator or an authorized representative of the National Transportation Safety Board, or of any Federal, State, or local law enforcement officer.
(e) The following parachute rigger certificates are issued under this part:
(1) Senior parachute rigger.
(2) Master parachute rigger.
(f) Sections 65.127 through 65.133 do not apply to parachutes packed, maintained, or altered for the use of the armed forces.
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7973, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 65-9, 31 FR 13524, Oct. 20, 1966; 32 FR 5769, Apr. 11, 1967; Amdt. 65-42, 66 FR 23553, May 9, 2001; Amdt. 65-54, 75 FR 31285, June 3, 2010]
§ 65.113
Eligibility requirements: General.
(a) To be eligible for a parachute rigger certificate, a person must—
(1) Be at least 18 years of age;
(2) Be able to read, write, speak, and understand the English language, or, in the case of a citizen of Puerto Rico, or a person who is employed outside of the United States by a U.S. air carrier, and who does not meet this requirement, be issued a certificate that is valid only in Puerto Rico or while he is employed outside of the United States by that air carrier, as the case may be; and
(3) Comply with the sections of this subpart that apply to the certificate and type rating he seeks.
(b) Except for a master parachute rigger certificate, a parachute rigger certificate that was issued before, and was valid on, October 31, 1962, is equal to a senior parachute rigger certificate, and may be exchanged for such a corresponding certificate.
§ 65.115
Senior parachute rigger certificate: Experience, knowledge, and skill requirements.
Except as provided in § 65.117, an applicant for a senior parachute rigger certificate must—
(a) Present evidence satisfactory to the Administrator that the applicant has packed at least 20 parachutes of each type for which the applicant seeks a rating, in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions and under the supervision of a certificated parachute rigger holding a rating for that type or a person holding an appropriate military rating;
(b) Pass a written test, with respect to parachutes in common use, on—
(1) Their construction, packing, and maintenance;
(2) The manufacturer's instructions;
(3) The regulations of this subpart; and
(c) Pass an oral and practical test showing the applicant's ability to pack and maintain at least one type of parachute in common use, appropriate to the type rating the applicant seeks. To pass the oral and practical test for a senior parachute rigger certificate, the applicant must satisfactorily demonstrate the objectives in the areas of operation applicable to a senior parachute rigger specified in the Parachute Rigger Practical Test Standards (incorporated by reference, see § 65.23), appropriate to the type rating sought.
[Docket 10468, 37 FR 13251, July 6, 1972, as amended by Docket FAA-2022-1463, Amdt. 65-64, 89 FR 22520, Apr. 1, 2024]
§ 65.117
Military riggers or former military riggers: Special certification rule.
In place of the procedure in § 65.115, an applicant for a senior parachute rigger certificate is entitled to it if he passes a written test on the regulations of this subpart and presents satisfactory documentary evidence that he—
(a) Is a member or civilian employee of an Armed Force of the United States, is a civilian employee of a regular armed force of a foreign country, or has, within the 12 months before he applies, been honorably discharged or released from any status covered by this paragraph;
(b) Is serving, or has served within the 12 months before he applies, as a parachute rigger for such an Armed Force; and
(c) Has the experience required by § 65.115(a).
§ 65.119
Master parachute rigger certificate: Experience, knowledge, and skill requirements.
An applicant for a master parachute rigger certificate must meet the following requirements:
(a) Present evidence satisfactory to the Administrator that the applicant has had at least 3 years of experience as a parachute rigger and has satisfactorily packed at least 100 parachutes of each of two types in common use, in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions—
(1) While a certificated and appropriately rated senior parachute rigger; or
(2) While under the supervision of a certificated and appropriately rated parachute rigger or a person holding appropriate military ratings.
(3) An applicant may combine experience specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section to meet the requirements of this paragraph (a).
(b) If the applicant is not the holder of a senior parachute rigger certificate, pass a written test, with respect to parachutes in common use, on—
(1) Their construction, packing, and maintenance;
(2) The manufacturer's instructions; and
(3) The regulations of this subpart.
(c) Pass an oral and practical test showing the applicant's ability to pack and maintain two types of parachutes in common use, appropriate to the type ratings the applicant seeks. To pass the oral and practical test for a master parachute rigger certificate, the applicant must satisfactorily demonstrate the objectives in the areas of operation applicable to a master parachute rigger specified in the Parachute Rigger Practical Test Standards (incorporated by reference, see § 65.23), as appropriate to the type rating sought.
[Docket 10468, 37 FR 13252, July 6, 1972, as amended by Docket FAA-2022-1463, Amdt. 65-64, 89 FR 22520, Apr. 1, 2024; Amdt. 65-64A, 89 FR 29252, Apr. 22, 2024]
§ 65.121
Type ratings.
(a) The following type ratings are issued under this subpart:
(1) Seat.
(2) Back.
(3) Chest.
(4) Lap.
(b) The holder of a senior parachute rigger certificate who qualifies for a master parachute rigger certificate is entitled to have placed on his master parachute rigger certificate the ratings that were on his senior parachute rigger certificate.
§ 65.123
Additional type ratings: Requirements.
A certificated parachute rigger who applies for an additional type rating must—
(a) Present evidence satisfactory to the Administrator that the applicant has packed at least 20 parachutes of the type for which the applicant seeks a rating, in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions and under the supervision of a certificated parachute rigger holding a rating for that type or a person holding an appropriate military rating; and
(b) Pass a practical test, to the satisfaction of the Administrator, showing the applicant's ability to pack and maintain the type of parachute, appropriate to the type rating sought. To pass the practical test for an additional type rating, the applicant must satisfactorily demonstrate the objectives in the area of operation specified in the Parachute Rigger Practical Test Standards (incorporated by reference, see § 65.23), applicable to the type rating sought.
[Docket FAA-2022-1463, Amdt. 65-64, 89 FR 22520, Apr. 1, 2024]
§ 65.125
Certificates: Privileges.
(a) A certificated senior parachute rigger may—
(1) Pack or maintain (except for major repair) any type of parachute for which he is rated; and
(2) Supervise other persons in packing any type of parachute for which that person is rated in accordance with § 105.43(a) or § 105.45(b)(1) of this chapter.
(b) A certificated master parachute rigger may—
(1) Pack, maintain, or alter any type of parachute for which he is rated; and
(2) Supervise other persons in packing, maintaining, or altering any type of parachute for which the certificated parachute rigger is rated in accordance with § 105.43(a) or § 105.45(b)(1) of this chapter.
(c) A certificated parachute rigger need not comply with §§ 65.127 through 65.133 (relating to facilities, equipment, performance standards, records, recent experience, and seal) in packing, maintaining, or altering (if authorized) the main parachute of a dual parachute pack to be used for intentional jumping.
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7973, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 65-20, 37 FR 13252, July 6, 1972; Amdt. 65-42, 66 FR 23553, May 9, 2001]
§ 65.127
Facilities and equipment.
No certificated parachute rigger may exercise the privileges of his certificate unless he has at least the following facilities and equipment available to him:
(a) A smooth top table at least three feet wide by 40 feet long.
(b) Suitable housing that is adequately heated, lighted, and ventilated for drying and airing parachutes.
(c) Enough packing tools and other equipment to pack and maintain the types of parachutes that he services.
(d) Adequate housing facilities to perform his duties and to protect his tools and equipment.
[Docket 1179, 27 FR 7973, Aug. 10, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 65-27, 47 FR 13316, Mar. 29, 1982]
§ 65.129
Performance standards.
No certificated parachute rigger may—
(a) Pack, maintain, or alter any parachute unless he is rated for that type;
(b) Pack a parachute that is not safe for emergency use;
(c) Pack a parachute that has not been thoroughly dried and aired;
(d) Alter a parachute in a manner that is not specifically authorized by the Administrator or the manufacturer;
(e) Pack, maintain, or alter a parachute in any manner that deviates
from procedures approved by the Administrator or the manufacturer of the parachute; or
(f) Exercise the privileges of his certificate and type rating unless he understands the current manufacturer's instructions for the operation involved and has—
(1) Performed duties under his certificate for at least 90 days within the preceding 12 months; or
(2) Shown the Administrator that he is able to perform those duties.
§ 65.131
Records.
(a) Each certificated parachute rigger shall keep a record of the packing, maintenance, and alteration of parachutes performed or supervised by him. He shall keep in that record, with respect to each parachute worked on, a statement of—
(1) Its type and make;
(2) Its serial number;
(3) The name and address of its owner;
(4) The kind and extent of the work performed;
(5) The date when and place where the work was performed; and
(6) The results of any drop tests made with it.
(b) Each person who makes a record under paragraph (a) of this section shall keep it for at least 2 years after the date it is made.
(c) Each certificated parachute rigger who packs a parachute shall write, on the parachute packing record attached to the parachute, the date and place of the packing and a notation of any defects he finds on inspection. He shall sign that record with his name and the number of his certificate.
§ 65.133
Seal.
Each certificated parachute rigger must have a seal with an identifying mark prescribed by the Administrator, and a seal press. After packing a parachute he shall seal the pack with his seal in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendation for that type of parachute.
Pt. 65, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 65—Aircraft Dispatcher Courses

# Overview
This appendix sets forth the areas of knowledge necessary to perform dispatcher functions. The items listed below indicate the minimum set of topics that must be covered in a training course for aircraft dispatcher certification. The order of coverage is at the discretion of the approved school.
I. Regulations
A. Subpart C of this part;
B. Parts 1, 25, 61, 71, 91, 121, 139, and 175, of this chapter;
C. 49 CFR part 830;
D. General Operating Manual.
II. Meteorology
A. Basic Weather Studies
(1) The earth's motion and its effects on weather.
(2) Analysis of the following regional weather types, characteristics, and structures, or combinations thereof:
(a) Maritime.
(b) Continental.
(c) Polar.
(d) Tropical.
(3) Analysis of the following local weather types, characteristics, and structures or combinations thereof:
(a) Coastal.
(b) Mountainous.
(c) Island.
(d) Plains.
(4) The following characteristics of the atmosphere:
(a) Layers.
(b) Composition.
(c) Global Wind Patterns.
(d) Ozone.
(5) Pressure:
(a) Units of Measure.
(b) Weather Systems Characteristics.
(c) Temperature Effects on Pressure.
(d) Altimeters.
(e) Pressure Gradient Force.
(f) Pressure Pattern Flying Weather.
(6) Wind:
(a) Major Wind Systems and Coriolis Force.
(b) Jetstreams and their Characteristics.
(c) Local Wind and Related Terms.
(7) States of Matter:
(a) Solids, Liquid, and Gases.
(b) Causes of change of state.
(8) Clouds:
(a) Composition, Formation, and Dissipation.
(b) Types and Associated Precipitation.
(c) Use of Cloud Knowledge in Forecasting.
(9) Fog:
(a) Causes, Formation, and Dissipation.
(b) Types.
(10) Ice:
(a) Causes, Formation, and Dissipation.
(b) Types.
(11) Stability/Instability:
(a) Temperature Lapse Rate, Convection.
(b) Adiabatic Processes.
(c) Lifting Processes.
(d) Divergence.
(e) Convergence.
(12) Turbulence:
(a) Jetstream Associated.
(b) Pressure Pattern Recognition.
(c) Low Level Windshear.
(d) Mountain Waves.
(e) Thunderstorms.
(f) Clear Air Turbulence.
(13) Airmasses:
(a) Classification and Characteristics.
(b) Source Regions.
(c) Use of Airmass Knowledge in Forecasting.
(14) Fronts:
(a) Structure and Characteristics, Both Vertical and Horizontal.
(b) Frontal Types.
(c) Frontal Weather Flying.
(15) Theory of Storm Systems:
(a) Thunderstorms.
(b) Tornadoes.
(c) Hurricanes and Typhoons.
(d) Microbursts.
(e) Causes, Formation, and Dissipation.
B. Weather, Analysis, and Forecasts
(1) Observations:
(a) Surface Observations.
(i) Observations made by certified weather observer.
(ii) Automated Weather Observations.
(b) Terminal Forecasts.
(c) Significant En route Reports and Forecasts.
(i) Pilot Reports.
(ii) Area Forecasts.
(iii) Sigmets, Airmets.
(iv) Center Weather Advisories.
(d) Weather Imagery.
(i) Surface Analysis.
(ii) Weather Depiction.
(iii) Significant Weather Prognosis.
(iv) Winds and Temperature Aloft.
(v) Tropopause Chart.
(vi) Composite Moisture Stability Chart.
(vii) Surface Weather Prognostic Chart.
(viii) Radar Meteorology.
(ix) Satellite Meteorology.
(x) Other charts as applicable.
(e) Meteorological Information Data Collection Systems.
(2) Data Collection, Analysis, and Forecast Facilities.
(3) Service Outlets Providing Aviation Weather Products.
C. Weather Related Aircraft Hazards
(1) Crosswinds and Gusts.
(2) Contaminated Runways.
(3) Restrictions to Surface Visibility.
(4) Turbulence and Windshear.
(5) Icing.
(6) Thunderstorms and Microburst.
(7) Volcanic Ash.
III. Navigation
A. Study of the Earth
(1) Time reference and location (0 Longitude, UTC).
(2) Definitions.
(3) Projections.
(4) Charts.
B. Chart Reading, Application, and Use.
C. National Airspace Plan.
D. Navigation Systems.
E. Airborne Navigation Instruments.
F. Instrument Approach Procedures.
(1) Transition Procedures.
(2) Precision Approach Procedures.
(3) Non-precision Approach Procedures.
(4) Minimums and the relationship to weather.
G. Special Navigation and Operations.
(1) North Atlantic.
(2) Pacific.
(3) Global Differences.
IV. AIRCRAFT
A. Aircraft Flight Manual.
B. Systems Overview.
(1) Flight controls.
(2) Hydraulics.
(3) Electrical.
(4) Air Conditioning and Pressurization.
(5) Ice and Rain protection.
(6) Avionics, Communication, and Navigation.
(7) Powerplants and Auxiliary Power Units.
(8) Emergency and Abnormal Procedures.
(9) Fuel Systems and Sources.
C. Minimum Equipment List/Configuration Deviation List (MEL/CDL) and Applications.
D. Performance.
(1) Aircraft in general.
(2) Principles of flight:
(a) Group one aircraft.
(b) Group two aircraft.
(3) Aircraft Limitations.
(4) Weight and Balance.
(5) Flight instrument errors.
(6) Aircraft performance:
(a) Take-off performance.
(b) En route performance.
(c) Landing performance.
V. Communications
A. Regulatory requirements.
B. Communication Protocol.
C. Voice and Data Communications.
D. Notice to Airmen (NOTAMS).
E. Aeronautical Publications.
F. Abnormal Procedures.
VI. Air Traffic Control
A. Responsibilities.
B. Facilities and Equipment.
C. Airspace classification and route structure.
D. Flight Plans.
(1) Domestic.
(2) International.
E. Separation Minimums.
F. Priority Handling.
G. Holding Procedures.
H. Traffic Management.
VII. Emergency and Abnormal Procedures
A. Security measures on the ground.
B. Security measures in the air.
C. FAA responsibility and services.
D. Collection and dissemination of information on overdue or missing aircraft.
E. Means of declaring an emergency.
F. Responsibility for declaring an emergency.
G. Required reporting of an emergency.
H. NTSB reporting requirements.
VIII. Practical Dispatch Applications
A. Human Factors.
(1) Decisionmaking:
(a) Situation Assessment.
(b) Generation and Evaluation of Alternatives.
(i) Tradeoffs and Prioritization.
(ii) Contingency Planning.
(c) Support Tools and Technologies.
(2) Human Error:
(a) Causes.
(i) Individual and Organizational Factors.
(ii) Technology-Induced Error.
(b) Prevention.
(c) Detection and Recovery.
(3) Teamwork:
(a) Communication and Information Exchange.
(b) Cooperative and Distributed Problem-Solving.
(c) Resource Management.
(i) Air Traffic Control (ATC) activities and workload.
(ii) Flightcrew activities and workload.
(iii) Maintenance activities and workload.
(iv) Operations Control Staff activities and workload.
B. Applied Dispatching.
(1) Briefing techniques, Dispatcher, Pilot.
(2) Preflight:
(a) Safety.
(b) Weather Analysis.
(i) Satellite imagery.
(ii) Upper and lower altitude charts.
(iii) Significant en route reports and forecasts.
(iv) Surface charts.
(v) Surface observations.
(vi) Terminal forecasts and orientation to Enhanced Weather Information System (EWINS).
(c) NOTAMS and airport conditions.
(d) Crew.
(i) Qualifications.
(ii) Limitations.
(e) Aircraft.
(i) Systems.
(ii) Navigation instruments and avionics systems.
(iii) Flight instruments.
(iv) Operations manuals and MEL/CDL.
(v) Performance and limitations.
(f) Flight Planning.
(i) Route of flight.
1. Standard Instrument Departures and Standard Terminal Arrival Routes.
2. En route charts.
3. Operational altitude.
4. Departure and arrival charts.
(ii) Minimum departure fuel.
1. Climb.
2. Cruise.
3. Descent.
(g) Weight and balance.
(h) Economics of flight overview (Performance, Fuel Tankering).
(i) Decision to operate the flight.
(j) ATC flight plan filing.
(k) Flight documentation.
(i) Flight plan.
(ii) Dispatch release.
(3) Authorize flight departure with concurrence of pilot in command.
(4) In-flight operational control:
(a) Current situational awareness.
(b) Information exchange.
(c) Amend original flight release as required.
(5) Post-Flight:
(a) Arrival verification.
(b) Weather debrief.
(c) Flight irregularity reports as required.
[Docket FAA-1998-4553, 64 FR 68925, Dec. 8, 1999, as amended by Docket FAA-2016-6142, Amdt. 65-58, 83 FR 30281, June 27, 2018]
Pt. 67

# PART 67—MEDICAL STANDARDS AND CERTIFICATION

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
67.1
Applicability.
67.3
Issue.
67.4
Application.
67.7
Access to the National Driver Register.

# Subpart B—First-Class Airman Medical Certificate
67.101
Eligibility.
67.103
Eye.
67.105
Ear, nose, throat, and equilibrium.
67.107
Mental.
67.109
Neurologic.
67.111
Cardiovascular.
67.113
General medical condition.
67.115
Discretionary issuance.

# Subpart C—Second-Class Airman Medical Certificate
67.201
Eligibility.
67.203
Eye.
67.205
Ear, nose, throat, and equilibrium.
67.207
Mental.
67.209
Neurologic.
67.211
Cardiovascular.
67.213
General medical condition.
67.215
Discretionary issuance.

# Subpart D—Third-Class Airman Medical Certificate
67.301
Eligibility.
67.303
Eye.
67.305
Ear, nose, throat, and equilibrium.
67.307
Mental.
67.309
Neurologic.
67.311
Cardiovascular.
67.313
General medical condition.
67.315
Discretionary issuance.

# Subpart E—Certification Procedures
67.401
Special issuance of medical certificates.
67.403
Applications, certificates, logbooks, reports, and records: Falsification, reproduction, or alteration; incorrect statements.
67.405
Medical examinations: Who may perform?
67.407
Delegation of authority.
67.409
Denial of medical certificate.
67.411
[Reserved]
67.413
Medical records.
67.415
Return of medical certificate after suspension or revocation.

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(g), 40113, 44701-44703, 44707, 44709-44711, 45102-45103, 45301-45303.

# Source:
Docket 27940, 61 FR 11256, Mar. 19, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 67.1
Applicability.
This part prescribes the medical standards and certification procedures for issuing medical certificates for airmen and for remaining eligible for a medical certificate.
§ 67.3
Issue.
A person who meets the medical standards prescribed in this part, based on medical examination and evaluation of the person's history and condition, is entitled to an appropriate medical certificate.
[Docket FAA-2007-27812, 73 FR 43065, July 24, 2008]
§ 67.4
Application.
An applicant for first-, second- and third-class medical certification must:
(a) Apply on a form and in a manner prescribed by the Administrator;
(b) Be examined by an aviation medical examiner designated in accordance with part 183 of this chapter. An applicant may obtain a list of aviation medical examiners from the FAA Office of Aerospace Medicine homepage on the FAA Web site, from any FAA Regional Flight Surgeon, or by contacting the Manager of the Aerospace Medical Education Division, P.O. Box 25082, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73125.
(c) Show proof of age and identity by presenting a government-issued photo identification (such as a valid U.S. driver's license, identification card issued by a driver's license authority, military identification, or passport). If an applicant does not have government-issued identification, he or she may use non-photo, government-issued identification (such as a birth certificate or voter registration card) in conjunction with photo identification (such as a work identification card or a student identification card).
[Docket FAA-2007-27812, 73 FR 43065, July 24, 2008, as amended by Docket FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 67-22, 87 FR 75845, Dec. 9, 2022]
§ 67.7
Access to the National Driver Register.
At the time of application for a certificate issued under this part, each person who applies for a medical certificate shall execute an express consent form authorizing the Administrator to request the chief driver licensing official of any state designated by the Administrator to transmit information contained in the National Driver Register about the person to the Administrator. The Administrator shall make information received from the National Driver Register, if any, available on request to the person for review and written comment.

# Subpart B—First-Class Airman Medical Certificate
§ 67.101
Eligibility.
To be eligible for a first-class airman medical certificate, and to remain eligible for a first-class airman medical certificate, a person must meet the requirements of this subpart.
§ 67.103
Eye.
Eye standards for a first-class airman medical certificate are:
(a) Distant visual acuity of 20/20 or better in each eye separately, with or without corrective lenses. If corrective lenses (spectacles or contact lenses) are necessary for 20/20 vision, the person may be eligible only on the condition that corrective lenses are worn while exercising the privileges of an airman certificate.
(b) Near vision of 20/40 or better, Snellen equivalent, at 16 inches in each eye separately, with or without corrective lenses. If age 50 or older, near vision of 20/40 or better, Snellen equivalent, at both 16 inches and 32 inches in each eye separately, with or without corrective lenses.
(c) Ability to perceive those colors necessary for the safe performance of airman duties.
(d) Normal fields of vision.
(e) No acute or chronic pathological condition of either eye or adnexa that interferes with the proper function of an eye, that may reasonably be expected to progress to that degree, or that may reasonably be expected to be aggravated by flying.
(f) Bifoveal fixation and vergence-phoria relationship sufficient to prevent a break in fusion under conditions that may reasonably be expected to occur in performing airman duties. Tests for the factors named in this paragraph are not required except for persons found to have more than 1 prism diopter of hyperphoria, 6 prism diopters of esophoria, or 6 prism diopters of exophoria. If any of these values are exceeded, the Federal Air Surgeon may require the person to be examined by a qualified eye specialist to determine if there is bifoveal fixation and an adequate vergence-phoria relationship. However, if otherwise eligible, the person is issued a medical certificate pending the results of the examination.
§ 67.105
Ear, nose, throat, and equilibrium.
Ear, nose, throat, and equilibrium standards for a first-class airman medical certificate are:
(a) The person shall demonstrate acceptable hearing by at least one of the following tests:
(1) Demonstrate an ability to hear an average conversational voice in a quiet room, using both ears, at a distance of 6 feet from the examiner, with the back turned to the examiner.
(2) Demonstrate an acceptable understanding of speech as determined by audiometric speech discrimination testing to a score of at least 70 percent obtained in one ear or in a sound field environment.
(3) Provide acceptable results of pure tone audiometric testing of unaided hearing acuity according to the following table of worst acceptable thresholds, using the calibration standards of the American National Standards Institute, 1969 (11 West 42d Street, New York, NY 10036):
Frequency (Hz)
500 Hz
1000 Hz
2000 Hz
3000 Hz
Better ear (Db)
35
30
30
40
Poorer ear (Db)
35
50
50
60
(b) No disease or condition of the middle or internal ear, nose, oral cavity, pharynx, or larynx that—
(1) Interferes with, or is aggravated by, flying or may reasonably be expected to do so; or
(2) Interferes with, or may reasonably be expected to interfere with, clear and effective speech communication.
(c) No disease or condition manifested by, or that may reasonably be expected to be manifested by, vertigo or a disturbance of equilibrium.
§ 67.107
Mental.
Mental standards for a first-class airman medical certificate are:
(a) No established medical history or clinical diagnosis of any of the following:
(1) A personality disorder that is severe enough to have repeatedly manifested itself by overt acts.
(2) A psychosis. As used in this section, “psychosis” refers to a mental disorder in which:
(i) The individual has manifested delusions, hallucinations, grossly bizarre or disorganized behavior, or other commonly accepted symptoms of this condition; or
(ii) The individual may reasonably be expected to manifest delusions, hallucinations, grossly bizarre or disorganized behavior, or other commonly accepted symptoms of this condition.
(3) A bipolar disorder.
(4) Substance dependence, except where there is established clinical evidence, satisfactory to the Federal Air Surgeon, of recovery, including sustained total abstinence from the substance(s) for not less than the preceding 2 years. As used in this section—
(i) “Substance” includes: Alcohol; other sedatives and hypnotics; anxiolytics; opioids; central nervous system stimulants such as cocaine, amphetamines, and similarly acting sympathomimetics; hallucinogens; phencyclidine or similarly acting arylcyclohexylamines; cannabis; inhalants; and other psychoactive drugs and chemicals; and
(ii) “Substance dependence” means a condition in which a person is dependent on a substance, other than tobacco or ordinary xanthine-containing (e.g., caffeine) beverages, as evidenced by—
(A) Increased tolerance;
(B) Manifestation of withdrawal symptoms;
(C) Impaired control of use; or
(D) Continued use despite damage to physical health or impairment of social, personal, or occupational functioning.
(b) No substance abuse within the preceding 2 years defined as:
(1) Use of a substance in a situation in which that use was physically hazardous, if there has been at any other time an instance of the use of a substance also in a situation in which that use was physically hazardous;
(2) A verified positive drug test result, an alcohol test result of 0.04 or greater alcohol concentration, or a refusal to submit to a drug or alcohol test required by the U.S. Department of Transportation or an agency of the U.S. Department of Transportation; or
(3) Misuse of a substance that the Federal Air Surgeon, based on case history and appropriate, qualified medical judgment relating to the substance involved, finds—
(i) Makes the person unable to safely perform the duties or exercise the privileges of the airman certificate applied for or held; or
(ii) May reasonably be expected, for the maximum duration of the airman medical certificate applied for or held, to make the person unable to perform those duties or exercise those privileges.
(c) No other personality disorder, neurosis, or other mental condition that the Federal Air Surgeon, based on the case history and appropriate, qualified medical judgment relating to the condition involved, finds—
(1) Makes the person unable to safely perform the duties or exercise the privileges of the airman certificate applied for or held; or
(2) May reasonably be expected, for the maximum duration of the airman medical certificate applied for or held, to make the person unable to perform those duties or exercise those privileges.
[Docket 27940, 61 FR 11256, Mar. 19, 1996, as amended by Amdt. 67-19, 71 FR 35764, June 21, 2006]
§ 67.109
Neurologic.
Neurologic standards for a first-class airman medical certificate are:
(a) No established medical history or clinical diagnosis of any of the following:
(1) Epilepsy;
(2) A disturbance of consciousness without satisfactory medical explanation of the cause; or
(3) A transient loss of control of nervous system function(s) without satisfactory medical explanation of the cause.
(b) No other seizure disorder, disturbance of consciousness, or neurologic condition that the Federal Air Surgeon, based on the case history and appropriate, qualified medical judgment relating to the condition involved, finds—
(1) Makes the person unable to safely perform the duties or exercise the privileges of the airman certificate applied for or held; or
(2) May reasonably be expected, for the maximum duration of the airman medical certificate applied for or held, to make the person unable to perform those duties or exercise those privileges.
§ 67.111
Cardiovascular.
Cardiovascular standards for a first-class airman medical certificate are:
(a) No established medical history or clinical diagnosis of any of the following:
(1) Myocardial infarction;
(2) Angina pectoris;
(3) Coronary heart disease that has required treatment or, if untreated, that has been symptomatic or clinically significant;
(4) Cardiac valve replacement;
(5) Permanent cardiac pacemaker implantation; or
(6) Heart replacement;
(b) A person applying for first-class medical certification must demonstrate an absence of myocardial infarction and other clinically significant abnormality on electrocardiographic examination:
(1) At the first application after reaching the 35th birthday; and
(2) On an annual basis after reaching the 40th birthday.
(c) An electrocardiogram will satisfy a requirement of paragraph (b) of this section if it is dated no earlier than 60 days before the date of the application it is to accompany and was performed and transmitted according to acceptable standards and techniques.
§ 67.113
General medical condition.
The general medical standards for a first-class airman medical certificate are:
(a) No established medical history or clinical diagnosis of diabetes mellitus that requires insulin or any other hypoglycemic drug for control.
(b) No other organic, functional, or structural disease, defect, or limitation that the Federal Air Surgeon, based on the case history and appropriate, qualified medical judgment relating to the condition involved, finds—
(1) Makes the person unable to safely perform the duties or exercise the privileges of the airman certificate applied for or held; or
(2) May reasonably be expected, for the maximum duration of the airman medical certificate applied for or held, to make the person unable to perform those duties or exercise those privileges.
(c) No medication or other treatment that the Federal Air Surgeon, based on the case history and appropriate, qualified medical judgment relating to the medication or other treatment involved, finds—
(1) Makes the person unable to safely perform the duties or exercise the privileges of the airman certificate applied for or held; or
(2) May reasonably be expected, for the maximum duration of the airman medical certificate applied for or held, to make the person unable to perform those duties or exercise those privileges.
§ 67.115
Discretionary issuance.
A person who does not meet the provisions of §§ 67.103 through 67.113 may apply for the discretionary issuance of a certificate under § 67.401.

# Subpart C—Second-Class Airman Medical Certificate
§ 67.201
Eligibility.
To be eligible for a second-class airman medical certificate, and to remain eligible for a second-class airman medical certificate, a person must meet the requirements of this subpart.
§ 67.203
Eye.
Eye standards for a second-class airman medical certificate are:
(a) Distant visual acuity of 20/20 or better in each eye separately, with or without corrective lenses. If corrective lenses (spectacles or contact lenses) are necessary for 20/20 vision, the person may be eligible only on the condition that corrective lenses are worn while exercising the privileges of an airman certificate.
(b) Near vision of 20/40 or better, Snellen equivalent, at 16 inches in each eye separately, with or without corrective lenses. If age 50 or older, near vision of 20/40 or better, Snellen equivalent, at both 16 inches and 32 inches in each eye separately, with or without corrective lenses.
(c) Ability to perceive those colors necessary for the safe performance of airman duties.
(d) Normal fields of vision.
(e) No acute or chronic pathological condition of either eye or adnexa that interferes with the proper function of an eye, that may reasonably be expected to progress to that degree, or
that may reasonably be expected to be aggravated by flying.
(f) Bifoveal fixation and vergence-phoria relationship sufficient to prevent a break in fusion under conditions that may reasonably be expected to occur in performing airman duties. Tests for the factors named in this paragraph are not required except for persons found to have more than 1 prism diopter of hyperphoria, 6 prism diopters of esophoria, or 6 prism diopters of exophoria. If any of these values are exceeded, the Federal Air Surgeon may require the person to be examined by a qualified eye specialist to determine if there is bifoveal fixation and an adequate vergence-phoria relationship. However, if otherwise eligible, the person is issued a medical certificate pending the results of the examination.
§ 67.205
Ear, nose, throat, and equilibrium.
Ear, nose, throat, and equilibrium standards for a second-class airman medical certificate are:
(a) The person shall demonstrate acceptable hearing by at least one of the following tests:
(1) Demonstrate an ability to hear an average conversational voice in a quiet room, using both ears, at a distance of 6 feet from the examiner, with the back turned to the examiner.
(2) Demonstrate an acceptable understanding of speech as determined by audiometric speech discrimination testing to a score of at least 70 percent obtained in one ear or in a sound field environment.
(3) Provide acceptable results of pure tone audiometric testing of unaided hearing acuity according to the following table of worst acceptable thresholds, using the calibration standards of the American National Standards Institute, 1969:
Frequency (Hz)
500 Hz
1000 Hz
2000 Hz
3000 Hz
Better ear (Db)
35
30
30
40
Poorer ear (Db)
35
50
50
60
(b) No disease or condition of the middle or internal ear, nose, oral cavity, pharynx, or larynx that—
(1) Interferes with, or is aggravated by, flying or may reasonably be expected to do so; or
(2) Interferes with, or may reasonably be expected to interfere with, clear and effective speech communication.
(c) No disease or condition manifested by, or that may reasonably be expected to be manifested by, vertigo or a disturbance of equilibrium.
§ 67.207
Mental.
Mental standards for a second-class airman medical certificate are:
(a) No established medical history or clinical diagnosis of any of the following:
(1) A personality disorder that is severe enough to have repeatedly manifested itself by overt acts.
(2) A psychosis. As used in this section, “psychosis” refers to a mental disorder in which:
(i) The individual has manifested delusions, hallucinations, grossly bizarre or disorganized behavior, or other commonly accepted symptoms of this condition; or
(ii) The individual may reasonably be expected to manifest delusions, hallucinations, grossly bizarre or disorganized behavior, or other commonly accepted symptoms of this condition.
(3) A bipolar disorder.
(4) Substance dependence, except where there is established clinical evidence, satisfactory to the Federal Air Surgeon, of recovery, including sustained total abstinence from the substance(s) for not less than the preceding 2 years. As used in this section—
(i) “Substance” includes: Alcohol; other sedatives and hypnotics; anxiolytics; opioids; central nervous system stimulants such as cocaine, amphetamines, and similarly acting sympathomimetics; hallucinogens; phencyclidine or similarly acting arylcyclohexylamines; cannabis; inhalants; and other psychoactive drugs and chemicals; and
(ii) “Substance dependence” means a condition in which a person is dependent on a substance, other than tobacco or ordinary xanthine-containing (e.g., caffeine) beverages, as evidenced by—
(A) Increased tolerance;
(B) Manifestation of withdrawal symptoms;
(C) Impaired control of use; or
(D) Continued use despite damage to physical health or impairment of social, personal, or occupational functioning.
(b) No substance abuse within the preceding 2 years defined as:
(1) Use of a substance in a situation in which that use was physically hazardous, if there has been at any other time an instance of the use of a substance also in a situation in which that use was physically hazardous;
(2) A verified positive drug test result, an alcohol test result of 0.04 or greater alcohol concentration, or a refusal to submit to a drug or alcohol test required by the U.S. Department of Transportation or an agency of the U.S. Department of Transportation; or
(3) Misuse of a substance that the Federal Air Surgeon, based on case history and appropriate, qualified medical judgment relating to the substance involved, finds—
(i) Makes the person unable to safely perform the duties or exercise the privileges of the airman certificate applied for or held; or
(ii) May reasonably be expected, for the maximum duration of the airman medical certificate applied for or held, to make the person unable to perform those duties or exercise those privileges.
(c) No other personality disorder, neurosis, or other mental condition that the Federal Air Surgeon, based on the case history and appropriate, qualified medical judgment relating to the condition involved, finds—
(1) Makes the person unable to safely perform the duties or exercise the privileges of the airman certificate applied for or held; or
(2) May reasonably be expected, for the maximum duration of the airman medical certificate applied for or held, to make the person unable to perform those duties or exercise those privileges.
[Docket 27940, 61 FR 11256, Mar. 19, 1996, as amended by Amdt. 67-19, 71 FR 35764, June 21, 2006]
§ 67.209
Neurologic.
Neurologic standards for a second-class airman medical certificate are:
(a) No established medical history or clinical diagnosis of any of the following:
(1) Epilepsy;
(2) A disturbance of consciousness without satisfactory medical explanation of the cause; or
(3) A transient loss of control of nervous system function(s) without satisfactory medical explanation of the cause;
(b) No other seizure disorder, disturbance of consciousness, or neurologic condition that the Federal Air Surgeon, based on the case history and appropriate, qualified medical judgment relating to the condition involved, finds—
(1) Makes the person unable to safely perform the duties or exercise the privileges of the airman certificate applied for or held; or
(2) May reasonably be expected, for the maximum duration of the airman medical certificate applied for or held, to make the person unable to perform those duties or exercise those privileges.
§ 67.211
Cardiovascular.
Cardiovascular standards for a second-class medical certificate are no established medical history or clinical diagnosis of any of the following:
(a) Myocardial infarction;
(b) Angina pectoris;
(c) Coronary heart disease that has required treatment or, if untreated, that has been symptomatic or clinically significant;
(d) Cardiac valve replacement;
(e) Permanent cardiac pacemaker implantation; or
(f) Heart replacement.
§ 67.213
General medical condition.
The general medical standards for a second-class airman medical certificate are:
(a) No established medical history or clinical diagnosis of diabetes mellitus that requires insulin or any other hypoglycemic drug for control.
(b) No other organic, functional, or structural disease, defect, or limitation that the Federal Air Surgeon, based on
the case history and appropriate, qualified medical judgment relating to the condition involved, finds—
(1) Makes the person unable to safely perform the duties or exercise the privileges of the airman certificate applied for or held; or
(2) May reasonably be expected, for the maximum duration of the airman medical certificate applied for or held, to make the person unable to perform those duties or exercise those privileges.
(c) No medication or other treatment that the Federal Air Surgeon, based on the case history and appropriate, qualified medical judgment relating to the medication or other treatment involved, finds—
(1) Makes the person unable to safely perform the duties or exercise the privileges of the airman certificate applied for or held; or
(2) May reasonably be expected, for the maximum duration of the airman medical certificate applied for or held, to make the person unable to perform those duties or exercise those privileges.
§ 67.215
Discretionary issuance.
A person who does not meet the provisions of §§ 67.203 through 67.213 may apply for the discretionary issuance of a certificate under § 67.401.

# Subpart D—Third-Class Airman Medical Certificate
§ 67.301
Eligibility.
To be eligible for a third-class airman medical certificate, or to remain eligible for a third-class airman medical certificate, a person must meet the requirements of this subpart.
§ 67.303
Eye.
Eye standards for a third-class airman medical certificate are:
(a) Distant visual acuity of 20/40 or better in each eye separately, with or without corrective lenses. If corrective lenses (spectacles or contact lenses) are necessary for 20/40 vision, the person may be eligible only on the condition that corrective lenses are worn while exercising the privileges of an airman certificate.
(b) Near vision of 20/40 or better, Snellen equivalent, at 16 inches in each eye separately, with or without corrective lenses.
(c) Ability to perceive those colors necessary for the safe performance of airman duties.
(d) No acute or chronic pathological condition of either eye or adnexa that interferes with the proper function of an eye, that may reasonably be expected to progress to that degree, or that may reasonably be expected to be aggravated by flying.
§ 67.305
Ear, nose, throat, and equilibrium.
Ear, nose, throat, and equilibrium standards for a third-class airman medical certificate are:
(a) The person shall demonstrate acceptable hearing by at least one of the following tests:
(1) Demonstrate an ability to hear an average conversational voice in a quiet room, using both ears, at a distance of 6 feet from the examiner, with the back turned to the examiner.
(2) Demonstrate an acceptable understanding of speech as determined by audiometric speech discrimination testing to a score of at least 70 percent obtained in one ear or in a sound field environment.
(3) Provide acceptable results of pure tone audiometric testing of unaided hearing acuity according to the following table of worst acceptable thresholds, using the calibration standards of the American National Standards Institute, 1969:
Frequency (Hz)
500 Hz
1000 Hz
2000 Hz
3000 Hz
Better ear (Db)
35
30
30
40
Poorer ear (Db)
35
50
50
60
(b) No disease or condition of the middle or internal ear, nose, oral cavity, pharynx, or larynx that—
(1) Interferes with, or is aggravated by, flying or may reasonably be expected to do so; or
(2) Interferes with clear and effective speech communication.
(c) No disease or condition manifested by, or that may reasonably be expected to be manifested by, vertigo or a disturbance of equilibrium.
§ 67.307
Mental.
Mental standards for a third-class airman medical certificate are:
(a) No established medical history or clinical diagnosis of any of the following:
(1) A personality disorder that is severe enough to have repeatedly manifested itself by overt acts.
(2) A psychosis. As used in this section, “psychosis” refers to a mental disorder in which—
(i) The individual has manifested delusions, hallucinations, grossly bizarre or disorganized behavior, or other commonly accepted symptoms of this condition; or
(ii) The individual may reasonably be expected to manifest delusions, hallucinations, grossly bizarre or disorganized behavior, or other commonly accepted symptoms of this condition.
(3) A bipolar disorder.
(4) Substance dependence, except where there is established clinical evidence, satisfactory to the Federal Air Surgeon, of recovery, including sustained total abstinence from the substance(s) for not less than the preceding 2 years. As used in this section—
(i) “Substance” includes: alcohol; other sedatives and hypnotics; anxiolytics; opioids; central nervous system stimulants such as cocaine, amphetamines, and similarly acting sympathomimetics; hallucinogens; phencyclidine or similarly acting arylcyclohexylamines; cannabis; inhalants; and other psychoactive drugs and chemicals; and
(ii) “Substance dependence” means a condition in which a person is dependent on a substance, other than tobacco or ordinary xanthine-containing (e.g., caffeine) beverages, as evidenced by—
(A) Increased tolerance;
(B) Manifestation of withdrawal symptoms;
(C) Impaired control of use; or
(D) Continued use despite damage to physical health or impairment of social, personal, or occupational functioning.
(b) No substance abuse within the preceding 2 years defined as:
(1) Use of a substance in a situation in which that use was physically hazardous, if there has been at any other time an instance of the use of a substance also in a situation in which that use was physically hazardous;
(2) A verified positive drug test result, an alcohol test result of 0.04 or greater alcohol concentration, or a refusal to submit to a drug or alcohol test required by the U.S. Department of Transportation or an agency of the U.S. Department of Transportation; or
(3) Misuse of a substance that the Federal Air Surgeon, based on case history and appropriate, qualified medical judgment relating to the substance involved, finds—
(i) Makes the person unable to safely perform the duties or exercise the privileges of the airman certificate applied for or held; or
(ii) May reasonably be expected, for the maximum duration of the airman medical certificate applied for or held, to make the person unable to perform those duties or exercise those privileges.
(c) No other personality disorder, neurosis, or other mental condition that the Federal Air Surgeon, based on the case history and appropriate, qualified medical judgment relating to the condition involved, finds—
(1) Makes the person unable to safely perform the duties or exercise the privileges of the airman certificate applied for or held; or
(2) May reasonably be expected, for the maximum duration of the airman medical certificate applied for or held, to make the person unable to perform those duties or exercise those privileges.
[Docket 27940, 61 FR 11256, Mar. 19, 1996, as amended by Amdt. 67-19, 71 FR 35764, June 21, 2006]
§ 67.309
Neurologic.
Neurologic standards for a third-class airman medical certificate are:
(a) No established medical history or clinical diagnosis of any of the following:
(1) Epilepsy;
(2) A disturbance of consciousness without satisfactory medical explanation of the cause; or
(3) A transient loss of control of nervous system function(s) without satisfactory medical explanation of the cause.
(b) No other seizure disorder, disturbance of consciousness, or neurologic condition that the Federal Air Surgeon, based on the case history and appropriate, qualified medical judgment relating to the condition involved, finds—
(1) Makes the person unable to safely perform the duties or exercise the privileges of the airman certificate applied for or held; or
(2) May reasonably be expected, for the maximum duration of the airman medical certificate applied for or held, to make the person unable to perform those duties or exercise those privileges.
§ 67.311
Cardiovascular.
Cardiovascular standards for a third-class airman medical certificate are no established medical history or clinical diagnosis of any of the following:
(a) Myocardial infarction;
(b) Angina pectoris;
(c) Coronary heart disease that has required treatment or, if untreated, that has been symptomatic or clinically significant;
(d) Cardiac valve replacement;
(e) Permanent cardiac pacemaker implantation; or
(f) Heart replacement.
§ 67.313
General medical condition.
The general medical standards for a third-class airman medical certificate are:
(a) No established medical history or clinical diagnosis of diabetes mellitus that requires insulin or any other hypoglycemic drug for control.
(b) No other organic, functional, or structural disease, defect, or limitation that the Federal Air Surgeon, based on the case history and appropriate, qualified medical judgment relating to the condition involved, finds—
(1) Makes the person unable to safely perform the duties or exercise the privileges of the airman certificate applied for or held; or
(2) May reasonably be expected, for the maximum duration of the airman medical certificate applied for or held, to make the person unable to perform those duties or exercise those privileges.
(c) No medication or other treatment that the Federal Air Surgeon, based on the case history and appropriate, qualified medical judgment relating to the medication or other treatment involved, finds—
(1) Makes the person unable to safely perform the duties or exercise the privileges of the airman certificate applied for or held; or
(2) May reasonably be expected, for the maximum duration of the airman medical certificate applied for or held, to make the person unable to perform those duties or exercise those privileges.
§ 67.315
Discretionary issuance.
A person who does not meet the provisions of §§ 67.303 through 67.313 may apply for the discretionary issuance of a certificate under § 67.401.

# Subpart E—Certification Procedures
§ 67.401
Special issuance of medical certificates.
(a) At the discretion of the Federal Air Surgeon, an Authorization for Special Issuance of a Medical Certificate (Authorization), valid for a specified period, may be granted to a person who does not meet the provisions of subparts B, C, or D of this part if the person shows to the satisfaction of the Federal Air Surgeon that the duties authorized by the class of medical certificate applied for can be performed without endangering public safety during the period in which the Authorization would be in force. The Federal Air Surgeon may authorize a special medical flight test, practical test, or medical evaluation for this purpose. A medical certificate of the appropriate class may be issued to a person who does not meet the provisions of subparts B, C, or D of this part if that person possesses a valid Authorization and is otherwise eligible. An airman medical certificate issued in accordance with this section shall expire no later than the end of the validity period or upon the withdrawal of the Authorization upon which it is based. At the end of its specified validity period, for grant of a new Authorization, the person must again show to the satisfaction of the
Federal Air Surgeon that the duties authorized by the class of medical certificate applied for can be performed without endangering public safety during the period in which the Authorization would be in force.
(b) At the discretion of the Federal Air Surgeon, a Statement of Demonstrated Ability (SODA) may be granted, instead of an Authorization, to a person whose disqualifying condition is static or nonprogressive and who has been found capable of performing airman duties without endangering public safety. A SODA does not expire and authorizes a designated aviation medical examiner to issue a medical certificate of a specified class if the examiner finds that the condition described on its face has not adversely changed.
(c) In granting an Authorization or SODA, the Federal Air Surgeon may consider the person's operational experience and any medical facts that may affect the ability of the person to perform airman duties including—
(1) The combined effect on the person of failure to meet more than one requirement of this part; and
(2) The prognosis derived from professional consideration of all available information regarding the person.
(d) In granting an Authorization or SODA under this section, the Federal Air Surgeon specifies the class of medical certificate authorized to be issued and may do any or all of the following:
(1) Limit the duration of an Authorization;
(2) Condition the granting of a new Authorization on the results of subsequent medical tests, examinations, or evaluations;
(3) State on the Authorization or SODA, and any medical certificate based upon it, any operational limitation needed for safety; or
(4) Condition the continued effect of an Authorization or SODA, and any second- or third-class medical certificate based upon it, on compliance with a statement of functional limitations issued to the person in coordination with the Director of Flight Standards or the Director's designee.
(e) In determining whether an Authorization or SODA should be granted to an applicant for a third-class medical certificate, the Federal Air Surgeon considers the freedom of an airman, exercising the privileges of a private pilot certificate, to accept reasonable risks to his or her person and property that are not acceptable in the exercise of commercial or airline transport pilot privileges, and, at the same time, considers the need to protect the safety of persons and property in other aircraft and on the ground.
(f) An Authorization or SODA granted under the provisions of this section to a person who does not meet the applicable provisions of subparts B, C, or D of this part may be withdrawn, at the discretion of the Federal Air Surgeon, at any time if—
(1) There is adverse change in the holder's medical condition;
(2) The holder fails to comply with a statement of functional limitations or operational limitations issued as a condition of certification under this section;
(3) Public safety would be endangered by the holder's exercise of airman privileges;
(4) The holder fails to provide medical information reasonably needed by the Federal Air Surgeon for certification under this section; or
(5) The holder makes or causes to be made a statement or entry that is the basis for withdrawal of an Authorization or SODA under § 67.403.
(g) A person who has been granted an Authorization or SODA under this section based on a special medical flight or practical test need not take the test again during later physical examinations unless the Federal Air Surgeon determines or has reason to believe that the physical deficiency has or may have degraded to a degree to require another special medical flight test or practical test.
(h) The authority of the Federal Air Surgeon under this section is also exercised by the Manager, Aeromedical Certification Division, and each Regional Flight Surgeon.
(i) If an Authorization or SODA is withdrawn under paragraph (f) of this section the following procedures apply:
(1) The holder of the Authorization or SODA will be served a letter of withdrawal, stating the reason for the action;
(2) By not later than 60 days after the service of the letter of withdrawal, the holder of the Authorization or SODA may request, in writing, that the Federal Air Surgeon provide for review of the decision to withdraw. The request for review may be accompanied by supporting medical evidence;
(3) Within 60 days of receipt of a request for review, a written final decision either affirming or reversing the decision to withdraw will be issued; and
(4) A medical certificate rendered invalid pursuant to a withdrawal, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, shall be surrendered to the Administrator upon request.
[Docket 27940, 61 FR 11256, Mar. 19, 1996, as amended by Amdt. 67-20, 73 FR 43066, July 24, 2008; Amdt. 67-21, 77 FR 16668, Mar. 22, 2012]
§ 67.403
Applications, certificates, logbooks, reports, and records: Falsification, reproduction, or alteration; incorrect statements.
(a) No person may make or cause to be made—
(1) A fraudulent or intentionally false statement on any application for a medical certificate or on a request for any Authorization for Special Issuance of a Medical Certificate (Authorization) or Statement of Demonstrated Ability (SODA) under this part;
(2) A fraudulent or intentionally false entry in any logbook, record, or report that is kept, made, or used, to show compliance with any requirement for any medical certificate or for any Authorization or SODA under this part;
(3) A reproduction, for fraudulent purposes, of any medical certificate under this part; or
(4) An alteration of any medical certificate under this part.
(b) The commission by any person of an act prohibited under paragraph (a) of this section is a basis for—
(1) Suspending or revoking all airman, ground instructor, and medical certificates and ratings held by that person;
(2) Withdrawing all Authorizations or SODA's held by that person; and
(3) Denying all applications for medical certification and requests for Authorizations or SODA's.
(c) The following may serve as a basis for suspending or revoking a medical certificate; withdrawing an Authorization or SODA; or denying an application for a medical certificate or request for an authorization or SODA:
(1) An incorrect statement, upon which the FAA relied, made in support of an application for a medical certificate or request for an Authorization or SODA.
(2) An incorrect entry, upon which the FAA relied, made in any logbook, record, or report that is kept, made, or used to show compliance with any requirement for a medical certificate or an Authorization or SODA.
§ 67.405
Medical examinations: Who may perform?
(a)
First-class.
Any aviation medical examiner who is specifically designated for the purpose may perform examinations for the first-class medical certificate.
(b)
Second- and third-class.
Any aviation medical examiner may perform examinations for the second-or third-class medical certificate.
[Docket FAA-2007-27812, 73 FR 43066, July 24, 2008]
§ 67.407
Delegation of authority.
(a) The authority of the Administrator under 49 U.S.C. 44703 to issue or deny medical certificates is delegated to the Federal Air Surgeon to the extent necessary to—
(1) Examine applicants for and holders of medical certificates to determine whether they meet applicable medical standards; and
(2) Issue, renew, and deny medical certificates, and issue, renew, deny, and withdraw Authorizations for Special Issuance of a Medical Certificate and Statements of Demonstrated Ability to a person based upon meeting or failing to meet applicable medical standards.
(b) Subject to limitations in this chapter, the delegated functions of the Federal Air Surgeon to examine applicants for and holders of medical certificates for compliance with applicable medical standards and to issue, renew, and deny medical certificates are also delegated to aviation medical examiners and to authorized representatives
of the Federal Air Surgeon within the FAA.
(c) The authority of the Administrator under 49 U.S.C. 44702, to reconsider the action of an aviation medical examiner is delegated to the Federal Air Surgeon; the Manager, Aeromedical Certification Division; and each Regional Flight Surgeon. Where the person does not meet the standards of §§ 67.107(b)(3) and (c), 67.109(b), 67.113(b) and (c), 67.207(b)(3) and (c), 67.209(b), 67.213(b) and (c), 67.307(b)(3) and (c), 67.309(b), or 67.313(b) and (c), any action taken under this paragraph other than by the Federal Air Surgeon is subject to reconsideration by the Federal Air Surgeon. A certificate issued by an aviation medical examiner is considered to be affirmed as issued unless an FAA official named in this paragraph (authorized official) reverses that issuance within 60 days after the date of issuance. However, if within 60 days after the date of issuance an authorized official requests the certificate holder to submit additional medical information, an authorized official may reverse the issuance within 60 days after receipt of the requested information.
(d) The authority of the Administrator under 49 U.S.C. 44709 to re-examine any civil airman to the extent necessary to determine an airman's qualification to continue to hold an airman medical certificate, is delegated to the Federal Air Surgeon and his or her authorized representatives within the FAA.
§ 67.409
Denial of medical certificate.
(a) Any person who is denied a medical certificate by an aviation medical examiner may, within 30 days after the date of the denial, apply in writing to the Federal Air Surgeon, Attention: Manager, Aeromedical Certification Division, AAM-300, Federal Aviation Administration, P.O. Box 25082, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73126, for reconsideration of that denial. If the person does not ask for reconsideration during the 30-day period after the date of the denial, he or she is considered to have withdrawn the application for a medical certificate.
(b) The denial of a medical certificate—
(1) By an aviation medical examiner is not a denial by the Administrator under 49 U.S.C. 44703.
(2) By the Federal Air Surgeon is considered to be a denial by the Administrator under 49 U.S.C. 44703.
(3) By the Manager, Aeromedical Certification Division, or a Regional Flight Surgeon is considered to be a denial by the Administrator under 49 U.S.C. 44703 except where the person does not meet the standards of §§ 67.107(b)(3) and (c), 67.109(b), or 67.113(b) and (c); 67.207(b)(3) and (c), 67.209(b), or 67.213(b) and (c); or 67.307(b)(3) and (c), 67.309(b), or 67.313(b) and (c).
(c) Any action taken under § 67.407(c) that wholly or partly reverses the issue of a medical certificate by an aviation medical examiner is the denial of a medical certificate under paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) If the issue of a medical certificate is wholly or partly reversed by the Federal Air Surgeon; the Manager, Aeromedical Certification Division; or a Regional Flight Surgeon, the person holding that certificate shall surrender it, upon request of the FAA.
[Docket 27940, 61 FR 11256, Mar. 19, 1996, as amended by Docket FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 67-22, 87 FR 75845, Dec. 9, 2022]
§ 67.411
[Reserved]
§ 67.413
Medical records.
(a) Whenever the Administrator finds that additional medical information or history is necessary to determine whether you meet the medical standards required to hold a medical certificate, you must:
(1) Furnish that information to the FAA; or
(2) Authorize any clinic, hospital, physician, or other person to release to the FAA all available information or records concerning that history.
(b) If you fail to provide the requested medical information or history or to authorize its release, the FAA may suspend, modify, or revoke your medical certificate or, in the case of an applicant, deny the application for a medical certificate.
(c) If your medical certificate is suspended, modified, or revoked under
paragraph (b) of this section, that suspension or modification remains in effect until you provide the requested information, history, or authorization to the FAA and until the FAA determines that you meet the medical standards set forth in this part.
[Docket FAA-2007-27812, 73 FR 43066, July 24, 2008]
§ 67.415
Return of medical certificate after suspension or revocation.
The holder of any medical certificate issued under this part that is suspended or revoked shall, upon the Administrator's request, return it to the Administrator.
Pt. 68

# PART 68—REQUIREMENTS FOR OPERATING CERTAIN SMALL AIRCRAFT WITHOUT A MEDICAL CERTIFICATE
Sec.
68.1
Applicability.
68.3
Medical education course requirements.
68.5
Comprehensive medical examination.
68.7
Comprehensive medical examination checklist.
68.9
Special Issuance process.
68.11
Authority to require additional information.

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(f), 44701-44703, sec. 2307 of Pub. L. 114-190, 130 Stat. 615 (49 U.S.C. 44703 note); sec. 828 of Pub. L. 118-63, 138 Stat. 1330 (49 U.S.C. 44703).

# Source:
Docket FAA-2016-9157, Amdt. 68-1, 82 FR 3165, Jan. 11, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 68.1
Applicability.
This part prescribes the medical education and examination requirements for operating an aircraft under § 61.113(i) of this chapter without holding a medical certificate issued under part 67 of this chapter.
§ 68.3
Medical education course requirements.
(a) The medical education course required to act as pilot in command or serve as a required flightcrew member in an operation under § 61.113(i) of this chapter must—
(1) Educate pilots on conducting medical self-assessments;
(2) Advise pilots on identifying warning signs of potential serious medical conditions;
(3) Identify risk mitigation strategies for medical conditions;
(4) Increase awareness of the impacts of potentially impairing over-the-counter and prescription drug medications;
(5) Encourage regular medical examinations and consultations with primary care physicians;
(6) Inform pilots of the regulations pertaining to the prohibition on operations during medical deficiency and medically disqualifying conditions; and
(7) Provide the checklist developed by the FAA in accordance with § 68.7.
(b) Upon successful completion of the medical education course, the following items must be electronically provided to the individual seeking to act as pilot in command or serve as a required flightcrew member under the conditions and limitations of § 61.113(i) of this chapter and transmitted to the FAA—
(1) A certification of completion of the medical education course, which shall be retained in the individual's logbook and made available upon request, and shall contain the individual's name, address, and airman certificate number;
(2) A release authorizing single access to the National Driver Register through a designated State Department of Motor Vehicles to furnish to the FAA information pertaining to the individual's driving record;
(3) A certification by the individual that the individual is under the care and treatment of a physician if the individual has been diagnosed with any medical condition that may impact the ability of the individual to fly, as required under § 61.23(c)(3) of this chapter;
(4) A form that includes—
(i) The name, address, telephone number, and airman certificate number of the individual;
(ii) The name, address, telephone number, and State medical license number of the physician performing the comprehensive medical examination;
(iii) The date of the comprehensive medical examination; and
(iv) A certification by the individual that the checklist described in § 68.7 was followed and signed by the physician during the medical examination required by this section; and
(5) A statement, which shall be signed by the individual certifying that the individual understands the existing prohibition on operations during medical deficiency by stating: “I understand that I cannot act as pilot in command, or any other capacity as a required flight crew member, if I know or have reason to know of any medical condition that would make me unable to operate the aircraft in a safe manner.”.
[Docket FAA-2016-9157, Amdt. 68-1, 82 FR 3165, Jan. 11, 2017, as amended by Docket FAA-2021-1040, Amdt. 61-152, 87 FR 71236, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 68.5
Comprehensive medical examination.
(a) Prior to the medical examination required by § 61.23(c)(3) of this chapter, an individual must—
(1) Complete the individual's section of the checklist described in § 68.7; and
(2) Provide the completed checklist to the State-licensed physician performing the medical examination.
(b) The physician must—
(1) Conduct the medical examination in accordance with the checklist set forth in § 68.7,
(2) Check each item specified during the examination; and
(3) Address, as medically appropriate, every medical condition listed and any medications the individual is taking.
§ 68.7
Comprehensive medical examination checklist.
The comprehensive medical examination required to conduct operations under § 61.113(i) must include a checklist containing the following:
(a) A section, for the individual to complete that contains—
(1) Boxes 3 through 13 and boxes 16 through 19 of the FAA Form 8500-8 (3-99), or any successor form; and
(2) A signature line for the individual to affirm that—
(i) The answers provided by the individual on that checklist, including the individual's answers regarding medical history, are true and complete;
(ii) The individual understands that he or she is prohibited under FAA regulations from acting as pilot in command, or any other capacity as a required flight crew member, if he or she knows or has reason to know of any medical deficiency or medically disqualifying condition that would make the individual unable to operate the aircraft in a safe manner; and
(iii) The individual is aware of the regulations pertaining to the prohibition on operations during medical deficiency and has no medically disqualifying conditions in accordance with applicable law;
(b) A section with instructions for the individual to provide the completed checklist to the State-licensed physician performing the comprehensive medical examination required under § 68.5; and
(c) A section, for the physician to complete, that instructs the physician—
(1) To perform a clinical examination of—
(i) Head, face, neck, and scalp;
(ii) Nose, sinuses, mouth, and throat;
(iii) Ears, general (internal and external canals), and eardrums (perforation);
(iv) Eyes (general), ophthalmoscopic, pupils (equality and reaction), and ocular motility (associated parallel movement, nystagmus);
(v) Lungs and chest (not including breast examination);
(vi) Heart (precordial activity, rhythm, sounds, and murmurs);
(vii) Vascular system (pulse, amplitude, and character, and arms, legs, and others);
(viii) Abdomen and viscera (including hernia);
(ix) Anus (not including digital examination);
(x) Skin;
(xi) G-U system (not including pelvic examination);
(xii) Upper and lower extremities (strength and range of motion);
(xiii) Spine and other musculoskeletal;
(xiv) Identifying body marks, scars, and tattoos (size and location);
(xv) Lymphatics;
(xvi) Neurologic (tendon reflexes, equilibrium, senses, cranial nerves, and coordination, etc.);
(xvii) Psychiatric (appearance, behavior, mood, communication, and memory);
(xviii) General systemic;
(xix) Hearing;
(xx) Vision (distant, near, and intermediate vision, field of vision, color vision, and ocular alignment);
(xxi) Blood pressure and pulse; and
(xxii) Anything else the physician, in his or her medical judgment, considers necessary;
(2) To exercise medical discretion to address, as medically appropriate, any medical conditions identified, and to exercise medical discretion in determining whether any medical tests are warranted as part of the comprehensive medical examination;
(3) To discuss all drugs the individual reports taking (prescription and nonprescription) and their potential to interfere with the safe operation of an aircraft or motor vehicle;
(4) To sign the checklist, stating: “I certify that I discussed all items on this checklist with the individual during my examination, discussed any medications the individual is taking that could interfere with his or her ability to safely operate an aircraft or motor vehicle, and performed an examination that included all of the items on this checklist. I certify that I am not aware of any medical condition that, as presently treated, could interfere with the individual's ability to safely operate an aircraft.”; and
(5) To provide the date the comprehensive medical examination was completed, and the physician's full name, address, telephone number, and State medical license number.
[Docket FAA-2016-9157, Amdt. 68-1, 82 FR 3165, Jan. 11, 2017, as amended by Docket FAA-2024-2580, Amdt. 68-3, 89 FR 90577, Nov. 18, 2024]
§ 68.9
Special Issuance process.
(a)
General.
An individual who has met the qualifications to operate an aircraft under § 61.113(i) of this chapter and is seeking to act as a pilot in command or serve as a required flightcrew member under that section must have completed the process for obtaining an Authorization for Special Issuance of a Medical Certificate for each of the following:
(1) A mental health disorder, limited to an established medical history or clinical diagnosis of—
(i) A personality disorder that is severe enough to have repeatedly manifested itself by overt acts;
(ii) A psychosis, defined as a case in which an individual—
(A) Has manifested delusions, hallucinations, grossly bizarre or disorganized behavior, or other commonly accepted symptoms of psychosis; or
(B) May reasonably be expected to manifest delusions, hallucinations, grossly bizarre or disorganized behavior, or other commonly accepted symptoms of psychosis;
(iii) A bipolar disorder; or
(iv) A substance dependence within the previous 2 years, as defined in § 67.307(a)(4) of this chapter.
(2) A neurological disorder, limited to an established medical history or clinical diagnosis of any of the following:
(i) Epilepsy;
(ii) Disturbance of consciousness without satisfactory medical explanation of the cause; or
(iii) A transient loss of control of nervous system functions without satisfactory medical explanation of the cause.
(3) A cardiovascular condition, limited to a one-time special issuance for each diagnosis of the following:
(i) Myocardial infarction;
(ii) Coronary heart disease that has required treatment;
(iii) Cardiac valve replacement; or
(iv) Heart replacement.
(b)
Special rule for cardiovascular conditions.
In the case of an individual with a cardiovascular condition, the process for obtaining an Authorization for Special Issuance of a Medical Certificate shall be satisfied with the successful completion of an appropriate clinical evaluation without a mandatory wait period.
(c)
Special rule for mental health conditions.
(1) In the case of an individual with a clinically diagnosed mental health condition, the ability to operate an aircraft under § 61.113(i) of this chapter shall not apply if—
(i) In the judgment of the individual's State-licensed medical specialist, the condition—
(A) Renders the individual unable to safely perform the duties or exercise the airman privileges required to operate an aircraft under § 61.113(i) of this chapter; or
(B) May reasonably be expected to make the individual unable to perform the duties or exercise the privileges required to operate an aircraft under § 61.113(i) of this chapter; or
(ii) The individual's driver's license is revoked by the issuing agency as a result of a clinically diagnosed mental health condition.
(2) Subject to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, an individual clinically diagnosed with a mental health condition shall certify every 2 years, in conjunction with the certification under § 68.3(b)(3), that the individual is under the care of a State-licensed medical specialist for that mental health condition.
(d)
Special rule for neurological conditions.
(1) In the case of an individual with a clinically diagnosed neurological condition, the ability to operate an aircraft under § 61.113(i) of this chapter shall not apply if—
(i) In the judgment of the individual's State-licensed medical specialist, the condition—
(A) Renders the individual unable to safely perform the duties or exercise the airman privileges required to operate an aircraft under § 61.113(i) of this chapter; or
(B) May reasonably be expected to make the individual unable to perform the duties or exercise the privileges required to operate an aircraft under § 61.113(i) of this chapter; or
(ii) The individual's driver's license is revoked by the issuing agency as a result of a clinically diagnosed neurological condition.
(2) Subject to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, an individual clinically diagnosed with a neurological condition shall certify every 2 years, in conjunction with the certification under § 68.3(b)(3), that the individual is under the care of a State-licensed medical specialist for that neurological condition.
[Docket FAA-2016-9157, Amdt. 68-1, 82 FR 3165, Jan. 11, 2017, as amended by Docket FAA-2021-1040, Amdt. 61-152, 87 FR 71238, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 68.11
Authority to require additional information.
(a) If the Administrator receives credible or urgent information, including from the National Driver Register or the Administrator's Safety Hotline, that reflects on an individual's ability to safely operate an aircraft under § 61.113(i) of this chapter, the Administrator may require the individual to provide additional information or history so that the Administrator may determine whether the individual is safe to continue operating under that section.
(b) The Administrator may use credible or urgent information received under paragraph (a) to request an individual to provide additional information or to take actions under 49 U.S.C. 44709(b).

# SUBCHAPTER E—AIRSPACE
Pt. 71

# PART 71—DESIGNATION OF CLASS A, B, C, D, AND E AIRSPACE AREAS; AIR TRAFFIC SERVICE ROUTES; AND REPORTING POINTS
Sec.
Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 97 [Note]
71.1
Applicability.
71.3
[Reserved]
71.5
Reporting points.
71.7
Bearings, radials, and mileages.
71.9
Overlapping airspace designations.
71.11
Air Traffic Service (ATS) routes.
71.13
Classification of Air Traffic Service (ATS) routes.
71.15
Designation of jet routes and VOR Federal airways.

# Subpart A—Class A Airspace
71.31
Class A airspace.
71.33
Class A airspace areas.

# Subpart B—Class B Airspace
71.41
Class B airspace.

# Subpart C—Class C Airspace
71.51
Class C airspace.

# Subpart D—Class D Airspace
71.61
Class D airspace.

# Subpart E—Class E Airspace
71.71
Class E airspace.
Subparts F-G [Reserved]

# Subpart H—Reporting Points
71.901
Applicability.

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(f), 106(g), 40103, 40113, 40120; E.O. 10854, 24 FR 9565, 3 CFR, 1959-1963 Comp., p.389.

# Source:
Amdt. 71-14, 56 FR 65654, Dec. 17, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
Pt. 71, SFAR No. 97, Nt.

# Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 97

# Editorial Note:
For the text of SFAR No. 97, see part 91 of this chapter.
§ 71.1
Applicability.
A listing for Class A, B, C, D, and E airspace areas; air traffic service routes; and reporting points can be found in FAA Order JO 7400.11J, Airspace Designations and Reporting Points, dated July 31, 2024. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552 (a) and 1 CFR part 51. The approval to incorporate by reference FAA Order JO 7400.11J is effective September 15, 2024, through September 15, 2025. During the incorporation by reference period, proposed changes to the listings of Class A, B, C, D, and E airspace areas; air traffic service routes; and reporting points will be published in full text as proposed rule documents in the
Federal Register,
unless there is good cause to forego notice and comment. Amendments to the listings of Class A, B, C, D, and E airspace areas; air traffic service routes; and reporting points will be published in full text as final rules in the
Federal Register.
Periodically, the final rule amendments will be integrated into a revised edition of the Order and submitted to the Director of the Federal Register for approval for incorporation by reference in this section. This incorporation by reference material is available for inspection at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the FAA at: Rules and Regulations Group, Federal Aviation Administration, 600 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20597; phone: (202) 267-8783. An electronic version of FAA Order JO 7400.11J is available on the FAA website at
www.faa.gov/air_traffic/publications.
A copy of FAA Order JO 7400.11J may be inspected in Docket No. FAA-2024-2061; Amendment No. 71-56, on
www.regulations.gov.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov
or visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.
[Docket FAA-2024-2061, Amdt. 71-56, 89 FR 68338, Aug. 26, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
By Docket FAA-2024-2061, Amdt. 71-56, 89 FR 68338, Aug. 26,
2024, § 71.1 was revised, effective Sept. 15, 2024 through Sept. 15, 2025.
§ 71.3
[Reserved]
§ 71.5
Reporting points.
The reporting points listed in subpart H of FAA Order JO 7400.11J (incorporated by reference, see § 71.1) consist of geographic locations at which the position of an aircraft must be reported in accordance with part 91 of this chapter.
[Docket 29334, 73 FR 54495, Sept. 22, 2008, as amended by Amdt. 71-40, 73 FR 60940, Oct. 15, 2008; Amdt. 71-41, 74 FR 46490, Sept. 10, 2009; Amdt. 71-42, 75 FR 55268, Sept. 10, 2010; Amdt. 71-43, 76 FR 53329, Aug. 26, 2011; Amdt. 71-44, 77 FR 50908, Aug. 23, 2012; Amdt. 71-45, 78 FR 52848, Aug. 27, 2013; Amdt. 71-46, 79 FR 51888, Sept. 2, 2014; Amdt. 71-47, 80 FR 51937, Aug. 27, 2015; Amdt. 71-48, 81 FR 55372, Aug. 19, 2016; Amdt. 71-49, 82 FR 40068, Aug. 24, 2017; Amdt. 71-50, 83 FR 43757, Aug. 28, 2018; Amdt. 71-51, 84 FR 45652, Aug. 30, 2019; Amdt. 71-52, 85 FR 50780, Aug. 18, 2020; Amdt. 71-53, 86 FR 46963, Aug. 23, 2021; Docket FAA-2022-1022, Amdt. 71-54, 87 FR 54878, Sept. 8, 2022; Docket FAA-2023-1785, Amdt. 71-55, 88 FR 58072, Aug. 25, 2023; Docket FAA-2024-2061, Amdt. 71-56, 89 FR 68339, Aug. 26, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
By Docket FAA-2024-2061, Amdt. 71-56, 89 FR 68339, Aug. 26, 2024, § 71.5 was amended by removing the words “FAA Order JO 7400.11H” and adding, in their place, the words “FAA Order JO 7400.11J, effective Sept. 15, 2024, through Sept. 15, 2025.
§ 71.7
Bearings, radials, and mileages.
All bearings and radials in this part are true and are applied from point of origin and all mileages in this part are stated as nautical miles.
§ 71.9
Overlapping airspace designations.
(a) When overlapping airspace designations apply to the same airspace, the operating rules associated with the more restrictive airspace designation apply.
(b) For the purpose of this section—
(1) Class A airspace is more restrictive than Class B, Class C, Class D, Class E, or Class G airspace;
(2) Class B airspace is more restrictive than Class C, Class D, Class E, or Class G airspace;
(3) Class C airspace is more restrictive than Class D, Class E, or Class G airspace;
(4) Class D airspace is more restrictive than Class E or Class G airspace; and
(5) Class E is more restrictive than Class G airspace.
§ 71.11
Air Traffic Service (ATS) routes.
Unless otherwise specified, the following apply:
(a) An Air Traffic Service (ATS) route is based on a centerline that extends from one navigation aid, fix, or intersection, to another navigation aid, fix, or intersection (or through several navigation aids, fixes, or intersections) specified for that route.
(b) An ATS route does not include the airspace of a prohibited area.
[Docket FAA-2003-14698, 68 FR 16947, Apr. 8, 2003, as amended by Amdt. 71-33, 70 FR 23004, May 3, 2005]
§ 71.13
Classification of Air Traffic Service (ATS) routes.
Unless otherwise specified, ATS routes are classified as follows:
(a) In subpart A of this part:
(1) Jet routes.
(2) Area navigation (RNAV) routes.
(b) In subpart E of this part:
(1) VOR Federal airways.
(2) Colored Federal airways.
(i) Green Federal airways.
(ii) Amber Federal airways.
(iii) Red Federal airways.
(iv) Blue Federal airways.
(3) Area navigation (RNAV) routes.
[Docket FAA-2003-14698, 68 FR 16947, Apr. 8, 2003]
§ 71.15
Designation of jet routes and VOR Federal airways.
Unless otherwise specified, the place names appearing in the descriptions of airspace areas designated as jet routes in subpart A of FAA Order JO 7400.11J, and as VOR Federal airways in subpart E of FAA Order JO 7400.11J, are the names of VOR or VORTAC navigation
aids. FAA Order JO 7400.11J is incorporated by reference in § 71.1.
[Docket 29334, 73 FR 54495, Sept. 22, 2008, as amended by Amdt. 71-40, 73 FR 60940, Oct. 15, 2008; Amdt. 71-41, 74 FR 46490, Sept. 10, 2009; Amdt. 71-42, 75 FR 55268, Sept. 10, 2010; Amdt. 71-43, 76 FR 53329, Aug. 26, 2011; Amdt. 71-44, 77 FR 50908, Aug. 23, 2012; Amdt. 71-45, 78 FR 52848, Aug. 27, 2013; Amdt. 71-46, 79 FR 51888, Sept. 2, 2014; Amdt. 71-47, 80 FR 51937, Aug. 27, 2015; Amdt. 71-48, 81 FR 55372, Aug. 19, 2016; Amdt. 71-49, 82 FR 40068, Aug. 24, 2017; Amdt. 71-50, 83 FR 43757, Aug. 28, 2018; Docket FAA-2019-0627, Amdt. 71-51, 84 FR 45652, Aug. 30, 2019; Amdt. 71-52, 85 FR 50780, Aug. 18, 2020; Amdt. 71-53, 86 FR 46963, Aug. 23, 2021; Docket FAA-2022-1022, Amdt. 71-54, 87 FR 54878, Sept. 8, 2022; Docket FAA-2023-1785, Amdt. 71-55, 88 FR 58072, Aug. 25, 2023; Docket FAA-2024-2061, Amdt. 71-56, 89 FR 68339, Aug. 26, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
By Docket FAA-2024-2061, Amdt. 71-56, 89 FR 68339, Aug. 26, 2024, § 71.15 was amended by removing the words “FAA Order JO 7400.11H” everywhere that they appear and adding, in their place, the words “FAA Order JO 7400.11J, effective Sept. 15, 2024, through Sept. 15, 2025.

# Subpart A—Class A Airspace
§ 71.31
Class A airspace.
The airspace descriptions contained in § 71.33 and the routes contained in subpart A of FAA Order JO 7400.11J (incorporated by reference, see § 71.1) are designated as Class A airspace within which all pilots and aircraft are subject to the rating requirements, operating rules, and equipment requirements of part 91 of this chapter.
[Docket 29334, 73 FR 54495, Sept. 22, 2008, as amended by Amdt. 71-40, 73 FR 60940, Oct. 15, 2008; Amdt. 71-41, 74 FR 46490, Sept. 10, 2009; Amdt. 71-42, 75 FR 55268, Sept. 10, 2010; Amdt. 71-43, 76 FR 53329, Aug. 26, 2011; Amdt. 71-44, 77 FR 50908, Aug. 23, 2012; Amdt. 71-45, 78 FR 52848, Aug. 27, 2013; Amdt. 71-46, 79 FR 51888, Sept. 2, 2014; Amdt. 71-47, 80 FR 51937, Aug. 27, 2015; Amdt. 71-48, 81 FR 55372, Aug. 19, 2016; Amdt. 71-49, 82 FR 40068, Aug. 24, 2017; Amdt. 71-50, 83 FR 43757, Aug. 28, 2018; Amdt. 71-51, 84 FR 45652, Aug. 30, 2019; Amdt. 71-52, 85 FR 50780, Aug. 18, 2020; Amdt. 71-53, 86 FR 46963, Aug. 23, 2021; Docket FAA-2022-1022, Amdt. 71-54, 87 FR 54878, Sept. 8, 2022; Docket FAA-2023-1785, Amdt. 71-55, 88 FR 58072, Aug. 25, 2023; Docket FAA-2024-2061, Amdt. 71-56, 89 FR 68339, Aug. 26, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
By Docket FAA-2024-2061, Amdt. 71-56, 89 FR 68339, Aug. 26, 2024, § 71.31 was amended by removing the words “FAA Order JO 7400.11H” and adding, in their place, the words “FAA Order JO 7400.11J, effective Sept. 15, 2024, through Sept. 15, 2025.
§ 71.33
Class A airspace areas.
(a) That airspace of the United States, including that airspace overlying the waters within 12 nautical miles of the coast of the 48 contiguous States, from 18,000 feet MSL to and including FL600 excluding the states of Alaska and Hawaii.
(b) That airspace of the State of Alaska, including that airspace overlying the waters within 12 nautical miles of the coast, from 18,000 feet MSL to and including FL600 but not including the airspace less than 1,500 feet above the surface of the earth and the Alaska Peninsula west of longitude 160°00′00″ West.
(c) The airspace areas listed as offshore airspace areas in subpart A of FAA Order JO 7400.11J (incorporated by reference, see § 71.1) that are designated in international airspace within areas of domestic radio navigational signal or ATC radar coverage, and within which domestic ATC procedures are applied.
[Amdt. 71-14, 56 FR 65654, Dec. 17, 1991]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 71.33, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Effective Date Note:
By Docket FAA-2024-2061, Amdt. 71-56, 89 FR 68339, Aug. 26, 2024, § 71.33(c) was amended by removing the words “FAA Order JO 7400.11H” and adding, in their place, the words “FAA Order JO 7400.11J, effective Sept. 15, 2024, through Sept. 15, 2025.

# Subpart B—Class B Airspace
§ 71.41
Class B airspace.
The Class B airspace areas listed in subpart B of FAA Order JO 7400.11J (incorporated by reference, see § 71.1) consist of specified airspace within which all aircraft operators are subject to the minimum pilot qualification requirements, operating rules, and aircraft equipment requirements of part 91 of this chapter. Each Class B airspace
area designated for an airport in subpart B of FAA Order JO 7400.11J (incorporated by reference, see § 71.1) contains at least one primary airport around which the airspace is designated.
[Docket 29334, 73 FR 54495, Sept. 22, 2008, as amended by Amdt. 71-40, 73 FR 60940, Oct. 15, 2008; Amdt. 71-41, 74 FR 46490, Sept. 10, 2009; Amdt. 71-42, 75 FR 55268, Sept. 10, 2010; Amdt. 71-43, 76 FR 53329, Aug. 26, 2011; Amdt. 71-44, 77 FR 50908, Aug. 23, 2012; Amdt. 71-45, 78 FR 52848, Aug. 27, 2013; Amdt. 71-46, 79 FR 51888, Sept. 2, 2014; Amdt. 71-47, 80 FR 51937, Aug. 27, 2015; Amdt. 71-48, 81 FR 55372, Aug. 19, 2016; Amdt. 71-49, 82 FR 40068, Aug. 24, 2017; Amdt. 71-50, 83 FR 43757, Aug. 28, 2018; Amdt. 71-51, 84 FR 45652, Aug. 30, 2019; Amdt. 71-52, 85 FR 50780, Aug. 18, 2020; Amdt. 71-53, 86 FR 46963, Aug. 23, 2021; Docket FAA-2022-1022, Amdt. 71-54, 87 FR 54878, Sept. 8, 2022; Docket FAA-2023-1785, Amdt. 71-55, 88 FR 58072, Aug. 25, 2023; Docket FAA-2024-2061, Amdt. 71-56, 89 FR 68339, Aug. 26, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
By Docket FAA-2024-2061, Amdt. 71-56, 89 FR 68339, Aug. 26, 2024, § 71.41 was amended by removing the words “FAA Order JO 7400.11H” everywhere that they appear and adding, in their place, the words “FAA Order JO 7400.11J, effective Sept. 15, 2024, through Sept. 15, 2025.

# Subpart C—Class C Airspace
§ 71.51
Class C airspace.
The Class C airspace areas listed in subpart C of FAA Order JO 7400.11J (incorporated by reference, see § 71.1) consist of specified airspace within which all aircraft operators are subject to operating rules and equipment requirements specified in part 91 of this chapter. Each Class C airspace area designated for an airport in subpart C of FAA Order JO 7400.11J. (incorporated by reference, see § 71.1) contains at least one primary airport around which the airspace is designated.
[Docket 29334, 73 FR 54495, Sept. 22, 2008, as amended by Amdt. 71-40, 73 FR 60940, Oct. 15, 2008; Amdt. 71-41, 74 FR 46490, Sept. 10, 2009; Amdt. 71-42, 75 FR 55269, Sept. 10, 2010; Amdt. 71-43, 76 FR 53329, Aug. 26, 2011; Amdt. 71-44, 77 FR 50908, Aug. 23, 2012; Amdt. 71-45, 78 FR 52848, Aug. 27, 2013; Amdt. 71-46, 79 FR 51888, Sept. 2, 2014; Amdt. 71-47, 80 FR 51937, Aug. 27, 2015; Amdt. 71-48, 81 FR 55372, Aug. 19, 2016; Amdt. 71-49, 82 FR 40068, Aug. 24, 2017; Amdt. 71-50, 83 FR 43757, Aug. 28, 2018; Amdt. 71-51, 84 FR 45652, Aug. 30, 2019; Amdt. 71-52, 85 FR 50780, Aug. 18, 2020; Amdt. 71-53, 86 FR 46963, Aug. 23, 2021; Docket FAA-2022-1022, Amdt. 71-54, 87 FR 54878, Sept. 8, 2022; Docket FAA-2023-1785, Amdt. 71-55, 88 FR 58072, Aug. 25, 2023; Docket FAA-2024-2061, Amdt. 71-56, 89 FR 68339, Aug. 26, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
By Docket FAA-2024-2061, Amdt. 71-56, 89 FR 68339, Aug. 26, 2024, § 71.51 was amended by removing the words “FAA Order JO 7400.11H” everywhere that they appear and adding, in their place, the words “FAA Order JO 7400.11J, effective Sept. 15, 2024, through Sept. 15, 2025.

# Subpart D—Class D Airspace
§ 71.61
Class D airspace.
The Class D airspace areas listed in subpart D of FAA Order JO 7400.11J (incorporated by reference, see § 71.1) consist of specified airspace within which all aircraft operators are subject to operating rules and equipment requirements specified in part 91 of this chapter. Each Class D airspace area designated for an airport in subpart D of FAA Order JO 7400.11J (incorporated by reference, see § 71.1) contains at least one primary airport around which the airspace is designated.
[Docket 29334, 73 FR 54495, Sept. 22, 2008, as amended by Amdt. 71-40, 73 FR 60940, Oct. 15, 2008; Amdt. 71-41, 74 FR 46490, Sept. 10, 2009; Amdt. 71-42, 75 FR 55269, Sept. 10, 2010; Amdt. 71-43, 76 FR 53329, Aug. 26, 2011; Amdt. 71-44, 77 FR 50908, Aug. 23, 2012; Amdt. 71-45, 78 FR 52848, Aug. 27, 2013; Amdt. 71-46, 79 FR 51888, Sept. 2, 2014; Amdt. 71-47, 80 FR 51937, Aug. 27, 2015; Amdt. 71-48, 81 FR 55372, Aug. 19, 2016; Amdt. 71-49, 82 FR 40069, Aug. 24, 2017; Amdt. 71-50, 83 FR 43757, Aug. 28, 2018; Amdt. 71-51, 84 FR 45652, Aug. 30, 2019; Amdt. 71-52, 85 FR 50780, Aug. 18, 2020; Amdt. 71-53, 86 FR 46963, Aug. 23, 2021; Docket FAA-2022-1022, Amdt. 71-54, 87 FR 54878, Sept. 8, 2022; Docket FAA-2023-1785, Amdt. 71-55, 88 FR 58072, Aug. 25, 2023; Docket FAA-2024-2061, Amdt. 71-56, 89 FR 68339, Aug. 26, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
By Docket FAA-2024-2061, Amdt. 71-56, 89 FR 68339, Aug. 26, 2024, § 71.61 was amended by removing the words “FAA Order JO 7400.11H” everywhere that they appear and adding, in their place, the words “FAA Order JO 7400.11J”, effective Sept. 15, 2024, through Sept. 15, 2025.

# Subpart E—Class E Airspace
§ 71.71
Class E airspace.
Class E Airspace consists of:
(a) The airspace of the United States, including that airspace overlying the waters within 12 nautical miles of the coast of the 48 contiguous states and Alaska, extending upward from 14,500 feet MSL up to, but not including 18,000 feet MSL, and the airspace above FL600, excluding—
(1) The Alaska peninsula west of longitude 160°00′00″ W.; and
(2) The airspace below 1,500 feet above the surface of the earth.
(b) The airspace areas designated for an airport in subpart E of FAA Order JO 7400.11J (incorporated by reference, see § 71.1) within which all aircraft operators are subject to the operating rules specified in part 91 of this chapter.
(c) The airspace areas listed as domestic airspace areas in subpart E of FAA Order JO 7400.11J (incorporated by reference, see § 71.1) which extend upward from 700 feet or more above the surface of the earth when designated in conjunction with an airport for which an approved instrument approach procedure has been prescribed, or from 1,200 feet or more above the surface of the earth for the purpose of transitioning to or from the terminal or en route environment. When such areas are designated in conjunction with airways or routes, the extent of such designation has the lateral extent identical to that of a Federal airway and extends upward from 1,200 feet or higher. Unless otherwise specified, the airspace areas in the paragraph extend upward from 1,200 feet or higher above the surface to, but not including, 14,500 feet MSL.
(d) The Federal airways described in subpart E of FAA Order JO 7400.11J (incorporated by reference, see § 71.1).
(e) The airspace areas listed as en route domestic airspace areas in subpart E of FAA Order JO 7400.11J (incorporated by reference, see § 71.1). Unless otherwise specified, each airspace area has a lateral extent identical to that of a Federal airway and extends upward from 1,200 feet above the surface of the earth to the overlying or adjacent controlled airspace.
(f) The airspace areas listed as offshore airspace areas in subpart E of FAA Order JO 7400.11J (incorporated by reference, see § 71.1) that are designated in international airspace within areas of domestic radio navigational signal or ATC radar coverage, and within which domestic ATC procedures are applied. Unless otherwise specified, each airspace area extends upward from a specified altitude up to, but not including, 18,000 feet MSL.
[Docket 29334, 73 FR 54495, Sept. 22, 2008, as amended by Amdt. 71-40, 73 FR 60940, Oct. 15, 2008; Amdt. 71-41, 74 FR 46490, Sept. 10, 2009; Amdt. 71-42, 75 FR 55269, Sept. 10, 2010; Amdt. 71-43, 76 FR 53329, Aug. 26, 2011; Amdt. 71-44, 77 FR 50908, Aug. 23, 2012; Amdt. 71-45, 78 FR 52848, Aug. 27, 2013; Amdt. 71-46, 79 FR 51888, Sept. 2, 2014; Amdt. 71-47, 80 FR 51937, Aug. 27, 2015; Amdt. 71-48, 81 FR 55372, Aug. 19, 2016; Amdt. 71-49, 82 FR 40069, Aug. 24, 2017; Amdt. 71-50, 83 FR 43757, Aug. 28, 2018; Amdt. 71-51, 84 FR 45652, Aug. 30, 2019; Amdt. 71-52, 85 FR 50780, Aug. 18, 2020; Amdt. 71-53, 86 FR 46963, Aug. 23, 2021; Docket FAA-2022-1022, Amdt. 71-54, 87 FR 54878, Sept. 8, 2022; Docket FAA-2023-1785, Amdt. 71-55, 88 FR 58072, Aug. 25, 2023; Docket FAA-2024-2061, Amdt. 71-56, 89 FR 68339, Aug. 26, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
By Docket FAA-2024-2061, Amdt. 71-56, 89 FR 68339, Aug. 26, 2024, § 71.71(b) through (f) were amended by removing the words “FAA Order JO 7400.11H” everywhere that they appear and adding, in their place, the words “FAA Order JO 7400.11J, effective Sept. 15, 2024, through Sept. 15, 2025.
Subparts F-G [Reserved]

# Subpart H—Reporting Points
§ 71.901
Applicability.
Unless otherwise designated:
(a) Each reporting point listed in subpart H of FAA Order JO 7400.11J (incorporated by reference, see § 71.1) applies to all directions of flight. In any case where a geographic location is designated as a reporting point for less than all airways passing through that point, or for a particular direction of
flight along an airway only, it is so indicated by including the airways or direction of flight in the designation of geographical location.
(b) Place names appearing in the reporting point descriptions indicate VOR or VORTAC facilities identified by those names.
[Docket 29334, 73 FR 54495, Sept. 22, 2008, as amended by Amdt. 71-40, 73 FR 60940, Oct. 15, 2008; Amdt. 71-41, 74 FR 46490, Sept. 10, 2009; Amdt. 71-42, 75 FR 55269, Sept. 10, 2010; Amdt. 71-43, 76 FR 53329, Aug. 26, 2011; Amdt. 71-44, 77 FR 50908, Aug. 23, 2012; Amdt. 71-45, 78 FR 52848, Aug. 27, 2013; Amdt. 71-46, 79 FR 51888, Sept. 2, 2014; Amdt. 71-47, 80 FR 51937, Aug. 27, 2015; Amdt. 71-48, 81 FR 55372, Aug. 19, 2016; Amdt. 71-49, 82 FR 40069, Aug. 24, 2017; Amdt. 71-50, 83 FR 43757, Aug. 28, 2018; Amdt. 71-51, 84 FR 45652, Aug. 30, 2019; Amdt. 71-52, 85 FR 50780, Aug. 18, 2020; Amdt. 71-53, 86 FR 46963, Aug. 23, 2021; Docket FAA-2022-1022, Amdt. 71-54, 87 FR 54878, Sept. 8, 2022; Docket FAA-2023-1785, Amdt. 71-55, 88 FR 58072, Aug. 25, 2023; Docket FAA-2024-2061, Amdt. 71-56, 89 FR 68339, Aug. 26, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
By Docket FAA-2024-2061, Amdt. 71-56, 89 FR 68339, Aug. 26, 2024, § 71.901(a) was amended by removing the words “FAA Order JO 7400.11H” and adding, in their place, the words “FAA Order JO 7400.11J, effective Sept. 15, 2024, through Sept. 15, 2025.
Pt. 73

# PART 73—SPECIAL USE AIRSPACE

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
73.1
Applicability.
73.3
Special use airspace.
73.5
Bearings; radials; miles.

# Subpart B—Restricted Areas
73.11
Applicability.
73.13
Restrictions.
73.15
Using agency.
73.17
Controlling agency.
73.19
Reports by using agency.

# Subpart C—Prohibited Areas
73.81
Applicability.
73.83
Restrictions.
73.85
Using agency.

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(f), 106(g); 40103, 40113, 40120; E.O. 10854, 24 FR 9565, 3 CFR, 1959-1963 Comp., p. 389.

# Source:
46 FR 779, Jan. 2, 1981, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 73.1
Applicability.
The airspace that is described in subpart B and subpart C of this part is designated as special use airspace. These parts prescribe the requirements for the use of that airspace.
§ 73.3
Special use airspace.
(a) Special use airspace consists of airspace of defined dimensions identified by an area on the surface of the earth wherein activities must be confined because of their nature, or wherein limitations are imposed upon aircraft operations that are not a part of those activities, or both.
(b) The vertical limits of special use airspace are measured by designated altitude floors and ceilings expressed as flight levels or as feet above mean sea level. Unless otherwise specified, the word “to” (an altitude or flight level) means “to and including” (that altitude or flight level).
(c) The horizontal limits of special use airspace are measured by boundaries described by geographic coordinates or other appropriate references that clearly define their perimeter.
(d) The period of time during which a designation of special use airspace is in effect is stated in the designation.
§ 73.5
Bearings; radials; miles.
(a) All bearings and radials in this part are true from point of origin.
(b) Unless otherwise specified, all mileages in this part are stated as statute miles.

# Subpart B—Restricted Areas
§ 73.11
Applicability.
This subpart designates restricted areas and prescribes limitations on the operation of aircraft within them.
§ 73.13
Restrictions.
No person may operate an aircraft within a restricted area between the designated altitudes and during the time of designation, unless he has the advance permission of
(a) The using agency described in § 73.15; or
(b) The controlling agency described in § 73.17.
§ 73.15
Using agency.
(a) For the purposes of this subpart, the following are using agencies;
(1) The agency, organization, or military command whose activity within a restricted area necessitated the area being so designated.
(b) Upon the request of the FAA, the using agency shall execute a letter establishing procedures for joint use of a restricted area by the using agency and the controlling agency, under which the using agency would notify the controlling agency whenever the controlling agency may grant permission for transit through the restricted area in accordance with the terms of the letter.
(c) The using agency shall—
(1) Schedule activities within the restricted area;
(2) Authorize transit through, or flight within, the restricted area as feasible; and
(3) Contain within the restricted area all activities conducted therein in accordance with the purpose for which it was designated.
§ 73.17
Controlling agency.
For the purposes of this part, the controlling agency is the FAA facility that may authorize transit through or flight within a restricted area in accordance with a joint-use letter issued under § 73.15.
§ 73.19
Reports by using agency.
(a) Each using agency must prepare a report on the use of each restricted area assigned thereto during any part of the preceding 12-month period ended September 30, and transmit it by the following January 31 of each year to the Manager, Operations Support Group in the ATO Service Center office of the Federal Aviation Administration having jurisdiction over the area in which the restricted area is located, with a copy to the Manager, Airspace Policy Group, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20591.
(b) In the report under this section the using agency must:
(1) State the name and number of the restricted area as published in this part, and the period covered by the report.
(2) State the activities (including average daily number of operations if appropriate) conducted in the area, and any other pertinent information concerning current and future electronic monitoring devices.
(3) State the number of hours daily, the days of the week, and the number of weeks during the year that the area was used.
(4) For restricted areas having a joint-use designation, also state the number of hours daily, the days of the week, and the number of weeks during the year that the restricted area was released to the controlling agency for public use.
(5) State the mean sea level altitudes or flight levels (whichever is appropriate) used in aircraft operations and the maximum and average ordinate of surface firing (expressed in feet, mean sea level altitude) used on a daily, weekly, and yearly basis.
(6) Include a chart of the area (of optional scale and design) depicting, if used, aircraft operating areas, flight patterns, ordnance delivery areas, surface firing points, and target, fan, and impact areas. After once submitting an appropriate chart, subsequent annual charts are not required unless there is a change in the area, activity or altitude (or flight levels) used, which might alter the depiction of the activities originally reported. If no change is to be submitted, a statement indicating “no change” shall be included in the report.
(7) Include any other information not otherwise required under this part which is considered pertinent to activities carried on in the restricted area.
(c) If it is determined that the information submitted under paragraph (b) of this section is not sufficient to evaluate the nature and extent of the use of a restricted area, the FAA may request the using agency to submit supplementary reports. Within 60 days after receiving a request for additional information, the using agency must submit such information as the FAA Service Center Operations Support Group Manager considers appropriate.
Supplementary reports must be sent to the FAA officials designated in paragraph (a) of this section.
(Secs. 307 and 313(a), Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1348 and 1354(a)))
[Docket 15379, 42 FR 54798, Oct. 11, 1977, as amended by Amdt. 73-5, 54 FR 39292, Sept. 25, 1989; Amdt. 73-6, 58 FR 42001, Aug. 6, 1993; Amdt. 73-8, 61 FR 26435, May 28, 1996; Amdt. 73-8, 63 FR 16890, Apr. 7, 1998; Docket FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 73-9, 87 FR 75845, Dec. 9, 2022]

# Editorial Note:
The restricted areas formerly carried as §§ 608.21 to 608.72 of this title were transferred to part 73 as §§ 73.21 to 73.72 under subpart B but are not carried in the Code of Federal Regulations. For
Federal Register
citations affecting these restricted areas, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart C—Prohibited Areas
§ 73.81
Applicability.
This subpart designates prohibited areas and prescribes limitations on the operation of aircraft therein.
§ 73.83
Restrictions.
No person may operate an aircraft within a prohibited area unless authorization has been granted by the using agency.
§ 73.85
Using agency.
For the purpose of this subpart, the using agency is the agency, organization or military command that established the requirements for the prohibited area.

# Editorial Note:
Sections 73.87 through 73.99 are reserved for descriptions of designated prohibited areas. For
Federal Register
citations affecting these prohibited areas, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
PART 75 [RESERVED]
Pt. 77

# PART 77—SAFE, EFFICIENT USE, AND PRESERVATION OF THE NAVIGABLE AIRSPACE

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
77.1
Purpose.
77.3
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Notice Requirements
77.5
Applicability.
77.7
Form and time of notice.
77.9
Construction or alteration requiring notice.
77.11
Supplemental notice requirements.

# Subpart C—Standards for Determining Obstructions to Air Navigation or Navigational Aids or Facilities
77.13
Applicability.
77.15
Scope.
77.17
Obstruction standards.
77.19
Civil airport imaginary surfaces.
77.21
Department of Defense (DOD) airport imaginary surfaces.
77.23
Heliport imaginary surfaces.

# Subpart D—Aeronautical Studies and Determinations
77.25
Applicability.
77.27
Initiation of studies.
77.29
Evaluating aeronautical effect.
77.31
Determinations.
77.33
Effective period of determinations.
77.35
Extensions, terminations, revisions and corrections.

# Subpart E—Petitions for Discretionary Review
77.37
General.
77.39
Contents of a petition.
77.41
Discretionary review results.

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106 (g), 40103, 40113-40114, 44502, 44701, 44718, 46101-46102, 46104.

# Source:
Docket FAA-2006-25002, 75 FR 42303, July 21, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 77.1
Purpose.
This part establishes:
(a) The requirements to provide notice to the FAA of certain proposed construction, or the alteration of existing structures;
(b) The standards used to determine obstructions to air navigation, and navigational and communication facilities;
(c) The process for aeronautical studies of obstructions to air navigation or navigational facilities to determine the effect on the safe and efficient use of navigable airspace, air navigation facilities or equipment; and
(d) The process to petition the FAA for discretionary review of determinations, revisions, and extensions of determinations.
§ 77.3
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part:
Non-precision instrument runway
means a runway having an existing instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal guidance, or area type navigation equipment, for which a straight-in non-precision instrument approach procedure has been approved, or planned, and for which no precision approach facilities are planned, or indicated on an FAA planning document or military service military airport planning document.
Planned or proposed airport
is an airport that is the subject of at least one of the following documents received by the FAA:
(1) Airport proposals submitted under 14 CFR part 157.
(2) Airport Improvement Program requests for aid.
(3) Notices of existing airports where prior notice of the airport construction or alteration was not provided as required by 14 CFR part 157.
(4) Airport layout plans.
(5) DOD proposals for airports used only by the U.S. Armed Forces.
(6) DOD proposals on joint-use (civil-military) airports.
(7) Completed airport site selection feasibility study.
Precision instrument runway
means a runway having an existing instrument approach procedure utilizing an Instrument Landing System (ILS), or a Precision Approach Radar (PAR). It also means a runway for which a precision approach system is planned and is so indicated by an FAA-approved airport layout plan; a military service approved military airport layout plan; any other FAA planning document, or military service military airport planning document.
Public use airport
is an airport available for use by the general public without a requirement for prior approval of the airport owner or operator.
Seaplane base
is considered to be an airport only if its sea lanes are outlined by visual markers.
Utility runway
means a runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by propeller driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight and less.
Visual runway
means a runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using visual approach procedures, with no straight-in instrument approach procedure and no instrument designation indicated on an FAA-approved airport layout plan, a military service approved military airport layout plan, or by any planning document submitted to the FAA by competent authority.

# Subpart B—Notice Requirements
§ 77.5
Applicability.
(a) If you propose any construction or alteration described in § 77.9, you must provide adequate notice to the FAA of that construction or alteration.
(b) If requested by the FAA, you must also file supplemental notice before the start date and upon completion of certain construction or alterations that are described in § 77.9.
(c) Notice received by the FAA under this subpart is used to:
(1) Evaluate the effect of the proposed construction or alteration on safety in air commerce and the efficient use and preservation of the navigable airspace and of airport traffic capacity at public use airports;
(2) Determine whether the effect of proposed construction or alteration is a hazard to air navigation;
(3) Determine appropriate marking and lighting recommendations, using FAA Advisory Circular 70/7460-1, Obstruction Marking and Lighting;
(4) Determine other appropriate measures to be applied for continued safety of air navigation; and
(5) Notify the aviation community of the construction or alteration of objects that affect the navigable airspace, including the revision of charts, when necessary.
§ 77.7
Form and time of notice.
(a) If you are required to file notice under § 77.9, you must submit to the FAA a completed FAA Form 7460-1, Notice of Proposed Construction or Alteration. FAA Form 7460-1 is available
at FAA regional offices and on the Internet.
(b) You must submit this form at least 45 days before the start date of the proposed construction or alteration or the date an application for a construction permit is filed, whichever is earliest.
(c) If you propose construction or alteration that is also subject to the licensing requirements of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), you must submit notice to the FAA on or before the date that the application is filed with the FCC.
(d) If you propose construction or alteration to an existing structure that exceeds 2,000 ft. in height above ground level (AGL), the FAA presumes it to be a hazard to air navigation that results in an inefficient use of airspace. You must include details explaining both why the proposal would not constitute a hazard to air navigation and why it would not cause an inefficient use of airspace.
(e) The 45-day advance notice requirement is waived if immediate construction or alteration is required because of an emergency involving essential public services, public health, or public safety. You may provide notice to the FAA by any available, expeditious means. You must file a completed FAA Form 7460-1 within 5 days of the initial notice to the FAA. Outside normal business hours, the nearest flight service station will accept emergency notices.
§ 77.9
Construction or alteration requiring notice.
If requested by the FAA, or if you propose any of the following types of construction or alteration, you must file notice with the FAA of:
(a) Any construction or alteration that is more than 200 ft. AGL at its site.
(b) Any construction or alteration that exceeds an imaginary surface extending outward and upward at any of the following slopes:
(1) 100 to 1 for a horizontal distance of 20,000 ft. from the nearest point of the nearest runway of each airport described in paragraph (d) of this section with its longest runway more than 3,200 ft. in actual length, excluding heliports.
(2) 50 to 1 for a horizontal distance of 10,000 ft. from the nearest point of the nearest runway of each airport described in paragraph (d) of this section with its longest runway no more than 3,200 ft. in actual length, excluding heliports.
(3) 25 to 1 for a horizontal distance of 5,000 ft. from the nearest point of the nearest landing and takeoff area of each heliport described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(c) Any highway, railroad, or other traverse way for mobile objects, of a height which, if adjusted upward 17 feet for an Interstate Highway that is part of the National System of Military and Interstate Highways where overcrossings are designed for a minimum of 17 feet vertical distance, 15 feet for any other public roadway, 10 feet or the height of the highest mobile object that would normally traverse the road, whichever is greater, for a private road, 23 feet for a railroad, and for a waterway or any other traverse way not previously mentioned, an amount equal to the height of the highest mobile object that would normally traverse it, would exceed a standard of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
(d) Any construction or alteration on any of the following airports and heliports:
(1) A public use airport listed in the Airport/Facility Directory, Alaska Supplement, or Pacific Chart Supplement of the U.S. Government Flight Information Publications;
(2) A military airport under construction, or an airport under construction that will be available for public use;
(3) An airport operated by a Federal agency or the DOD.
(4) An airport or heliport with at least one FAA-approved instrument approach procedure.
(e) You do not need to file notice for construction or alteration of:
(1) Any object that will be shielded by existing structures of a permanent and substantial nature or by natural terrain or topographic features of equal or greater height, and will be located in the congested area of a city, town,
or settlement where the shielded structure will not adversely affect safety in air navigation;
(2) Any air navigation facility, airport visual approach or landing aid, aircraft arresting device, or meteorological device meeting FAA-approved siting criteria or an appropriate military service siting criteria on military airports, the location and height of which are fixed by its functional purpose;
(3) Any construction or alteration for which notice is required by any other FAA regulation.
(4) Any antenna structure of 20 feet or less in height, except one that would increase the height of another antenna structure.
§ 77.11
Supplemental notice requirements.
(a) You must file supplemental notice with the FAA when:
(1) The construction or alteration is more than 200 feet in height AGL at its site; or
(2) Requested by the FAA.
(b) You must file supplemental notice on a prescribed FAA form to be received within the time limits specified in the FAA determination. If no time limit has been specified, you must submit supplemental notice of construction to the FAA within 5 days after the structure reaches its greatest height.
(c) If you abandon a construction or alteration proposal that requires supplemental notice, you must submit notice to the FAA within 5 days after the project is abandoned.
(d) If the construction or alteration is dismantled or destroyed, you must submit notice to the FAA within 5 days after the construction or alteration is dismantled or destroyed.

# Subpart C—Standards for Determining Obstructions to Air Navigation or Navigational Aids or Facilities
§ 77.13
Applicability.
This subpart describes the standards used for determining obstructions to air navigation, navigational aids, or navigational facilities. These standards apply to the following:
(a) Any object of natural growth, terrain, or permanent or temporary construction or alteration, including equipment or materials used and any permanent or temporary apparatus.
(b) The alteration of any permanent or temporary existing structure by a change in its height, including appurtenances, or lateral dimensions, including equipment or material used therein.
§ 77.15
Scope.
(a) This subpart describes standards used to determine obstructions to air navigation that may affect the safe and efficient use of navigable airspace and the operation of planned or existing air navigation and communication facilities. Such facilities include air navigation aids, communication equipment, airports, Federal airways, instrument approach or departure procedures, and approved off-airway routes.
(b) Objects that are considered obstructions under the standards described in this subpart are presumed hazards to air navigation unless further aeronautical study concludes that the object is not a hazard. Once further aeronautical study has been initiated, the FAA will use the standards in this subpart, along with FAA policy and guidance material, to determine if the object is a hazard to air navigation.
(c) The FAA will apply these standards with reference to an existing airport facility, and airport proposals received by the FAA, or the appropriate military service, before it issues a final determination.
(d) For airports having defined runways with specially prepared hard surfaces, the primary surface for each runway extends 200 feet beyond each end of the runway. For airports having defined strips or pathways used regularly for aircraft takeoffs and landings, and designated runways, without specially prepared hard surfaces, each end of the primary surface for each such runway shall coincide with the corresponding end of the runway. At airports, excluding seaplane bases, having a defined landing and takeoff area with no defined pathways for aircraft takeoffs and landings, a determination must be made as to which portions of the landing and takeoff area are regularly used
as landing and takeoff pathways. Those determined pathways must be considered runways, and an appropriate primary surface as defined in § 77.19 will be considered as longitudinally centered on each such runway. Each end of that primary surface must coincide with the corresponding end of that runway.
(e) The standards in this subpart apply to construction or alteration proposals on an airport (including heliports and seaplane bases with marked lanes) if that airport is one of the following before the issuance of the final determination:
(1) Available for public use and is listed in the Airport/Facility Directory, Supplement Alaska, or Supplement Pacific of the U.S. Government Flight Information Publications; or
(2) A planned or proposed airport or an airport under construction of which the FAA has received actual notice, except DOD airports, where there is a clear indication the airport will be available for public use; or,
(3) An airport operated by a Federal agency or the DOD; or,
(4) An airport that has at least one FAA-approved instrument approach.
§ 77.17
Obstruction standards.
(a) An existing object, including a mobile object, is, and a future object would be an obstruction to air navigation if it is of greater height than any of the following heights or surfaces:
(1) A height of 499 feet AGL at the site of the object.
(2) A height that is 200 feet AGL, or above the established airport elevation, whichever is higher, within 3 nautical miles of the established reference point of an airport, excluding heliports, with its longest runway more than 3,200 feet in actual length, and that height increases in the proportion of 100 feet for each additional nautical mile from the airport up to a maximum of 499 feet.
(3) A height within a terminal obstacle clearance area, including an initial approach segment, a departure area, and a circling approach area, which would result in the vertical distance between any point on the object and an established minimum instrument flight altitude within that area or segment to be less than the required obstacle clearance.
(4) A height within an en route obstacle clearance area, including turn and termination areas, of a Federal Airway or approved off-airway route, that would increase the minimum obstacle clearance altitude.
(5) The surface of a takeoff and landing area of an airport or any imaginary surface established under § 77.19, 77.21, or 77.23. However, no part of the takeoff or landing area itself will be considered an obstruction.
(b) Except for traverse ways on or near an airport with an operative ground traffic control service furnished by an airport traffic control tower or by the airport management and coordinated with the air traffic control service, the standards of paragraph (a) of this section apply to traverse ways used or to be used for the passage of mobile objects only after the heights of these traverse ways are increased by:
(1) 17 feet for an Interstate Highway that is part of the National System of Military and Interstate Highways where overcrossings are designed for a minimum of 17 feet vertical distance.
(2) 15 feet for any other public roadway.
(3) 10 feet or the height of the highest mobile object that would normally traverse the road, whichever is greater, for a private road.
(4) 23 feet for a railroad.
(5) For a waterway or any other traverse way not previously mentioned, an amount equal to the height of the highest mobile object that would normally traverse it.
§ 77.19
Civil airport imaginary surfaces.
The following civil airport imaginary surfaces are established with relation to the airport and to each runway. The size of each such imaginary surface is based on the category of each runway according to the type of approach available or planned for that runway. The slope and dimensions of the approach surface applied to each end of a runway are determined by the most precise approach procedure existing or planned for that runway end.
(a)
Horizontal surface.
A horizontal plane 150 feet above the established airport elevation, the perimeter of which is constructed by swinging arcs of a specified radii from the center of each end of the primary surface of each runway of each airport and connecting the adjacent arcs by lines tangent to those arcs. The radius of each arc is:
(1) 5,000 feet for all runways designated as utility or visual;
(2) 10,000 feet for all other runways. The radius of the arc specified for each end of a runway will have the same arithmetical value. That value will be the highest determined for either end of the runway. When a 5,000-foot arc is encompassed by tangents connecting two adjacent 10,000-foot arcs, the 5,000-foot arc shall be disregarded on the construction of the perimeter of the horizontal surface.
(b)
Conical surface.
A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20 to 1 for a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
(c)
Primary surface.
A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends 200 feet beyond each end of that runway; but when the runway has no specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface ends at each end of that runway. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline. The width of the primary surface is:
(1) 250 feet for utility runways having only visual approaches.
(2) 500 feet for utility runways having non-precision instrument approaches.
(3) For other than utility runways, the width is:
(i) 500 feet for visual runways having only visual approaches.
(ii) 500 feet for non-precision instrument runways having visibility minimums greater than three-fourths statute mile.
(iii) 1,000 feet for a non-precision instrument runway having a non-precision instrument approach with visibility minimums as low as three-fourths of a statute mile, and for precision instrument runways.
(iv) The width of the primary surface of a runway will be that width prescribed in this section for the most precise approach existing or planned for either end of that runway.
(d)
Approach surface.
A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway centerline and extending outward and upward from each end of the primary surface. An approach surface is applied to each end of each runway based upon the type of approach available or planned for that runway end.
(1) The inner edge of the approach surface is the same width as the primary surface and it expands uniformly to a width of:
(i) 1,250 feet for that end of a utility runway with only visual approaches;
(ii) 1,500 feet for that end of a runway other than a utility runway with only visual approaches;
(iii) 2,000 feet for that end of a utility runway with a non-precision instrument approach;
(iv) 3,500 feet for that end of a non-precision instrument runway other than utility, having visibility minimums greater that three-fourths of a statute mile;
(v) 4,000 feet for that end of a non-precision instrument runway, other than utility, having a non-precision instrument approach with visibility minimums as low as three-fourths statute mile; and
(vi) 16,000 feet for precision instrument runways.
(2) The approach surface extends for a horizontal distance of:
(i) 5,000 feet at a slope of 20 to 1 for all utility and visual runways;
(ii) 10,000 feet at a slope of 34 to 1 for all non-precision instrument runways other than utility; and
(iii) 10,000 feet at a slope of 50 to 1 with an additional 40,000 feet at a slope of 40 to 1 for all precision instrument runways.
(3) The outer width of an approach surface to an end of a runway will be that width prescribed in this subsection for the most precise approach existing or planned for that runway end.
(e)
Transitional surface.
These surfaces extend outward and upward at right angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at
a slope of 7 to 1 from the sides of the primary surface and from the sides of the approach surfaces. Transitional surfaces for those portions of the precision approach surface which project through and beyond the limits of the conical surface, extend a distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of the approach surface and at right angles to the runway centerline.
§ 77.21
Department of Defense (DOD) airport imaginary surfaces.
(a)
Related to airport reference points.
These surfaces apply to all military airports. For the purposes of this section, a military airport is any airport operated by the DOD.
(1)
Inner horizontal surface.
A plane that is oval in shape at a height of 150 feet above the established airfield elevation. The plane is constructed by scribing an arc with a radius of 7,500 feet about the centerline at the end of each runway and interconnecting these arcs with tangents.
(2)
Conical surface.
A surface extending from the periphery of the inner horizontal surface outward and upward at a slope of 20 to 1 for a horizontal distance of 7,000 feet to a height of 500 feet above the established airfield elevation.
(3)
Outer horizontal surface.
A plane, located 500 feet above the established airfield elevation, extending outward from the outer periphery of the conical surface for a horizontal distance of 30,000 feet.
(b)
Related to runways.
These surfaces apply to all military airports.
(1)
Primary surface.
A surface located on the ground or water longitudinally centered on each runway with the same length as the runway. The width of the primary surface for runways is 2,000 feet. However, at established bases where substantial construction has taken place in accordance with a previous lateral clearance criteria, the 2,000-foot width may be reduced to the former criteria.
(2)
Clear zone surface.
A surface located on the ground or water at each end of the primary surface, with a length of 1,000 feet and the same width as the primary surface.
(3)
Approach clearance surface.
An inclined plane, symmetrical about the runway centerline extended, beginning 200 feet beyond each end of the primary surface at the centerline elevation of the runway end and extending for 50,000 feet. The slope of the approach clearance surface is 50 to 1 along the runway centerline extended until it reaches an elevation of 500 feet above the established airport elevation. It then continues horizontally at this elevation to a point 50,000 feet from the point of beginning. The width of this surface at the runway end is the same as the primary surface, it flares uniformly, and the width at 50,000 is 16,000 feet.
(4)
Transitional surfaces.
These surfaces connect the primary surfaces, the first 200 feet of the clear zone surfaces, and the approach clearance surfaces to the inner horizontal surface, conical surface, outer horizontal surface or other transitional surfaces. The slope of the transitional surface is 7 to 1 outward and upward at right angles to the runway centerline.
§ 77.23
Heliport imaginary surfaces.
(a)
Primary surface.
The area of the primary surface coincides in size and shape with the designated take-off and landing area. This surface is a horizontal plane at the elevation of the established heliport elevation.
(b)
Approach surface.
The approach surface begins at each end of the heliport primary surface with the same width as the primary surface, and extends outward and upward for a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet where its width is 500 feet. The slope of the approach surface is 8 to 1 for civil heliports and 10 to 1 for military heliports.
(c)
Transitional surfaces.
These surfaces extend outward and upward from the lateral boundaries of the primary surface and from the approach surfaces at a slope of 2 to 1 for a distance of 250 feet measured horizontally from the centerline of the primary and approach surfaces.

# Subpart D—Aeronautical Studies and Determinations
§ 77.25
Applicability.
(a) This subpart applies to any aeronautical study of a proposed construction or alteration for which notice to the FAA is required under § 77.9.
(b) The purpose of an aeronautical study is to determine whether the aeronautical effects of the specific proposal and, where appropriate, the cumulative impact resulting from the proposed construction or alteration when combined with the effects of other existing or proposed structures, would constitute a hazard to air navigation.
(c) The obstruction standards in subpart C of this part are supplemented by other manuals and directives used in determining the effect on the navigable airspace of a proposed construction or alteration. When the FAA needs additional information, it may circulate a study to interested parties for comment.
§ 77.27
Initiation of studies.
The FAA will conduct an aeronautical study when:
(a) Requested by the sponsor of any proposed construction or alteration for which a notice is submitted; or
(b) The FAA determines a study is necessary.
§ 77.29
Evaluating aeronautical effect.
(a) The FAA conducts an aeronautical study to determine the impact of a proposed structure, an existing structure that has not yet been studied by the FAA, or an alteration of an existing structure on aeronautical operations, procedures, and the safety of flight. These studies include evaluating:
(1) The impact on arrival, departure, and en route procedures for aircraft operating under visual flight rules;
(2) The impact on arrival, departure, and en route procedures for aircraft operating under instrument flight rules;
(3) The impact on existing and planned public use airports;
(4) Airport traffic capacity of existing public use airports and public use airport development plans received before the issuance of the final determination;
(5) Minimum obstacle clearance altitudes, minimum instrument flight rules altitudes, approved or planned instrument approach procedures, and departure procedures;
(6) The potential effect on ATC radar, direction finders, ATC tower line-of-sight visibility, and physical or electromagnetic effects on air navigation, communication facilities, and other surveillance systems;
(7) The aeronautical effects resulting from the cumulative impact of a proposed construction or alteration of a structure when combined with the effects of other existing or proposed structures.
(b) If you withdraw the proposed construction or alteration or revise it so that it is no longer identified as an obstruction, or if no further aeronautical study is necessary, the FAA may terminate the study.
§ 77.31
Determinations.
(a) The FAA will issue a determination stating whether the proposed construction or alteration would be a hazard to air navigation, and will advise all known interested persons.
(b) The FAA will make determinations based on the aeronautical study findings and will identify the following:
(1) The effects on VFR/IFR aeronautical departure/arrival operations, air traffic procedures, minimum flight altitudes, and existing, planned, or proposed airports listed in § 77.15(e) of which the FAA has received actual notice prior to issuance of a final determination.
(2) The extent of the physical and/or electromagnetic effect on the operation of existing or proposed air navigation facilities, communication aids, or surveillance systems.
(c) The FAA will issue a Determination of Hazard to Air Navigation when the aeronautical study concludes that the proposed construction or alteration will exceed an obstruction standard and would have a substantial aeronautical impact.
(d) A Determination of No Hazard to Air Navigation will be issued when the aeronautical study concludes that the proposed construction or alteration will exceed an obstruction standard but would not have a substantial aeronautical impact to air navigation. A Determination of No Hazard to Air Navigation may include the following:
(1) Conditional provisions of a determination.
(2) Limitations necessary to minimize potential problems, such as the use of temporary construction equipment.
(3) Supplemental notice requirements, when required.
(4) Marking and lighting recommendations, as appropriate.
(e) The FAA will issue a Determination of No Hazard to Air Navigation when a proposed structure does not exceed any of the obstruction standards and would not be a hazard to air navigation.
§ 77.33
Effective period of determinations.
(a) The effective date of a determination not subject to discretionary review under 77.37(b) is the date of issuance. The effective date of all other determinations for a proposed or existing structure is 40 days from the date of issuance, provided a valid petition for review has not been received by the FAA. If a valid petition for review is filed, the determination will not become final, pending disposition of the petition.
(b) Unless extended, revised, or terminated, each Determination of No Hazard to Air Navigation issued under this subpart expires 18 months after the effective date of the determination, or on the date the proposed construction or alteration is abandoned, whichever is earlier.
(c) A Determination of Hazard to Air Navigation has no expiration date.
[Docket FAA-2006-25002, 75 FR 42303, July 21, 2010, as amended by Amdt. 77-13-A, 76 FR 2802, Jan. 18, 2011]
§ 77.35
Extensions, terminations, revisions and corrections.
(a) You may petition the FAA official that issued the Determination of No Hazard to Air Navigation to revise or reconsider the determination based on new facts or to extend the effective period of the determination, provided that:
(1) Actual structural work of the proposed construction or alteration, such as the laying of a foundation, but not including excavation, has not been started; and
(2) The petition is submitted at least 15 days before the expiration date of the Determination of No Hazard to Air Navigation.
(b) A Determination of No Hazard to Air Navigation issued for those construction or alteration proposals not requiring an FCC construction permit may be extended by the FAA one time for a period not to exceed 18 months.
(c) A Determination of No Hazard to Air Navigation issued for a proposal requiring an FCC construction permit may be granted extensions for up to 18 months, provided that:
(1) You submit evidence that an application for a construction permit/license was filed with the FCC for the associated site within 6 months of issuance of the determination; and
(2) You submit evidence that additional time is warranted because of FCC requirements; and
(3) Where the FCC issues a construction permit, a final Determination of No Hazard to Air Navigation is effective until the date prescribed by the FCC for completion of the construction. If an extension of the original FCC completion date is needed, an extension of the FAA determination must be requested from the Obstruction Evaluation Service (OES).
(4) If the Commission refuses to issue a construction permit, the final determination expires on the date of its refusal.

# Subpart E—Petitions for Discretionary Review
§ 77.37
General.
(a) If you are the sponsor, provided a substantive aeronautical comment on a proposal in an aeronautical study, or have a substantive aeronautical comment on the proposal but were not given an opportunity to state it, you may petition the FAA for a discretionary review of a determination, revision, or extension of a determination issued by the FAA.
(b) You may not file a petition for discretionary review for a Determination of No Hazard that is issued for a temporary structure, marking and lighting recommendation, or when a proposed structure or alteration does not exceed obstruction standards contained in subpart C of this part.
§ 77.39
Contents of a petition.
(a) You must file a petition for discretionary review in writing and it must be received by the FAA within 30 days after the issuance of a determination under § 77.31, or a revision or extension of the determination under § 77.35.
(b) The petition must contain a full statement of the aeronautical basis on which the petition is made, and must include new information or facts not previously considered or presented during the aeronautical study, including valid aeronautical reasons why the determination, revisions, or extension made by the FAA should be reviewed.
(c) In the event that the last day of the 30-day filing period falls on a weekend or a day the Federal government is closed, the last day of the filing period is the next day that the government is open.
(d) The FAA will inform the petitioner or sponsor (if other than the petitioner) and the FCC (whenever an FCC-related proposal is involved) of the filing of the petition and that the determination is not final pending disposition of the petition.
§ 77.41
Discretionary review results.
(a) If discretionary review is granted, the FAA will inform the petitioner and the sponsor (if other than the petitioner) of the issues to be studied and reviewed. The review may include a request for comments and a review of all records from the initial aeronautical study.
(b) If discretionary review is denied, the FAA will notify the petitioner and the sponsor (if other than the petitioner), and the FCC, whenever a FCC-related proposal is involved, of the basis for the denial along with a statement that the determination is final.
(c) After concluding the discretionary review process, the FAA will revise, affirm, or reverse the determination.

# SUBCHAPTER F—AIR TRAFFIC AND GENERAL OPERATING RULES
Pt. 89

# PART 89—REMOTE IDENTIFICATION OF UNMANNED AIRCRAFT

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
89.1
Definitions.
89.5
Falsification, reproduction, alteration, or omission.

# Subpart B—Operating Requirements
89.101
Applicability.
89.105
Remote identification requirement.
89.110
Operation of standard remote identification unmanned aircraft.
89.115
Alternative remote identification.
89.120
Operations for aeronautical research or to show compliance with regulations.
89.125
Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) Out prohibition.
89.130
Confirmation of identification.

# Subpart C—FAA-Recognized Identification Areas
89.201
Applicability.
89.205
Eligibility.
89.210
Requests for establishment of an FAA-recognized identification area.
89.215
Approval of FAA-recognized identification areas.
89.220
Amendment.
89.225
Duration of an FAA-recognized identification area.
89.230
Expiration and termination.

# Subpart D—Requirements for Standard Remote Identification Unmanned Aircraft and Remote Identification Broadcast Modules
89.301
Applicability.
89.305
Minimum message elements broadcast by standard remote identification unmanned aircraft.
89.310
Minimum performance requirements for standard remote identification unmanned aircraft.
89.315
Minimum message elements broadcast by remote identification broadcast modules.
89.320
Minimum performance requirements for remote identification broadcast modules.

# Subpart E—Means of Compliance
89.401
Applicability.
89.405
Submission of a means of compliance for FAA acceptance.
89.410
Acceptance of a means of compliance.
89.415
Rescission.
89.420
Record retention.

# Subpart F— Remote Identification Design and Production
89.501
Applicability.
89.505
Serial numbers.
89.510
Production requirements for unmanned aircraft produced under a design approval or production approval issued under part 21 of this chapter.
89.515
Production requirements for unmanned aircraft without design approval or production approval issued under part 21 of this chapter.
89.520
Production requirements for remote identification broadcast modules.
89.525
Labeling.
89.530
Submission of a declaration of compliance for FAA acceptance.
89.535
Acceptance of a declaration of compliance.
89.540
Rescission and reconsideration.
89.545
Record retention.

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(f), 106(g), 40101(d), 40103(b), 44701, 44805, 44809(f); Section 2202 of Pub. L. 114-190, 130 Stat. 629.

# Source:
Amdt. 89-1, 86 FR 4505, Jan. 15, 2021, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 89.1
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this part.
Declaration of compliance
means a record submitted to the FAA by the producer of a standard remote identification unmanned aircraft or remote identification broadcast module to attest that all the requirements of subpart F of this part have been met.
Home-built unmanned aircraft
means an unmanned aircraft that an individual built solely for education or recreation.
§ 89.5
Falsification, reproduction, alteration, or omission.
(a) No person may make or cause to be made any of the following:
(1) Any fraudulent or intentionally false statement in any document related to any acceptance, application, approval, authorization, certificate,
declaration, designation, qualification, record, report, request for reconsideration, or similar, submitted under this part.
(2) Any fraudulent or intentionally false statement in any document required to be developed, provided, kept, or used to show compliance with any requirement under this part.
(3) Any reproduction or alteration, for fraudulent purpose, of any document related to any acceptance, application, approval, authorization, certificate, declaration, designation, qualification, record, report, request for reconsideration, or similar, submitted or granted under this part.
(b) No person may, by omission, knowingly conceal or cause to be concealed, a material fact in—
(1) Any document related to any acceptance, application, approval, authorization, certificate, declaration, designation, qualification, record, report, request for reconsideration, or similar, submitted under this part; or
(2) Any document required to be developed, provided, kept, or used to show compliance with any requirement under this part.
(c) The commission by any person of an act prohibited under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section is a basis for—
(1) Denial, suspension, rescission, or revocation of any acceptance, application, approval, authorization, certificate, declaration, declaration of compliance, designation, document, filing, qualification, means of compliance, record, report, request for reconsideration, or similar instrument issued or granted by the Administrator and held by that person; or
(2) A civil penalty.

# Subpart B—Operating Requirement
§ 89.101
Applicability.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this subpart applies to the following:
(1) Persons operating unmanned aircraft registered or required to be registered under part 47 or 48 of this chapter.
(2) Persons operating foreign civil unmanned aircraft in the United States.
(b) This subpart does not apply to unmanned aircraft operations under part 91 of this chapter that are transmitting ADS-B Out pursuant to § 91.225.
§ 89.105
Remote identification requirement.
Except as otherwise authorized by the Administrator or as provided in § 89.120, after September 16, 2023, no person may operate an unmanned aircraft within the airspace of the United States unless the operation meets the requirements of § 89.110 or § 89.115.
§ 89.110
Operation of standard remote identification unmanned aircraft.
Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, a person may comply with the remote identification requirement of § 89.105 by operating a standard remote identification unmanned aircraft under the following conditions:
(a)
Operational requirements.
A person may operate a standard remote identification unmanned aircraft only if the person operating the standard remote identification unmanned aircraft ensures that all of the following conditions are met:
(1) From takeoff to shutdown, the standard remote identification unmanned aircraft must broadcast the message elements of § 89.305.
(2) The person manipulating the flight controls of the unmanned aircraft system must land the unmanned aircraft as soon as practicable if the standard remote identification unmanned aircraft is no longer broadcasting the message elements of § 89.305.
(b)
Standard remote identification unmanned aircraft requirements.
A person may operate a standard remote identification unmanned aircraft only if the unmanned aircraft meets all of the following requirements:
(1) Its serial number is listed on an FAA-accepted declaration of compliance, or the standard remote identification unmanned aircraft is covered by a design approval or production approval issued under part 21 of this chapter and meets the requirements of subpart F of this part.
(2) Its remote identification equipment is functional and complies with
the requirements of this part from takeoff to shutdown.
(3) Its remote identification equipment and functionality have not been disabled.
(4) The Certificate of Aircraft Registration of the unmanned aircraft used in the operation must include the serial number of the unmanned aircraft, as per applicable requirements of parts 47 and 48 of this chapter, or the serial number of the unmanned aircraft must be provided to the FAA in a notice of identification pursuant to § 89.130 prior to the operation.
§ 89.115
Alternative remote identification.
A person operating an unmanned aircraft that is not a standard remote identification unmanned aircraft may comply with the remote identification requirement of § 89.105 by meeting all of the requirements of either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
(a)
Remote identification broadcast modules.
Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, a person may operate an unmanned aircraft that is not a standard remote identification unmanned aircraft if all of the following conditions are met:
(1)
Equipage.
(i) The unmanned aircraft used in the operation must be equipped with a remote identification broadcast module that meets the requirements of § 89.320 and the serial number of the remote identification broadcast module must be listed on an FAA-accepted declaration of compliance.
(ii) The Certificate of Aircraft Registration of the unmanned aircraft used in the operation must include the serial number of the remote identification broadcast module, as per applicable requirements of parts 47 and 48 of this chapter, or the serial number of the unmanned aircraft must be provided to the FAA in a notice of identification pursuant to § 89.130 prior to the operation.
(2)
Remote identification operating requirements.
Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, a person may operate an unmanned aircraft under this paragraph (a) only if all of the following conditions are met:
(i) From takeoff to shutdown, the person operating the unmanned aircraft must ensure that the remote identification broadcast module broadcasts the remote identification message elements of § 89.315 directly from the unmanned aircraft.
(ii) The person manipulating the flight controls of the unmanned aircraft system must be able to see the unmanned aircraft at all times throughout the operation.
(3)
Pre-flight requirement.
Prior to takeoff, the person manipulating the flight controls of the unmanned aircraft system must ensure the remote identification broadcast module is functioning in accordance with this subpart.
(4)
In-flight loss of remote identification broadcast.
The person manipulating the flight controls of the unmanned aircraft system must land the unmanned aircraft as soon as practicable if the unmanned aircraft is no longer broadcasting the message elements of § 89.315.
(b)
Operations at FAA-recognized identification areas.
Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, a person may operate an unmanned aircraft without remote identification equipment only if all of the following conditions are met:
(1) The unmanned aircraft and the person manipulating the flight controls of the unmanned aircraft system remain within the boundaries of an FAA-recognized identification area throughout the operation; and
(2) The person manipulating the flight controls of the unmanned aircraft system must be able to see the unmanned aircraft at all times throughout the operation.
§ 89.120
Operations for aeronautical research or to show compliance with regulations.
The Administrator may authorize operations without remote identification where the operation is solely for the purpose of aeronautical research or to show compliance with regulations.
§ 89.125
Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) Out prohibition.
Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) Out equipment cannot be used to comply with the remote identification requirements of this part.
§ 89.130
Confirmation of identification.
(a)
Notification requirement.
No person may operate a foreign registered civil unmanned aircraft with remote identification in the airspace of the United States unless, prior to the operation, the person submits a notice of identification in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator. The notice of identification must include all of the following:
(1) The name of the person operating the foreign registered civil unmanned aircraft in the United States, and, if applicable, the person's authorized representative.
(2) The physical address of the person operating the foreign registered civil unmanned aircraft in the United States, and, if applicable, the physical address for the person's authorized representative. If the operator or authorized representative does not receive mail at the physical address, a mailing address must also be provided.
(3) The telephone number(s) where the person operating the foreign registered civil unmanned aircraft in the United States, and, if applicable, the person's authorized representative can be reached while in the United States.
(4) The email address of the person operating the foreign registered civil unmanned aircraft in the United States, and, if applicable, the email address of the person's authorized representative.
(5) The unmanned aircraft manufacturer and model name.
(6) The serial number of the unmanned aircraft or remote identification broadcast module.
(7) The country of registration of the unmanned aircraft.
(8) The registration number.
(b)
Issuance of a Confirmation of Identification.
(1) The FAA will issue a Confirmation of Identification upon completion of the notification requirements provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) The filing of a notification under paragraph (a) of this section and the Confirmation of Identification issued under paragraph (b)(1) of this section do not have the effect of United States aircraft registration.
(c)
Proof of notification.
No person may operate a foreign registered civil unmanned aircraft with remote identification in the United States unless the person obtains a Confirmation of Identification under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, maintains such Confirmation of Identification at the unmanned aircraft's control station, and produces the Confirmation of Identification when requested by the FAA or a law enforcement officer.
(d)
Requirement to maintain current information.
The holder of a Confirmation of Identification must ensure that the information provided under paragraph (a) of this section remains accurate and must update the information prior to operating a foreign registered civil unmanned aircraft in the United States.

# Subpart C—FAA-Recognized Identification Areas

# Source:
Amdt. 89-1, 86 FR 4511, Jan. 15, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 89.201
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes procedural requirements to establish an FAA-recognized identification area.
§ 89.205
Eligibility.
Only the following persons are eligible to apply for the establishment of an FAA-recognized identification area under this subpart:
(a) A community-based organization recognized by the Administrator.
(b) An educational institution, including primary and secondary educational institutions, trade schools, colleges, and universities.
§ 89.210
Requests for establishment of an FAA-recognized identification area.
(a)
Application.
An eligible person requesting the establishment of an FAA-recognized identification area under this subpart may submit an application
in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator.
(b)
Required documentation.
A request under this subpart must contain all of the following information:
(1) The name of the eligible person under § 89.205.
(2) The name of the individual making the request on behalf of the eligible person.
(3) A declaration that the individual making the request has the authority to act on behalf of the community-based organization or educational institution.
(4) The name and contact information of the primary point of contact for communications with the FAA.
(5) The physical address of the proposed FAA-recognized identification area.
(6) The location of the proposed FAA-recognized identification area in a form and manner prescribed by the Administrator.
(7) If applicable, a copy of any existing letter of agreement regarding the flying site.
(8) Description of the intended purpose of the FAA-recognized identification area and why the proposed FAA-recognized identification area is necessary for that purpose.
(9) Any other information required by the Administrator.
§ 89.215
Approval of FAA-recognized identification areas.
The Administrator will assess applications for FAA-recognized identification areas and may require additional information or documentation, as needed, to supplement an application. The Administrator will approve or deny an application, and may take into consideration matters such as, but not limited to:
(a) The existence of any FAA established flight or airspace restriction limiting the operation of unmanned aircraft systems, such as special use airspace designations under part 73 of this chapter, temporary flight restrictions issued under part 91 of this chapter, or any other special flight rule, restriction or regulation in this chapter limiting the operation of unmanned aircraft systems in the interest of safety, efficiency, national security and/or homeland security, which overlaps with the proposed FAA-recognized identification area.
(b) The safe and efficient use of airspace by other aircraft.
(c) The safety and security of persons or property on the ground.
(d) The need for an FAA-recognized identification area in the proposed location and proximity of other FAA-recognized identification areas.
§ 89.220
Amendment.
(a) From the time of application until expiration or termination of an FAA-recognized identification area, any change to the information submitted in the application including but not limited to a change to the point of contact for the FAA-recognized identification area or a change to the FAA-recognized identification area's organizational affiliation must be submitted to the FAA within 10 calendar days of the change.
(b) If the person who has been granted an FAA-recognized identification area wishes to change the geographic boundaries of the FAA-recognized identification area, the person must submit a request describing the change to the FAA for review. The geographic boundaries of the FAA-recognized identification area will not change unless the requested change is approved in accordance with § 89.215.
(c) The establishment of an FAA-recognized identification area is subject to ongoing review in accordance with § 89.215 by the Administrator that may result in the termination of the FAA-recognized identification area pursuant to § 89.230 or modification of the FAA-recognized identification area.
§ 89.225
Duration of an FAA-recognized identification area.
(a)
Duration.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, an FAA-recognized identification area will be in effect for 48 calendar months after the date the FAA approves the request for establishment of an FAA-recognized identification area.
(b)
Renewal.
A person wishing to renew an FAA-recognized identification area must submit a request for renewal no later than 120 days prior to the expiration of the FAA-recognized
identification area in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator. The Administrator may deny requests submitted after that deadline or requests submitted after the expiration.
§ 89.230
Expiration and termination.
(a)
Expiration.
Unless renewed, an FAA-recognized identification area issued under this subpart will expire automatically and will have no further force or effect as of the day that immediately follows the date of expiration.
(b)
Termination prior to expiration
—(1)
Termination by request.
An individual identified as the point of contact for an approved FAA-recognized identification area may submit a request to the Administrator to terminate that FAA-recognized identification area.
(2)
Termination by FAA.
(i) The FAA may terminate an FAA-recognized identification area upon a finding that—
(A) The FAA-recognized identification area may pose a risk to aviation safety, public safety, homeland security, or national security;
(B) The FAA-recognized identification area is no longer associated with a person eligible for an FAA-recognized identification area; or
(C) The person who submitted a request for establishment of an FAA-recognized identification area provided false or misleading information during the submission, amendment, or renewal process.
(ii) The Administrator will notify the primary point of contact of the decision to terminate the FAA-recognized identification area and the reasons for the termination. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, if the FAA terminates an FAA-recognized identification area based upon a finding that the FAA-recognized identification area may pose a risk to aviation safety, public safety, homeland security, or national security, that area will no longer be eligible to be an FAA-recognized identification area for as long as those conditions remain in effect.
(c)
Petition to reconsider the FAA's decision to terminate an FAA-recognized identification area.
No later than 30 calendar days after the termination of an FAA-recognized identification area, a person may petition the Administrator for reconsideration of the decision. The petition must state the reasons justifying the request for reconsideration and include any supporting documentation. Upon consideration of the information submitted by the petitioner, the Administrator will notify the petitioner of the decision on the request for reconsideration.
(d)
Inapplicability of part 13, subpart D, of this chapter.
Part 13, subpart D, of this chapter does not apply to the procedures of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

# Subpart D—Requirements for Standard Remote Identification Unmanned Aircraft and Remote Identification Broadcast Modules
§ 89.301
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes the minimum message element set and minimum performance requirements for standard remote identification unmanned aircraft and remote identification broadcast modules.
§ 89.305
Minimum message elements broadcast by standard remote identification unmanned aircraft.
A standard remote identification unmanned aircraft must be capable of broadcasting the following remote identification message elements:
(a) The identity of the unmanned aircraft, consisting of:
(1) A serial number assigned to the unmanned aircraft by the person responsible for the production of the standard remote identification unmanned aircraft; or
(2) A session ID.
(b) An indication of the latitude and longitude of the control station.
(c) An indication of the geometric altitude of the control station.
(d) An indication of the latitude and longitude of the unmanned aircraft.
(e) An indication of the geometric altitude of the unmanned aircraft.
(f) An indication of the velocity of the unmanned aircraft.
(g) A time mark identifying the Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) time of applicability of a position source output.
(h) An indication of the emergency status of the unmanned aircraft.
§ 89.310
Minimum performance requirements for standard remote identification unmanned aircraft.
A standard remote identification unmanned aircraft must meet the following minimum performance requirements:
(a)
Control station location.
The location of the control station of the unmanned aircraft must be generated and encoded into the message elements and must correspond to the location of the person manipulating the flight controls of the unmanned aircraft system.
(b)
Time mark.
The time mark message element must be synchronized with all other remote identification message elements.
(c)
Self-testing and monitoring.
(1) Prior to takeoff, the unmanned aircraft must automatically test the remote identification functionality and notify the person manipulating the flight controls of the unmanned aircraft system of the result of the test.
(2) The unmanned aircraft must not be able to take off if the remote identification equipment is not functional.
(3) The unmanned aircraft must continuously monitor the remote identification functionality from takeoff to shutdown and must provide notification of malfunction or failure to the person manipulating the flight controls of the unmanned aircraft system.
(d)
Tamper resistance.
The unmanned aircraft must be designed and produced in a way that reduces the ability of a person to tamper with the remote identification functionality.
(e)
Error correction.
The remote identification equipment must incorporate error correction in the broadcast of the message elements in § 89.305.
(f)
Interference considerations.
The remote identification equipment must not interfere with other systems or equipment installed on the unmanned aircraft, and other systems or equipment installed on the unmanned aircraft must not interfere with the remote identification equipment.
(g)
Message broadcast.
(1) The unmanned aircraft must be capable of broadcasting the message elements in § 89.305 using a non-proprietary broadcast specification and using radio frequency spectrum compatible with personal wireless devices in accordance with 47 CFR part 15, where operations may occur without an FCC individual license.
(2) Any broadcasting device used to meet the requirements of this section must be integrated into the unmanned aircraft without modification to its authorized radio frequency parameters and designed to maximize the range at which the broadcast can be received, while complying with 47 CFR part 15 and any other applicable laws in effect as of the date the declaration of compliance is submitted to the FAA for acceptance.
(h)
Message elements performance requirements.
(1) The reported geometric position of the unmanned aircraft and the control station must be accurate to within 100 feet of the true position, with 95 percent probability.
(2) The reported geometric altitude of the control station must be accurate to within 15 feet of the true geometric altitude, with 95 percent probability.
(3) The reported geometric altitude of the unmanned aircraft must be accurate to within 150 feet of the true geometric altitude, with 95 percent probability.
(4) The unmanned aircraft must broadcast the latitude, longitude, and geometric altitude of the unmanned aircraft and its control station no later than 1.0 seconds from the time of measurement to the time of broadcast.
(5) The unmanned aircraft must broadcast the message elements at a rate of at least 1 message per second.
(i)
Take-off limitation.
The unmanned aircraft must not be able to take off unless it is broadcasting the message elements in § 89.305.
§ 89.315
Minimum message elements broadcast by remote identification broadcast modules.
Remote identification broadcast modules must be capable of broadcasting the following remote identification message elements:
(a) The identity of the unmanned aircraft, consisting of the serial number assigned to the remote identification
broadcast module by the person responsible for the production of the remote identification broadcast module.
(b) An indication of the latitude and longitude of the unmanned aircraft.
(c) An indication of the geometric altitude of the unmanned aircraft.
(d) An indication of the velocity of the unmanned aircraft.
(e) An indication of the latitude and longitude of the take-off location of the unmanned aircraft.
(f) An indication of the geometric altitude of the take-off location of the unmanned aircraft.
(g) A time mark identifying the Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) time of applicability of a position source output.
§ 89.320
Minimum performance requirements for remote identification broadcast modules.
Remote identification broadcast modules must meet the following minimum performance requirements:
(a)
Take-off location.
The remote identification broadcast module must be capable of determining the take-off location of the unmanned aircraft.
(b)
Time mark.
The time mark message element must be synchronized with all other remote identification message elements.
(c)
Self-testing and monitoring.
(1) Prior to take-off, the remote identification broadcast module must automatically test the remote identification functionality and notify the person manipulating the flight controls of the unmanned aircraft system of the result of the test.
(2) The remote identification broadcast module must continuously monitor the remote identification functionality from takeoff to shutdown and must provide notification of malfunction or failure to the person manipulating the flight controls of the unmanned aircraft system.
(d)
Tamper resistance.
The remote identification broadcast module must be designed and produced in a way that reduces the ability of a person to tamper with the remote identification functionality.
(e)
Error correction.
The remote identification broadcast module must incorporate error correction in the broadcast of the message elements in § 89.315.
(f)
Interference considerations.
The remote identification broadcast module must not interfere with other systems or equipment installed on compatible unmanned aircraft, and other systems or equipment installed on compatible unmanned aircraft must not interfere with the remote identification equipment.
(g)
Message broadcast.
(1) The remote identification broadcast module must be capable of broadcasting the message elements in § 89.315 using a non-proprietary broadcast specification and using radio frequency spectrum compatible with personal wireless devices in accordance with 47 CFR part 15, where operations may occur without an FCC individual license.
(2) The remote identification broadcast module must be designed to maximize the range at which the broadcast can be received, while complying with 47 CFR part 15 and any other applicable laws in effect as of the date the declaration of compliance is submitted to the FAA for acceptance.
(h)
Message elements performance requirements.
(1) The reported geometric position of the unmanned aircraft must be accurate to within 100 feet of the true position, with 95 percent probability.
(2) The reported geometric altitude of the unmanned aircraft must be accurate to within 150 feet of the true geometric altitude, with 95 percent probability.
(3) The reported geometric position of the take-off location must be accurate to within 100 feet of the true geometric position, with 95 percent probability.
(4) The reported geometric altitude of the take-off location must be accurate to within 150 feet of the true geometric altitude, with 95 percent probability.
(5) The remote identification broadcast module must broadcast the latitude, longitude, and geometric altitude of the unmanned aircraft no later than 1.0 seconds from the time of measurement to the time of broadcast.
(6) The remote identification broadcast module must broadcast the message elements at a rate of at least 1 message per second.

# Subpart E—Means of Compliance
§ 89.401
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes—
(a) Requirements for means of compliance with subpart D of this part.
(b) Procedural requirements for the submission and acceptance of means of compliance used in the design and production of standard remote identification unmanned aircraft or remote identification broadcast modules to ensure they meet the minimum performance requirements of this part.
(c) Rules governing persons submitting means of compliance for FAA acceptance.
§ 89.405
Submission of a means of compliance for FAA acceptance.
(a)
Eligibility.
Any person may submit a means of compliance for acceptance by the FAA.
(b)
Required information.
A person requesting acceptance of a means of compliance must submit the following information to the FAA in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator:
(1) The name of the person or entity submitting the means of compliance, the name of the main point of contact for communications with the FAA, the physical address, email address, and other contact information.
(2) A detailed description of the means of compliance.
(3) An explanation of how the means of compliance addresses all of the minimum performance requirements established in subpart D of this part so that any standard remote identification unmanned aircraft or remote identification broadcast module designed and produced in accordance with such means of compliance meets the remote identification requirements of this part.
(4) Any substantiating material the person wishes the FAA to consider as part of the request.
(c)
Testing and validation.
A means of compliance submitted for acceptance by the FAA must include testing and validation procedures for persons responsible for the production of standard remote identification unmanned aircraft or remote identification broadcast modules to demonstrate through analysis, ground test, or flight test, as appropriate, how the standard remote identification unmanned aircraft or the remote identification broadcast module performs its intended functions and meets the requirements in subpart D of this part, including any applicable FAA performance requirements for radio station operation.
§ 89.410
Acceptance of a means of compliance.
(a) A person requesting acceptance of a means of compliance must demonstrate to the Administrator that the means of compliance addresses all of the requirements of subparts D and E of this part, and that any standard remote identification unmanned aircraft or remote identification broadcast module designed and produced in accordance with such means of compliance would meet the performance requirements of subpart D of this part.
(b) The Administrator will evaluate a means of compliance that is submitted to the FAA and may request additional information or documentation, as needed, to supplement the submission.
(c) If the Administrator determines the person has demonstrated that the means of compliance meets the requirements of subparts D and E of this part, the FAA will notify the person that the Administrator has accepted the means of compliance.
§ 89.415
Rescission.
(a)
Rescission of an FAA-accepted means of compliance.
(1) A means of compliance is subject to ongoing review by the Administrator. The Administrator may rescind acceptance of a means of compliance if the Administrator determines that a means of compliance does not meet any or all of the requirements of subpart D or E of this part.
(2) The Administrator will publish a notice of rescission in the
Federal Register
.
(b)
Inapplicability of part 13, subpart D, of this chapter.
Part 13, subpart D, of
this chapter does not apply to the procedures of paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 89.420
Record retention.
A person who submits a means of compliance that is accepted by the Administrator under this subpart must retain the following information for as long as the means of compliance is accepted plus an additional 24 calendar months, and must make available for inspection by the Administrator the following:
(a) All documentation and substantiating data submitted to the FAA for acceptance of the means of compliance.
(b) Records of all test procedures, methodology, and other procedures, as applicable.
(c) Any other information necessary to justify and substantiate how the means of compliance enables compliance with the remote identification requirements of this part.

# Subpart F— Remote Identification Design and Production
§ 89.501
Applicability.
(a) This subpart prescribes—
(1) Requirements for the design and production of unmanned aircraft with remote identification produced for operation in the airspace of the United States.
(2) Requirements for the design and production of remote identification broadcast modules.
(3) Procedural requirements for the submission, acceptance, and rescission of declarations of compliance.
(4) Rules governing persons submitting declarations of compliance for FAA acceptance under this part.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, this subpart applies to the design and production of all unmanned aircraft operated in the airspace of the United States.
(c) Except for unmanned aircraft designed and produced to be standard remote identification unmanned aircraft, this subpart does not apply to the design or production of:
(1) Home-built unmanned aircraft.
(2) Unmanned aircraft of the United States Government.
(3) Unmanned aircraft that weigh 0.55 pounds or less on takeoff, including everything that is on board or otherwise attached to the aircraft.
(4) Unmanned aircraft designed or produced exclusively for the purpose of aeronautical research or to show compliance with regulations.
§ 89.505
Serial numbers.
No person may produce a standard remote identification unmanned aircraft under § 89.510 or § 89.515 or a remote identification broadcast module under § 89.520, unless the producer assigns to the unmanned aircraft or remote identification broadcast module a serial number that complies with ANSI/CTA-2063-A. ANSI/CTA-2063-A,
Small Unmanned Aerial Systems Serial Numbers
(September 2019) is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Office of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at the FAA's Office of Rulemaking (ARM-1), 800 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20590 (telephone 202-267-9677) and is available from Consumer Technology Association (CTA), 1919 South Eads Street, Arlington, VA 22202,
CTA@CTA.tech
, 703-907-7600 or at
https://www.cta.tech.
It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email
fedreg.legal@nara.gov,
or go to
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
§ 89.510
Production requirements for unmanned aircraft produced under a design approval or production approval issued under part 21 of this chapter.
After September 16, 2022, no person may produce an unmanned aircraft for operation in the airspace of the United States under a design approval or production approval issued under part 21 of this chapter unless:
(a) All applicable requirements of part 21 of this chapter are met; and
(b) The unmanned aircraft is—
(1) Designed and produced to meet the minimum performance requirements for standard remote identification unmanned aircraft established in
§ 89.310 in accordance with an FAA-accepted means of compliance; or
(2) Equipped with Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) Out equipment that meets the requirements of § 91.225 of this chapter.
§ 89.515
Production requirements for unmanned aircraft without design approval or production approval issued under part 21 of this chapter.
Except as provided in § 89.510, after September 16, 2022, no person may produce an unmanned aircraft for operation in the airspace of the United States unless—
(a) The unmanned aircraft is designed and produced to meet the minimum performance requirements for standard remote identification unmanned aircraft established in § 89.310 in accordance with an FAA-accepted means of compliance; and
(b) All of the following conditions are met:
(1)
Inspection requirements for production of standard unmanned aircraft.
A person responsible for the production of standard remote identification unmanned aircraft must, upon request, allow the Administrator to inspect the person's facilities, technical data, and any standard remote identification unmanned aircraft the person produces, and to witness any tests necessary to determine compliance with this subpart.
(2)
Audit requirements.
A person responsible for the production of standard remote identification unmanned aircraft must cause independent audits to be performed on a recurring basis, and additionally whenever the FAA provides notice of noncompliance or potential noncompliance, to demonstrate the unmanned aircraft listed under a declaration of compliance meet the requirements of this subpart. The person responsible for the production of standard remote identification unmanned aircraft must provide the results of all such audits to the FAA upon request.
(3)
Product support and notification.
A person responsible for the production of standard remote identification unmanned aircraft must maintain product support and notification procedures to notify the public and the FAA of any defect or condition that causes an unmanned aircraft to no longer meet the requirements of this subpart, within 15 calendar days of the date the person becomes aware of the defect or condition.
§ 89.520
Production requirements for remote identification broadcast modules.
After April 21, 2021, no person may produce remote identification broadcast modules unless:
(a) The remote identification broadcast module is designed and produced to meet the minimum performance requirements for remote identification broadcast modules established in § 89.320 in accordance with an FAA-accepted means of compliance; and
(b) All of the following conditions are met:
(1)
Inspection requirements for production of remote identification broadcast modules.
A person responsible for the production of remote identification broadcast modules must, upon request, allow the Administrator to inspect the person's facilities, technical data, and any remote identification broadcast modules the person produces, and to witness any tests necessary to determine compliance with this subpart.
(2)
Audit requirements.
A person responsible for the production of remote identification broadcast modules must cause independent audits to be performed on a recurring basis, and additionally whenever the FAA provides notice of noncompliance or potential noncompliance, to demonstrate the remote identification broadcast modules listed under a declaration of compliance meet the requirements of this subpart. The person responsible for the production of remote identification broadcast modules must provide the results of all such audits to the FAA upon request.
(3)
Product support and notification.
A person responsible for the production of remote identification broadcast modules must maintain product support and notification procedures to notify the public and the FAA of any defect or condition that causes the remote identification broadcast module to no longer meet the requirements of this subpart, within 15 calendar days of
the date the person becomes aware of the defect or condition.
(4)
Instructions.
A person responsible for the production of a remote identification broadcast module must make available instructions for installing and operating the remote identification broadcast module to any person operating an unmanned aircraft with the remote identification broadcast module.
[Amdt. 89-1, 86 FR 4505, Jan. 15, 2021; 86 FR 13630, Mar. 10, 2021]
§ 89.525
Labeling.
(a) No person may produce a standard remote identification unmanned aircraft under § 89.515 unless it displays a label indicating that the unmanned aircraft meets the requirements of this part. The label must be in English and be legible, prominent, and permanently affixed to the unmanned aircraft.
(b) No person may produce a remote identification broadcast module under § 89.520 unless it displays a label indicating that the equipment meets the requirements of this part. The label must be in English and be legible, prominent, and permanently affixed to the broadcast module.
§ 89.530
Submission of a declaration of compliance for FAA acceptance.
(a)
Eligibility.
A person responsible for the production of a standard remote identification unmanned aircraft under § 89.515 or a remote identification broadcast module under § 89.520 must submit a declaration of compliance for acceptance by the FAA.
(b)
Required information for standard remote identification unmanned aircraft.
The person responsible for the production of a standard remote identification unmanned aircraft requesting acceptance of a declaration of compliance must declare that the unmanned aircraft complies with the requirements of this subpart by submitting a declaration of compliance to the FAA in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator. The declaration must include at a minimum the following information:
(1) The name, physical address, telephone number, and email address of the person responsible for production of the unmanned aircraft.
(2) The unmanned aircraft's make and model.
(3) The unmanned aircraft's serial number, or the range of serial numbers for which the person responsible for production is declaring compliance.
(4) The FCC Identifier of the 47 CFR part 15-compliant radio frequency equipment used and integrated into the unmanned aircraft.
(5) The means of compliance used in the design and production of the unmanned aircraft.
(6) Whether the declaration of compliance is an initial declaration or an amended declaration, and if the declaration of compliance is an amended declaration, the reason for the amendment.
(7) A declaration that the person responsible for the production of the unmanned aircraft:
(i) Can demonstrate that the unmanned aircraft was designed and produced to meet the minimum performance requirements of § 89.310 by using an FAA-accepted means of compliance.
(ii) Complies with the requirements of § 89.515(b).
(8) A statement that 47 CFR part 15-compliant radio frequency equipment is used and is integrated into the unmanned aircraft without modification to its authorized radio frequency parameters.
(c)
Required information for remote identification broadcast modules.
The person responsible for the production of a remote identification broadcast module under § 89.520 that is requesting acceptance of a declaration of compliance must declare that the remote identification broadcast module complies with the requirements of this subpart by submitting a declaration of compliance to the FAA in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator. The declaration must include at a minimum the following information:
(1) The name, physical address, telephone number, and email address of the person responsible for production of the remote identification broadcast module.
(2) The remote identification broadcast module's make and model.
(3) The remote identification broadcast module's serial number, or the range of serial numbers for which the
person responsible for production is declaring compliance.
(4) The FCC Identifier of the 47 CFR part 15-compliant radio frequency equipment used and integrated into the remote identification broadcast module.
(5) The means of compliance used in the design and production of the remote identification broadcast module.
(6) Whether the declaration of compliance is an initial declaration or an amended declaration, and if the declaration of compliance is an amended declaration, the reason for the amendment.
(7) A declaration that the person responsible for the production of the remote identification broadcast module:
(i) Can demonstrate that the remote identification broadcast module was designed and produced to meet the minimum performance requirements of § 89.320 by using an FAA-accepted means of compliance.
(ii) Complies with the requirements of § 89.520(b).
(8) A statement that 47 CFR part 15-compliant radio frequency equipment is used and is integrated into the remote identification broadcast module without modification to its authorized radio frequency parameters, and a statement that instructions have been provided for installation of 47 CFR part 15-compliant remote identification broadcast module without modification to the broadcast module's authorized radio frequency parameters.
§ 89.535
Acceptance of a declaration of compliance.
(a) The Administrator will evaluate a declaration of compliance that is submitted to the FAA and may request additional information or documentation, as needed, to supplement the declaration of compliance.
(b) If the Administrator determines that the submitter has demonstrated compliance with the requirements of this subpart, the FAA will notify the submitter that the Administrator has accepted the declaration of compliance.
§ 89.540
Rescission and reconsideration.
(a)
Rescission of the FAA's acceptance of a declaration of compliance.
(1) A declaration of compliance is subject to ongoing review by the Administrator. The Administrator may rescind acceptance of a declaration of compliance under circumstances including but not limited to the following:
(i) A standard remote identification unmanned aircraft or remote identification broadcast module listed under an accepted declaration of compliance does not meet the minimum performance requirements of § 89.310 or § 89.320.
(ii) A previously FAA-accepted declaration of compliance does not meet a requirement of this subpart; or
(iii) The FAA rescinds acceptance of the means of compliance listed in an FAA-accepted declaration of compliance.
(2) The Administrator will notify the person who submitted the FAA-accepted declaration of compliance of any issue of noncompliance.
(3) If the Administrator determines that it is in the public interest, prior to rescinding acceptance of a declaration of compliance, the Administrator may provide a reasonable period of time for the person who submitted the declaration of compliance to remediate the noncompliance. A failure to remediate the noncompliance constitutes cause for rescission of the FAA's acceptance of the declaration of compliance.
(4) The Administrator will notify the person who submitted the declaration of compliance of the decision to rescind acceptance of the declaration of compliance by publishing a notice of rescission in the
Federal Register
.
(b)
Petition to reconsider the FAA's decision to rescind acceptance of a declaration of compliance.
(1) The person who submitted the FAA-accepted declaration of compliance or any person adversely affected by the rescission of the Administrator's acceptance of a declaration of compliance may petition for a reconsideration of the decision by submitting a request to the FAA in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator within 60 calendar days of the date of publication in the
Federal Register
of notification of rescission.
(2) A petition to reconsider the rescission of the Administrator's acceptance of a declaration of compliance must show that the petitioner is an interested party and has been adversely affected by the decision of the FAA. The petition must also demonstrate at least one of the following:
(i) The petitioner adduces a significant additional fact not previously presented to the FAA.
(ii) The Administrator made a material error of fact in the decision to rescind acceptance of the declaration of compliance.
(iii) The Administrator did not correctly interpret a law, regulation, or precedent.
(3) Upon consideration of the information submitted by the petitioner, the Administrator will notify the petitioner and the person who submitted the declaration of compliance (if different) of the decision on whether to reinstate the Administrator's acceptance of the declaration of compliance.
(c)
Inapplicability of part 13, subpart D, of this chapter.
Part 13, subpart D, of this chapter does not apply to the procedures of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
§ 89.545
Record retention.
A person who submits a declaration of compliance under this subpart that is accepted by the Administrator must retain the following information for as long as the standard remote identification unmanned aircraft or remote identification broadcast module listed on that declaration of compliance is produced plus an additional 24 calendar months, and must make available for inspection by the Administrator the following:
(a) The means of compliance, all documentation, and substantiating data related to the means of compliance used.
(b) Records of all test results.
(c) Any other information necessary to demonstrate compliance with the means of compliance so that the standard remote identification unmanned aircraft or remote identification broadcast module meets the remote identification requirements and the design and production requirements of this part.
Pt. 91

# PART 91—GENERAL OPERATING AND FLIGHT RULES
Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 50-2
Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 60
Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 97
Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 104

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
91.1
Applicability.
91.3
Responsibility and authority of the pilot in command.
91.5
Pilot in command of aircraft requiring more than one required pilot.
91.7
Civil aircraft airworthiness.
91.9
Civil aircraft flight manual, marking, and placard requirements.
91.11
Prohibition on interference with crewmembers.
91.13
Careless or reckless operation.
91.15
Dropping objects.
91.17
Alcohol or drugs.
91.19
Carriage of narcotic drugs, marihuana, and depressant or stimulant drugs or substances.
91.21
Portable electronic devices.
91.23
Truth-in-leasing clause requirement in leases and conditional sales contracts.
91.25
Aviation Safety Reporting Program: Prohibition against use of reports for enforcement purposes.
91.27-91.99
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Flight Rules

# General
91.101
Applicability.
91.103
Preflight action.
91.105
Flight crewmembers at stations.
91.107
Use of safety belts, shoulder harnesses, and child restraint systems.
91.108
Use of supplemental restraint systems.
91.109
Flight instruction; Simulated instrument flight and certain flight tests.
91.111
Operating near other aircraft.
91.113
Right-of-way rules: Except water operations.
91.115
Right-of-way rules: Water operations.
91.117
Aircraft speed.
91.119
Minimum safe altitudes: General.
91.121
Altimeter settings.
91.123
Compliance with ATC clearances and instructions.
91.125
ATC light signals.
91.126
Operating on or in the vicinity of an airport in Class G airspace.
91.127
Operating on or in the vicinity of an airport in Class E airspace.
91.129
Operations in Class D airspace.
91.130
Operations in Class C airspace.
91.131
Operations in Class B airspace.
91.133
Restricted and prohibited areas.
91.135
Operations in Class A airspace.
91.137
Temporary flight restrictions in the vicinity of disaster/hazard areas.
91.138
Temporary flight restrictions in national disaster areas in the State of Hawaii.
91.139
Emergency air traffic rules.
91.141
Flight restrictions in the proximity of the Presidential and other parties.
91.143
Flight limitation in the proximity of space flight operations.
91.144
Temporary restriction on flight operations during abnormally high barometric pressure conditions.
91.145
Management of aircraft operations in the vicinity of aerial demonstrations and major sporting events.
91.146
Passenger-carrying flights for the benefit of a charitable, nonprofit, or community event.
91.147
Passenger-carrying flights for compensation or hire.
91.148-91.149
[Reserved]

# Visual Flight Rules
91.151
Fuel requirements for flight in VFR conditions.
91.153
VFR flight plan: Information required.
91.155
Basic VFR weather minimums.
91.157
Special VFR weather minimums.
91.159
VFR cruising altitude or flight level.
91.161
Special awareness training required for pilots flying under visual flight rules within a 60-nautical mile radius of the Washington, DC VOR/DME.
91.162-91.165
[Reserved]

# Instrument Flight Rules
91.167
Fuel requirements for flight in IFR conditions.
91.169
IFR flight plan: Information required.
91.171
VOR equipment check for IFR operations.
91.173
ATC clearance and flight plan required.
91.175
Takeoff and landing under IFR.
91.176
Straight-in landing operations below DA/DH or MDA using an enhanced flight vision system (EFVS) under IFR.
91.177
Minimum altitudes for IFR operations.
91.179
IFR cruising altitude or flight level.
91.180
Operations within airspace designated as Reduced Vertical Separation Minimum airspace.
91.181
Course to be flown.
91.183
IFR communications.
91.185
IFR operations: Two-way radio communications failure.
91.187
Operation under IFR in controlled airspace: Malfunction reports.
91.189
Category II and III operations: General operating rules.
91.191
Category II and Category III manual.
91.193
Certificate of authorization for certain Category II operations.
91.195-91.199
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Equipment, Instrument, and Certificate Requirements
91.201
[Reserved]
91.203
Civil aircraft: Certifications required.
91.205
Powered civil aircraft with standard category U.S. airworthiness certificates: Instrument and equipment requirements.
91.207
Emergency locator transmitters.
91.209
Aircraft lights.
91.211
Supplemental oxygen.
91.213
Inoperative instruments and equipment.
91.215
ATC transponder and altitude reporting equipment and use.
91.217
Data correspondence between automatically reported pressure altitude data and the pilot's altitude reference.
91.219
Altitude alerting system or device: Turbojet-powered civil airplanes.
91.221
Traffic alert and collision avoidance system equipment and use.
91.223
Terrain awareness and warning system.
91.225
Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) Out equipment and use.
91.227
Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) Out equipment performance requirements.
91.228-91.299
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Special Flight Operations
91.301
[Reserved]
91.303
Aerobatic flight.
91.305
Flight test areas.
91.307
Parachutes and parachuting.
91.309
Towing: Gliders and unpowered ultralight vehicles.
91.311
Towing: Other than under § 91.309.
91.313
Restricted category civil aircraft: Operating limitations.
91.315
Limited category civil aircraft: Operating limitations.
91.317
Provisionally certificated civil aircraft: Operating limitations.
91.319
Aircraft having experimental certificates: Operating limitations.
91.321
Carriage of candidates in elections.
91.323
Increased maximum certificated weights for certain airplanes operated in Alaska.
91.325
Primary category aircraft: Operating limitations.
91.326
Exception to operating certain aircraft for the purposes of flight training, flightcrew member checking, or flightcrew member testing.
91.327
Aircraft having a special airworthiness certificate in the light-sport category: Operating limitations.
91.328-91.399
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Maintenance, Preventive Maintenance, and Alterations
91.401
Applicability.
91.403
General.
91.405
Maintenance required.
91.407
Operation after maintenance, preventive maintenance, rebuilding, or alteration.
91.409
Inspections.
91.410
[Reserved]
91.411
Altimeter system and altitude reporting equipment tests and inspections.
91.413
ATC transponder tests and inspections.
91.415
Changes to aircraft inspection programs.
91.417
Maintenance records.
91.419
Transfer of maintenance records.
91.421
Rebuilt engine maintenance records.
91.423-91.499
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Large and Turbine-Powered Multiengine Airplanes and Fractional Ownership Program Aircraft
91.501
Applicability.
91.503
Flying equipment and operating information.
91.505
Familiarity with operating limitations and emergency equipment.
91.507
Equipment requirements: Over-the-top or night VFR operations.
91.509
Survival equipment for overwater operations.
91.511
Communication and navigation equipment for overwater operations.
91.513
Emergency equipment.
91.515
Flight altitude rules.
91.517
Passenger information.
91.519
Passenger briefing.
91.521
Shoulder harness.
91.523
Carry-on baggage.
91.525
Carriage of cargo.
91.527
Operating in icing conditions.
91.529
Flight engineer requirements.
91.531
Second in command requirements.
91.533
Flight attendant requirements.
91.535
Stowage of food, beverage, and passenger service equipment during aircraft movement on the surface, takeoff, and landing.
91.537-91.599
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Additional Equipment and Operating Requirements for Large and Transport Category Aircraft
91.601
Applicability.
91.603
Aural speed warning device.
91.605
Transport category civil airplane weight limitations.
91.607
Emergency exits for airplanes carrying passengers for hire.
91.609
Flight data recorders and cockpit voice recorders.
91.611
Authorization for ferry flight with one engine inoperative.
91.613
Materials for compartment interiors.
91.615-91.699
[Reserved]

# Subpart H—Foreign Aircraft Operations and Operations of U.S.-Registered Civil Aircraft Outside of the United States; and Rules Governing Persons on Board Such Aircraft
91.701
Applicability.
91.702
Persons on board.
91.703
Operations of civil aircraft of U.S. registry outside of the United States.
91.705
[Reserved]
91.706
Operations within airspace designed as Reduced Vertical Separation Minimum Airspace.
91.707
Flights between Mexico or Canada and the United States.
91.709
Operations to Cuba.
91.711
Special rules for foreign civil aircraft.
91.713
Operation of civil aircraft of Cuban registry.
91.715
Special flight authorizations for foreign civil aircraft.
91.717-91.799
[Reserved]

# Subpart I—Operating Noise Limits
91.801
Applicability: Relation to part 36.
91.803
Part 125 operators: Designation of applicable regulations.
91.805
Final compliance: Subsonic airplanes.
91.807-91.813
[Reserved]
91.815
Agricultural and fire fighting airplanes: Noise operating limitations.
91.817
Civil aircraft sonic boom.
91.818
Special flight authorization to exceed Mach 1.
91.819
Civil supersonic airplanes that do not comply with part 36.
91.821
Civil supersonic airplanes: Noise limits.
91.823-91.849
[Reserved]
91.851
Definitions.
91.853
Final compliance: Civil subsonic airplanes.
91.855
Entry and nonaddition rule.
91.857
Stage 2 operations outside of the 48 contiguous United States.
91.858
Special flight authorizations for non-revenue Stage 2 operations.
91.859
Modification to meet Stage 3, Stage 4, or Stage 5 noise levels.
91.861
Base level.
91.863
Transfers of Stage 2 airplanes with base level.
91.865
Phased compliance for operators with base level.
91.867
Phased compliance for new entrants.
91.869
Carry-forward compliance.
91.871
Waivers from interim compliance requirements.
91.873
Waivers from final compliance.
91.875
Annual progress reports.
91.877
Annual reporting of Hawaiian operations.
91.879-91.880
[Reserved]
91.881
Final compliance: Civil subsonic jet airplanes weighing 75,000 pounds or less.
91.883
Special flight authorizations for jet airplanes weighing 75,000 pounds or less.
91.884-91.899
[Reserved]

# Subpart J—Waivers
91.901
[Reserved]
91.903
Policy and procedures.
91.905
List of rules subject to waivers.
91.907-91.999
[Reserved]

# Subpart K—Fractional Ownership Operations
91.1001
Applicability.
91.1002
Compliance date.
91.1003
Management contract between owner and program manager.
91.1005
Prohibitions and limitations.
91.1007
Flights conducted under part 121 or part 135 of this chapter.
91.1009
Clarification of operational control.
91.1011
Operational control responsibilities and delegation.
91.1013
Operational control briefing and acknowledgment.
91.1014
Issuing or denying management specifications.
91.1015
Management specifications.
91.1017
Amending program manager's management specifications.
91.1019
Conducting tests and inspections.
91.1021
Internal safety reporting and incident/accident response.
91.1023
Program operating manual requirements.
91.1025
Program operating manual contents.
91.1027
Recordkeeping.
91.1029
Flight scheduling and locating requirements.
91.1031
Pilot in command or second in command: Designation required.
91.1033
Operating information required.
91.1035
Passenger awareness.
91.1037
Large transport category airplanes: Turbine engine powered; Limitations; Destination and alternate airports.
91.1039
IFR takeoff, approach and landing minimums.
91.1041
Aircraft proving and validation tests.
91.1043
[Reserved]
91.1045
Additional equipment requirements.
91.1047
Drug and alcohol misuse education program.
91.1049
Personnel.
91.1050
Employment of former FAA employees.
91.1053
Crewmember experience.
91.1055
Pilot operating limitations and pairing requirement.
91.1057
Flight, duty and rest time requirements; All crewmembers.
91.1059
Flight time limitations and rest requirements: One or two pilot crews.
91.1061
Augmented flight crews.
91.1062
Duty periods and rest requirements: Flight attendants.
91.1063
Testing and training: Applicability and terms used.
91.1065
Initial and recurrent pilot testing requirements.
91.1067
Initial and recurrent flight attendant crewmember testing requirements.
91.1069
Flight crew: Instrument proficiency check requirements.
91.1071
Crewmember: Tests and checks, grace provisions, training to accepted standards.
91.1073
Training program: General.
91.1075
Training program: Special rules.
91.1077
Training program and revision: Initial and final approval.
91.1079
Training program: Curriculum.
91.1081
Crewmember training requirements.
91.1083
Crewmember emergency training.
91.1085
Hazardous materials recognition training.
91.1087
Approval of aircraft simulators and other training device.
91.1089
Qualifications: Check pilots (aircraft) and check pilots (simulator).
91.1091
Qualifications: Flight instructors (aircraft) and flight instructors (simulator).
91.1093
Initial and transition training and checking: Check pilots (aircraft), check pilots (simulator).
91.1095
Initial and transition training and checking: Flight instructors (aircraft), flight instructors (simulator).
91.1097
Pilot and flight attendant crewmember training programs.
91.1099
Crewmember initial and recurrent training requirements.
91.1101
Pilots: Initial, transition, and upgrade ground training.
91.1103
Pilots: Initial, transition, upgrade, requalification, and differences flight training.
91.1105
Flight attendants: Initial and transition ground training.
91.1107
Recurrent training.
91.1109
Aircraft maintenance: Inspection program.
91.1111
Maintenance training.
91.1113
Maintenance recordkeeping.
91.1115
Inoperable instruments and equipment.
91.1411
Continuous airworthiness maintenance program use by fractional ownership program manager.
91.1413
CAMP: Responsibility for airworthiness.
91.1415
CAMP: Mechanical reliability reports.
91.1417
CAMP: Mechanical interruption summary report.
91.1423
CAMP: Maintenance organization.
91.1425
CAMP: Maintenance, preventive maintenance, and alteration programs.
91.1427
CAMP: Manual requirements.
91.1429
CAMP: Required inspection personnel.
91.1431
CAMP: Continuing analysis and surveillance.
91.1433
CAMP: Maintenance and preventive maintenance training program.
91.1435
CAMP: Certificate requirements.
91.1437
CAMP: Authority to perform and approve maintenance.
91.1439
CAMP: Maintenance recording requirements.
91.1441
CAMP: Transfer of maintenance records.
91.1443
CAMP: Airworthiness release or aircraft maintenance log entry.

# Subpart L—Continued Airworthiness and Safety Improvements
91.1501
Purpose and definition.
91.1503
[Reserved]
91.1505
Repairs assessment for pressurized fuselages.
91.1507
Fuel tank system inspection program.

# Subpart M—Special Federal Aviation Regulations
91.1603
Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 112—Prohibition Against Certain Flights in the Territory and Airspace of Libya.
91.1605
Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 77—Prohibition Against Certain Flights in the Baghdad Flight Information Region (FIR) (ORBB).
91.1607
[Reserved]
91.1609
Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 114—Prohibition Against Certain Flights in the Damascus Flight Information Region (FIR) (OSTT).
91.1611
Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 115—Prohibition Against Certain Flights in Specified Areas of the Sanaa Flight Information Region (FIR) (OYSC).
91.1613
Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 107—Prohibition Against Certain Flights in the Territory and Airspace of Somalia.
91.1615
Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 79—Prohibition Against Certain Flights in the Pyongyang Flight Information Region (FIR) (ZKKP).
91.1617
Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 117—Prohibition Against Certain Flights in the Tehran Flight Information Region (FIR) (OIIX).
91.1619
Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 119—Prohibition Against Certain Flights in the Kabul Flight Information Region (FIR) (OAKX).

# Subpart N—Mitsubishi MU-2B Series Special Training, Experience, and Operating Requirements
91.1701
Applicability.
91.1703
Compliance and eligibility.
91.1705
Required pilot training.
91.1707
Training program hours.
91.1709
Training program approval.
91.1711
Aeronautical experience.
91.1713
Instruction, checking, and evaluation.
91.1715
Currency requirements and flight review.
91.1717
Operating requirements.
91.1719
Credit for prior training.
91.1721
Incorporation by reference.
Appendix A to Part 91—Category II Operations: Manual, Instruments, Equipment, and Maintenance
Appendixes B—C to Part 91 [Reserved]
Appendix D to Part 91—Airports/Locations: Special Operating Restrictions
Appendix E to Part 91—Airplane Flight Recorder Specifications
Appendix F to Part 91—Helicopter Flight Recorder Specifications
Appendix G to Part 91—Operations in Reduced Vertical Separation Minimum (RVSM) Airspace

# Authority:
49 U.S.C. 106(f), 40101, 40103, 40105, 40113, 40120, 44101, 44111, 44701, 44704, 44709, 44711, 44712, 44715, 44716, 44717, 44722, 46306, 46315, 46316, 46504, 46506-46507, 47122, 47508, 47528-47531, 47534; Pub. L. 114-190, 130 Stat. 615 (49 U.S.C. 44703 note); Sec. 828 of Pub. L. 118-63, 138 Stat. 1330 (49 U.S.C. 44703 note); articles 12 and 29 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation (61 Stat. 1180), (126 Stat. 11).
Pt. 91, SFAR No. 50-2

# Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 50-2—Special Flight Rules in the Vicinity of the Grand Canyon National Park, AZ
Section 1. Applicability.
This rule prescribes special operating rules for all persons operating aircraft in the following airspace, designated as the Grand Canyon National Park Special Flight Rules Area:
That airspace extending upward from the surface up to but not including 14,500 feet MSL within an area bounded by a line beginning at lat. 36°09′30″ N., long. 114°03′00″ W.; northeast to lat. 36°14′00″ N., long. 113°09′50″ W.; thence northeast along the boundary of the Grand Canyon National Park to lat. 36°24′47″ N., long. 112°52′00″ W.; to lat. 36°30′30″ N., long. 112°36′15″ W. to lat. 36°21′30″ N., long. 112°00′00″ W. to lat. 36°35′30″ N., long. 111°53′10″
W., to lat. 36°53′00″ N., long. 111°36′45″ W. to lat. 36°53′00″ N., long. 111°33′00″ W.; to lat. 36°19′00″ N., long. 111°50′50″ W.; to lat. 36°17′00″ N., long. 111°42′00″ W.; to lat. 35°59′30″ N., long. 111°42′00″ W.; to lat. 35°57′30″ N., long. 112°03′55″ W.; thence counterclockwise via the 5 statute mile radius of the Grand Canyon Airport airport reference point (lat. 35°57′09″ N., long. 112°08′47″ W.) to lat. 35°57′30″ N., long. 112°14′00″ W.; to lat. 35°57′30″ N., long. 113°11′00″ W.; to lat. 35°42′30″ N., long. 113°11′00″ W.; to 35°38′30″ N.; long. 113°27′30″ W.; thence counterclockwise via the 5 statute mile radius of the Peach Springs VORTAC to lat. 35°41′20″ N., long. 113°36′00″ W.; to lat. 35°55′25″ N., long. 113°49′10″ W.; to lat. 35°57′45″ N., 113°45′20″ W.; thence northwest along the park boundary to lat. 36°02′20″ N., long. 113°50′15″ W.; to 36°00′10″ N., long. 113°53′45″ W.; thence to the point of beginning.
Section 3. Aircraft operations: general.
Except in an emergency, no person may operate an aircraft in the Special Flight Rules, Area under VFR on or after September 22, 1988, or under IFR on or after April 6, 1989, unless the operation—
(a) Is conducted in accordance with the following procedures:

# Note:
The following procedures do not relieve the pilot from see-and-avoid responsibility or compliance with FAR 91.119.
(1) Unless necessary to maintain a safe distance from other aircraft or terrain—
(i) Remain clear of the areas described in Section 4; and
(ii) Remain at or above the following altitudes in each sector of the canyon:
Eastern section from Lees Ferry to North Canyon and North Canyon to Boundary Ridge: as prescribed in Section 5.
Boundary Ridge to Supai Point (Yumtheska Point): 10,000 feet MSL.
Western section from Diamond Creek to the Grant Wash Cliffs: 8,000 feet MSL.
(2) Proceed through the four flight corridors describe in Section 4 at the following altitudes unless otherwise authorized in writing by the responsible Flight Standards office:

# Northbound
11,500 or
13,500 feet MSL

# Southbound
10,500 or
12,500 feet MSL
(b) Is authorized in writing by the responsible Flight Standards office and is conducted in compliance with the conditions contained in that authorization. Normally authorization will be granted for operation in the areas described in Section 4 or below the altitudes listed in Section 5 only for operations of aircraft necessary for law enforcement, firefighting, emergency medical treatment/evacuation of persons in the vicinity of the Park; for support of Park maintenance or activities; or for aerial access to and maintenance of other property located within the Special Flight Rules Area. Authorization may be issued on a continuing basis.
(c)(1) Prior to November 1, 1988, is conducted in accordance with a specific authorization to operate in that airspace incorporated in the operator's part 135 operations specifications in accordance with the provisions of SFAR 50-1, notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 4 and 5; and
(2) On or after November 1, 1988, is conducted in accordance with a specific authorization to operate in that airspace incorporated in the operated in the operator's operations specifications and approved by the responsible Flight Standards office in accordance with the provisions of SFAR 50-2.
(d) Is a search and rescue mission directed by the U.S. Air Force Rescue Coordination Center.
(e) Is conducted within 3 nautical miles of Whitmore Airstrip, Pearce Ferry Airstrip, North Rim Airstrip, Cliff Dwellers Airstrip, or Marble Canyon Airstrip at an altitudes less than 3,000 feet above airport elevation, for the purpose of landing at or taking off from that facility. Or
(f) Is conducted under an IFR clearance and the pilot is acting in accordance with ATC instructions. An IFR flight plan may not be filed on a route or at an altitude that would require operation in an area described in Section 4.
Section 4. Flight-free zones.
Except in an emergency or if otherwise necessary for safety of flight, or unless otherwise authorized by the responsible Flight Standards office for a purpose listed in Section 3(b), no person may operate an aircraft in the Special Flight Rules Area within the following areas:
(a) Desert View Flight-Free Zone. Within an area bounded by a line beginning at Lat. 35°59′30″ N., Long. 111°46′20″ W. to 35°59′30″ N., Long. 111°52′45″ W.; to Lat. 36°04′50″ N., Long. 111°52′00″ W.; to Lat. 36°06′00″ N., Long. 111°46′20″ W.; to the point of origin; but not including the airspace at and above 10,500 feet MSL within 1 mile of the western boundary of the zone. The area between the Desert View and Bright Angel Flight-Free Zones is designated the “Zuni Point Corridor.”
(b) Bright Angel Flight-Free Zone. Within an area bounded by a line beginning at Lat. 35°59′30″ N., Long. 111°55′30″ W.; to Lat. 35°59′30″ N., Long. 112°04′00″ W.; thence counterclockwise via the 5 statute mile radius of the Grand Canyon Airport point (Lat. 35°57′09″ N., Long. 112°08′47″ W.) to Lat. 36°01′30″ N., Long. 112°11′00″ W.; to Lat. 36°06′15″ N., Long. 112°12′50″ W.; to Lat. 36°14′40″ N., Long. 112°08′50″ W.; to Lat. 36°14′40″ N., Long. 111°57′30″ W.; to Lat.
36°12′30″ N., Long. 111°53′50″ W.; to the point of origin; but not including the airspace at and above 10,500 feet MSL within 1 mile of the eastern boundary between the southern boundary and Lat. 36°04′50″ N. or the airspace at and above 10,500 feet MSL within 2 miles of the northwest boundary. The area bounded by the Bright Angel and Shinumo Flight-Free Zones is designated the “Dragon Corridor.”
(c) Shinumo Flight-Free Zone. Within an area bounded by a line beginning at Lat. 36°04′00″ N., Long. 112°16′40″ W.; northwest along the park boundary to a point at Lat. 36°12′47″ N., Long. 112°30′53″ W.; to Lat. 36°21′15″ N., Long. 112°20′20″ W.; east along the park boundary to Lat. 36°21′15″ N., Long. 112°13′55″ W.; to Lat. 36°14′40″ N., Long. 112°11′25″ W.; to the point of origin. The area between the Thunder River/Toroweap and Shinumo Flight Free Zones is designated the “Fossil Canyon Corridor.”
(d) Toroweap/Thunder River Flight-Free Zone. Within an area bounded by a line beginning at Lat. 36°22′45″ N., Long. 112°20′35″ W.; thence northwest along the boundary of the Grand Canyon National Park to Lat. 36°17′48″ N., Long. 113°03′15″ W.; to Lat. 36°15′00″ N., Long. 113°07′10″ W.; to Lat. 36°10′30″ N., Long. 113°07′10″ W.; thence east along the Colorado River to the confluence of Havasu Canyon (Lat. 36°18′40″ N., Long. 112°45′45″ W.;) including that area within a 1.5 nautical mile radius of Toroweap Overlook (Lat. 36°12′45″ N., Long. 113°03′30″ W.); to the point of origin; but not including the following airspace designated as the “Tuckup Corridor”: at or above 10,500 feet MSL within 2 nautical miles either side of a line extending between Lat. 36°24′47″ N., Long. 112°48′50″ W. and Lat. 36°17′10″ N., Long. 112°48′50″ W.; to the point of origin.
Section 5. Minimum flight altitudes.
Except in an emergency or if otherwise necessary for safety of flight, or unless otherwise authorized by the responsible Flight Standards office for a purpose listed in Section 3(b), no person may operate an aircraft in the Special Flight Rules Area at an altitude lower than the following:
(a) Eastern section from Lees Ferry to North Canyon: 5,000 feet MSL.
(b) Eastern section from North Canyon to Boundary Ridge: 6,000 feet MSL.
(c) Boundary Ridge to Supai (Yumtheska) Point: 7,500 feet MSL.
(d) Supai Point to Diamond Creek: 6,500 feet MSL.
(e) Western section from Diamond Creek to the Grand Wash Cliffs: 5,000 feet MSL.
Section 9. Termination date.
Section 1. Applicability, Section 4, Flight-free zones, and Section 5. Minimum flight altitudes, expire on April 19, 2001.

# Note:
[Removed]
[66 FR 1003, Jan. 4, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 16584, Mar. 26, 2001; 72 FR 9846, Mar. 6, 2007; Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 91-350, 83 FR 9171, Mar. 5, 2018]
Pt. 91, SFAR No. 60

# Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 60—Air Traffic Control System Emergency Operation
1. Each person shall, before conducting any operation under the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR chapter I), be familiar with all available information concerning that operation, including Notices to Airmen issued under § 91.139 and, when activated, the provisions of the National Air Traffic Reduced Complement Operations Plan available for inspection at operating air traffic facilities and Regional air traffic division offices, and the General Aviation Reservation Program. No operator may change the designated airport of intended operation for any flight contained in the October 1, 1990, OAG.
2. Notwithstanding any provision of the Federal Aviation Regulations to the contrary, no person may operate an aircraft in the Air Traffic Control System:
a. Contrary to any restriction, prohibition, procedure or other action taken by the Director of the Office of Air Traffic Systems Management (Director) pursuant to paragraph 3 of this regulation and announced in a Notice to Airmen pursuant to § 91.139 of the Federal Aviation Regulations.
b. When the National Air Traffic Reduced Complement Operations Plan is activated pursuant to paragraph 4 of this regulation, except in accordance with the pertinent provisions of the National Air Traffic Reduced Complement Operations Plan.
3. Prior to or in connection with the implementation of the RCOP, and as conditions warrant, the Director is authorized to:
a. Restrict, prohibit, or permit VFR and/or IFR operations at any airport, Class B airspace area, Class C airspace area, or other class of controlled airspace.
b. Give priority at any airport to flights that are of military necessity, or are medical emergency flights, Presidential flights, and flights transporting critical Government employees.
c. Implement, at any airport, traffic management procedures, that may include reduction of flight operations. Reduction of flight operations will be accomplished, to the extent practical, on a pro rata basis among and between air carrier, commercial operator, and general aviation operations. Flights cancelled under this SFAR at a high density traffic airport will be considered to have been operated for purposes of part 93 of the Federal Aviation Regulations.
4. The Director may activate the National Air Traffic Reduced Complement Operations
Plan at any time he finds that it is necessary for the safety and efficiency of the National Airspace System. Upon activation of the RCOP and notwithstanding any provision of the FAR to the contrary, the Director is authorized to suspend or modify any airspace designation.
5. Notice of restrictions, prohibitions, procedures and other actions taken by the Director under this regulation with respect to the operation of the Air Traffic Control system will be announced in Notices to Airmen issued pursuant to § 91.139 of the Federal Aviation Regulations.
6. The Director may delegate his authority under this regulation to the extent he considers necessary for the safe and efficient operation of the National Air Traffic Control System.
(Authority: 49 U.S.C. app. 1301(7), 1303, 1344, 1348, 1352 through 1355, 1401, 1421 through 1431, 1471, 1472, 1502, 1510, 1522, and 2121 through 2125; articles 12, 29, 31, and 32(a) of the Convention on International Civil Aviation (61 stat. 1180); 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.;
E.O. 11514, 35 FR 4247, 3 CFR, 1966-1970 Comp., p. 902; 49 U.S.C. 106(g))
[Docket 26351, 55 FR 40760, Oct. 4, 1990, as amended by Amdt. 91-227, 56 FR 65652, Dec. 17, 1991]
Pt. 91, SFAR No. 97

# Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 97—Special Operating Rules for the Conduct of Instrument Flight Rules (IFR) Area Navigation (RNAV) Operations using Global Positioning Systems (GPS) in Alaska
Those persons identified in Section 1 may conduct IFR en route RNAV operations in the State of Alaska and its airspace on published air traffic routes using TSO C145a/C146a navigation systems as the only means of IFR navigation. Despite contrary provisions of parts 71, 91, 95, 121, 125, and 135 of this chapter, a person may operate aircraft in accordance with this SFAR if the following requirements are met.

# Section 1.
Purpose, use, and limitations
a. This SFAR permits TSO C145a/C146a GPS (RNAV) systems to be used for IFR en route operations in the United States airspace over and near Alaska (as set forth in paragraph c of this section) at Special Minimum En Route Altitudes (MEA) that are outside the operational service volume of ground-based navigation aids, if the aircraft operation also meets the requirements of sections 3 and 4 of this SFAR.
b. Certificate holders and part 91 operators may operate aircraft under this SFAR provided that they comply with the requirements of this SFAR.
c. Operations conducted under this SFAR are limited to United States Airspace within and near the State of Alaska as defined in the following area description:
From 62°00′00.000″ N, Long. 141°00′00.00″ W.; to Lat. 59°47′54.11″ N., Long. 135°28′38.34″ W.; to Lat. 56°00′04.11″ N., Long. 130°00′07.80″ W.; to Lat. 54°43′00.00″ N., Long. 130°37′00.00″ W.; to Lat. 51°24′00.00″ N., Long. 167°49′00.00″ W.; to Lat. 50°08′00.00″ N., Long. 176°34′00.00″ W.; to Lat. 45°42′00.00″ N., Long. −162°55′00.00″ E.; to Lat. 50°05′00.00″ N., Long. −159°00′00.00″ E.; to Lat. 54°00′00.00″ N., Long. −169°00′00.00″ E.; to Lat. 60°00 00.00″ N., Long. −180°00′ 00.00″ E; to Lat. 65°00′00.00″ N., Long. 168°58′23.00″ W.; to Lat. 90°00′00.00″ N., Long. 00°00′0.00″ W.; to Lat. 62°00′00.000″ N, Long. 141°00′00.00″ W.
(d) No person may operate an aircraft under IFR during the en route portion of flight below the standard MEA or at the special MEA unless the operation is conducted in accordance with sections 3 and 4 of this SFAR.

# Section 2.
Definitions and abbreviations
For the purposes of this SFAR, the following definitions and abbreviations apply.
Area navigation (RNAV).
RNAV is a method of navigation that permits aircraft operations on any desired flight path.
Area navigation (RNAV) route.
RNAV route is a published route based on RNAV that can be used by suitably equipped aircraft.
Certificate holder.
A certificate holder means a person holding a certificate issued under part 119 or part 125 of this chapter or holding operations specifications issued under part 129 of this chapter.
Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS).
GNSS is a world-wide position and time determination system that uses satellite ranging signals to determine user location. It encompasses all satellite ranging technologies, including GPS and additional satellites. Components of the GNSS include GPS, the Global Orbiting Navigation Satellite System, and WAAS satellites.
Global Positioning System (GPS).
GPS is a satellite-based radio navigational, positioning, and time transfer system. The system provides highly accurate position and velocity information and precise time on a continuous global basis to properly equipped users.
Minimum crossing altitude (MCA).
The minimum crossing altitude (MCA) applies to the operation of an aircraft proceeding to a higher minimum en route altitude when crossing specified fixes.
Required navigation system.
Required navigation system means navigation equipment that meets the performance requirements of TSO C145a/C146a navigation systems certified for IFR en route operations.
Route segment.
Route segment is a portion of a route bounded on each end by a fix or NAVAID.
Special MEA.
Special MEA refers to the minimum en route altitudes, using required navigation systems, on published routes outside the operational service volume of ground-based navigation aids and are depicted on the published Low Altitude and High Altitude En Route Charts using the color blue and with the suffix “G.” For example, a GPS MEA of 4000 feet MSL would be depicted using the color blue, as 4000G.
Standard MEA.
Standard MEA refers to the minimum en route IFR altitude on published routes that uses ground-based navigation aids and are depicted on the published Low Altitude and High Altitude En Route Charts using the color black.
Station referenced.
Station referenced refers to radio navigational aids or fixes that are referenced by ground based navigation facilities such as VOR facilities.
Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS).
WAAS is an augmentation to GPS that calculates GPS integrity and correction data on the ground and uses geo-stationary satellites to broadcast GPS integrity and correction data to GPS/WAAS users and to provide ranging signals. It is a safety critical system consisting of a ground network of reference and integrity monitor data processing sites to assess current GPS performance, as well as a space segment that broadcasts that assessment to GNSS users to support en route through precision approach navigation. Users of the system include all aircraft applying the WAAS data and ranging signal.

# Section 3.
Operational Requirements
To operate an aircraft under this SFAR, the following requirements must be met:
a. Training and qualification for operations and maintenance personnel on required navigation equipment used under this SFAR.
b. Use authorized procedures for normal, abnormal, and emergency situations unique to these operations, including degraded navigation capabilities, and satellite system outages.
c. For certificate holders, training of flight crewmembers and other personnel authorized to exercise operational control on the use of those procedures specified in paragraph b of this section.
d. Part 129 operators must have approval from the State of the operator to conduct operations in accordance with this SFAR.
e. In order to operate under this SFAR, a certificate holder must be authorized in operations specifications.

# Section 4.
Equipment Requirements
a. The certificate holder must have properly installed, certificated, and functional dual required navigation systems as defined in section 2 of this SFAR for the en route operations covered under this SFAR.
b. When the aircraft is being operated under part 91, the aircraft must be equipped with at least one properly installed, certificated, and functional required navigation system as defined in section 2 of this SFAR for the en route operations covered under this SFAR.

# Section 5.
Expiration date
This Special Federal Aviation Regulation will remain in effect until rescinded.
[Docket FAA-2003-14305, 68 FR 14077, Mar. 21, 2003]
Pt. 91, SFAR No. 104

# Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 104—Prohibition Against Certain Flights by Syrian Air Carriers to the United States
1.
Applicability.
This Special Federal Aviation Regulation (SFAR) No. 104 applies to any air carrier owned or controlled by Syria that is engaged in scheduled international air services.
2.
Special flight restrictions.
Except as provided in paragraphs 3 and 4 of this SFAR No. 104, no air carrier described in paragraph 1 may take off from or land in the territory of the United States.
3.
Permitted operations.
This SFAR does not prohibit overflights of the territory of the United States by any air carrier described in paragraph 1.
4.
Emergency situations.
In an emergency that requires immediate decision and action for the safety of the flight, the pilot in command of an aircraft of any air carrier described in paragraph 1 may deviate from this SFAR to the extent required by that emergency. Each person who deviates from this rule must, within 10 days of the deviation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays, submit to the responsible Flight Standards office a complete report of the operations or the aircraft involved in the deviation, including a description of the deviation and the reasons therefor.
5.
Duration.
This SFAR No. 104 will remain in effect until further notice.
[Docket FAA-2004-17763, 69 FR 31719, June 4, 2004, as amended by Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 91-350, 83 FR 9171, Mar. 5, 2018]

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
Docket 18334, 54 FR 34292, Aug. 18, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 91.1
Applicability.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c), (e), and (f) of this section and §§ 91.701 and 91.703, this part prescribes
rules governing the operation of aircraft within the United States, including the waters within 3 nautical miles of the U.S. coast.
(b) Each person operating an aircraft in the airspace overlying the waters between 3 and 12 nautical miles from the coast of the United States must comply with §§ 91.1 through 91.21; §§ 91.101 through 91.143; §§ 91.151 through 91.159; §§ 91.167 through 91.193; § 91.203; § 91.205; §§ 91.209 through 91.217; § 91.221, § 91.225; §§ 91.303 through 91.319; §§ 91.323 through 91.327; § 91.605; § 91.609; §§ 91.703 through 91.715; and § 91.903.
(c) This part applies to each person on board an aircraft being operated under this part, unless otherwise specified.
(d) This part also establishes requirements for operators to take actions to support the continued airworthiness of each airplane.
(e) This part does not apply to any aircraft or vehicle governed by part 103 of this chapter, or subparts B, C, or D of part 101 of this chapter.
(f) Except as provided in §§ 107.13, 107.27, 107.47, 107.57, and 107.59 of this chapter, this part does not apply to any aircraft governed by part 107 of this chapter.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34292, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-257, 64 FR 1079, Jan. 7, 1999; Amdt. 91-282, 69 FR 44880, July 27, 2004; Amdt. 91-297, 72 FR 63410, Nov. 8, 2007; Amdt. 91-314, 75 FR 30193, May 28, 2010; Docket FAA-2015-0150, Amdt. 91-343, 81 FR 42208, June 28, 2016]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 91.1 were published by Docket FAA-2023-1275, Amdt. 60-8, 89 FR 92485, Nov. 21, 2024, effective Jan. 21, 2025.
§ 91.3
Responsibility and authority of the pilot in command.
(a) The pilot in command of an aircraft is directly responsible for, and is the final authority as to, the operation of that aircraft.
(b) In an in-flight emergency requiring immediate action, the pilot in command may deviate from any rule of this part to the extent required to meet that emergency.
(c) Each pilot in command who deviates from a rule under paragraph (b) of this section shall, upon the request of the Administrator, send a written report of that deviation to the Administrator.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2120-0005)
§ 91.5
Pilot in command of aircraft requiring more than one required pilot.
No person may operate an aircraft that is type certificated for more than one required pilot flight crewmember unless the pilot in command meets the requirements of § 61.58 of this chapter.
§ 91.7
Civil aircraft airworthiness.
(a) No person may operate a civil aircraft unless it is in an airworthy condition.
(b) The pilot in command of a civil aircraft is responsible for determining whether that aircraft is in condition for safe flight. The pilot in command shall discontinue the flight when unairworthy mechanical, electrical, or structural conditions occur.
§ 91.9
Civil aircraft flight manual, marking, and placard requirements.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, no person may operate a civil aircraft without complying with the operating limitations specified in the approved Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual, markings, and placards, or as otherwise prescribed by the certificating authority of the country of registry.
(b) No person may operate a U.S.-registered civil aircraft—
(1) For which an Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual is required by § 21.5 of this chapter unless there is available in the aircraft a current, approved Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual or the manual provided for in § 121.141(b); and
(2) For which an Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual is not required by § 21.5 of this chapter, unless there is available in the aircraft a current approved Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual, approved manual material, markings, and placards, or any combination thereof.
(c) No person may operate a U.S.-registered civil aircraft unless that aircraft is identified in accordance with part 45 or 48of this chapter.
(d) Any person taking off or landing a helicopter certificated under part 29 of this chapter at a heliport constructed over water may make such momentary flight as is necessary for takeoff or landing through the prohibited range of the limiting height-speed envelope established for the helicopter if that flight through the prohibited range takes place over water on which a safe ditching can be accomplished and if the helicopter is amphibious or is equipped with floats or other emergency flotation gear adequate to accomplish a safe emergency ditching on open water.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34292, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Docket FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 91-366, 87 FR 75846, Dec. 9, 2022]
§ 91.11
Prohibition on interference with crewmembers.
No person may assault, threaten, intimidate, or interfere with a crewmember in the performance of the crewmember's duties aboard an aircraft being operated.
§ 91.13
Careless or reckless operation.
(a)
Aircraft operations for the purpose of air navigation.
No person may operate an aircraft in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of another.
(b)
Aircraft operations other than for the purpose of air navigation.
No person may operate an aircraft, other than for the purpose of air navigation, on any part of the surface of an airport used by aircraft for air commerce (including areas used by those aircraft for receiving or discharging persons or cargo), in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of another.
§ 91.15
Dropping objects.
No pilot in command of a civil aircraft may allow any object to be dropped from that aircraft in flight that creates a hazard to persons or property. However, this section does not prohibit the dropping of any object if reasonable precautions are taken to avoid injury or damage to persons or property.
§ 91.17
Alcohol or drugs.
(a) No person may act or attempt to act as a crewmember of a civil aircraft—
(1) Within 8 hours after the consumption of any alcoholic beverage;
(2) While under the influence of alcohol;
(3) While using any drug that affects the person's faculties in any way contrary to safety; or
(4) While having an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or greater in a blood or breath specimen. Alcohol concentration means grams of alcohol per deciliter of blood or grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath.
(b) Except in an emergency, no pilot of a civil aircraft may allow a person who appears to be intoxicated or who demonstrates by manner or physical indications that the individual is under the influence of drugs (except a medical patient under proper care) to be carried in that aircraft.
(c) A crewmember shall do the following:
(1) On request of a law enforcement officer, submit to a test to indicate the alcohol concentration in the blood or breath, when—
(i) The law enforcement officer is authorized under State or local law to conduct the test or to have the test conducted; and
(ii) The law enforcement officer is requesting submission to the test to investigate a suspected violation of State or local law governing the same or substantially similar conduct prohibited by paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(4) of this section.
(2) Whenever the FAA has a reasonable basis to believe that a person may have violated paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(4) of this section, on request of the FAA, that person must furnish to the FAA the results, or authorize any clinic, hospital, or doctor, or other person to release to the FAA, the results of each test taken within 4 hours after acting or attempting to act as a crewmember that indicates an alcohol concentration in the blood or breath specimen.
(d) Whenever the Administrator has a reasonable basis to believe that a person may have violated paragraph (a)(3) of this section, that person shall, upon
request by the Administrator, furnish the Administrator, or authorize any clinic, hospital, doctor, or other person to release to the Administrator, the results of each test taken within 4 hours after acting or attempting to act as a crewmember that indicates the presence of any drugs in the body.
(e) Any test information obtained by the Administrator under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section may be evaluated in determining a person's qualifications for any airman certificate or possible violations of this chapter and may be used as evidence in any legal proceeding under section 602, 609, or 901 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34292, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-291, June 21, 2006]
§ 91.19
Carriage of narcotic drugs, marihuana, and depressant or stimulant drugs or substances.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, no person may operate a civil aircraft within the United States with knowledge that narcotic drugs, marihuana, and depressant or stimulant drugs or substances as defined in Federal or State statutes are carried in the aircraft.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any carriage of narcotic drugs, marihuana, and depressant or stimulant drugs or substances authorized by or under any Federal or State statute or by any Federal or State agency.
§ 91.21
Portable electronic devices.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, no person may operate, nor may any operator or pilot in command of an aircraft allow the operation of, any portable electronic device on any of the following U.S.-registered civil aircraft:
(1) Aircraft operated by a holder of an air carrier operating certificate or an operating certificate; or
(2) Any other aircraft while it is operated under IFR.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to—
(1) Portable voice recorders;
(2) Hearing aids;
(3) Heart pacemakers;
(4) Electric shavers; or
(5) Any other portable electronic device that the operator of the aircraft has determined will not cause interference with the navigation or communication system of the aircraft on which it is to be used.
(c) In the case of an aircraft operated by a holder of an air carrier operating certificate or an operating certificate, the determination required by paragraph (b)(5) of this section shall be made by that operator of the aircraft on which the particular device is to be used. In the case of other aircraft, the determination may be made by the pilot in command or other operator of the aircraft.
§ 91.23
Truth-in-leasing clause requirement in leases and conditional sales contracts.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the parties to a lease or contract of conditional sale involving a U.S.-registered large civil aircraft and entered into after January 2, 1973, shall execute a written lease or contract and include therein a written truth-in-leasing clause as a concluding paragraph in large print, immediately preceding the space for the signature of the parties, which contains the following with respect to each such aircraft:
(1) Identification of the Federal Aviation Regulations under which the aircraft has been maintained and inspected during the 12 months preceding the execution of the lease or contract of conditional sale, and certification by the parties thereto regarding the aircraft's status of compliance with applicable maintenance and inspection requirements in this part for the operation to be conducted under the lease or contract of conditional sale.
(2) The name and address (printed or typed) and the signature of the person responsible for operational control of the aircraft under the lease or contract of conditional sale, and certification that each person understands that person's responsibilities for compliance with applicable Federal Aviation Regulations.
(3) A statement that an explanation of factors bearing on operational control and pertinent Federal Aviation
Regulations can be obtained from the responsible Flight Standards office.
(b) The requirements of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply—
(1) To a lease or contract of conditional sale when—
(i) The party to whom the aircraft is furnished is a foreign air carrier or certificate holder under part 121, 125, 135, or 141 of this chapter, or
(ii) The party furnishing the aircraft is a foreign air carrier or a person operating under part 121, 125, and 141 of this chapter, or a person operating under part 135 of this chapter having authority to engage in on-demand operations with large aircraft.
(2) To a contract of conditional sale, when the aircraft involved has not been registered anywhere prior to the execution of the contract, except as a new aircraft under a dealer's aircraft registration certificate issued in accordance with § 47.61 of this chapter.
(c) No person may operate a large civil aircraft of U.S. registry that is subject to a lease or contract of conditional sale to which paragraph (a) of this section applies, unless—
(1) The lessee or conditional buyer, or the registered owner if the lessee is not a citizen of the United States, has mailed a copy of the lease or contract that complies with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, within 24 hours of its execution, to the Aircraft Registration Branch, Attn: Technical Section, P.O. Box 25724, Oklahoma City, OK 73125;
(2) A copy of the lease or contract that complies with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section is carried in the aircraft. The copy of the lease or contract shall be made available for review upon request by the Administrator, and
(3) The lessee or conditional buyer, or the registered owner if the lessee is not a citizen of the United States, has notified by telephone or in person the responsible Flight Standards office. Unless otherwise authorized by that office, the notification shall be given at least 48 hours before takeoff in the case of the first flight of that aircraft under that lease or contract and inform the FAA of—
(i) The location of the airport of departure;
(ii) The departure time; and
(iii) The registration number of the aircraft involved.
(d) The copy of the lease or contract furnished to the FAA under paragraph (c) of this section is commercial or financial information obtained from a person. It is, therefore, privileged and confidential and will not be made available by the FAA for public inspection or copying under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) unless recorded with the FAA under part 49 of this chapter.
(e) For the purpose of this section, a lease means any agreement by a person to furnish an aircraft to another person for compensation or hire, whether with or without flight crewmembers, other than an agreement for the sale of an aircraft and a contract of conditional sale under section 101 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958. The person furnishing the aircraft is referred to as the lessor, and the person to whom it is furnished the lessee.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2120-0005)
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34292, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-212, 54 FR 39293, Sept. 25, 1989; Amdt. 91-253, 62 FR 13253, Mar. 19, 1997; Amdt. 91-267, 66 FR 21066, Apr. 27, 2001; Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 91-350, 83 FR 9171, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 91.25
Aviation Safety Reporting Program: Prohibition against use of reports for enforcement purposes.
The Administrator of the FAA will not use reports submitted to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration under the Aviation Safety Reporting Program (or information derived therefrom) in any enforcement action except information concerning accidents or criminal offenses which are wholly excluded from the Program.
§§ 91.27-91.99
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Flight Rules

# Source:
Docket 18334, 54 FR 34294, Aug. 18, 1989, unless otherwise noted.

# General
§ 91.101
Applicability.
This subpart prescribes flight rules governing the operation of aircraft
within the United States and within 12 nautical miles from the coast of the United States.
§ 91.103
Preflight action.
Each pilot in command shall, before beginning a flight, become familiar with all available information concerning that flight. This information must include—
(a) For a flight under IFR or a flight not in the vicinity of an airport, weather reports and forecasts, fuel requirements, alternatives available if the planned flight cannot be completed, and any known traffic delays of which the pilot in command has been advised by ATC;
(b) For any flight, runway lengths at airports of intended use, and the following takeoff and landing distance information:
(1) For civil aircraft for which an approved Airplane or Rotorcraft Flight Manual containing takeoff and landing distance data is required, the takeoff and landing distance data contained therein; and
(2) For civil aircraft other than those specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, other reliable information appropriate to the aircraft, relating to aircraft performance under expected values of airport elevation and runway slope, aircraft gross weight, and wind and temperature.
§ 91.105
Flight crewmembers at stations.
(a) During takeoff and landing, and while en route, each required flight crewmember shall—
(1) Be at the crewmember station unless the absence is necessary to perform duties in connection with the operation of the aircraft or in connection with physiological needs; and
(2) Keep the safety belt fastened while at the crewmember station.
(b) Each required flight crewmember of a U.S.-registered civil aircraft shall, during takeoff and landing, keep his or her shoulder harness fastened while at his or her assigned duty station. This paragraph does not apply if—
(1) The seat at the crewmember's station is not equipped with a shoulder harness; or
(2) The crewmember would be unable to perform required duties with the shoulder harness fastened.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34294, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-231, 57 FR 42671, Sept. 15, 1992]
§ 91.107
Use of safety belts, shoulder harnesses, and child restraint systems.
(a) Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator—
(1) No pilot may take off a U.S.-registered civil aircraft (except a free balloon that incorporates a basket or gondola, or an airship type certificated before November 2, 1987) unless the pilot in command of that aircraft ensures that each person on board is briefed on how to fasten and unfasten that person's safety belt and, if installed, shoulder harness.
(2) No pilot may cause to be moved on the surface, take off, or land a U.S.-registered civil aircraft (except a free balloon that incorporates a basket or gondola, or an airship type certificated before November 2, 1987) unless the pilot in command of that aircraft ensures that each person on board has been notified to fasten his or her safety belt and, if installed, his or her shoulder harness.
(3) Except as provided in this paragraph, each person on board a U.S.-registered civil aircraft (except a free balloon that incorporates a basket or gondola or an airship type certificated before November 2, 1987) must occupy an approved seat or berth with a safety belt and, if installed, shoulder harness, properly secured about him or her during movement on the surface, takeoff, and landing. For seaplane and float equipped rotorcraft operations during movement on the surface, the person pushing off the seaplane or rotorcraft from the dock and the person mooring the seaplane or rotorcraft at the dock are excepted from the preceding seating and safety belt requirements. Notwithstanding the preceding requirements of this paragraph, a person may:
(i) Be held by an adult, except as outlined in § 91.108(j), who is occupying an approved seat or berth, provided that the person being held has not reached his or her second birthday and does not occupy or use any restraining device;
(ii) Use the floor of the aircraft as a seat, provided that the person is on board for the purpose of engaging in sport parachuting; or
(iii) Notwithstanding any other requirement of this chapter, occupy an approved child restraint system furnished by the operator or one of the persons described in paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(A) of this section provided that:
(A) The child is accompanied by a parent, guardian, or attendant designated by the child's parent or guardian to attend to the safety of the child during the flight;
(B) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(B)(
4
) of this action, the approved child restraint system bears one or more labels as follows:
(
1
) Seats manufactured to U.S. standards between January 1, 1981, and February 25, 1985, must bear the label: “This child restraint system conforms to all applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards”;
(
2
) Seats manufactured to U.S. standards on or after February 26, 1985, must bear two labels:
(
i
) “This child restraint system conforms to all applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards”; and
(
ii
) “THIS RESTRAINT IS CERTIFIED FOR USE IN MOTOR VEHICLES AND AIRCRAFT” in red lettering;
(
3
) Seats that do not qualify under paragraphs (a)(3)(iii)(B)(
1
) and (a)(3)(iii)(B)(
2
) of this section must bear a label or markings showing:
(
ii
) That the seat was manufactured under the standards of the United Nations;
(
iii
) That the seat or child restraint device furnished by the operator was approved by the FAA through Type Certificate or Supplemental Type Certificate; or
(
iv
) That the seat or child restraint device furnished by the operator, or one of the persons described in paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(A) of this section, was approved by the FAA in accordance with § 21.8(d) of this chapter or Technical Standard Order C-100b or a later version. The child restraint device manufactured by AmSafe, Inc. (CARES, Part No. 4082) and approved by the FAA in accordance with § 21.305(d) (2010 ed.) of this chapter may continue to bear a label or markings showing FAA approval in accordance with § 21.305(d) (2010 ed.) of this chapter.
(
4
) Except as provided in § 91.107(a)(3)(iii)(B)(
3
)(
iii
) and § 91.107(a)(3)(iii)(B)(
3
)(
iv
), booster-type child restraint systems (as defined in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 213 (49 CFR 571.213)), vest- and harness-type child restraint systems, and lap held child restraints are not approved for use in aircraft; and
(C) The operator complies with the following requirements:
(
1
) The restraint system must be properly secured to an approved forward-facing seat or berth;
(
2
) The child must be properly secured in the restraint system and must not exceed the specified weight limit for the restraint system; and
(
3
) The restraint system must bear the appropriate label(s).
(b) Unless otherwise stated, this section does not apply to operations conducted under part 121, 125, or 135 of this chapter. Paragraph (a)(3) of this section does not apply to persons subject to § 91.105.
[Docket 26142, 57 FR 42671, Sept. 15, 1992, as amended by Amdt. 91-250, 61 FR 28421, June 4, 1996; Amdt. 91-289, 70 FR 50906, Aug. 26, 2005; Amdt. 91-292, 71 FR 40009, July 14, 2006; Amdt. 91-317, 75 FR 48857, Aug. 12, 2010; Amdt. 91-332, 79 FR 28812, May 20, 2014; Docket FAA-2023-2250, Amdt. 91-376, 89 FR 67849, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 91.108
Use of supplemental restraint systems.
(a)
Use of supplemental restraint systems.
Except as provided in this section, no person may conduct an operation in a civil aircraft in which any individual on board is secured with a supplemental restraint system, as defined in § 1.1 of this chapter.
(b)
Doors opened or removed flight operations.
Except as provided under paragraph (k) of this section:
(1) No person may operate a civil aircraft with the doors opened or removed unless—
(i) Each individual on board occupies an approved seat or berth with a safety belt and, if installed, shoulder harness, properly secured about the individual or an approved child restraint system properly secured to an approved seat or
berth with a safety belt and, if installed, shoulder harness in accordance with § 91.107(a)(3)(iii) or § 135.128(a)(2) of this chapter, during all phases of flight; or
(ii) Each individual on board—
(A) Occupies an approved seat or berth with a safety belt and, if installed, shoulder harness, properly secured about the individual during movement on the surface, takeoff, and landing; and
(B) Is secured during the remainder of the flight using a supplemental restraint system in accordance with, and that meets the requirements of, this section.
(2) Prior to releasing an FAA-approved safety belt and, if installed, shoulder harness during an operation with the doors opened or removed, an individual must be properly secured by a supplemental restraint system that is connected to an FAA-approved airframe attachment point. An individual cannot release their safety belt and, if installed, shoulder harness until the pilot in command authorizes them to do so.
(c)
Supplemental restraint system design requirements.
Each supplemental restraint system must:
(1) Have a harness that secures around the torso of the individual using the supplemental restraint system;
(2) Have a lanyard that connects the harness to an FAA-approved airframe attachment point or points inside the aircraft and that ensures the torso of the individual using the supplemental restraint system remains inside the aircraft at all times;
(3) Not impede egress from the aircraft in an emergency after being released; and
(4) Have a release mechanism that—
(i) Can be quickly operated by the individual using the supplemental restraint system with minimal difficulty;
(ii) Is attached to the front or side of the harness in a location easily accessible to and visible by the individual using the supplemental restraint system;
(iii) Prevents inadvertent release; and
(iv) Can be released without the use of a knife to cut the restraint, and without any additional tool or the assistance of any other individual.
(d)
Who may provide the supplemental restraint system.
The supplemental restraint system may be provided by the operator or by the individual using the supplemental restraint system. An operator or individual providing a supplemental restraint system must:
(1) Confirm with the pilot in command, either verbally or in writing, as determined by the pilot in command, the system's continued serviceability and readiness for its intended purpose; and
(2) Ensure the individual who will occupy the supplemental restraint system complies with the sizing criteria for which the system is rated.
(e)
Supplemental restraint system operational requirements.
The following are supplemental restraint system operational requirements:
(1) A qualified person designated by the operator must—
(i) Connect the supplemental restraint system to an FAA-approved airframe attachment point or points rated equal to or greater than the weight of the individual using the supplemental restraint system (or the combined weight if there is more than one supplemental restraint system attached to an attachment point);
(ii) Not connect the supplemental restraint system to any airframe attachment point located in the flightdeck; and
(iii) Not connect the supplemental restraint system to any safety belt or shoulder harness attachment point(s) unless the attachment point is FAA-approved as described in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) A supplemental restraint system must fit the individual using it based on the sizing criteria for which the supplemental restraint system is rated.
(3) Nothing may attach to the supplemental restraint system that is not relevant to its function as defined under § 1.1 of this chapter.
(f)
Pilot in command.
The pilot in command—
(1) Has the overall responsibility to ensure that the supplemental restraint system meets the requirements of this section and must not permit an individual to use a supplemental restraint
system that does not meet the requirements of this section;
(2) Must receive confirmation from the operator or any individual providing the supplemental restraint system of the system's continued serviceability and readiness for its intended purpose before each takeoff;
(3) May only permit an individual to use a supplemental restraint system provided by the operator or the pilot in command if that individual complies with the sizing criteria for which the supplemental restraint system is rated;
(4) Has final authority regarding whether the supplemental restraint system may be used during flight operations; and
(5) Has final authority to authorize an individual to release the FAA-approved safety belt and, if installed, shoulder harness and remain secured only by the supplemental restraint system.
(g)
Passenger briefing.
Before each takeoff, the pilot in command must ensure that each passenger who intends to use a supplemental restraint system has been briefed on:
(1) How to use, secure, and release the supplemental restraint system properly. This requirement is not necessary for an individual providing their own supplemental restraint system, but that individual must meet the passenger demonstration requirements in paragraph (h) of this section.
(2) Means of direct communication between crewmembers and passengers during normal and emergency operating procedures regarding—
(i) The use of headset and intercom systems, if installed;
(ii) How passengers will be notified of an event requiring action, including emergencies, egress procedures, and other unforeseen circumstances;
(iii) How each passenger will be notified when the passenger is permitted to release the FAA-approved safety belt and, if installed, shoulder harness, and move within the aircraft using the supplemental restraint system;
(iv) How each passenger will be notified when the passenger must return to their seat and secure the FAA-approved safety belt and, if installed, shoulder harness; and
(v) When and how to notify a crewmember of safety concerns.
(h)
Passenger demonstration.
After the briefing required by paragraph (g) of this section, prior to ground movement, any passenger intending to use a supplemental restraint system must demonstrate to the pilot in command, a crewmember, or other qualified person designated by the operator, the following:
(1) The ability to use, secure, and release the FAA-approved safety belt and, if installed, shoulder harness, and
(2) The ability to accomplish all actions required for quick release of the supplemental restraint system without assistance and with minimal difficulty.
(i)
Individuals not permitted to use supplemental restraint systems.
The following individuals are not permitted to use a supplemental restraint system, as defined in § 1.1 of this chapter:
(1) Any passenger who cannot demonstrate—
(i) That they are able to use, secure, and release the FAA-approved safety belt and, if installed, shoulder harness; or
(ii) That they are able to release quickly the supplemental restraint system with no assistance and with minimal difficulty.
(2) Any individual who is less than 15 years of age.
(3) Any individual seated in the flightdeck.
(4) Any passenger who occupies or uses an approved child restraint system.
(j)
Lap-held child.
Notwithstanding any other requirement of this chapter, a child who has not reached their second birthday may not be held by an adult during civil aircraft operations when:
(1) The adult uses a supplemental restraint system; or
(2) The aircraft doors are opened or removed.
(k)
Excluded operations.
Unless otherwise stated:
(1) This section does not apply to operations conducted under part 105 or 133 of this chapter and does not apply to the persons described in § 91.107(a)(3)(ii) of this chapter.
(2) Operators subject to the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section may operate an aircraft with doors opened or removed, notwithstanding any flight crewmembers on board who are subject to the requirements of §§ 91.105 or 135.171 of this chapter and who need to unfasten their shoulder harnesses in accordance with those sections.
(3) Paragraph (b)(2) of this section does not apply to any flight crewmembers subject to §§ 91.105 or 135.171 of this chapter to the extent that the flight crewmembers need to unfasten their shoulder harnesses in accordance with those sections.
[Docket FAA-2023-2250, Amdt. 91-376, 89 FR 67849, Aug. 22, 2024]
§ 91.109
Flight instruction; Simulated instrument flight and certain flight tests.
(a) No person may operate a civil aircraft (except a manned free balloon) that is being used for flight instruction unless that aircraft has fully functioning dual controls. However, instrument flight instruction may be given in an airplane that is equipped with a single, functioning throwover control wheel that controls the elevator and ailerons, in place of fixed, dual controls, when—
(1) The instructor has determined that the flight can be conducted safely; and
(2) The person manipulating the controls has at least a private pilot certificate with appropriate category and class ratings.
(b) An airplane equipped with a single, functioning throwover control wheel that controls the elevator and ailerons, in place of fixed, dual controls may be used for flight instruction to conduct a flight review required by § 61.56 of this chapter, or to obtain recent flight experience or an instrument proficiency check required by § 61.57 when—
(1) The airplane is equipped with operable rudder pedals at both pilot stations;
(2) The pilot manipulating the controls is qualified to serve and serves as pilot in command during the entire flight;
(3) The instructor is current and qualified to serve as pilot in command of the airplane, meets the requirements of § 61.195(b), and has logged at least 25 hours of pilot-in-command flight time in the make and model of airplane; and
(4) The pilot in command and the instructor have determined the flight can be conducted safely.
(c) No person may operate a civil aircraft in simulated instrument flight unless—
(1) The other control seat is occupied by a safety pilot who possesses at least:
(i) A private pilot certificate with category and class ratings appropriate to the aircraft being flown; or
(ii) For purposes of providing training for a solo cross-country endorsement under § 61.93 of this chapter, a flight instructor certificate with an appropriate sport pilot rating and meets the requirements of § 61.412 of this chapter.
(2) The safety pilot has adequate vision forward and to each side of the aircraft, or a competent observer in the aircraft adequately supplements the vision of the safety pilot; and
(3) Except in the case of lighter-than-air aircraft, that aircraft is equipped with fully functioning dual controls. However, simulated instrument flight may be conducted in a single-engine airplane, equipped with a single, functioning, throwover control wheel, in place of fixed, dual controls of the elevator and ailerons, when—
(i) The safety pilot has determined that the flight can be conducted safely; and
(ii) The person manipulating the controls has at least a private pilot certificate with appropriate category and class ratings.
(d) No person may operate a civil aircraft that is being used for a flight test for an airline transport pilot certificate or a class or type rating on that certificate, or for a part 121 proficiency flight test, unless the pilot seated at the controls, other than the pilot being checked, is fully qualified to act as pilot in command of the aircraft.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34294, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-324, 76 FR 54107, Aug. 31, 2011; Amdt. 61-142, 83 FR 30281, June 27, 2018]
§ 91.111
Operating near other aircraft.
(a) No person may operate an aircraft so close to another aircraft as to create a collision hazard.
(b) No person may operate an aircraft in formation flight except by arrangement with the pilot in command of each aircraft in the formation.
(c) No person may operate an aircraft, carrying passengers for hire, in formation flight.
§ 91.113
Right-of-way rules: Except water operations.
(a)
Inapplicability.
This section does not apply to the operation of an aircraft on water.
(b)
General.
When weather conditions permit, regardless of whether an operation is conducted under instrument flight rules or visual flight rules, vigilance shall be maintained by each person operating an aircraft so as to see and avoid other aircraft. When a rule of this section gives another aircraft the right-of-way, the pilot shall give way to that aircraft and may not pass over, under, or ahead of it unless well clear.
(c)
In distress.
An aircraft in distress has the right-of-way over all other air traffic.
(d)
Converging.
When aircraft of the same category are converging at approximately the same altitude (except head-on, or nearly so), the aircraft to the other's right has the right-of-way. If the aircraft are of different categories—
(1) A balloon has the right-of-way over any other category of aircraft;
(2) A glider has the right-of-way over an airship, powered parachute, weight-shift-control aircraft, airplane, or rotorcraft.
(3) An airship has the right-of-way over a powered parachute, weight-shift-control aircraft, airplane, or rotorcraft.
However, an aircraft towing or refueling other aircraft has the right-of-way over all other engine-driven aircraft.
(e)
Approaching head-on.
When aircraft are approaching each other head-on, or nearly so, each pilot of each aircraft shall alter course to the right.
(f)
Overtaking.
Each aircraft that is being overtaken has the right-of-way and each pilot of an overtaking aircraft shall alter course to the right to pass well clear.
(g)
Landing.
Aircraft, while on final approach to land or while landing, have the right-of-way over other aircraft in flight or operating on the surface, except that they shall not take advantage of this rule to force an aircraft off the runway surface which has already landed and is attempting to make way for an aircraft on final approach. When two or more aircraft are approaching an airport for the purpose of landing, the aircraft at the lower altitude has the right-of-way, but it shall not take advantage of this rule to cut in front of another which is on final approach to land or to overtake that aircraft.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34294, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-282, 69 FR 44880, July 27, 2004]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 91.113 were published by Docket FAA-2023-1275, Amdt. 60-8, 89 FR 92485, Nov. 21, 2024, effective Jan. 21, 2025.
§ 91.115
Right-of-way rules: Water operations.
(a)
General.
Each person operating an aircraft on the water shall, insofar as possible, keep clear of all vessels and avoid impeding their navigation, and shall give way to any vessel or other aircraft that is given the right-of-way by any rule of this section.
(b)
Crossing.
When aircraft, or an aircraft and a vessel, are on crossing courses, the aircraft or vessel to the other's right has the right-of-way.
(c)
Approaching head-on.
When aircraft, or an aircraft and a vessel, are approaching head-on, or nearly so, each shall alter its course to the right to keep well clear.
(d)
Overtaking.
Each aircraft or vessel that is being overtaken has the right-of-way, and the one overtaking shall alter course to keep well clear.
(e)
Special circumstances.
When aircraft, or an aircraft and a vessel, approach so as to involve risk of collision, each aircraft or vessel shall proceed with careful regard to existing circumstances, including the limitations of the respective craft.
§ 91.117
Aircraft speed.
(a) Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, no person may operate an aircraft below 10,000 feet MSL at an indicated airspeed of more than 250 knots (288 m.p.h.).
(b) Unless otherwise authorized or required by ATC, no person may operate an aircraft at or below 2,500 feet above the surface within 4 nautical miles of the primary airport of a Class C or Class D airspace area at an indicated airspeed of more than 200 knots (230 mph.). This paragraph (b) does not apply to any operations within a Class B airspace area. Such operations shall comply with paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) No person may operate an aircraft in the airspace underlying a Class B airspace area designated for an airport or in a VFR corridor designated through such a Class B airspace area, at an indicated airspeed of more than 200 knots (230 mph).
(d) If the minimum safe airspeed for any particular operation is greater than the maximum speed prescribed in this section, the aircraft may be operated at that minimum speed.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34292, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-219, 55 FR 34708, Aug. 24, 1990; Amdt. 91-227, 56 FR 65657, Dec. 17, 1991; Amdt. 91-233, 58 FR 43554, Aug. 17, 1993]
§ 91.119
Minimum safe altitudes: General.
Except when necessary for takeoff or landing, no person may operate an aircraft below the following altitudes:
(a)
Anywhere.
An altitude allowing, if a power unit fails, an emergency landing without undue hazard to persons or property on the surface.
(b)
Over congested areas.
Over any congested area of a city, town, or settlement, or over any open air assembly of persons, an altitude of 1,000 feet above the highest obstacle within a horizontal radius of 2,000 feet of the aircraft.
(c)
Over other than congested areas.
An altitude of 500 feet above the surface, except over open water or sparsely populated areas. In those cases, the aircraft may not be operated closer than 500 feet to any person, vessel, vehicle, or structure.
(d)
Helicopters, powered parachutes, and weight-shift-control aircraft.
If the operation is conducted without hazard to persons or property on the surface—
(1) A helicopter may be operated at less than the minimums prescribed in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, provided each person operating the helicopter complies with any routes or altitudes specifically prescribed for helicopters by the FAA; and
(2) A powered parachute or weight-shift-control aircraft may be operated at less than the minimums prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34294, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-311, 75 FR 5223, Feb. 1, 2010]
§ 91.121
Altimeter settings.
(a) Each person operating an aircraft shall maintain the cruising altitude or flight level of that aircraft, as the case may be, by reference to an altimeter that is set, when operating—
(1) Below 18,000 feet MSL, to—
(i) The current reported altimeter setting of a station along the route and within 100 nautical miles of the aircraft;
(ii) If there is no station within the area prescribed in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the current reported altimeter setting of an appropriate available station; or
(iii) In the case of an aircraft not equipped with a radio, the elevation of the departure airport or an appropriate altimeter setting available before departure; or
(2) At or above 18,000 feet MSL, to 29.92″ Hg.
(b) The lowest usable flight level is determined by the atmospheric pressure in the area of operation as shown in the following table:
Current altimeter setting
Lowest usable flight level
29.92 (or higher)
180
29.91 through 29.42
185
29.41 through 28.92
190
28.91 through 28.42
195
28.41 through 27.92
200
27.91 through 27.42
205
27.41 through 26.92
210
(c) To convert minimum altitude prescribed under §§ 91.119 and 91.177 to the
minimum flight level, the pilot shall take the flight level equivalent of the minimum altitude in feet and add the appropriate number of feet specified below, according to the current reported altimeter setting:
Current altimeter setting
Adjustment factor
29.92 (or higher)
None
29.91 through 29.42
500
29.41 through 28.92
1,000
28.91 through 28.42
1,500
28.41 through 27.92
2,000
27.91 through 27.42
2,500
27.41 through 26.92
3,000
§ 91.123
Compliance with ATC clearances and instructions.
(a) When an ATC clearance has been obtained, no pilot in command may deviate from that clearance unless an amended clearance is obtained, an emergency exists, or the deviation is in response to a traffic alert and collision avoidance system resolution advisory. However, except in Class A airspace, a pilot may cancel an IFR flight plan if the operation is being conducted in VFR weather conditions. When a pilot is uncertain of an ATC clearance, that pilot shall immediately request clarification from ATC.
(b) Except in an emergency, no person may operate an aircraft contrary to an ATC instruction in an area in which air traffic control is exercised.
(c) Each pilot in command who, in an emergency, or in response to a traffic alert and collision avoidance system resolution advisory, deviates from an ATC clearance or instruction shall notify ATC of that deviation as soon as possible.
(d) Each pilot in command who (though not deviating from a rule of this subpart) is given priority by ATC in an emergency, shall submit a detailed report of that emergency within 48 hours to the manager of that ATC facility, if requested by ATC.
(e) Unless otherwise authorized by ATC, no person operating an aircraft may operate that aircraft according to any clearance or instruction that has been issued to the pilot of another aircraft for radar air traffic control purposes.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2120-0005)
[Docket 18834, 54 FR 34294, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-227, 56 FR 65658, Dec. 17, 1991; Amdt. 91-244, 60 FR 50679, Sept. 29, 1995]
§ 91.125
ATC light signals.
ATC light signals have the meaning shown in the following table:
Color and type of signal
Meaning with respect to aircraft on the surface
Meaning with respect to aircraft in flight
Steady green
Cleared for takeoff
Cleared to land.
Flashing green
Cleared to taxi
Return for landing (to be followed by steady green at proper time).
Steady red
Stop
Give way to other aircraft and continue circling.
Flashing red
Taxi clear of runway in use
Airport unsafe—do not land.
Flashing white
Return to starting point on airport
Not applicable.
Alternating red and green
Exercise extreme caution
Exercise extreme caution.
§ 91.126
Operating on or in the vicinity of an airport in Class G airspace.
(a)
General.
Unless otherwise authorized or required, each person operating an aircraft on or in the vicinity of an airport in a Class G airspace area must comply with the requirements of this section.
(b)
Direction of turns.
When approaching to land at an airport without an operating control tower in Class G airspace—
(1) Each pilot of an airplane must make all turns of that airplane to the left unless the airport displays approved light signals or visual markings indicating that turns should be made to the right, in which case the pilot must make all turns to the right; and
(2) Each pilot of a helicopter or a powered parachute must avoid the flow of fixed-wing aircraft.
(c)
Flap settings.
Except when necessary for training or certification, the pilot in command of a civil turbojet-powered aircraft must use, as a final flap setting, the minimum certificated landing flap setting set forth in the approved performance information in the Airplane Flight Manual for the applicable conditions. However, each pilot
in command has the final authority and responsibility for the safe operation of the pilot's airplane, and may use a different flap setting for that airplane if the pilot determines that it is necessary in the interest of safety.
(d)
Communications with control towers.
Unless otherwise authorized or required by ATC, no person may operate an aircraft to, from, through, or on an airport having an operational control tower unless two-way radio communications are maintained between that aircraft and the control tower. Communications must be established prior to 4 nautical miles from the airport, up to and including 2,500 feet AGL. However, if the aircraft radio fails in flight, the pilot in command may operate that aircraft and land if weather conditions are at or above basic VFR weather minimums, visual contact with the tower is maintained, and a clearance to land is received. If the aircraft radio fails while in flight under IFR, the pilot must comply with § 91.185.
[Docket 24458, 56 FR 65658, Dec. 17, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 91-239, 59 FR 11693, Mar. 11, 1994; Amdt. 91-282, 69 FR 44880, July 27, 2004]
§ 91.127
Operating on or in the vicinity of an airport in Class E airspace.
(a) Unless otherwise required by part 93 of this chapter or unless otherwise authorized or required by the ATC facility having jurisdiction over the Class E airspace area, each person operating an aircraft on or in the vicinity of an airport in a Class E airspace area must comply with the requirements of § 91.126.
(b)
Departures.
Each pilot of an aircraft must comply with any traffic patterns established for that airport in part 93 of this chapter.
(c)
Communications with control towers.
Unless otherwise authorized or required by ATC, no person may operate an aircraft to, from, through, or on an airport having an operational control tower unless two-way radio communications are maintained between that aircraft and the control tower. Communications must be established prior to 4 nautical miles from the airport, up to and including 2,500 feet AGL. However, if the aircraft radio fails in flight, the pilot in command may operate that aircraft and land if weather conditions are at or above basic VFR weather minimums, visual contact with the tower is maintained, and a clearance to land is received. If the aircraft radio fails while in flight under IFR, the pilot must comply with § 91.185.
[Docket 24458, 56 FR 65658, Dec. 17, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 91-239, 59 FR 11693, Mar. 11, 1994]
§ 91.129
Operations in Class D airspace.
(a)
General.
Unless otherwise authorized or required by the ATC facility having jurisdiction over the Class D airspace area, each person operating an aircraft in Class D airspace must comply with the applicable provisions of this section. In addition, each person must comply with §§ 91.126 and 91.127. For the purpose of this section, the primary airport is the airport for which the Class D airspace area is designated. A satellite airport is any other airport within the Class D airspace area.
(b)
Deviations.
An operator may deviate from any provision of this section under the provisions of an ATC authorization issued by the ATC facility having jurisdiction over the airspace concerned. ATC may authorize a deviation on a continuing basis or for an individual flight, as appropriate.
(c)
Communications.
Each person operating an aircraft in Class D airspace must meet the following two-way radio communications requirements:
(1)
Arrival or through flight.
Each person must establish two-way radio communications with the ATC facility (including foreign ATC in the case of foreign airspace designated in the United States) providing air traffic services prior to entering that airspace and thereafter maintain those communications while within that airspace.
(2)
Departing flight.
Each person—
(i) From the primary airport or satellite airport with an operating control tower must establish and maintain two-way radio communications with the control tower, and thereafter as instructed by ATC while operating in the Class D airspace area; or
(ii) From a satellite airport without an operating control tower, must establish and maintain two-way radio communications with the ATC facility
having jurisdiction over the Class D airspace area as soon as practicable after departing.
(d)
Communications failure.
Each person who operates an aircraft in a Class D airspace area must maintain two-way radio communications with the ATC facility having jurisdiction over that area.
(1) If the aircraft radio fails in flight under IFR, the pilot must comply with § 91.185 of the part.
(2) If the aircraft radio fails in flight under VFR, the pilot in command may operate that aircraft and land if—
(i) Weather conditions are at or above basic VFR weather minimums;
(ii) Visual contact with the tower is maintained; and
(iii) A clearance to land is received.
(e)
Minimum altitudes when operating to an airport in Class D airspace.
(1) Unless required by the applicable distance-from-cloud criteria, each pilot operating a large or turbine-powered airplane must enter the traffic pattern at an altitude of at least 1,500 feet above the elevation of the airport and maintain at least 1,500 feet until further descent is required for a safe landing.
(2) Each pilot operating a large or turbine-powered airplane approaching to land on a runway served by an instrument approach procedure with vertical guidance, if the airplane is so equipped, must:
(i) Operate that airplane at an altitude at or above the glide path between the published final approach fix and the decision altitude (DA), or decision height (DH), as applicable; or
(ii) If compliance with the applicable distance-from-cloud criteria requires glide path interception closer in, operate that airplane at or above the glide path, between the point of interception of glide path and the DA or the DH.
(3) Each pilot operating an airplane approaching to land on a runway served by a visual approach slope indicator must maintain an altitude at or above the glide path until a lower altitude is necessary for a safe landing.
(4) Paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this section do not prohibit normal bracketing maneuvers above or below the glide path that are conducted for the purpose of remaining on the glide path.
(f)
Approaches.
Except when conducting a circling approach under part 97 of this chapter or unless otherwise required by ATC, each pilot must—
(1) Circle the airport to the left, if operating an airplane; or
(2) Avoid the flow of fixed-wing aircraft, if operating a helicopter.
(g)
Departures.
No person may operate an aircraft departing from an airport except in compliance with the following:
(1) Each pilot must comply with any departure procedures established for that airport by the FAA.
(2) Unless otherwise required by the prescribed departure procedure for that airport or the applicable distance from clouds criteria, each pilot of a turbine-powered airplane and each pilot of a large airplane must climb to an altitude of 1,500 feet above the surface as rapidly as practicable.
(h)
Noise abatement.
Where a formal runway use program has been established by the FAA, each pilot of a large or turbine-powered airplane assigned a noise abatement runway by ATC must use that runway. However, consistent with the final authority of the pilot in command concerning the safe operation of the aircraft as prescribed in § 91.3(a), ATC may assign a different runway if requested by the pilot in the interest of safety.
(i)
Takeoff, landing, taxi clearance.
No person may, at any airport with an operating control tower, operate an aircraft on a runway or taxiway, or take off or land an aircraft, unless an appropriate clearance is received from ATC.
[Docket 24458, 56 FR 65658, Dec. 17, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 91-234, 58 FR 48793, Sept. 20, 1993; Amdt. 91-296, 72 FR 31678, June 7, 2007; 77 FR 28250, May 14, 2012]
§ 91.130
Operations in Class C airspace.
(a)
General.
Unless otherwise authorized by ATC, each aircraft operation in Class C airspace must be conducted in compliance with this section and § 91.129. For the purpose of this section, the primary airport is the airport for which the Class C airspace area is designated. A satellite airport is any other airport within the Class C airspace area.
(b)
Traffic patterns.
No person may take off or land an aircraft at a satellite airport within a Class C airspace area except in compliance with FAA arrival and departure traffic patterns.
(c)
Communications.
Each person operating an aircraft in Class C airspace must meet the following two-way radio communications requirements:
(1)
Arrival or through flight.
Each person must establish two-way radio communications with the ATC facility (including foreign ATC in the case of foreign airspace designated in the United States) providing air traffic services prior to entering that airspace and thereafter maintain those communications while within that airspace.
(2)
Departing flight.
Each person—
(i) From the primary airport or satellite airport with an operating control tower must establish and maintain two-way radio communications with the control tower, and thereafter as instructed by ATC while operating in the Class C airspace area; or
(ii) From a satellite airport without an operating control tower, must establish and maintain two-way radio communications with the ATC facility having jurisdiction over the Class C airspace area as soon as practicable after departing.
(d)
Equipment requirements.
Unless otherwise authorized by the ATC having jurisdiction over the Class C airspace area, no person may operate an aircraft within a Class C airspace area designated for an airport unless that aircraft is equipped with the applicable equipment specified in § 91.215, and after January 1, 2020, § 91.225.
(e)
Deviations.
An operator may deviate from any provision of this section under the provisions of an ATC authorization issued by the ATC facility having jurisdiction over the airspace concerned. ATC may authorize a deviation on a continuing basis or for an individual flight, as appropriate.
[Docket 24458, 56 FR 65659, Dec. 17, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 91-232, 58 FR 40736, July 30, 1993; Amdt. 91-239, 59 FR 11693, Mar. 11, 1994; Amdt. 91-314, 75 FR 30193, May 28, 2010]
§ 91.131
Operations in Class B airspace.
(a)
Operating rules.
No person may operate an aircraft within a Class B airspace area except in compliance with § 91.129 and the following rules:
(1) The operator must receive an ATC clearance from the ATC facility having jurisdiction for that area before operating an aircraft in that area.
(2) Unless otherwise authorized by ATC, each person operating a large turbine engine-powered airplane to or from a primary airport for which a Class B airspace area is designated must operate at or above the designated floors of the Class B airspace area while within the lateral limits of that area.
(3) Any person conducting pilot training operations at an airport within a Class B airspace area must comply with any procedures established by ATC for such operations in that area.
(b)
Pilot requirements.
(1) No person may take off or land a civil aircraft at an airport within a Class B airspace area or operate a civil aircraft within a Class B airspace area unless—
(i) The pilot in command holds at least a private pilot certificate;
(ii) The pilot in command holds a recreational pilot certificate and has met—
(A) The requirements of § 61.101(d) of this chapter; or
(B) The requirements for a student pilot seeking a recreational pilot certificate in § 61.94 of this chapter;
(iii) The pilot in command holds a sport pilot certificate and has met—
(A) The requirements of § 61.325 of this chapter; or
(B) The requirements for a student pilot seeking a recreational pilot certificate in § 61.94 of this chapter; or
(iv) The aircraft is operated by a student pilot who has met the requirements of § 61.94 or § 61.95 of this chapter, as applicable.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (b)(1)(ii), (b)(1)(iii) and (b)(1)(iv) of this section, no person may take off or land a civil aircraft at those airports listed in section 4 of appendix D to this part unless the pilot in command holds at least a private pilot certificate.
(c)
Communications and navigation equipment requirements.
Unless otherwise authorized by ATC, no person may operate an aircraft within a Class B
airspace area unless that aircraft is equipped with—
(1)
For IFR operation.
An operable VOR or TACAN receiver or an operable and suitable RNAV system; and
(2)
For all operations.
An operable two-way radio capable of communications with ATC on appropriate frequencies for that Class B airspace area.
(d)
Other equipment requirements.
No person may operate an aircraft in a Class B airspace area unless the aircraft is equipped with—
(1) The applicable operating transponder and automatic altitude reporting equipment specified in § 91.215 (a), except as provided in § 91.215 (e), and
(2) After January 1, 2020, the applicable Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast Out equipment specified in § 91.225.
[Docket 24458, 56 FR 65658, Dec. 17, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 91-282, 69 FR 44880, July 27, 2004; Amdt. 91-296, 72 FR 31678, June 7, 2007; Amdt. 91-314, 75 FR 30193, May 28, 2010]
§ 91.133
Restricted and prohibited areas.
(a) No person may operate an aircraft within a restricted area (designated in part 73) contrary to the restrictions imposed, or within a prohibited area, unless that person has the permission of the using or controlling agency, as appropriate.
(b) Each person conducting, within a restricted area, an aircraft operation (approved by the using agency) that creates the same hazards as the operations for which the restricted area was designated may deviate from the rules of this subpart that are not compatible with the operation of the aircraft.
§ 91.135
Operations in Class A airspace.
Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, each person operating an aircraft in Class A airspace must conduct that operation under instrument flight rules (IFR) and in compliance with the following:
(a)
Clearance.
Operations may be conducted only under an ATC clearance received prior to entering the airspace.
(b)
Communications.
Unless otherwise authorized by ATC, each aircraft operating in Class A airspace must be equipped with a two-way radio capable of communicating with ATC on a frequency assigned by ATC. Each pilot must maintain two-way radio communications with ATC while operating in Class A airspace.
(c)
Equipment requirements.
Unless otherwise authorized by ATC, no person may operate an aircraft within Class A airspace unless that aircraft is equipped with the applicable equipment specified in § 91.215, and after January 1, 2020, § 91.225.
(d)
ATC authorizations.
An operator may deviate from any provision of this section under the provisions of an ATC authorization issued by the ATC facility having jurisdiction of the airspace concerned. In the case of an inoperative transponder, ATC may immediately approve an operation within a Class A airspace area allowing flight to continue, if desired, to the airport of ultimate destination, including any intermediate stops, or to proceed to a place where suitable repairs can be made, or both. Requests for deviation from any provision of this section must be submitted in writing, at least 4 days before the proposed operation. ATC may authorize a deviation on a continuing basis or for an individual flight.
[Docket 24458, 56 FR 65659, Dec. 17, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 91-314, 75 FR 30193, May 28, 2010]
§ 91.137
Temporary flight restrictions in the vicinity of disaster/hazard areas.
(a) The Administrator will issue a Notice to Airmen (NOTAM) designating an area within which temporary flight restrictions apply and specifying the hazard or condition requiring their imposition, whenever he determines it is necessary in order to—
(1) Protect persons and property on the surface or in the air from a hazard associated with an incident on the surface;
(2) Provide a safe environment for the operation of disaster relief aircraft; or
(3) Prevent an unsafe congestion of sightseeing and other aircraft above an incident or event which may generate a high degree of public interest.
The Notice to Airmen will specify the hazard or condition that requires the imposition of temporary flight restrictions.
(b) When a NOTAM has been issued under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, no person may operate an aircraft within the designated area unless that aircraft is participating in the hazard relief activities and is being operated under the direction of the official in charge of on scene emergency response activities.
(c) When a NOTAM has been issued under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, no person may operate an aircraft within the designated area unless at least one of the following conditions are met:
(1) The aircraft is participating in hazard relief activities and is being operated under the direction of the official in charge of on scene emergency response activities.
(2) The aircraft is carrying law enforcement officials.
(3) The aircraft is operating under the ATC approved IFR flight plan.
(4) The operation is conducted directly to or from an airport within the area, or is necessitated by the impracticability of VFR flight above or around the area due to weather, or terrain; notification is given to the Flight Service Station (FSS) or ATC facility specified in the NOTAM to receive advisories concerning disaster relief aircraft operations; and the operation does not hamper or endanger relief activities and is not conducted for the purpose of observing the disaster.
(5) The aircraft is carrying properly accredited news representatives, and, prior to entering the area, a flight plan is filed with the appropriate FAA or ATC facility specified in the Notice to Airmen and the operation is conducted above the altitude used by the disaster relief aircraft, unless otherwise authorized by the official in charge of on scene emergency response activities.
(d) When a NOTAM has been issued under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, no person may operate an aircraft within the designated area unless at least one of the following conditions is met:
(1) The operation is conducted directly to or from an airport within the area, or is necessitated by the impracticability of VFR flight above or around the area due to weather or terrain, and the operation is not conducted for the purpose of observing the incident or event.
(2) The aircraft is operating under an ATC approved IFR flight plan.
(3) The aircraft is carrying incident or event personnel, or law enforcement officials.
(4) The aircraft is carrying properly accredited news representatives and, prior to entering that area, a flight plan is filed with the appropriate FSS or ATC facility specified in the NOTAM.
(e) Flight plans filed and notifications made with an FSS or ATC facility under this section shall include the following information:
(1) Aircraft identification, type and color.
(2) Radio communications frequencies to be used.
(3) Proposed times of entry of, and exit from, the designated area.
(4) Name of news media or organization and purpose of flight.
(5) Any other information requested by ATC.
§ 91.138
Temporary flight restrictions in national disaster areas in the State of Hawaii.
(a) When the Administrator has determined, pursuant to a request and justification provided by the Governor of the State of Hawaii, or the Governor's designee, that an inhabited area within a declared national disaster area in the State of Hawaii is in need of protection for humanitarian reasons, the Administrator will issue a Notice to Airmen (NOTAM) designating an area within which temporary flight restrictions apply. The Administrator will designate the extent and duration of the temporary flight restrictions necessary to provide for the protection of persons and property on the surface.
(b) When a NOTAM has been issued in accordance with this section, no person may operate an aircraft within the designated area unless at least one of the following conditions is met:
(1) That person has obtained authorization from the official in charge of
associated emergency or disaster relief response activities, and is operating the aircraft under the conditions of that authorization.
(2) The aircraft is carrying law enforcement officials.
(3) The aircraft is carrying persons involved in an emergency or a legitimate scientific purpose.
(4) The aircraft is carrying properly accredited newspersons, and that prior to entering the area, a flight plan is filed with the appropriate FAA or ATC facility specified in the NOTAM and the operation is conducted in compliance with the conditions and restrictions established by the official in charge of on-scene emergency response activities.
(5) The aircraft is operating in accordance with an ATC clearance or instruction.
(c) A NOTAM issued under this section is effective for 90 days or until the national disaster area designation is terminated, whichever comes first, unless terminated by notice or extended by the Administrator at the request of the Governor of the State of Hawaii or the Governor's designee.
[Docket 26476, 56 FR 23178, May 20, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 91-270, 66 FR 47377, Sept. 11, 2001]
§ 91.139
Emergency air traffic rules.
(a) This section prescribes a process for utilizing Notices to Airmen (NOTAMs) to advise of the issuance and operations under emergency air traffic rules and regulations and designates the official who is authorized to issue NOTAMs on behalf of the Administrator in certain matters under this section.
(b) Whenever the Administrator determines that an emergency condition exists, or will exist, relating to the FAA's ability to operate the air traffic control system and during which normal flight operations under this chapter cannot be conducted consistent with the required levels of safety and efficiency—
(1) The Administrator issues an immediately effective air traffic rule or regulation in response to that emergency condition; and
(2) The Administrator or the Associate Administrator for Air Traffic may utilize the NOTAM system to provide notification of the issuance of the rule or regulation.
Those NOTAMs communicate information concerning the rules and regulations that govern flight operations, the use of navigation facilities, and designation of that airspace in which the rules and regulations apply.
(c) When a NOTAM has been issued under this section, no person may operate an aircraft, or other device governed by the regulation concerned, within the designated airspace except in accordance with the authorizations, terms, and conditions prescribed in the regulation covered by the NOTAM.
§ 91.141
Flight restrictions in the proximity of the Presidential and other parties.
No person may operate an aircraft over or in the vicinity of any area to be visited or traveled by the President, the Vice President, or other public figures contrary to the restrictions established by the Administrator and published in a Notice to Airmen (NOTAM).
§ 91.143
Flight limitation in the proximity of space flight operations.
When a Notice to Airmen (NOTAM) is issued in accordance with this section, no person may operate any aircraft of U.S. registry, or pilot any aircraft under the authority of an airman certificate issued by the Federal Aviation Administration, within areas designated in a NOTAM for space flight operation except when authorized by ATC.
[Docket FAA-2004-19246, 69 FR 59753, Oct. 5, 2004]
§ 91.144
Temporary restriction on flight operations during abnormally high barometric pressure conditions.
(a)
Special flight restrictions.
When any information indicates that barometric pressure on the route of flight currently exceeds or will exceed 31 inches of mercury, no person may operate an aircraft or initiate a flight contrary to the requirements established by the Administrator and published in a Notice to Airmen issued under this section.
(b)
Waivers.
The Administrator is authorized to waive any restriction issued under paragraph (a) of this section to permit emergency supply, transport, or medical services to be delivered to isolated communities, where the operation can be conducted with an acceptable level of safety.
[Amdt. 91-240, 59 FR 17452, Apr. 12, 1994; 59 FR 37669, July 25, 1994]
§ 91.145
Management of aircraft operations in the vicinity of aerial demonstrations and major sporting events.
(a) The FAA will issue a Notice to Airmen (NOTAM) designating an area of airspace in which a temporary flight restriction applies when it determines that a temporary flight restriction is necessary to protect persons or property on the surface or in the air, to maintain air safety and efficiency, or to prevent the unsafe congestion of aircraft in the vicinity of an aerial demonstration or major sporting event. These demonstrations and events may include:
(1) United States Naval Flight Demonstration Team (Blue Angels);
(2) United States Air Force Air Demonstration Squadron (Thunderbirds);
(3) United States Army Parachute Team (Golden Knights);
(4) Summer/Winter Olympic Games;
(5) Annual Tournament of Roses Football Game;
(6) World Cup Soccer;
(7) Major League Baseball All-Star Game;
(8) World Series;
(9) Kodak Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta;
(10) Sandia Classic Hang Gliding Competition;
(11) Indianapolis 500 Mile Race;
(12) Any other aerial demonstration or sporting event the FAA determines to need a temporary flight restriction in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) In deciding whether a temporary flight restriction is necessary for an aerial demonstration or major sporting event not listed in paragraph (a) of this section, the FAA considers the following factors:
(1) Area where the event will be held.
(2) Effect flight restrictions will have on known aircraft operations.
(3) Any existing ATC airspace traffic management restrictions.
(4) Estimated duration of the event.
(5) Degree of public interest.
(6) Number of spectators.
(7) Provisions for spectator safety.
(8) Number and types of participating aircraft.
(9) Use of mixed high and low performance aircraft.
(10) Impact on non-participating aircraft.
(11) Weather minimums.
(12) Emergency procedures that will be in effect.
(c) A NOTAM issued under this section will state the name of the aerial demonstration or sporting event and specify the effective dates and times, the geographic features or coordinates, and any other restrictions or procedures governing flight operations in the designated airspace.
(d) When a NOTAM has been issued in accordance with this section, no person may operate an aircraft or device, or engage in any activity within the designated airspace area, except in accordance with the authorizations, terms, and conditions of the temporary flight restriction published in the NOTAM, unless otherwise authorized by:
(1) Air traffic control; or
(2) A Flight Standards Certificate of Waiver or Authorization issued for the demonstration or event.
(e) For the purpose of this section:
(1)
Flight restricted airspace area for an aerial demonstration—
The amount of airspace needed to protect persons and property on the surface or in the air, to maintain air safety and efficiency, or to prevent the unsafe congestion of aircraft will vary depending on the aerial demonstration and the factors listed in paragraph (b) of this section. The restricted airspace area will normally be limited to a 5 nautical mile radius from the center of the demonstration and an altitude 17000 mean sea level (for high performance aircraft) or 13000 feet above the surface (for certain parachute operations), but will be no greater than the minimum airspace necessary for the management of aircraft operations in the vicinity of the specified area.
(2)
Flight restricted area for a major sporting event—
The amount of airspace needed to protect persons and property on the surface or in the air, to maintain air safety and efficiency, or to prevent the unsafe congestion of aircraft will vary depending on the size of the event and the factors listed in paragraph (b) of this section. The restricted airspace will normally be limited to a 3 nautical mile radius from the center of the event and 2500 feet above the surface but will not be greater than the minimum airspace necessary for the management of aircraft operations in the vicinity of the specified area.
(f) A NOTAM issued under this section will be issued at least 30 days in advance of an aerial demonstration or a major sporting event, unless the FAA finds good cause for a shorter period and explains this in the NOTAM.
(g) When warranted, the FAA Administrator may exclude the following flights from the provisions of this section:
(1) Essential military.
(2) Medical and rescue.
(3) Presidential and Vice Presidential.
(4) Visiting heads of state.
(5) Law enforcement and security.
(6) Public health and welfare.
[Docket FAA-2000-8274, 66 FR 47378, Sept. 11, 2001]
§ 91.146
Passenger-carrying flights for the benefit of a charitable, nonprofit, or community event.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
Charitable event
means an event that raises funds for the benefit of a charitable organization recognized by the Department of the Treasury whose donors may deduct contributions under section 170 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. Section 170).
Community event
means an event that raises funds for the benefit of any local or community cause that is not a charitable event or non-profit event.
Non-profit event
means an event that raises funds for the benefit of a non-profit organization recognized under State or Federal law, as long as one of the organization's purposes is the promotion of aviation safety.
(b) Passenger-carrying flights in airplanes, powered-lift, or rotorcraft for the benefit of a charitable, nonprofit, or community event identified in paragraph (c) of this section are not subject to the certification requirements of part 119 of this chapter or the drug and alcohol testing requirements in part 120 of this chapter, provided the following conditions are satisfied and the limitations in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section are not exceeded:
(1) The flight is nonstop and begins and ends at the same airport and is conducted within a 25-statute mile radius of that airport;
(2) The flight is conducted from a public airport that is adequate for the aircraft used, or from another location the FAA approves for the operation;
(3) The aircraft has a maximum of 30 seats, excluding each crewmember seat, and a maximum payload capacity of 7,500 pounds;
(4) The flight is not an aerobatic or a formation flight;
(5) Each aircraft holds a standard airworthiness certificate, is airworthy, and is operated in compliance with the applicable requirements of subpart E of this part;
(6) Each flight is made during day VFR conditions;
(7) Reimbursement of the operator of the aircraft is limited to that portion of the passenger payment for the flight that does not exceed the pro rata cost of owning, operating, and maintaining the aircraft for that flight, which may include fuel, oil, airport expenditures, and rental fees;
(8) The beneficiary of the funds raised is not in the business of transportation by air;
(9) A private pilot acting as pilot in command has at least 500 hours of flight time;
(10) Each flight is conducted in accordance with the safety provisions of part 136, subpart A of this chapter; and
(11) Flights are not conducted over a national park, unit of a national park, or abutting tribal lands, unless the operator has secured a letter of agreement from the FAA, as specified under subpart B of part 136 of this chapter, and is operating in accordance with that agreement during the flights.
(c) (1) Passenger-carrying flights or series of flights are limited to a total of four charitable events or non-profit events per year, with no event lasting more than three consecutive days.
(2) Passenger-carrying flights or series of flights are limited to one community event per year, with no event lasting more than three consecutive days.
(d) Pilots and sponsors of events described in this section are limited to no more than 4 events per calendar year.
(e) At least seven days before the event, each sponsor of an event described in this section must furnish to the responsible Flight Standards office for the area where the event is scheduled:
(1) A signed letter detailing the name of the sponsor, the purpose of the event, the date and time of the event, the location of the event, all prior events under this section participated in by the sponsor in the current calendar year;
(2) A photocopy of each pilot in command's pilot certificate, medical certificate, and logbook entries that show the pilot is current in accordance with §§ 61.56 and 61.57 of this chapter and that any private pilot has at least 500 hours of flight time; and
(3) A signed statement from each pilot that lists all prior events under this section in which the pilot has participated during the current calendar year.
[Docket FAA-1998-4521, 72 FR 6910, Feb. 13, 2007, as amended by Amdt. 91-308, 74 FR 32804, July 9, 2009; Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 91-350, 83 FR 9171, Mar. 5, 2018; Docket FAA-2022-1563, Amdt. 91-370, 88 FR 48087, July 26, 2023]
§ 91.147
Passenger-carrying flights for compensation or hire.
(a)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section,
Operator
means any person conducting nonstop passenger-carrying flights in an airplane, powered-lift, or rotorcraft for compensation or hire in accordance with §§ 119.1(e)(2), 135.1(a)(5), or 121.1(d) of this chapter that begin and end at the same airport and are conducted within a 25-statute mile radius of that airport.
(b)
General requirements.
An Operator conducting passenger-carrying flights for compensation or hire must meet the following requirements unless all flights are conducted under § 91.146. The Operator must:
(1) Comply with the safety provisions of part 136, subpart A of this chapter.
(2) Register and implement its drug and alcohol testing programs in accordance with part 120 of this chapter.
(3) Comply with the applicable requirements of part 5 of this chapter.
(4) Apply for and receive a Letter of Authorization from the responsible Flight Standards office.
(c)
Letter of Authorization.
Each application for a Letter of Authorization must include the following information:
(1) Name of Operator, agent, and any d/b/a (doing-business-as) under which that Operator does business.
(2) Principal business address and mailing address.
(3) Principal place of business (if different from business address).
(4) Name of person responsible for management of the business.
(5) Name of person responsible for aircraft maintenance.
(6) Type of aircraft, registration number(s), and make/model/series.
(7) Antidrug and Alcohol Misuse Prevention Program registration.
(d)
Compliance.
The Operator must comply with the provisions of the Letter of Authorization received.
[Docket FAA-2021-0419, Amdt. 91-374, 89 FR 33108, Apr. 26, 2024]
§§ 91.148-91.149
[Reserved]

# Visual Flight Rules
§ 91.151
Fuel requirements for flight in VFR conditions.
(a) No person may begin a flight in an airplane under VFR conditions unless (considering wind and forecast weather conditions) there is enough fuel to fly to the first point of intended landing and, assuming normal cruising speed—
(1) During the day, to fly after that for at least 30 minutes; or
(2) At night, to fly after that for at least 45 minutes.
(b) No person may begin a flight in a rotorcraft under VFR conditions unless (considering wind and forecast weather
conditions) there is enough fuel to fly to the first point of intended landing and, assuming normal cruising speed, to fly after that for at least 20 minutes.
§ 91.153
VFR flight plan: Information required.
(a)
Information required.
Unless otherwise authorized by ATC, each person filing a VFR flight plan shall include in it the following information:
(1) The aircraft identification number and, if necessary, its radio call sign.
(2) The type of the aircraft or, in the case of a formation flight, the type of each aircraft and the number of aircraft in the formation.
(3) The full name and address of the pilot in command or, in the case of a formation flight, the formation commander.
(4) The point and proposed time of departure.
(5) The proposed route, cruising altitude (or flight level), and true airspeed at that altitude.
(6) The point of first intended landing and the estimated elapsed time until over that point.
(7) The amount of fuel on board (in hours).
(8) The number of persons in the aircraft, except where that information is otherwise readily available to the FAA.
(9) Any other information the pilot in command or ATC believes is necessary for ATC purposes.
(b)
Cancellation.
When a flight plan has been activated, the pilot in command, upon canceling or completing the flight under the flight plan, shall notify an FAA Flight Service Station or ATC facility.
§ 91.155
Basic VFR weather minimums.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section and § 91.157, no person may operate an aircraft under VFR when the flight visibility is less, or at a distance from clouds that is less, than that prescribed for the corresponding altitude and class of airspace in the following table:
Airspace
Flight visibility
Distance from clouds
Class A
Not Applicable
Not Applicable.
Class B
3 statute miles
Clear of Clouds.
Class C
3 statute miles
500 feet below.
1,000 feet above.
2,000 feet horizontal.
Class D
3 statute miles
500 feet below.
1,000 feet above.
2,000 feet horizontal.
Class E:
Less than 10,000 feet MSL
3 statute miles
500 feet below.
1,000 feet above.
2,000 feet horizontal.
At or above 10,000 feet MSL
5 statute miles
1,000 feet below.
1,000 feet above.
1 statute mile horizontal.
Class G:
1,200 feet or less above the surface (regardless of MSL altitude)
For aircraft other than helicopters:
Day, except as provided in § 91.155(b)
1 statute mile
Clear of clouds.
Night, except as provided in § 91.155(b)
3 statute miles
500 feet below.
1,000 feet above.
2,000 feet horizontal.
For helicopters:
Day
1/2
statute mile
Clear of clouds
Night, except as provided in § 91.155(b)
1 statute mile
Clear of clouds.
More than 1,200 feet above the surface but less than 10,000 feet MSL
Day
1 statute mile
500 feet below.
1,000 feet above.
2,000 feet horizontal.
Night
3 statute miles
500 feet below.
1,000 feet above.
2,000 feet horizontal.
More than 1,200 feet above the surface and at or above 10,000 feet MSL
5 statute miles
1,000 feet below.
1,000 feet above.
1 statute mile horizontal.
(b)
Class G Airspace.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, the following operations may be conducted in Class G airspace below 1,200 feet above the surface:
(1)
Helicopter.
A helicopter may be operated clear of clouds in an airport traffic pattern within
1/2
mile of the runway or helipad of intended landing if the flight visibility is not less than
1/2
statute mile.
(2)
Airplane, powered parachute, or weight-shift-control aircraft.
If the visibility is less than 3 statute miles but not less than 1 statute mile during night hours and you are operating in an airport traffic pattern within
1/2
mile of the runway, you may operate an airplane, powered parachute, or weight-shift-control aircraft clear of clouds.
(c) Except as provided in § 91.157, no person may operate an aircraft beneath the ceiling under VFR within the lateral boundaries of controlled airspace designated to the surface for an airport when the ceiling is less than 1,000 feet.
(d) Except as provided in § 91.157 of this part, no person may take off or land an aircraft, or enter the traffic pattern of an airport, under VFR, within the lateral boundaries of the surface areas of Class B, Class C, Class D, or Class E airspace designated for an airport—
(1) Unless ground visibility at that airport is at least 3 statute miles; or
(2) If ground visibility is not reported at that airport, unless flight visibility during landing or takeoff, or while operating in the traffic pattern is at least 3 statute miles.
(e) For the purpose of this section, an aircraft operating at the base altitude of a Class E airspace area is considered to be within the airspace directly below that area.
[Docket 24458, 56 FR 65660, Dec. 17, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 91-235, 58 FR 51968, Oct. 5, 1993; Amdt. 91-282, 69 FR 44880, July 27, 2004; Amdt. 91-330, 79 FR 9972, Feb. 21, 2014; Amdt. 91-330A, 79 FR 41125, July 15, 2014]
§ 91.157
Special VFR weather minimums.
(a) Except as provided in appendix D, section 3, of this part, special VFR operations may be conducted under the weather minimums and requirements of this section, instead of those contained in § 91.155, below 10,000 feet MSL within the airspace contained by the upward extension of the lateral boundaries of the controlled airspace designated to the surface for an airport.
(b) Special VFR operations may only be conducted—
(1) With an ATC clearance;
(2) Clear of clouds;
(3) Except for helicopters, when flight visibility is at least 1 statute mile; and
(4) Except for helicopters, between sunrise and sunset (or in Alaska, when the sun is 6 degrees or less below the horizon) unless—
(i) The person being granted the ATC clearance meets the applicable requirements for instrument flight under part 61 of this chapter; and
(ii) The aircraft is equipped as required in § 91.205(d).
(c) No person may take off or land an aircraft (other than a helicopter) under special VFR—
(1) Unless ground visibility is at least 1 statute mile; or
(2) If ground visibility is not reported, unless flight visibility is at least 1 statute mile. For the purposes of this paragraph, the term flight visibility includes the visibility from the cockpit of an aircraft in takeoff position if:
(i) The flight is conducted under this part 91; and
(ii) The airport at which the aircraft is located is a satellite airport that does not have weather reporting capabilities.
(d) The determination of visibility by a pilot in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section is not an official weather report or an official ground visibility report.
[Amdt. 91-235, 58 FR 51968, Oct. 5, 1993, as amended by Amdt. 91-247, 60 FR 66874, Dec. 27, 1995; Amdt. 91-262, 65 FR 16116, Mar. 24, 2000; Docket FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 91-366, 87 FR 75846, Dec. 9, 2022]
§ 91.159
VFR cruising altitude or flight level.
Except while holding in a holding pattern of 2 minutes or less, or while turning, each person operating an aircraft under VFR in level cruising flight more than 3,000 feet above the surface shall maintain the appropriate altitude or flight level prescribed below, unless otherwise authorized by ATC:
(a) When operating below 18,000 feet MSL and—
(1) On a magnetic course of zero degrees through 179 degrees, any odd thousand foot MSL altitude + 500 feet (such as 3,500, 5,500, or 7,500); or
(2) On a magnetic course of 180 degrees through 359 degrees, any even thousand foot MSL altitude + 500 feet (such as 4,500, 6,500, or 8,500).
(b) When operating above 18,000 feet MSL, maintain the altitude or flight level assigned by ATC.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34294, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-276, 68 FR 61321, Oct. 27, 2003; 68 FR 70133, Dec. 17, 2003]
§ 91.161
Special awareness training required for pilots flying under visual flight rules within a 60-nautical mile radius of the Washington, DC VOR/DME.
(a)
Operations within a 60-nautical mile radius of the Washington, DC VOR/DME under visual flight rules (VFR).
Except as provided under paragraph (e) of this section, no person may serve as a pilot in command or as second in command of an aircraft while flying within a 60-nautical mile radius of the DCA VOR/DME, under VFR, unless that pilot has completed Special Awareness Training and holds a certificate of training completion.
(b)
Special Awareness Training.
The Special Awareness Training consists of information to educate pilots about the procedures for flying in the Washington, DC area and, more generally, in other types of special use airspace. This free training is available on the FAA's Web site. Upon completion of the training, each person will need to print out a copy of the certificate of training completion.
(c)
Inspection of certificate of training completion.
Each person who holds a certificate for completing the Special Awareness Training must present it for inspection upon request from:
(1) An authorized representative of the FAA;
(2) An authorized representative of the National Transportation Safety Board;
(3) Any Federal, State, or local law enforcement officer; or
(4) An authorized representative of the Transportation Security Administration.
(d)
Emergency declared.
The failure to complete the Special Awareness Training course on flying in and around the Washington, DC Metropolitan Area is not a violation of this section if an emergency is declared by the pilot, as described under § 91.3(b), or there was a failure of two-way radio communications when operating under IFR as described under § 91.185.
(e)
Exceptions.
The requirements of this section do not apply if the flight is being performed in an aircraft of an air ambulance operator certificated to conduct part 135 operations under this chapter, the U.S. Armed Forces, or a law enforcement agency.
[Docket FAA-2006-25250, 73 FR 46803, Aug. 12, 2008]
§§ 91.162-91.165
[Reserved]

# Instrument Flight Rules
§ 91.167
Fuel requirements for flight in IFR conditions.
(a) No person may operate a civil aircraft in IFR conditions unless it carries enough fuel (considering weather reports and forecasts and weather conditions) to—
(1) Complete the flight to the first airport of intended landing;
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, fly from that airport to the alternate airport; and
(3) Fly after that for 45 minutes at normal cruising speed or, for helicopters, fly after that for 30 minutes at normal cruising speed.
(b) Paragraph (a)(2) of this section does not apply if:
(1) Part 97 of this chapter prescribes a standard instrument approach procedure to, or a special instrument approach procedure has been issued by the Administrator to the operator for, the first airport of intended landing; and
(2) Appropriate weather reports or weather forecasts, or a combination of them, indicate the following:
(i)
For aircraft other than helicopters.
For at least 1 hour before and for 1 hour after the estimated time of arrival, the ceiling will be at least 2,000 feet above the airport elevation and the visibility will be at least 3 statute miles.
(ii)
For helicopters.
At the estimated time of arrival and for 1 hour after the estimated time of arrival, the ceiling will be at least 1,000 feet above the airport elevation, or at least 400 feet above the lowest applicable approach minima, whichever is higher, and the visibility will be at least 2 statute miles.
[Docket 98-4390, 65 FR 3546, Jan. 21, 2000]
§ 91.169
IFR flight plan: Information required.
(a)
Information required.
Unless otherwise authorized by ATC, each person filing an IFR flight plan must include in it the following information:
(1) Information required under § 91.153 (a) of this part;
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an alternate airport.
(b) Paragraph (a)(2) of this section does not apply if :
(1) Part 97 of this chapter prescribes a standard instrument approach procedure to, or a special instrument approach procedure has been issued by the Administrator to the operator for, the first airport of intended landing; and
(2) Appropriate weather reports or weather forecasts, or a combination of them, indicate the following:
(i)
For aircraft other than helicopters.
For at least 1 hour before and for 1 hour after the estimated time of arrival, the ceiling will be at least 2,000 feet above the airport elevation and the visibility will be at least 3 statute miles.
(ii)
For helicopters.
At the estimated time of arrival and for 1 hour after the estimated time of arrival, the ceiling will be at least 1,000 feet above the airport elevation, or at least 400 feet above the lowest applicable approach minima, whichever is higher, and the visibility will be at least 2 statute miles.
(c)
IFR alternate airport weather minima.
Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, no person may include an alternate airport in an IFR flight plan unless appropriate weather reports or weather forecasts, or a combination of them, indicate that, at the estimated time of arrival at the alternate airport, the ceiling and visibility at that airport will be at or above the following weather minima:
(1) If an instrument approach procedure has been published in part 97 of this chapter, or a special instrument approach procedure has been issued by the Administrator to the operator, for that airport, the following minima:
(i)
For aircraft other than helicopters:
The alternate airport minima specified in that procedure, or if none are specified the following standard approach minima:
(A)
For a precision approach procedure.
Ceiling 600 feet and visibility 2 statute miles.
(B)
For a nonprecision approach procedure.
Ceiling 800 feet and visibility 2 statute miles.
(ii)
For helicopters:
Ceiling 200 feet above the minimum for the approach to be flown, and visibility at least 1 statute mile but never less than the minimum visibility for the approach to be flown, and
(2) If no instrument approach procedure has been published in part 97 of this chapter and no special instrument approach procedure has been issued by the Administrator to the operator, for the alternate airport, the ceiling and visibility minima are those allowing descent from the MEA, approach, and landing under basic VFR.
(d)
Cancellation.
When a flight plan has been activated, the pilot in command, upon canceling or completing the flight under the flight plan, shall notify an FAA Flight Service Station or ATC facility.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34294, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-259, 65 FR 3546, Jan. 21, 2000]
§ 91.171
VOR equipment check for IFR operations.
(a) No person may operate a civil aircraft under IFR using the VOR system of radio navigation unless the VOR equipment of that aircraft—
(1) Is maintained, checked, and inspected under an approved procedure; or
(2) Has been operationally checked within the preceding 30 days, and was found to be within the limits of the permissible indicated bearing error set forth in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, each person conducting a VOR check under paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall—
(1) Use, at the airport of intended departure, an FAA-operated or approved test signal or a test signal radiated by a certificated and appropriately rated radio repair station or, outside the United States, a test signal operated or approved by an appropriate authority to check the VOR equipment (the maximum permissible indicated bearing error is plus or minus 4 degrees); or
(2) Use, at the airport of intended departure, a point on the airport surface designated as a VOR system checkpoint by the Administrator, or, outside the United States, by an appropriate authority (the maximum permissible bearing error is plus or minus 4 degrees);
(3) If neither a test signal nor a designated checkpoint on the surface is available, use an airborne checkpoint designated by the Administrator or, outside the United States, by an appropriate authority (the maximum permissible bearing error is plus or minus 6 degrees); or
(4) If no check signal or point is available, while in flight—
(i) Select a VOR radial that lies along the centerline of an established VOR airway;
(ii) Select a prominent ground point along the selected radial preferably more than 20 nautical miles from the VOR ground facility and maneuver the aircraft directly over the point at a reasonably low altitude; and
(iii) Note the VOR bearing indicated by the receiver when over the ground point (the maximum permissible variation between the published radial and the indicated bearing is 6 degrees).
(c) If dual system VOR (units independent of each other except for the antenna) is installed in the aircraft, the person checking the equipment may check one system against the other in place of the check procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section. Both systems shall be tuned to the same VOR ground facility and note the indicated bearings to that station. The maximum permissible variation between the two indicated bearings is 4 degrees.
(d) Each person making the VOR operational check, as specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, shall enter the date, place, bearing error, and sign the aircraft log or other record. In addition, if a test signal radiated by a repair station, as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, is used, an entry must be made in the aircraft log or other record by the repair station certificate holder or the certificate holder's representative certifying to the bearing transmitted by the repair station for the check and the date of transmission.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2120-0005)
§ 91.173
ATC clearance and flight plan required.
No person may operate an aircraft in controlled airspace under IFR unless that person has—
(a) Filed an IFR flight plan; and
(b) Received an appropriate ATC clearance.
§ 91.175
Takeoff and landing under IFR.
(a)
Instrument approaches to civil airports.
Unless otherwise authorized by the FAA, when it is necessary to use an instrument approach to a civil airport, each person operating an aircraft must use a standard instrument approach procedure prescribed in part 97 of this chapter for that airport. This paragraph does not apply to United States military aircraft.
(b)
Authorized DA/DH or MDA.
For the purpose of this section, when the approach procedure being used provides for and requires the use of a DA/DH or MDA, the authorized DA/DH or MDA is the highest of the following:
(1) The DA/DH or MDA prescribed by the approach procedure.
(2) The DA/DH or MDA prescribed for the pilot in command.
(3) The DA/DH or MDA appropriate for the aircraft equipment available and used during the approach.
(c)
Operation below DA/DH or MDA.
Except as provided in § 91.176 of this chapter, where a DA/DH or MDA is applicable, no pilot may operate an aircraft, except a military aircraft of the United States, below the authorized
MDA or continue an approach below the authorized DA/DH unless—
(1) The aircraft is continuously in a position from which a descent to a landing on the intended runway can be made at a normal rate of descent using normal maneuvers, and for operations conducted under part 121 or part 135 unless that descent rate will allow touchdown to occur within the touchdown zone of the runway of intended landing;
(2) The flight visibility is not less than the visibility prescribed in the standard instrument approach being used; and
(3) Except for a Category II or Category III approach where any necessary visual reference requirements are specified by the Administrator, at least one of the following visual references for the intended runway is distinctly visible and identifiable to the pilot:
(i) The approach light system, except that the pilot may not descend below 100 feet above the touchdown zone elevation using the approach lights as a reference unless the red terminating bars or the red side row bars are also distinctly visible and identifiable.
(ii) The threshold.
(iii) The threshold markings.
(iv) The threshold lights.
(v) The runway end identifier lights.
(vi) The visual glideslope indicator.
(vii) The touchdown zone or touchdown zone markings.
(viii) The touchdown zone lights.
(ix) The runway or runway markings.
(x) The runway lights.
(d)
Landing.
No pilot operating an aircraft, except a military aircraft of the United States, may land that aircraft when—
(1) For operations conducted under § 91.176 of this part, the requirements of paragraphs (a)(3)(iii) or (b)(3)(iii), as applicable, of that section are not met; or
(2) For all other operations under this part and parts 121, 125, 129, and 135, the flight visibility is less than the visibility prescribed in the standard instrument approach procedure being used.
(e)
Missed approach procedures.
Each pilot operating an aircraft, except a military aircraft of the United States, shall immediately execute an appropriate missed approach procedure when either of the following conditions exist:
(1) Whenever operating an aircraft pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section or § 91.176 of this part, and the requirements of that paragraph or section are not met at either of the following times:
(i) When the aircraft is being operated below MDA; or
(ii) Upon arrival at the missed approach point, including a DA/DH where a DA/DH is specified and its use is required, and at any time after that until touchdown.
(2) Whenever an identifiable part of the airport is not distinctly visible to the pilot during a circling maneuver at or above MDA, unless the inability to see an identifiable part of the airport results only from a normal bank of the aircraft during the circling approach.
(f)
Civil airport takeoff minimums.
This paragraph applies to persons operating an aircraft under part 121, 125, 129, or 135 of this chapter.
(1) Unless otherwise authorized by the FAA, no pilot may takeoff from a civil airport under IFR unless the weather conditions at time of takeoff are at or above the weather minimums for IFR takeoff prescribed for that airport under part 97 of this chapter.
(2) If takeoff weather minimums are not prescribed under part 97 of this chapter for a particular airport, the following weather minimums apply to takeoffs under IFR:
(i) For aircraft, other than helicopters, having two engines or less—1 statute mile visibility.
(ii) For aircraft having more than two engines—
1/2
statute mile visibility.
(iii) For helicopters—
1/2
statute mile visibility.
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(4) of this section, no pilot may takeoff under IFR from a civil airport having published obstacle departure procedures (ODPs) under part 97 of this chapter for the takeoff runway to be used, unless the pilot uses such ODPs or an alternative procedure or route assigned by air traffic control.
(4) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this section, no pilot may takeoff from an airport under IFR unless:
(i) For part 121 and part 135 operators, the pilot uses a takeoff obstacle clearance or avoidance procedure that ensures compliance with the applicable airplane performance operating limitations requirements under part 121, subpart I or part 135, subpart I for takeoff at that airport; or
(ii) For part 129 operators, the pilot uses a takeoff obstacle clearance or avoidance procedure that ensures compliance with the airplane performance operating limitations prescribed by the State of the operator for takeoff at that airport.
(g)
Military airports.
Unless otherwise prescribed by the Administrator, each person operating a civil aircraft under IFR into or out of a military airport shall comply with the instrument approach procedures and the takeoff and landing minimum prescribed by the military authority having jurisdiction of that airport.
(h)
Comparable values of RVR and ground visibility.
(1) Except for Category II or Category III minimums, if RVR minimums for takeoff or landing are prescribed in an instrument approach procedure, but RVR is not reported for the runway of intended operation, the RVR minimum shall be converted to ground visibility in accordance with the table in paragraph (h)(2) of this section and shall be the visibility minimum for takeoff or landing on that runway.
(2)
RVR (feet)
Visibility (statute miles)
1,600
1/4
2,400
1/2
3,200
5/8
4,000
3/4
4,500
7/8
5,000
1
6,000
1
1/4
(i)
Operations on unpublished routes and use of radar in instrument approach procedures.
When radar is approved at certain locations for ATC purposes, it may be used not only for surveillance and precision radar approaches, as applicable, but also may be used in conjunction with instrument approach procedures predicated on other types of radio navigational aids. Radar vectors may be authorized to provide course guidance through the segments of an approach to the final course or fix. When operating on an unpublished route or while being radar vectored, the pilot, when an approach clearance is received, shall, in addition to complying with § 91.177, maintain the last altitude assigned to that pilot until the aircraft is established on a segment of a published route or instrument approach procedure unless a different altitude is assigned by ATC. After the aircraft is so established, published altitudes apply to descent within each succeeding route or approach segment unless a different altitude is assigned by ATC. Upon reaching the final approach course or fix, the pilot may either complete the instrument approach in accordance with a procedure approved for the facility or continue a surveillance or precision radar approach to a landing.
(j)
Limitation on procedure turns.
In the case of a radar vector to a final approach course or fix, a timed approach from a holding fix, or an approach for which the procedure specifies “No PT,” no pilot may make a procedure turn unless cleared to do so by ATC.
(k)
ILS components.
The basic components of an ILS are the localizer, glide slope, and outer marker, and, when installed for use with Category II or Category III instrument approach procedures, an inner marker. The following means may be used to substitute for the outer marker: Compass locator; precision approach radar (PAR) or airport surveillance radar (ASR); DME, VOR, or nondirectional beacon fixes authorized in the standard instrument approach procedure; or a suitable RNAV system in conjunction with a fix identified in the standard instrument approach procedure. Applicability of, and substitution for, the inner marker for a Category II or III approach is determined by the appropriate 14 CFR part 97 approach procedure, letter of authorization, or operations specifications issued to an operator.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34294, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-267, 66 FR 21066, Apr. 27, 2001; Amdt. 91-281, 69 FR 1640, Jan. 9, 2004; Amdt. 91-296, 72 FR 31678, June 7, 2007; Amdt. 91-306, 74 FR 20205, May 1, 2009; Docket FAA-2013-0485, Amdt. 91-345, 81 FR 90172, Dec. 13, 2016; Amdt. 91-345B, 83 FR 10568, Mar. 12, 2018]
§ 91.176
Straight-in landing operations below DA/DH or MDA using an enhanced flight vision system (EFVS) under IFR.
(a)
EFVS operations to touchdown and rollout.
Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator to use an MDA as a DA/DH with vertical navigation on an instrument approach procedure, or unless paragraph (d) of this section applies, no person may conduct an EFVS operation in an aircraft, except a military aircraft of the United States, at any airport below the authorized DA/DH to touchdown and rollout unless the minimums used for the particular approach procedure being flown include a DA or DH, and the following requirements are met:
(1)
Equipment.
(i) The aircraft must be equipped with an operable EFVS that meets the applicable airworthiness requirements. The EFVS must:
(A) Have an electronic means to provide a display of the forward external scene topography (the applicable natural or manmade features of a place or region especially in a way to show their relative positions and elevation) through the use of imaging sensors, including but not limited to forward-looking infrared, millimeter wave radiometry, millimeter wave radar, or low-light level image intensification.
(B) Present EFVS sensor imagery, aircraft flight information, and flight symbology on a head up display, or an equivalent display, so that the imagery, information and symbology are clearly visible to the pilot flying in his or her normal position with the line of vision looking forward along the flight path. Aircraft flight information and flight symbology must consist of at least airspeed, vertical speed, aircraft attitude, heading, altitude, height above ground level such as that provided by a radio altimeter or other device capable of providing equivalent performance, command guidance as appropriate for the approach to be flown, path deviation indications, flight path vector, and flight path angle reference cue. Additionally, for aircraft other than rotorcraft, the EFVS must display flare prompt or flare guidance.
(C) Present the displayed EFVS sensor imagery, attitude symbology, flight path vector, and flight path angle reference cue, and other cues, which are referenced to the EFVS sensor imagery and external scene topography, so that they are aligned with, and scaled to, the external view.
(D) Display the flight path angle reference cue with a pitch scale. The flight path angle reference cue must be selectable by the pilot to the desired descent angle for the approach and be sufficient to monitor the vertical flight path of the aircraft.
(E) Display the EFVS sensor imagery, aircraft flight information, and flight symbology such that they do not adversely obscure the pilot's outside view or field of view through the cockpit window.
(F) Have display characteristics, dynamics, and cues that are suitable for manual control of the aircraft to touchdown in the touchdown zone of the runway of intended landing and during rollout.
(ii) When a minimum flightcrew of more than one pilot is required, the aircraft must be equipped with a display that provides the pilot monitoring with EFVS sensor imagery. Any symbology displayed may not adversely obscure the sensor imagery of the runway environment.
(2)
Operations.
(i) The pilot conducting the EFVS operation may not use circling minimums.
(ii) Each required pilot flightcrew member must have adequate knowledge of, and familiarity with, the aircraft, the EFVS, and the procedures to be used.
(iii) The aircraft must be equipped with, and the pilot flying must use, an operable EFVS that meets the equipment requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(iv) When a minimum flightcrew of more than one pilot is required, the pilot monitoring must use the display specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) to monitor and assess the safe conduct of the approach, landing, and rollout.
(v) The aircraft must continuously be in a position from which a descent to a landing on the intended runway can be made at a normal rate of descent using normal maneuvers.
(vi) The descent rate must allow touchdown to occur within the touchdown zone of the runway of intended landing.
(vii) Each required pilot flightcrew member must meet the following requirements—
(A) A person exercising the privileges of a pilot certificate issued under this chapter, any person serving as a required pilot flightcrew member of a U.S.-registered aircraft, or any person serving as a required pilot flightcrew member for a part 121, 125, or 135 operator, must be qualified in accordance with part 61 and, as applicable, the training, testing, and qualification provisions of subpart K of this part, part 121, 125, or 135 of this chapter that apply to the operation; or
(B) Each person acting as a required pilot flightcrew member for a foreign air carrier subject to part 129, or any person serving as a required pilot flightcrew member of a foreign registered aircraft, must be qualified in accordance with the training requirements of the civil aviation authority of the State of the operator for the EFVS operation to be conducted.
(viii) A person conducting operations under this part must conduct the operation in accordance with a letter of authorization for the use of EFVS unless the operation is conducted in an aircraft that has been issued an experimental certificate under § 21.191 of this chapter for the purpose of research and development or showing compliance with regulations, or the operation is being conducted by a person otherwise authorized to conduct EFVS operations under paragraphs (a)(2)(ix) through (xii) of this section. A person applying to the FAA for a letter of authorization must submit an application in a form and manner prescribed by the Administrator.
(ix) A person conducting operations under subpart K of this part must conduct the operation in accordance with management specifications authorizing the use of EFVS.
(x) A person conducting operations under part 121, 129, or 135 of this chapter must conduct the operation in accordance with operations specifications authorizing the use of EFVS.
(xi) A person conducting operations under part 125 of this chapter must conduct the operation in accordance with operations specifications authorizing the use of EFVS or, for a holder of a part 125 letter of deviation authority, a letter of authorization for the use of EFVS.
(xii) A person conducting an EFVS operation during an authorized Category II or Category III operation must conduct the operation in accordance with operations specifications, management specifications, or a letter of authorization authorizing EFVS operations during authorized Category II or Category III operations.
(3)
Visibility and visual reference requirements.
No pilot operating under this section or §§ 121.651, 125.381, or 135.225 of this chapter may continue an approach below the authorized DA/DH and land unless:
(i) The pilot determines that the enhanced flight visibility observed by use of an EFVS is not less than the visibility prescribed in the instrument approach procedure being used.
(ii) From the authorized DA/DH to 100 feet above the touchdown zone elevation of the runway of intended landing, any approach light system or both the runway threshold and the touchdown zone are distinctly visible and identifiable to the pilot using an EFVS.
(A) The pilot must identify the runway threshold using at least one of the following visual references—
(
1
) The beginning of the runway landing surface;
(
2
) The threshold lights; or
(
3
) The runway end identifier lights.
(B) The pilot must identify the touchdown zone using at least one of the following visual references—
(
1
) The runway touchdown zone landing surface;
(
2
) The touchdown zone lights;
(
3
) The touchdown zone markings; or
(
4
) The runway lights.
(iii) At 100 feet above the touchdown zone elevation of the runway of intended landing and below that altitude, the enhanced flight visibility using EFVS must be sufficient for one of the following visual references to be distinctly visible and identifiable to the pilot—
(A) The runway threshold;
(B) The lights or markings of the threshold;
(C) The runway touchdown zone landing surface; or
(D) The lights or markings of the touchdown zone.
(4)
Additional requirements.
The Administrator may prescribe additional equipment, operational, and visibility and visual reference requirements to account for specific equipment characteristics, operational procedures, or approach characteristics. These requirements will be specified in an operator's operations specifications, management specifications, or letter of authorization authorizing the use of EFVS.
(b)
EFVS operations to 100 feet above the touchdown zone elevation.
Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, no person may conduct an EFVS operation in an aircraft, except a military aircraft of the United States, at any airport below the authorized DA/DH or MDA to 100 feet above the touchdown zone elevation unless the following requirements are met:
(1)
Equipment.
(i) The aircraft must be equipped with an operable EFVS that meets the applicable airworthiness requirements.
(ii) The EFVS must meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A) through (F) of this section, but need not present flare prompt, flare guidance, or height above ground level.
(2)
Operations.
(i) The pilot conducting the EFVS operation may not use circling minimums.
(ii) Each required pilot flightcrew member must have adequate knowledge of, and familiarity with, the aircraft, the EFVS, and the procedures to be used.
(iii) The aircraft must be equipped with, and the pilot flying must use, an operable EFVS that meets the equipment requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(iv) The aircraft must continuously be in a position from which a descent to a landing on the intended runway can be made at a normal rate of descent using normal maneuvers.
(v) For operations conducted under part 121 or part 135 of this chapter, the descent rate must allow touchdown to occur within the touchdown zone of the runway of intended landing.
(vi) Each required pilot flightcrew member must meet the following requirements—
(A) A person exercising the privileges of a pilot certificate issued under this chapter, any person serving as a required pilot flightcrew member of a U.S.-registered aircraft, or any person serving as a required pilot flightcrew member for a part 121, 125, or 135 operator, must be qualified in accordance with part 61 and, as applicable, the training, testing, and qualification provisions of subpart K of this part, part 121, 125, or 135 of this chapter that apply to the operation; or
(B) Each person acting as a required pilot flightcrew member for a foreign air carrier subject to part 129, or any person serving as a required pilot flightcrew member of a foreign registered aircraft, must be qualified in accordance with the training requirements of the civil aviation authority of the State of the operator for the EFVS operation to be conducted.
(vii) A person conducting operations under subpart K of this part must conduct the operation in accordance with management specifications authorizing the use of EFVS.
(viii) A person conducting operations under part 121, 129, or 135 of this chapter must conduct the operation in accordance with operations specifications authorizing the use of EFVS.
(ix) A person conducting operations under part 125 of this chapter must conduct the operation in accordance with operations specifications authorizing the use of EFVS or, for a holder of a part 125 letter of deviation authority, a letter of authorization for the use of EFVS.
(x) A person conducting an EFVS operation during an authorized Category II or Category III operation must conduct the operation in accordance with operations specifications, management specifications, or a letter of authorization authorizing EFVS operations during authorized Category II or Category III operations.
(3)
Visibility and Visual Reference Requirements.
No pilot operating under this section or § 121.651, § 125.381, or § 135.225 of this chapter may continue
an approach below the authorized MDA or continue an approach below the authorized DA/DH and land unless:
(i) The pilot determines that the enhanced flight visibility observed by use of an EFVS is not less than the visibility prescribed in the instrument approach procedure being used.
(ii) From the authorized MDA or DA/DH to 100 feet above the touchdown zone elevation of the runway of intended landing, any approach light system or both the runway threshold and the touchdown zone are distinctly visible and identifiable to the pilot using an EFVS.
(A) The pilot must identify the runway threshold using at least one of the following visual references-
(
1
) The beginning of the runway landing surface;
(
2
) The threshold lights; or
(
3
) The runway end identifier lights.
(B) The pilot must identify the touchdown zone using at least one of the following visual references—
(
1
) The runway touchdown zone landing surface;
(
2
) The touchdown zone lights;
(
3
) The touchdown zone markings; or
(
4
) The runway lights.
(iii) At 100 feet above the touchdown zone elevation of the runway of intended landing and below that altitude, the flight visibility must be sufficient for one of the following visual references to be distinctly visible and identifiable to the pilot without reliance on the EFVS—
(A) The runway threshold;
(B) The lights or markings of the threshold;
(C) The runway touchdown zone landing surface; or
(D) The lights or markings of the touchdown zone.
(4) Compliance Date. Beginning on March 13, 2018, a person conducting an EFVS operation to 100 feet above the touchdown zone elevation must comply with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(c)
Public aircraft certification and training requirements.
A public aircraft operator, other than the U.S. military, may conduct an EFVS operation under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section only if:
(1) The aircraft meets all of the civil certification and airworthiness requirements of paragraph (a)(1) or (b)(1) of this section, as applicable to the EFVS operation to be conducted; and
(2) The pilot flightcrew member, or any other person who manipulates the controls of an aircraft during an EFVS operation, meets the training, recent flight experience and refresher training requirements of § 61.66 of this chapter applicable to EFVS operations.
(d)
Exception for Experimental Aircraft.
The requirement to use an EFVS that meets the applicable airworthiness requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (b)(1)(i), and (b)(2)(iii) of this section does not apply to operations conducted in an aircraft issued an experimental certificate under § 21.191 of this chapter for the purpose of research and development or showing compliance with regulations, provided the Administrator has determined that the operations can be conducted safely in accordance with operating limitations issued for that purpose.
[Docket FAA-2013-0485, Amdt. 91-345, 81 FR 90172, Dec. 13, 2016; 82 FR 2193, Jan. 9, 2017]
§ 91.177
Minimum altitudes for IFR operations.
(a)
Operation of aircraft at minimum altitudes.
Except when necessary for takeoff or landing, or unless otherwise authorized by the FAA, no person may operate an aircraft under IFR below—
(1) The applicable minimum altitudes prescribed in parts 95 and 97 of this chapter. However, if both a MEA and a MOCA are prescribed for a particular route or route segment, a person may operate an aircraft below the MEA down to, but not below, the MOCA, provided the applicable navigation signals are available. For aircraft using VOR for navigation, this applies only when the aircraft is within 22 nautical miles of that VOR (based on the reasonable estimate by the pilot operating the aircraft of that distance); or
(2) If no applicable minimum altitude is prescribed in parts 95 and 97 of this chapter, then—
(i) In the case of operations over an area designated as a mountainous area in part 95 of this chapter, an altitude of 2,000 feet above the highest obstacle
within a horizontal distance of 4 nautical miles from the course to be flown; or
(ii) In any other case, an altitude of 1,000 feet above the highest obstacle within a horizontal distance of 4 nautical miles from the course to be flown.
(b)
Climb.
Climb to a higher minimum IFR altitude shall begin immediately after passing the point beyond which that minimum altitude applies, except that when ground obstructions intervene, the point beyond which that higher minimum altitude applies shall be crossed at or above the applicable MCA.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34294, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-296, 72 FR 31678, June 7, 2007; Amdt. 91-315, 75 FR 30690, June 2, 2010]
§ 91.179
IFR cruising altitude or flight level.
Unless otherwise authorized by ATC, the following rules apply—
(a)
In controlled airspace.
Each person operating an aircraft under IFR in level cruising flight in controlled airspace shall maintain the altitude or flight level assigned that aircraft by ATC. However, if the ATC clearance assigns “VFR conditions on-top,” that person shall maintain an altitude or flight level as prescribed by § 91.159.
(b)
In uncontrolled airspace.
Except while in a holding pattern of 2 minutes or less or while turning, each person operating an aircraft under IFR in level cruising flight in uncontrolled airspace shall maintain an appropriate altitude as follows:
(1) When operating below 18,000 feet MSL and—
(i) On a magnetic course of zero degrees through 179 degrees, any odd thousand foot MSL altitude (such as 3,000, 5,000, or 7,000); or
(ii) On a magnetic course of 180 degrees through 359 degrees, any even thousand foot MSL altitude (such as 2,000, 4,000, or 6,000).
(2) When operating at or above 18,000 feet MSL but below flight level 290, and—
(i) On a magnetic course of zero degrees through 179 degrees, any odd flight level (such as 190, 210, or 230); or
(ii) On a magnetic course of 180 degrees through 359 degrees, any even flight level (such as 180, 200, or 220).
(3) When operating at flight level 290 and above in non-RVSM airspace, and—
(i) On a magnetic course of zero degrees through 179 degrees, any flight level, at 4,000-foot intervals, beginning at and including flight level 290 (such as flight level 290, 330, or 370); or
(ii) On a magnetic course of 180 degrees through 359 degrees, any flight level, at 4,000-foot intervals, beginning at and including flight level 310 (such as flight level 310, 350, or 390).
(4) When operating at flight level 290 and above in airspace designated as Reduced Vertical Separation Minimum (RVSM) airspace and—
(i) On a magnetic course of zero degrees through 179 degrees, any odd flight level, at 2,000-foot intervals beginning at and including flight level 290 (such as flight level 290, 310, 330, 350, 370, 390, 410); or
(ii) On a magnetic course of 180 degrees through 359 degrees, any even flight level, at 2000-foot intervals beginning at and including flight level 300 (such as 300, 320, 340, 360, 380, 400).
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34294, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-276, 68 FR 61321, Oct. 27, 2003; 68 FR 70133, Dec. 17, 2003; Amdt. 91-296, 72 FR 31679, June 7, 2007]
§ 91.180
Operations within airspace designated as Reduced Vertical Separation Minimum airspace.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, no person may operate a civil aircraft in airspace designated as Reduced Vertical Separation Minimum (RVSM) airspace unless:
(1) The operator and the operator's aircraft comply with the minimum standards of appendix G of this part; and
(2) The operator is authorized by the Administrator or the country of registry to conduct such operations.
(b) The Administrator may authorize a deviation from the requirements of this section.
[Amdt. 91-276, 68 FR 70133, Dec. 17, 2003]
§ 91.181
Course to be flown.
Unless otherwise authorized by ATC, no person may operate an aircraft within controlled airspace under IFR except as follows:
(a) On an ATS route, along the centerline of that airway.
(b) On any other route, along the direct course between the navigational aids or fixes defining that route. However, this section does not prohibit maneuvering the aircraft to pass well clear of other air traffic or the maneuvering of the aircraft in VFR conditions to clear the intended flight path both before and during climb or descent.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34294, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-296, 72 FR 31679, June 7, 2007]
§ 91.183
IFR communications.
Unless otherwise authorized by ATC, the pilot in command of each aircraft operated under IFR in controlled airspace must ensure that a continuous watch is maintained on the appropriate frequency and must report the following as soon as possible—
(a) The time and altitude of passing each designated reporting point, or the reporting points specified by ATC, except that while the aircraft is under radar control, only the passing of those reporting points specifically requested by ATC need be reported;
(b) Any unforecast weather conditions encountered; and
(c) Any other information relating to the safety of flight.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34294, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-296, 72 FR 31679, June 7, 2007]
§ 91.185
IFR operations: Two-way radio communications failure.
(a)
General.
Unless otherwise authorized by ATC, each pilot who has two-way radio communications failure when operating under IFR shall comply with the rules of this section.
(b)
VFR conditions.
If the failure occurs in VFR conditions, or if VFR conditions are encountered after the failure, each pilot shall continue the flight under VFR and land as soon as practicable.
(c)
IFR conditions.
If the failure occurs in IFR conditions, or if paragraph (b) of this section cannot be complied with, each pilot shall continue the flight according to the following:
(1)
Route.
(i) By the route assigned in the last ATC clearance received;
(ii) If being radar vectored, by the direct route from the point of radio failure to the fix, route, or airway specified in the vector clearance;
(iii) In the absence of an assigned route, by the route that ATC has advised may be expected in a further clearance; or
(iv) In the absence of an assigned route or a route that ATC has advised may be expected in a further clearance, by the route filed in the flight plan.
(2)
Altitude.
At the highest of the following altitudes or flight levels for the route segment being flown:
(i) The altitude or flight level assigned in the last ATC clearance received;
(ii) The minimum altitude (converted, if appropriate, to minimum flight level as prescribed in § 91.121(c)) for IFR operations; or
(iii) The altitude or flight level ATC has advised may be expected in a further clearance.
(3)
Leave clearance limit.
(i) When the clearance limit is a fix from which an approach begins, commence descent or descent and approach as close as possible to the expect-further-clearance time if one has been received, or if one has not been received, as close as possible to the estimated time of arrival as calculated from the filed or amended (with ATC) estimated time en route.
(ii) If the clearance limit is not a fix from which an approach begins, leave the clearance limit at the expect-further-clearance time if one has been received, or if none has been received, upon arrival over the clearance limit, and proceed to a fix from which an approach begins and commence descent or descent and approach as close as possible to the estimated time of arrival as calculated from the filed or amended (with ATC) estimated time en route.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34294, Aug. 18, 1989; Amdt. 91-211, 54 FR 41211, Oct. 5, 1989]
§ 91.187
Operation under IFR in controlled airspace: Malfunction reports.
(a) The pilot in command of each aircraft operated in controlled airspace under IFR shall report as soon as practical to ATC any malfunctions of navigational, approach, or communication equipment occurring in flight.
(b) In each report required by paragraph (a) of this section, the pilot in command shall include the—
(1) Aircraft identification;
(2) Equipment affected;
(3) Degree to which the capability of the pilot to operate under IFR in the ATC system is impaired; and
(4) Nature and extent of assistance desired from ATC.
§ 91.189
Category II and III operations: General operating rules.
(a) No person may operate a civil aircraft in a Category II or III operation unless—
(1) The flight crew of the aircraft consists of a pilot in command and a second in command who hold the appropriate authorizations and ratings prescribed in § 61.3 of this chapter;
(2) Each flight crewmember has adequate knowledge of, and familiarity with, the aircraft and the procedures to be used; and
(3) The instrument panel in front of the pilot who is controlling the aircraft has appropriate instrumentation for the type of flight control guidance system that is being used.
(b) Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, no person may operate a civil aircraft in a Category II or Category III operation unless each ground component required for that operation and the related airborne equipment is installed and operating.
(c)
Authorized DA/DH.
For the purpose of this section, when the approach procedure being used provides for and requires the use of a DA/DH, the authorized DA/DH is the highest of the following:
(1) The DA/DH prescribed by the approach procedure.
(2) The DA/DH prescribed for the pilot in command.
(3) The DA/DH for which the aircraft is equipped.
(d) Except as provided in § 91.176 of this part or unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, no pilot operating an aircraft in a Category II or Category III approach that provides and requires the use of a DA/DH may continue the approach below the authorized decision height unless the following conditions are met:
(1) The aircraft is in a position from which a descent to a landing on the intended runway can be made at a normal rate of descent using normal maneuvers, and where that descent rate will allow touchdown to occur within the touchdown zone of the runway of intended landing.
(2) At least one of the following visual references for the intended runway is distinctly visible and identifiable to the pilot:
(i) The approach light system, except that the pilot may not descend below 100 feet above the touchdown zone elevation using the approach lights as a reference unless the red terminating bars or the red side row bars are also distinctly visible and identifiable.
(ii) The threshold.
(iii) The threshold markings.
(iv) The threshold lights.
(v) The touchdown zone or touchdown zone markings.
(vi) The touchdown zone lights.
(e) Except as provided in § 91.176 of this part or unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, each pilot operating an aircraft shall immediately execute an appropriate missed approach whenever, prior to touchdown, the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section are not met.
(f) No person operating an aircraft using a Category III approach without decision height may land that aircraft except in accordance with the provisions of the letter of authorization issued by the Administrator.
(g) Paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section do not apply to operations conducted by certificate holders operating under part 121, 125, 129, or 135 of this chapter, or holders of management specifications issued in accordance with subpart K of this part. Holders of operations specifications or management specifications may operate a civil aircraft in a Category II or Category III operation only in accordance with their operations specifications or management specifications, as applicable.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34294, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-280, 68 FR 54560, Sept. 17, 2003; Amdt. 91-296, 72 FR 31679, June 7, 2007; Docket FAA-2013-0485, Amdt. 91-345, 81 FR 90175, Dec. 13, 2016]
§ 91.191
Category II and Category III manual.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, after August 4, 1997, no person may operate a U.S.-registered civil aircraft in a Category II or a Category III operation unless—
(1) There is available in the aircraft a current and approved Category II or Category III manual, as appropriate, for that aircraft;
(2) The operation is conducted in accordance with the procedures, instructions, and limitations in the appropriate manual; and
(3) The instruments and equipment listed in the manual that are required for a particular Category II or Category III operation have been inspected and maintained in accordance with the maintenance program contained in the manual.
(b) Each operator must keep a current copy of each approved manual at its principal base of operations and must make each manual available for inspection upon request by the Administrator.
(c) This section does not apply to operations conducted by a certificate holder operating under part 121 or part 135 of this chapter or a holder of management specifications issued in accordance with subpart K of this part.
[Docket 26933, 61 FR 34560, July 2, 1996, as amended by Amdt. 91-280, 68 FR 54560, Sept. 17, 2003]
§ 91.193
Certificate of authorization for certain Category II operations.
The Administrator may issue a certificate of authorization authorizing deviations from the requirements of §§ 91.189, 91.191, and 91.205(f) for the operation of small aircraft identified as Category A aircraft in § 97.3 of this chapter in Category II operations if the Administrator finds that the proposed operation can be safely conducted under the terms of the certificate. Such authorization does not permit operation of the aircraft carrying persons or property for compensation or hire.
§§ 91.195-91.199
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Equipment, Instrument, and Certificate Requirements

# Source:
Docket 18334, 54 FR 34304, Aug. 18, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 91.201
[Reserved]
§ 91.203
Civil aircraft: Certifications required.
(a) Except as provided in § 91.715, no person may operate a civil aircraft unless it has within it the following:
(1) An appropriate and current airworthiness certificate. Each U.S. airworthiness certificate used to comply with this subparagraph (except a special flight permit, a copy of the applicable operations specifications issued under § 21.197(c) of this chapter, appropriate sections of the air carrier manual required by parts 121 and 135 of this chapter containing that portion of the operations specifications issued under § 21.197(c), or an authorization under § 91.611) must have on it the registration number assigned to the aircraft under part 47 or 48 of this chapter. However, the airworthiness certificate need not have on it an assigned special identification number before 10 days after that number is first affixed to the aircraft. A revised airworthiness certificate having on it an assigned special identification number, that has been affixed to an aircraft, may only be obtained upon application to the responsible Flight Standards office.
(2) An effective U.S. registration certificate issued to its owner or, for operation within the United States, the second copy of the Aircraft registration Application as provided for in § 47.31(c), a Certificate of Aircraft registration as provided in part 48, or a registration certification issued under the laws of a foreign country.
(b) No person may operate a civil aircraft unless the airworthiness certificate required by paragraph (a) of this section or a special flight authorization issued under § 91.715 is displayed at the cabin or cockpit entrance so that it is legible to passengers or crew.
(c) No person may operate an aircraft with a fuel tank installed within the
passenger compartment or a baggage compartment unless the installation was accomplished pursuant to part 43 of this chapter, and a copy of FAA Form 337 authorizing that installation is on board the aircraft.
(d) No person may operate a civil airplane (domestic or foreign) into or out of an airport in the United States unless it complies with the fuel venting and exhaust emissions requirements of part 34 of this chapter.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34292, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-218, 55 FR 32861, Aug. 10, 1990; Amdt. 91-318, 75 FR 41983, July 20, 2010; Amdt. 91-338, 80 FR 78648, Dec. 16, 2015; Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 91-350, 83 FR 9171, Mar. 5, 2018; Docket FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 91-366, 87 FR 75846, Dec. 9, 2022]
§ 91.205
Powered civil aircraft with standard category U.S. airworthiness certificates: Instrument and equipment requirements.
(a)
General.
Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(3) and (e) of this section, no person may operate a powered civil aircraft with a standard category U.S. airworthiness certificate in any operation described in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section unless that aircraft contains the instruments and equipment specified in those paragraphs (or FAA-approved equivalents) for that type of operation, and those instruments and items of equipment are in operable condition.
(b)
Visual-flight rules (day).
For VFR flight during the day, the following instruments and equipment are required:
(1) Airspeed indicator.
(2) Altimeter.
(3) Magnetic direction indicator.
(4) Tachometer for each engine.
(5) Oil pressure gauge for each engine using pressure system.
(6) Temperature gauge for each liquid-cooled engine.
(7) Oil temperature gauge for each air-cooled engine.
(8) Manifold pressure gauge for each altitude engine.
(9) Fuel gauge indicating the quantity of fuel in each tank.
(10) Landing gear position indicator, if the aircraft has a retractable landing gear.
(11) For small civil airplanes certificated after March 11, 1996, in accordance with part 23 of this chapter, an approved aviation red or aviation white anticollision light system. In the event of failure of any light of the anticollision light system, operation of the aircraft may continue to a location where repairs or replacement can be made.
(12) If the aircraft is operated for hire over water and beyond power-off gliding distance from shore, approved flotation gear readily available to each occupant and, unless the aircraft is operating under part 121 of this subchapter, at least one pyrotechnic signaling device. As used in this section, “shore” means that area of the land adjacent to the water which is above the high water mark and excludes land areas which are intermittently under water.
(13) An approved safety belt with an approved metal-to-metal latching device, or other approved restraint system for each occupant 2 years of age or older.
(14) For small civil airplanes manufactured after July 18, 1978, an approved shoulder harness or restraint system for each front seat. For small civil airplanes manufactured after December 12, 1986, an approved shoulder harness or restraint system for all seats. Shoulder harnesses installed at flightcrew stations must permit the flightcrew member, when seated and with the safety belt and shoulder harness fastened, to perform all functions necessary for flight operations. For purposes of this paragraph—
(i) The date of manufacture of an airplane is the date the inspection acceptance records reflect that the airplane is complete and meets the FAA-approved type design data; and
(ii) A front seat is a seat located at a flightcrew member station or any seat located alongside such a seat.
(15) An emergency locator transmitter, if required by § 91.207.
(16) [Reserved]
(17) For rotorcraft manufactured after September 16, 1992, a shoulder harness for each seat that meets the requirements of § 27.2 or § 29.2 of this chapter in effect on September 16, 1991.
(c)
Visual flight rules (night).
For VFR flight at night, the following instruments and equipment are required:
(1) Instruments and equipment specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) Approved position lights.
(3) An approved aviation red or aviation white anticollision light system on all U.S.-registered civil aircraft. Anticollision light systems initially installed after August 11, 1971, on aircraft for which a type certificate was issued or applied for before August 11, 1971, must at least meet the anticollision light standards of part 23, 25, 27, or 29 of this chapter, as applicable, that were in effect on August 10, 1971, except that the color may be either aviation red or aviation white. In the event of failure of any light of the anticollision light system, operations with the aircraft may be continued to a stop where repairs or replacement can be made.
(4) If the aircraft is operated for hire, one electric landing light.
(5) An adequate source of electrical energy for all installed electrical and radio equipment.
(6) One spare set of fuses, or three spare fuses of each kind required, that are accessible to the pilot in flight.
(d)
Instrument flight rules.
For IFR flight, the following instruments and equipment are required:
(1) Instruments and equipment specified in paragraph (b) of this section, and, for night flight, instruments and equipment specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) Two-way radio communication and navigation equipment suitable for the route to be flown.
(3) Gyroscopic rate-of-turn indicator, except on the following aircraft:
(i) Airplanes with a third attitude instrument system usable through flight attitudes of 360 degrees of pitch and roll and installed in accordance with the instrument requirements prescribed in § 121.305(j) of this chapter; and
(ii) Rotorcraft with a third attitude instrument system usable through flight attitudes of ±80 degrees of pitch and ±120 degrees of roll and installed in accordance with § 29.1303(g) of this chapter.
(4) Slip-skid indicator.
(5) Sensitive altimeter adjustable for barometric pressure.
(6) A clock displaying hours, minutes, and seconds with a sweep-second pointer or digital presentation.
(7) Generator or alternator of adequate capacity.
(8) Gyroscopic pitch and bank indicator (artificial horizon).
(9) Gyroscopic direction indicator (directional gyro or equivalent).
(e)
Flight at and above 24,000 feet MSL (FL 240).
If VOR navigation equipment is required under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, no person may operate a U.S.-registered civil aircraft within the 50 states and the District of Columbia at or above FL 240 unless that aircraft is equipped with approved DME or a suitable RNAV system. When the DME or RNAV system required by this paragraph fails at and above FL 240, the pilot in command of the aircraft must notify ATC immediately, and then may continue operations at and above FL 240 to the next airport of intended landing where repairs or replacement of the equipment can be made.
(f)
Category II operations.
The requirements for Category II operations are the instruments and equipment specified in—
(1) Paragraph (d) of this section; and
(2) Appendix A to this part.
(g)
Category III operations.
The instruments and equipment required for Category III operations are specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(h)
Night vision goggle operations.
For night vision goggle operations, the following instruments and equipment must be installed in the aircraft, functioning in a normal manner, and approved for use by the FAA:
(1) Instruments and equipment specified in paragraph (b) of this section, instruments and equipment specified in paragraph (c) of this section;
(2) Night vision goggles;
(3) Interior and exterior aircraft lighting system required for night vision goggle operations;
(4) Two-way radio communications system;
(5) Gyroscopic pitch and bank indicator (artificial horizon);
(6) Generator or alternator of adequate capacity for the required instruments and equipment; and
(7) Radar altimeter.
(i)
Exclusions.
Paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section do not apply to operations conducted by a holder of a certificate issued under part 121 or part 135 of this chapter.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34292, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-220, 55 FR 43310, Oct. 26, 1990; Amdt. 91-223, 56 FR 41052, Aug. 16, 1991; Amdt. 91-231, 57 FR 42672, Sept. 15, 1992; Amdt. 91-248, 61 FR 5171, Feb. 9, 1996; Amdt. 91-251, 61 FR 34560, July 2, 1996; Amdt. 91-285, 69 FR 77599, Dec. 27, 2004; Amdt. 91-296, 72 FR 31679, June 7, 2007; Amdt. 91-309, 74 FR 42563, Aug. 21, 2009; Docket FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 91-346, 81 FR 96700, Dec. 30, 2016]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 91.205 were published by Docket FAA-2023-1275, Amdt. 60-8, 89 FR 92486, Nov. 21, 2024, effective Jan. 21, 2025.
§ 91.207
Emergency locator transmitters.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, no person may operate a U.S.-registered civil airplane unless—
(1) There is attached to the airplane an approved automatic type emergency locator transmitter that is in operable condition for the following operations, except that after June 21, 1995, an emergency locator transmitter that meets the requirements of TSO-C91 may not be used for new installations:
(i) Those operations governed by the supplemental air carrier and commercial operator rules of parts 121 and 125;
(ii) Charter flights governed by the domestic and flag air carrier rules of part 121 of this chapter; and
(iii) Operations governed by part 135 of this chapter; or
(2) For operations other than those specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, there must be attached to the airplane an approved personal type or an approved automatic type emergency locator transmitter that is in operable condition, except that after June 21, 1995, an emergency locator transmitter that meets the requirements of TSO-C91 may not be used for new installations.
(b) Each emergency locator transmitter required by paragraph (a) of this section must be attached to the airplane in such a manner that the probability of damage to the transmitter in the event of crash impact is minimized. Fixed and deployable automatic type transmitters must be attached to the airplane as far aft as practicable.
(c) Batteries used in the emergency locator transmitters required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must be replaced (or recharged, if the batteries are rechargeable)—
(1) When the transmitter has been in use for more than 1 cumulative hour; or
(2) When 50 percent of their useful life (or, for rechargeable batteries, 50 percent of their useful life of charge) has expired, as established by the transmitter manufacturer under its approval.
The new expiration date for replacing (or recharging) the battery must be legibly marked on the outside of the transmitter and entered in the aircraft maintenance record. Paragraph (c)(2) of this section does not apply to batteries (such as water-activated batteries) that are essentially unaffected during probable storage intervals.
(d) Each emergency locator transmitter required by paragraph (a) of this section must be inspected within 12 calendar months after the last inspection for—
(1) Proper installation;
(2) Battery corrosion;
(3) Operation of the controls and crash sensor; and
(4) The presence of a sufficient signal radiated from its antenna.
(e) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a person may—
(1) Ferry a newly acquired airplane from the place where possession of it was taken to a place where the emergency locator transmitter is to be installed; and
(2) Ferry an airplane with an inoperative emergency locator transmitter from a place where repairs or replacements cannot be made to a place where they can be made.
No person other than required crewmembers may be carried aboard an airplane being ferried under paragraph (e) of this section.
(f) Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to—
(1) Before January 1, 2004, turbojet-powered aircraft;
(2) Aircraft while engaged in scheduled flights by scheduled air carriers;
(3) Aircraft while engaged in training operations conducted entirely within a 50-nautical mile radius of the airport from which such local flight operations began;
(4) Aircraft while engaged in flight operations incident to design and testing;
(5) New aircraft while engaged in flight operations incident to their manufacture, preparation, and delivery;
(6) Aircraft while engaged in flight operations incident to the aerial application of chemicals and other substances for agricultural purposes;
(7) Aircraft certificated by the Administrator for research and development purposes;
(8) Aircraft while used for showing compliance with regulations, crew training, exhibition, air racing, or market surveys;
(9) Aircraft equipped to carry not more than one person.
(10) An aircraft during any period for which the transmitter has been temporarily removed for inspection, repair, modification, or replacement, subject to the following:
(i) No person may operate the aircraft unless the aircraft records contain an entry which includes the date of initial removal, the make, model, serial number, and reason for removing the transmitter, and a placard located in view of the pilot to show “ELT not installed.”
(ii) No person may operate the aircraft more than 90 days after the ELT is initially removed from the aircraft; and
(11) On and after January 1, 2004, aircraft with a maximum payload capacity of more than 18,000 pounds when used in air transportation.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34304, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-242, 59 FR 32057, June 21, 1994; 59 FR 34578, July 6, 1994; Amdt. 91-265, 65 FR 81319, Dec. 22, 2000; 66 FR 16316, Mar. 23, 2001]
§ 91.209
Aircraft lights.
No person may:
(a) During the period from sunset to sunrise (or, in Alaska, during the period a prominent unlighted object cannot be seen from a distance of 3 statute miles or the sun is more than 6 degrees below the horizon)—
(1) Operate an aircraft unless it has lighted position lights;
(2) Park or move an aircraft in, or in dangerous proximity to, a night flight operations area of an airport unless the aircraft—
(i) Is clearly illuminated;
(ii) Has lighted position lights; or
(iii) is in an area that is marked by obstruction lights;
(3) Anchor an aircraft unless the aircraft—
(i) Has lighted anchor lights; or
(ii) Is in an area where anchor lights are not required on vessels; or
(b) Operate an aircraft that is equipped with an anticollision light system, unless it has lighted anticollision lights. However, the anticollision lights need not be lighted when the pilot-in-command determines that, because of operating conditions, it would be in the interest of safety to turn the lights off.
[Docket 27806, 61 FR 5171, Feb. 9, 1996]
§ 91.211
Supplemental oxygen.
(a)
General.
No person may operate a civil aircraft of U.S. registry—
(1) At cabin pressure altitudes above 12,500 feet (MSL) up to and including 14,000 feet (MSL) unless the required minimum flight crew is provided with and uses supplemental oxygen for that part of the flight at those altitudes that is of more than 30 minutes duration;
(2) At cabin pressure altitudes above 14,000 feet (MSL) unless the required minimum flight crew is provided with and uses supplemental oxygen during the entire flight time at those altitudes; and
(3) At cabin pressure altitudes above 15,000 feet (MSL) unless each occupant of the aircraft is provided with supplemental oxygen.
(b)
Pressurized cabin aircraft.
(1) No person may operate a civil aircraft of U.S. registry with a pressurized cabin—
(i) At flight altitudes above flight level 250 unless at least a 10-minute supply of supplemental oxygen, in addition to any oxygen required to satisfy paragraph (a) of this section, is available for each occupant of the aircraft for use in the event that a descent is necessitated by loss of cabin pressurization; and
(ii) At flight altitudes above flight level 350 unless one pilot at the controls of the airplane is wearing and using an oxygen mask that is secured and sealed and that either supplies oxygen at all times or automatically supplies oxygen whenever the cabin pressure altitude of the airplane exceeds 14,000 feet (MSL), except that the one pilot need not wear and use an oxygen mask while at or below flight level 410 if there are two pilots at the controls and each pilot has a quick-donning type of oxygen mask that can be placed on the face with one hand from the ready position within 5 seconds, supplying oxygen and properly secured and sealed.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, if for any reason at any time it is necessary for one pilot to leave the controls of the aircraft when operating at flight altitudes above flight level 350, the remaining pilot at the controls shall put on and use an oxygen mask until the other pilot has returned to that crewmember's station.
§ 91.213
Inoperative instruments and equipment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, no person may take off an aircraft with inoperative instruments or equipment installed unless the following conditions are met:
(1) An approved Minimum Equipment List exists for that aircraft.
(2) The aircraft has within it a letter of authorization, issued by the responsible Flight Standards office, authorizing operation of the aircraft under the Minimum Equipment List. The letter of authorization may be obtained by written request of the airworthiness certificate holder. The Minimum Equipment List and the letter of authorization constitute a supplemental type certificate for the aircraft.
(3) The approved Minimum Equipment List must—
(i) Be prepared in accordance with the limitations specified in paragraph (b) of this section; and
(ii) Provide for the operation of the aircraft with the instruments and equipment in an inoperable condition.
(4) The aircraft records available to the pilot must include an entry describing the inoperable instruments and equipment.
(5) The aircraft is operated under all applicable conditions and limitations contained in the Minimum Equipment List and the letter authorizing the use of the list.
(b) The following instruments and equipment may not be included in a Minimum Equipment List:
(1) Instruments and equipment that are either specifically or otherwise required by the airworthiness requirements under which the aircraft is type certificated and which are essential for safe operations under all operating conditions.
(2) Instruments and equipment required by an airworthiness directive to be in operable condition unless the airworthiness directive provides otherwise.
(3) Instruments and equipment required for specific operations by this part.
(c) A person authorized to use an approved Minimum Equipment List issued for a specific aircraft under subpart K of this part, part 121, 125, or 135 of this chapter must use that Minimum Equipment List to comply with the requirements in this section.
(d) Except for operations conducted in accordance with paragraph (a) or (c) of this section, a person may takeoff an aircraft in operations conducted under this part with inoperative instruments and equipment without an approved Minimum Equipment List provided—
(1) The flight operation is conducted in a—
(i) Rotorcraft, non-turbine-powered airplane, glider, lighter-than-air aircraft, powered parachute, or weight-shift-control aircraft, for which a master minimum equipment list has not been developed; or
(ii) Small rotorcraft, nonturbine-powered small airplane, glider, or lighter-than-air aircraft for which a Master Minimum Equipment List has been developed; and
(2) The inoperative instruments and equipment are not—
(i) Part of the VFR-day type certification instruments and equipment prescribed in the applicable airworthiness regulations under which the aircraft was type certificated;
(ii) Indicated as required on the aircraft's equipment list, or on the Kinds of Operations Equipment List for the kind of flight operation being conducted;
(iii) Required by § 91.205 or any other rule of this part for the specific kind of flight operation being conducted; or
(iv) Required to be operational by an airworthiness directive; and
(3) The inoperative instruments and equipment are—
(i) Removed from the aircraft, the cockpit control placarded, and the maintenance recorded in accordance with § 43.9 of this chapter; or
(ii) Deactivated and placarded “Inoperative.” If deactivation of the inoperative instrument or equipment involves maintenance, it must be accomplished and recorded in accordance with part 43 of this chapter; and
(4) A determination is made by a pilot, who is certificated and appropriately rated under part 61 of this chapter, or by a person, who is certificated and appropriately rated to perform maintenance on the aircraft, that the inoperative instrument or equipment does not constitute a hazard to the aircraft.
An aircraft with inoperative instruments or equipment as provided in paragraph (d) of this section is considered to be in a properly altered condition acceptable to the Administrator.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, an aircraft with inoperable instruments or equipment may be operated under a special flight permit issued in accordance with §§ 21.197 and 21.199 of this chapter.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34304, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-280, 68 FR 54560, Sept. 17, 2003; Amdt. 91-282, 69 FR 44880, July 27, 2004; Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 91-350, 83 FR 9171, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 91.215
ATC transponder and altitude reporting equipment and use.
(a)
All airspace: U.S.-registered civil aircraft.
For operations not conducted under part 121 or 135 of this chapter, ATC transponder equipment installed must meet the performance and environmental requirements of any class of TSO-C74b (Mode A) or any class of TSO-C74c (Mode A with altitude reporting capability) as appropriate, or the appropriate class of TSO-C112 (Mode S).
(b)
All airspace.
Unless otherwise authorized or directed by ATC, and except as provided in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, no person may operate an aircraft in the airspace described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section, unless that aircraft is equipped with an operable coded radar beacon transponder having either Mode A 4096 code capability, replying to Mode A interrogations with the code specified by ATC, or a Mode S capability, replying to Mode A interrogations with the code specified by ATC and Mode S interrogations in accordance with the applicable provisions specified in TSO-C112, and that aircraft is equipped with automatic pressure altitude reporting equipment having a Mode C capability that automatically replies to Mode C interrogations by transmitting pressure altitude information in 100-foot increments. The requirements of this paragraph (b) apply to—
(1)
All aircraft.
In Class A, Class B, and Class C airspace areas;
(2)
All aircraft.
In all airspace within 30 nautical miles of an airport listed in appendix D, section 1 of this part from the surface upward to 10,000 feet MSL;
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(2) of this section, any aircraft which was not originally certificated with an engine-driven electrical system or which has not subsequently been certified with such a system installed, balloon or glider may conduct operations in the airspace within 30 nautical miles of an airport listed in appendix D, section 1 of this part provided such operations are conducted—
(i) Outside any Class A, Class B, or Class C airspace area; and
(ii) Below the altitude of the ceiling of a Class B or Class C airspace area designated for an airport or 10,000 feet MSL, whichever is lower; and
(4) All aircraft in all airspace above the ceiling and within the lateral boundaries of a Class B or Class C airspace area designated for an airport upward to 10,000 feet MSL; and
(5) All aircraft except any aircraft which was not originally certificated with an engine-driven electrical system or which has not subsequently
been certified with such a system installed, balloon, or glider—
(i) In all airspace of the 48 contiguous states and the District of Columbia at and above 10,000 feet MSL, excluding the airspace at and below 2,500 feet above the surface; and
(ii) In the airspace from the surface to 10,000 feet MSL within a 10-nautical-mile radius of any airport listed in appendix D, section 2 of this part, excluding the airspace below 1,200 feet outside of the lateral boundaries of the surface area of the airspace designated for that airport.
(c)
Transponder-on operation.
Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, while in the airspace as specified in paragraph (b) of this section or in all controlled airspace, each person operating an aircraft equipped with an operable ATC transponder maintained in accordance with § 91.413 shall operate the transponder, including Mode C equipment if installed, and shall reply on the appropriate code or as assigned by ATC, unless otherwise directed by ATC when transmitting would jeopardize the safe execution of air traffic control functions.
(d)
ATC authorized deviations.
Requests for ATC authorized deviations must be made to the ATC facility having jurisdiction over the concerned airspace within the time periods specified as follows:
(1) For operation of an aircraft with an operating transponder but without operating automatic pressure altitude reporting equipment having a Mode C capability, the request may be made at any time.
(2) For operation of an aircraft with an inoperative transponder to the airport of ultimate destination, including any intermediate stops, or to proceed to a place where suitable repairs can be made or both, the request may be made at any time.
(3) For operation of an aircraft that is not equipped with a transponder, the request must be made at least one hour before the proposed operation.
(e)
Unmanned aircraft.
(1) The requirements of paragraph (b) of this section do not apply to a person operating an unmanned aircraft under this part unless the operation is conducted under a flight plan and the person operating the unmanned aircraft maintains two-way communication with ATC.
(2) No person may operate an unmanned aircraft under this part with a transponder on unless:
(i) The operation is conducted under a flight plan and the person operating the unmanned aircraft maintains two-way communication with ATC; or
(ii) The use of a transponder is otherwise authorized by the Administrator.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2120-0005)
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34304, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-221, 56 FR 469, Jan. 4, 1991; Amdt. 91-227, 56 FR 65660, Dec. 17, 1991; Amdt. 91-227, 7 FR 328, Jan. 3, 1992; Amdt. 91-229, 57 FR 34618, Aug. 5, 1992; Amdt. 91-267, 66 FR 21066, Apr. 27, 2001; Amdt. 91-355, 84 FR 34287, July 18, 2019; Amdt. 91-361, 86 FR 4512, Jan. 15, 2021; Docket FAA-2023-1836, Amdt. 91-371, 88 FR 71476, Oct. 17, 2023]
§ 91.217
Data correspondence between automatically reported pressure altitude data and the pilot's altitude reference.
(a) No person may operate any automatic pressure altitude reporting equipment associated with a radar beacon transponder—
(1) When deactivation of that equipment is directed by ATC;
(2) Unless, as installed, that equipment was tested and calibrated to transmit altitude data corresponding within 125 feet (on a 95 percent probability basis) of the indicated or calibrated datum of the altimeter normally used to maintain flight altitude, with that altimeter referenced to 29.92 inches of mercury for altitudes from sea level to the maximum operating altitude of the aircraft; or
(3) Unless the altimeters and digitizers in that equipment meet the standards of TSO-C10b and TSO-C88, respectively.
(b) No person may operate any automatic pressure altitude reporting equipment associated with a radar beacon transponder or with ADS-B Out equipment unless the pressure altitude reported for ADS-B Out and Mode C/S is derived from the same source for aircraft equipped with both a transponder and ADS-B Out.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34304, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-314, 75 FR 30193, May 28, 2010]
§ 91.219
Altitude alerting system or device: Turbojet-powered civil airplanes.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, no person may operate a turbojet-powered U.S.-registered civil airplane unless that airplane is equipped with an approved altitude alerting system or device that is in operable condition and meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Each altitude alerting system or device required by paragraph (a) of this section must be able to—
(1) Alert the pilot—
(i) Upon approaching a preselected altitude in either ascent or descent, by a sequence of both aural and visual signals in sufficient time to establish level flight at that preselected altitude; or
(ii) Upon approaching a preselected altitude in either ascent or descent, by a sequence of visual signals in sufficient time to establish level flight at that preselected altitude, and when deviating above and below that preselected altitude, by an aural signal;
(2) Provide the required signals from sea level to the highest operating altitude approved for the airplane in which it is installed;
(3) Preselect altitudes in increments that are commensurate with the altitudes at which the aircraft is operated;
(4) Be tested without special equipment to determine proper operation of the alerting signals; and
(5) Accept necessary barometric pressure settings if the system or device operates on barometric pressure. However, for operation below 3,000 feet AGL, the system or device need only provide one signal, either visual or aural, to comply with this paragraph. A radio altimeter may be included to provide the signal if the operator has an approved procedure for its use to determine DA/DH or MDA, as appropriate.
(c) Each operator to which this section applies must establish and assign procedures for the use of the altitude alerting system or device and each flight crewmember must comply with those procedures assigned to him.
(d) Paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to any operation of an airplane that has an experimental certificate or to the operation of any airplane for the following purposes:
(1) Ferrying a newly acquired airplane from the place where possession of it was taken to a place where the altitude alerting system or device is to be installed.
(2) Continuing a flight as originally planned, if the altitude alerting system or device becomes inoperative after the airplane has taken off; however, the flight may not depart from a place where repair or replacement can be made.
(3) Ferrying an airplane with any inoperative altitude alerting system or device from a place where repairs or replacements cannot be made to a place where it can be made.
(4) Conducting an airworthiness flight test of the airplane.
(5) Ferrying an airplane to a place outside the United States for the purpose of registering it in a foreign country.
(6) Conducting a sales demonstration of the operation of the airplane.
(7) Training foreign flight crews in the operation of the airplane before ferrying it to a place outside the United States for the purpose of registering it in a foreign country.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34304, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-296, 72 FR 31679, June 7, 2007]
§ 91.221
Traffic alert and collision avoidance system equipment and use.
(a)
All airspace: U.S.-registered civil aircraft.
Any traffic alert and collision avoidance system installed in a U.S.-registered civil aircraft must be approved by the Administrator.
(b)
Traffic alert and collision avoidance system, operation required.
Each person operating an aircraft equipped with an operable traffic alert and collision avoidance system shall have that system on and operating.
§ 91.223
Terrain awareness and warning system.
(a)
Airplanes manufactured after March 29, 2002.
Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, no person may operate a turbine-powered U.S.-registered airplane configured with six or
more passenger seats, excluding any pilot seat, unless that airplane is equipped with an approved terrain awareness and warning system that as a minimum meets the requirements for Class B equipment in Technical Standard Order (TSO)-C151.
(b)
Airplanes manufactured on or before March 29, 2002.
Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, no person may operate a turbine-powered U.S.-registered airplane configured with six or more passenger seats, excluding any pilot seat, after March 29, 2005, unless that airplane is equipped with an approved terrain awareness and warning system that as a minimum meets the requirements for Class B equipment in Technical Standard Order (TSO)-C151.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2120-0631)
(c)
Airplane Flight Manual.
The Airplane Flight Manual shall contain appropriate procedures for—
(1) The use of the terrain awareness and warning system; and
(2) Proper flight crew reaction in response to the terrain awareness and warning system audio and visual warnings.
(d)
Exceptions.
Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply to—
(1) Parachuting operations when conducted entirely within a 50 nautical mile radius of the airport from which such local flight operations began.
(2) Firefighting operations.
(3) Flight operations when incident to the aerial application of chemicals and other substances.
[Docket 29312, 65 FR 16755, Mar. 29, 2000]
§ 91.225
Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) Out equipment and use.
(a) After January 1, 2020, unless otherwise authorized by ATC, no person may operate an aircraft in Class A airspace unless the aircraft has equipment installed that—
(1) Meets the performance requirements in-
(i) TSO-C166b and Section 2 of RTCA DO-260B (as referenced in TSO-C166b); or
(ii) TSO-C166c and Section 2 of RTCA DO-260C as modified by DO-260C—Change 1 (as referenced in TSO-C166c); and
(2) Meets the requirements of § 91.227.
(b) After January 1, 2020, except as prohibited in paragraph (h)(2) of this section or unless otherwise authorized by ATC, no person may operate an aircraft below 18,000 feet MSL and in airspace described in paragraph (d) of this section unless the aircraft has equipment installed that—
(1) Meets the performance requirements in—
(i) TSO-C166b and Section 2 of RTCA DO-260B (as referenced in TSO-C166b);
(ii) TSO-C166c and Section 2 of RTCA DO-260C as modified by DO-260C—Change 1 (as referenced in TSO-C166c);
(iii) TSO-C154c and Section 2 of RTCA DO-282B (as referenced in TSO-C154c); or
(iv) TSO-C154d and Section 2 of RTCA DO-282C (as referenced in TSO-C154d);
(2) Meets the requirements of § 91.227.
(c) Operators with equipment installed with an approved deviation under § 21.618 of this chapter also are in compliance with this section.
(d) After January 1, 2020, except as prohibited in paragraph (h)(2) of this section or unless otherwise authorized by ATC, no person may operate an aircraft in the following airspace unless the aircraft has equipment installed that meets the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) Class B and Class C airspace areas;
(2) Except as provided for in paragraph (e) of this section, within 30 nautical miles of an airport listed in appendix D, section 1 to this part from the surface upward to 10,000 feet MSL;
(3) Above the ceiling and within the lateral boundaries of a Class B or Class C airspace area designated for an airport upward to 10,000 feet MSL;
(4) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, Class E airspace within the 48 contiguous states and the District of Columbia at and above 10,000 feet MSL, excluding the airspace at and below 2,500 feet above the surface; and
(5) Class E airspace at and above 3,000 feet MSL over the Gulf of Mexico from the coastline of the United States out to 12 nautical miles.
(e) The requirements of paragraph (b) of this section do not apply to any aircraft that was not originally certificated with an engine-driven electrical system, or that has not subsequently been certified with such a system installed, including balloons and gliders. These aircraft may conduct operations without ADS-B Out in the airspace specified in paragraph (d)(4) of this section. These aircraft may also conduct operations in the airspace specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section if those operations are conducted—
(1) Outside any Class B or Class C airspace area; and
(2) Below the altitude of the ceiling of a Class B or Class C airspace area designated for an airport, or 10,000 feet MSL, whichever is lower.
(f) Except as prohibited in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, each person operating an aircraft equipped with ADS-B Out must operate this equipment in the transmit mode at all times unless—
(1) Otherwise authorized by the FAA when the aircraft is performing a sensitive government mission for national defense, homeland security, intelligence or law enforcement purposes and transmitting would compromise the operations security of the mission or pose a safety risk to the aircraft, crew, or people and property in the air or on the ground; or
(2) Otherwise directed by ATC when transmitting would jeopardize the safe execution of air traffic control functions.
(g) Requests for ATC authorized deviations from the requirements of this section must be made to the ATC facility having jurisdiction over the concerned airspace within the time periods specified as follows:
(1) For operation of an aircraft with an inoperative ADS-B Out, to the airport of ultimate destination, including any intermediate stops, or to proceed to a place where suitable repairs can be made or both, the request may be made at any time.
(2) For operation of an aircraft that is not equipped with ADS-B Out, the request must be made at least 1 hour before the proposed operation.
(h) For unmanned aircraft:
(1) No person may operate an unmanned aircraft under a flight plan and in two way communication with ATC unless:
(i) That aircraft has equipment installed that meets the performance requirements in TSO-C166b (including Section 2 of RTCA DO-260B, as referenced in TSO-C166b), TSO-C166c (including Section 2 of RTCA DO-260C as modified by DO-260C—Change 1, as referenced in TSO-C166c), TSO-C154c (including Section 2 of RTCA DO-282B, as referenced in TSO-C154c), or TSO-C154d (including Section 2 of RTCA DO-282C, as referenced in TSO-C154d); and
(ii) The equipment meets the requirements of § 91.227.
(2) No person may operate an unmanned aircraft under this part with Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast Out equipment in transmit mode unless:
(i) The operation is conducted under a flight plan and the person operating that unmanned aircraft maintains two-way communication with ATC; or
(ii) The use of ADS-B Out is otherwise authorized by the Administrator.
(i) The standards required in this section are incorporated by reference with the approval of the Director of the Office of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the FAA and the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the FAA at: Office of Rulemaking (ARM-1), 800 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20590 (telephone 202-267-9677). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
This material is also available from the following sources in this paragraph (i).
(1) U.S. Department of Transportation, Subsequent Distribution Office, DOT Warehouse M30, Ardmore East Business Center, 3341 Q 75th Avenue, Landover, MD 20785; telephone (301) 322-5377; website:
www.faa.gov/aircraft/air_cert/design_approvals/tso/
(select the link “Search Technical Standard Orders”).
(i) TSO-C166b, Extended Squitter Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) and Traffic Information Service-Broadcast (TIS-B)
Equipment Operating on the Radio Frequency of 1090 Megahertz (MHz), December 2, 2009.
(ii) TSO-C166c, Extended Squitter Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) and Traffic Information Service-Broadcast (TIS-B) Equipment Operating on the Radio Frequency of 1090 Megahertz (MHz), March 10, 2023.
(iii) TSO-C154c, Universal Access Transceiver (UAT) Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) Equipment Operating on the Frequency of 978 MHz, December 2, 2009.
(iv) TSO-C154d, Universal Access Transceiver (UAT) Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) Equipment Operating on the Radio Frequency of 978 Megahertz (MHz), March 10, 2023.
(2) RTCA, Inc., 1150 18th St. NW, Suite 910, Washington, DC 20036; telephone (202) 833-9339; website:
www.rtca.org/products.
(i) RTCA DO-260B, Minimum Operational Performance Standards for 1090 MHz Extended Squitter Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) and Traffic Information Services-Broadcast (TIS-B), Section 2, Equipment Performance Requirements and Test Procedures, December 2, 2009.
(ii) RTCA DO-260C, Minimum Operational Performance Standards for 1090 MHz Extended Squitter Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) and Traffic Information Services-Broadcast (TIS-B), Section 2, Equipment Performance Requirements and Test Procedures, December 17, 2020.
(iii) RTCA DO-260C, Minimum Operational Performance Standards for 1090 MHz Extended Squitter Automatic Dependent Surveillance—Broadcast (ADS-B) and Traffic Information Services—Broadcast (TIS-B), Change 1, January 25, 2022.
(iv) RTCA DO-282B, Minimum Operational Performance Standards for Universal Access Transceiver (UAT) Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B), Section 2, Equipment Performance Requirements and Test Procedures, December 2, 2009.
(v) RTCA DO-282C, Minimum Operational Performance Standards (MOPS) for Universal Access Transceiver (UAT) Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B), Section 2, Equipment Performance Requirements and Test Procedures, June 23, 2022.
[Docket FAA-2007-29305, 75 FR 30193, May 28, 2010; Amdt. 91-314-A, 75 FR 37712, June 30, 2010, as amended by Amdt. 91-316, 75 FR 37712, June 30, 2010; Amdt. 91-336, 80 FR 6900, Feb. 9, 2015; Amdt. 91-336A, 80 FR 11537, Mar. 4, 2015; Amdt. 91-355, 84 FR 34287, July 18, 2019; Amdt. 91-361, 86 FR 4513, Jan. 15, 2021; Docket FAA-2023-1836, Amdt. 91-371, 88 FR 71476, Oct. 17, 2023; Amdt. 91-371B, 89 FR 33224, Apr. 29, 2024]
§ 91.227
Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) Out equipment performance requirements.
(a)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section:
ADS-B Out
is a function of an aircraft's onboard avionics that periodically broadcasts the aircraft's state vector (3-dimensional position and 3-dimensional velocity) and other required information as described in this section.
Navigation Accuracy Category for Position
(
NAC
P
) specifies the accuracy of a reported aircraft's position.
Navigation Accuracy Category for Velocity
(
NAC
V
) specifies the accuracy of a reported aircraft's velocity.
Navigation Integrity Category (NIC)
specifies an integrity containment radius around an aircraft's reported position.
Position Source
refers to the equipment installed onboard an aircraft used to process and provide aircraft position (for example, latitude, longitude, and velocity) information.
Source Integrity Level (SIL)
indicates the probability of the reported horizontal position exceeding the containment radius defined by the NIC on a per sample or per hour basis.
System Design Assurance (SDA)
indicates the probability of an aircraft malfunction causing false or misleading information to be transmitted.
Total latency
is the total time between when the position is measured and when the position is transmitted by the aircraft.
Uncompensated latency
is the time for which the aircraft does not compensate for latency.
(b)
1090 MHz ES and UAT Broadcast Links and Power Requirements
—
(1) Aircraft operating in Class A airspace must have equipment installed that meets the antenna and power output requirements of Class A1S, A1, A2, A3, B1S, or B1 equipment as defined in TSO-C166b and Section 2 of RTCA DO-260B (as referenced in TSO-C166b), or TSO-C166c and Section 2 of RTCA DO-260C as modified by DO-260C—Change 1 (as referenced in TSO-C166c).
(2) Aircraft operating in airspace designated for ADS-B Out, but outside of Class A airspace, must have equipment installed that meets the antenna and output power requirements of either:
(i) Class A1S, A1, A2, A3, B1S, or B1 as defined in TSO-C166b and Section 2 of RTCA DO-260B (as referenced in TSO-C166b) or TSO-C166c and Section 2 of RTCA DO-260C as modified by DO-260C—Change 1 (as referenced in TSO-C166c); or
(ii) Class A1S, A1H, A2, A3, B1S, or B1 equipment as defined in TSO-C154c and Section 2 of RTCA DO-282B (as referenced in TSO-C154c), or TSO-C154d and Section 2 of RTCA DO-282C (as referenced in TSO-C154d).
(c)
ADS-B Out Performance Requirements for NAC
P,
NAC
V
, NIC, SDA
,
and SIL
—
(1) For aircraft broadcasting ADS-B Out as required under § 91.225 (a) and (b)—
(i) The aircraft's NAC
P
must be less than 0.05 nautical miles;
(ii) The aircraft's NAC
V
must be less than 10 meters per second;
(iii) The aircraft's NIC must be less than 0.2 nautical miles;
(iv) The aircraft's SDA must be less than or equal to 10
−5
per flight hour; and
(v) The aircraft's SIL must be less than or equal to 10
−7
per flight hour or per sample.
(2) Changes in NAC
P
, NAC
V
, SDA, and SIL must be broadcast within 10 seconds.
(3) Changes in NIC must be broadcast within 12 seconds.
(d)
Minimum Broadcast Message Element Set for ADS-B Out.
Each aircraft must broadcast the following information, as defined in TSO-C166b (including Section 2 of RTCA DO-260B, as referenced in TSO-C166b), TSO-C166c (including Section 2 of RTCA DO-260C as modified by DO-260C—Change 1, as referenced in TSO-C166c), TSO-C154c (including Section 2 of RTCA DO-282B, as referenced in TSO-C154c), or TSO-C154d (including Section 2 of RTCA DO-282C, as referenced in TSO-C154d). The pilot must enter information for message elements listed in paragraphs (d)(7) through (10) of this section during the appropriate phase of flight.
(1) The length and width of the aircraft;
(2) An indication of the aircraft's latitude and longitude;
(3) An indication of the aircraft's barometric pressure altitude;
(4) An indication of the aircraft's velocity;
(5) An indication if a collision avoidance system is installed and operating in a mode that can generate resolution advisory alerts;
(6) If an operable collision avoidance system is installed, an indication if a resolution advisory is in effect;
(7) An indication of the Mode A transponder code specified by ATC;
(8) An indication of the aircraft identification that is submitted on the flight plan or used for communicating with ATC, except when the pilot has not filed a flight plan, has not requested ATC services, and is using a TSO-C154c or TSO-C154d self-assigned temporary 24-bit address;
(9) An indication if the flightcrew has identified an emergency, radio communication failure, or unlawful interference;
(10) An indication of the aircraft's “IDENT” to ATC;
(11) An indication of the aircraft assigned ICAO 24-bit address, except when the pilot has not filed a flight plan, has not requested ATC services, and is using a TSO-C154c or TSO-C154d self-assigned temporary 24-bit address;
(12) An indication of the aircraft's emitter category;
(13) An indication of whether an ADS-B In capability is available;
(14) An indication of the aircraft's geometric altitude;
(15) An indication of the Navigation Accuracy Category for Position (NAC
P
);
(16) An indication of the Navigation Accuracy Category for Velocity (NAC
V
);
(17) An indication of the Navigation Integrity Category (NIC);
(18) An indication of the System Design Assurance (SDA); and
(19) An indication of the Source Integrity Level (SIL).
(e)
ADS-B Latency Requirements
—
(1) The aircraft must transmit its geometric position no later than 2.0 seconds from the time of measurement of the position to the time of transmission.
(2) Within the 2.0 total latency allocation, a maximum of 0.6 seconds can be uncompensated latency. The aircraft must compensate for any latency above 0.6 seconds up to the maximum 2.0 seconds total by extrapolating the geometric position to the time of message transmission.
(3) The aircraft must transmit its position and velocity at least once per second while airborne or while moving on the airport surface.
(4) The aircraft must transmit its position at least once every 5 seconds while stationary on the airport surface.
(f)
Equipment with an approved deviation.
Operators with equipment installed with an approved deviation under § 21.618 of this chapter also are in compliance with this section.
(g)
Incorporation by reference.
The standards required in this section are incorporated by reference with the approval of the Director of the Office of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the FAA and the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the FAA at: Office of Rulemaking (ARM-1), 800 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20590 (telephone 202-267-9677). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html
or email
fr.inspection@nara.gov.
This material is also available from the following sources indicated in this paragraph (g).
(1) U.S. Department of Transportation, Subsequent Distribution Office, DOT Warehouse M30, Ardmore East Business Center, 3341 Q 75th Avenue, Landover, MD 20785; telephone (301) 322-5377; website:
www.faa.gov/aircraft/air_cert/design_approvals/tso/
(select the link “Search Technical Standard Orders”).
(i) TSO-C166b, Extended Squitter Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) and Traffic Information Service-Broadcast (TIS-B) Equipment Operating on the Radio Frequency of 1090 Megahertz (MHz), December 2, 2009.
(ii) TSO-C166c, Extended Squitter Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) and Traffic Information Service-Broadcast (TIS-B) Equipment Operating on the Radio Frequency of 1090 Megahertz (MHz), March 10, 2023.
(iii) TSO-C154c, Universal Access Transceiver (UAT) Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) Equipment Operating on the Frequency of 978 MHz, December 2, 2009.
(iv) TSO-C154d, Universal Access Transceiver (UAT) Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) Equipment Operating on the Radio Frequency of 978 Megahertz (MHz), March 10, 2023.
(2) RTCA, Inc., 1150 18th St. NW, Suite 910, Washington, DC 20036; telephone (202) 833-9339; website:
www.rtca.org/products.
(i) RTCA DO-260B, Minimum Operational Performance Standards for 1090 MHz Extended Squitter Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) and Traffic Information Services-Broadcast (TIS-B), Section 2, Equipment Performance Requirements and Test Procedures, December 2, 2009.
(ii) RTCA DO-260C, Minimum Operational Performance Standards for 1090 MHz Extended Squitter Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) and Traffic Information Services-Broadcast (TIS-B), Section 2, Equipment Performance Requirements and Test Procedures, December 17, 2020.
(iii) RTCA DO-260C, Minimum Operational Performance Standards for 1090 MHz Extended Squitter Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) and Traffic Information Services-Broadcast (TIS-B), Change 1, January 25, 2022.
(iv) RTCA DO-282B, Minimum Operational Performance Standards for Universal Access Transceiver (UAT) Automatic Dependent Surveillance-
Broadcast (ADS-B), Section 2, Equipment Performance Requirements and Test Procedures, December 2, 2009.
(v) RTCA DO-282C, Minimum Operational Performance Standards (MOPS) for Universal Access Transceiver (UAT) Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B), Section 2, Equipment Performance Requirements and Test Procedures, June 23, 2022.
[Docket FAA-2007-29305, 75 FR 30194, May 28, 2010; Amdt. 91-314-A, 75 FR 37712, June 30, 2010, as amended by Amdt. 91-316, 75 FR 37712, June 30, 2010; Docket FAA-2023-1836, Amdt. 91-371, 88 FR 71477, Oct. 17, 2023]
§§ 91.228-91.299
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Special Flight Operations

# Source:
Docket 18334, 54 FR 34308, Aug. 18, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 91.301
[Reserved]
§ 91.303
Aerobatic flight.
No person may operate an aircraft in aerobatic flight—
(a) Over any congested area of a city, town, or settlement;
(b) Over an open air assembly of persons;
(c) Within the lateral boundaries of the surface areas of Class B, Class C, Class D, or Class E airspace designated for an airport;
(d) Within 4 nautical miles of the center line of any Federal airway;
(e) Below an altitude of 1,500 feet above the surface; or
(f) When flight visibility is less than 3 statute miles.
For the purposes of this section, aerobatic flight means an intentional maneuver involving an abrupt change in an aircraft's attitude, an abnormal attitude, or abnormal acceleration, not necessary for normal flight.
[Docket 18834, 54 FR 34308, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-227, 56 FR 65661, Dec. 17, 1991]
§ 91.305
Flight test areas.
No person may flight test an aircraft except over open water, or sparsely populated areas, having light air traffic.
§ 91.307
Parachutes and parachuting.
(a) No pilot of a civil aircraft may allow a parachute that is available for emergency use to be carried in that aircraft unless it is an approved type and has been packed by a certificated and appropriately rated parachute rigger—
(1) Within the preceding 180 days, if its canopy, shrouds, and harness are composed exclusively of nylon, rayon, or other similar synthetic fiber or materials that are substantially resistant to damage from mold, mildew, or other fungi and other rotting agents propagated in a moist environment; or
(2) Within the preceding 60 days, if any part of the parachute is composed of silk, pongee, or other natural fiber or materials not specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) Except in an emergency, no pilot in command may allow, and no person may conduct, a parachute operation from an aircraft within the United States except in accordance with part 105 of this chapter.
(c) Unless each occupant of the aircraft is wearing an approved parachute, no pilot of a civil aircraft carrying any person (other than a crewmember) may execute any intentional maneuver that exceeds—
(1) A bank of 60 degrees relative to the horizon; or
(2) A nose-up or nose-down attitude of 30 degrees relative to the horizon.
(d) Paragraph (c) of this section does not apply to—
(1) Flight tests for pilot certification or rating; or
(2) Spins and other flight maneuvers required by the regulations for any certificate or rating when given by—
(i) A certificated flight instructor; or
(ii) An airline transport pilot instructing in accordance with § 61.67 of this chapter.
(e) For the purposes of this section,
approved parachute
means—
(1) A parachute manufactured under a type certificate or a technical standard order (C-23 series); or
(2) A personnel-carrying military parachute identified by an NAF, AAF, or AN drawing number, an AAF order
number, or any other military designation or specification number.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34308, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-255, 62 FR 68137, Dec. 30, 1997; Amdt. 91-268, 66 FR 23553, May 9, 2001; Amdt. 91-305, 73 FR 69530, Nov. 19, 2008]
§ 91.309
Towing: Gliders and unpowered ultralight vehicles.
(a) No person may operate a civil aircraft towing a glider or unpowered ultralight vehicle unless—
(1) The pilot in command of the towing aircraft is qualified under § 61.69 of this chapter;
(2) The towing aircraft is equipped with a tow-hitch of a kind, and installed in a manner, that is approved by the Administrator;
(3) The towline used has breaking strength not less than 80 percent of the maximum certificated operating weight of the glider or unpowered ultralight vehicle and not more than twice this operating weight. However, the towline used may have a breaking strength more than twice the maximum certificated operating weight of the glider or unpowered ultralight vehicle if—
(i) A safety link is installed at the point of attachment of the towline to the glider or unpowered ultralight vehicle with a breaking strength not less than 80 percent of the maximum certificated operating weight of the glider or unpowered ultralight vehicle and not greater than twice this operating weight;
(ii) A safety link is installed at the point of attachment of the towline to the towing aircraft with a breaking strength greater, but not more than 25 percent greater, than that of the safety link at the towed glider or unpowered ultralight vehicle end of the towline and not greater than twice the maximum certificated operating weight of the glider or unpowered ultralight vehicle;
(4) Before conducting any towing operation within the lateral boundaries of the surface areas of Class B, Class C, Class D, or Class E airspace designated for an airport, or before making each towing flight within such controlled airspace if required by ATC, the pilot in command notifies the control tower. If a control tower does not exist or is not in operation, the pilot in command must notify the FAA flight service station serving that controlled airspace before conducting any towing operations in that airspace; and
(5) The pilots of the towing aircraft and the glider or unpowered ultralight vehicle have agreed upon a general course of action, including takeoff and release signals, airspeeds, and emergency procedures for each pilot.
(b) No pilot of a civil aircraft may intentionally release a towline, after release of a glider or unpowered ultralight vehicle, in a manner that endangers the life or property of another.
[Docket 18834, 54 FR 34308, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-227, 56 FR 65661, Dec. 17, 1991; Amdt. 91-282, 69 FR 44880, July 27, 2004]
§ 91.311
Towing: Other than under § 91.309.
No pilot of a civil aircraft may tow anything with that aircraft (other than under § 91.309) except in accordance with the terms of a certificate of waiver issued by the Administrator.
§ 91.313
Restricted category civil aircraft: Operating limitations.
(a) No person may operate a restricted category civil aircraft—
(1) For other than the special purpose for which it is certificated; or
(2) In an operation other than one necessary to accomplish the work activity directly associated with that special purpose.
(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a) of this section, the following operations are considered necessary to accomplish the work activity directly associated with a special purpose operation:
(1) Flights conducted for flight crewmember training in a special purpose operation for which the aircraft is certificated.
(2) Flights conducted to satisfy proficiency check and recent flight experience requirements under part 61 of this chapter provided the flight crewmember holds the appropriate category, class, and type ratings and is employed by the operator to perform the appropriate special purpose operation.
(3) Flights conducted to relocate the aircraft for delivery, repositioning, or maintenance.
(c) No person may operate a restricted category civil aircraft carrying persons or property for compensation or hire. For the purposes of this paragraph (c), a special purpose operation involving the carriage of persons or material necessary to accomplish that operation, such as crop dusting, seeding, spraying, and banner towing (including the carrying of required persons or material to the location of that operation), an operation for the purpose of providing flight crewmember training in a special purpose operation, and an operation conducted under the authority provided in paragraph (h) of this section are not considered to be the carriage of persons or property for compensation or hire.
(d) No person may be carried on a restricted category civil aircraft unless that person—
(1) Is a flight crewmember;
(2) Is a flight crewmember trainee;
(3) Performs an essential function in connection with a special purpose operation for which the aircraft is certificated;
(4) Is necessary to accomplish the work activity directly associated with that special purpose; or
(5) Is necessary to accomplish an operation under paragraph (h) of this section.
(e) Except when operating in accordance with the terms and conditions of a certificate of waiver or special operating limitations issued by the Administrator, no person may operate a restricted category civil aircraft within the United States—
(1) Over a densely populated area;
(2) In a congested airway; or
(3) Near a busy airport where passenger transport operations are conducted.
(f) This section does not apply to nonpassenger-carrying civil rotorcraft external-load operations conducted under part 133 of this chapter.
(g) No person may operate a small restricted-category civil airplane manufactured after July 18, 1978, unless an approved shoulder harness or restraint system is installed for each front seat. The shoulder harness or restraint system installation at each flightcrew station must permit the flightcrew member, when seated and with the safety belt and shoulder harness fastened or the restraint system engaged, to perform all functions necessary for flight operation. For purposes of this paragraph—
(1) The date of manufacture of an airplane is the date the inspection acceptance records reflect that the airplane is complete and meets the FAA-approved type design data; and
(2) A front seat is a seat located at a flight crewmember station or any seat located alongside such a seat.
(h)(1) An operator may apply for deviation authority from the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section to conduct operations for the following purposes:
(i) Flight training and the practical test for issuance of a type rating provided—
(A) The pilot being trained and tested holds at least a commercial pilot certificate with the appropriate category and class ratings for the aircraft type;
(B) The pilot receiving flight training is employed by the operator to perform a special purpose operation; and
(C) The flight training is conducted by the operator who employs the pilot to perform a special purpose operation.
(ii) Flights to designate an examiner or qualify an FAA inspector in the aircraft type and flights necessary to provide continuing oversight and evaluation of an examiner.
(2) The FAA will issue this deviation authority as a letter of deviation authority.
(3) The FAA may cancel or amend a letter of deviation authority at any time.
(4) An applicant must submit a request for deviation authority in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator at least 60 days before the date of intended operations. A request for deviation authority must contain a complete description of the proposed operation and justification that establishes a level of safety equivalent to
that provided under the regulations for the deviation requested.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34308, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Docket FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 91-346, 81 FR 96700, Dec. 30, 2016; Amdt. 60-6, 83 FR 30281, June 27, 2018]
§ 91.315
Limited category civil aircraft: Operating limitations.
Except as provided in § 91.326, no person may operate a limited category civil aircraft carrying persons or property for compensation or hire in operations that:
(a) Require an air carrier or commercial operator certificate issued under part 119 of this chapter;
(b) Are listed in § 119.1(e) of this chapter;
(c) Require management specifications for a fractional ownership program issued in accordance with subpart K of this part; or
(d) Are conducted under part 129, 133, or 137 of this chapter.
[Docket FAA-2023-1351, Amdt. 91-378, 89 FR 80340, Oct. 2, 2024]
§ 91.317
Provisionally certificated civil aircraft: Operating limitations.
(a) No person may operate a provisionally certificated civil aircraft unless that person is eligible for a provisional airworthiness certificate under § 21.213 of this chapter.
(b) No person may operate a provisionally certificated civil aircraft outside the United States unless that person has specific authority to do so from the Administrator and each foreign country involved.
(c) Unless otherwise authorized by the Executive Director, Flight Standards Service, no person may operate a provisionally certificated civil aircraft in air transportation.
(d) Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, no person may operate a provisionally certificated civil aircraft except—
(1) In direct conjunction with the type or supplemental type certification of that aircraft;
(2) For training flight crews, including simulated air carrier operations;
(3) Demonstration flight by the manufacturer for prospective purchasers;
(4) Market surveys by the manufacturer;
(5) Flight checking of instruments, accessories, and equipment that do not affect the basic airworthiness of the aircraft; or
(6) Service testing of the aircraft.
(e) Each person operating a provisionally certificated civil aircraft shall operate within the prescribed limitations displayed in the aircraft or set forth in the provisional aircraft flight manual or other appropriate document. However, when operating in direct conjunction with the type or supplemental type certification of the aircraft, that person shall operate under the experimental aircraft limitations of § 21.191 of this chapter and when flight testing, shall operate under the requirements of § 91.305 of this part.
(f) Each person operating a provisionally certificated civil aircraft shall establish approved procedures for—
(1) The use and guidance of flight and ground personnel in operating under this section; and
(2) Operating in and out of airports where takeoffs or approaches over populated areas are necessary. No person may operate that aircraft except in compliance with the approved procedures.
(g) Each person operating a provisionally certificated civil aircraft shall ensure that each flight crewmember is properly certificated and has adequate knowledge of, and familiarity with, the aircraft and procedures to be used by that crewmember.
(h) Each person operating a provisionally certificated civil aircraft shall maintain it as required by applicable regulations and as may be specially prescribed by the Administrator.
(i) Whenever the manufacturer, or the Administrator, determines that a change in design, construction, or operation is necessary to ensure safe operation, no person may operate a provisionally certificated civil aircraft until that change has been made and approved. Section 21.99 of this chapter applies to operations under this section.
(j) Each person operating a provisionally certificated civil aircraft—
(1) May carry in that aircraft only persons who have a proper interest in the operations allowed by this section or who are specifically authorized by
both the manufacturer and the Administrator; and
(2) Shall advise each person carried that the aircraft is provisionally certificated.
(k) The Administrator may prescribe additional limitations or procedures that the Administrator considers necessary, including limitations on the number of persons who may be carried in the aircraft.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2120-0005)
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34308, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-212, 54 FR 39293, Sept. 25, 1989; Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 91-350, 83 FR 9171, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 91.319
Aircraft having experimental certificates: Operating limitations.
(a) Except as provided in § 91.326, no person may operate an aircraft that has an experimental certificate—
(1) For other than the purpose for which the certificate was issued; or
(2) Carrying persons or property for compensation or hire in operations that:
(i) Require an air carrier or commercial operator certificate issued under part 119 of this chapter;
(ii) Are listed in § 119.1(e) of this chapter;
(iii) Require management specifications for a fractional ownership program issued in accordance with subpart K of this part; or
(iv) Are conducted under part 129, 133, or 137 of this chapter.
(b) No person may operate an aircraft that has an experimental certificate outside of an area assigned by the Administrator until it is shown that—
(1) The aircraft is controllable throughout its normal range of speeds and throughout all the maneuvers to be executed; and
(2) The aircraft has no hazardous operating characteristics or design features.
(c) Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator in special operating limitations, no person may operate an aircraft that has an experimental certificate over a densely populated area or in a congested airway. The Administrator may issue special operating limitations for particular aircraft to permit takeoffs and landings to be conducted over a densely populated area or in a congested airway, in accordance with terms and conditions specified in the authorization in the interest of safety in air commerce.
(d) Each person operating an aircraft that has an experimental certificate shall—
(1) Advise each person carried of the experimental nature of the aircraft;
(2) Operate under VFR, day only, unless otherwise specifically authorized by the Administrator; and
(3) Notify air traffic control of the experimental nature of the aircraft when utilizing air traffic services.
(e) No person may operate a light-sport aircraft that is issued an experimental certificate under § 21.191 of this chapter for compensation or hire, except:
(1) A person may operate an aircraft issued an experimental certificate under § 21.191(i)(1) of this chapter to tow a glider that is a light-sport aircraft or unpowered ultralight vehicle in accordance with § 91.309; or
(2) A person may operate a light-sport aircraft issued an experimental certificate under § 21.191 of this chapter to conduct operations authorized under § 91.326.
(f) No person may lease a light-sport aircraft that is issued an experimental certificate under § 21.191 of this chapter, except—
(1) In accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section; or
(2) To conduct a solo flight in accordance with a training program included as part of the deviation authority specified under § 91.326(b).
(g) No person may operate an aircraft issued an experimental certificate under § 21.191(i)(1) of this chapter to tow a glider that is a light-sport aircraft or unpowered ultralight vehicle for compensation or hire or to conduct flight training for compensation or hire in an aircraft which that persons provides unless within the preceding 100 hours of time in service the aircraft has—
(1) Been inspected by a certificated repairman (light-sport aircraft) with a maintenance rating, an appropriately rated mechanic, or an appropriately rated repair station in accordance with inspection procedures developed by the
aircraft manufacturer or a person acceptable to the FAA; or
(2) Received an inspection for the issuance of an airworthiness certificate in accordance with part 21 of this chapter.
(h) [Reserved]
(i) The Administrator may prescribe additional limitations that the Administrator considers necessary, including limitations on the persons that may be carried in the aircraft.
(j) No person may operate an aircraft that has an experimental certificate under § 61.113(i) of this chapter unless the aircraft is carrying not more than 7 occupants.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2120-0005)
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34308, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-282, 69 FR 44881, July 27, 2004; Docket FAA-2016-9157, Amdt. 91-347, 82 FR 3167, Jan. 11, 2017; Docket FAA-2024-2580, Amdt. 91-380, 89 FR 90578, Nov. 18, 2024; Docket FAA-2023-1351, Amdt. 91-378, 89 FR 80340, Oct. 2, 2024]
§ 91.321
Carriage of candidates in elections.
(a) As an aircraft operator, you may receive payment for carrying a candidate, agent of a candidate, or person traveling on behalf of a candidate, running for Federal, State, or local election, without having to comply with the rules in parts 121, 125 or 135 of this chapter, under the following conditions:
(1) Your primary business is not as an air carrier or commercial operator;
(2) You carry the candidate, agent, or person traveling on behalf of a candidate, under the rules of part 91; and
(3) By Federal, state or local law, you are required to receive payment for carrying the candidate, agent, or person traveling on behalf of a candidate. For federal elections, the payment may not exceed the amount required by the Federal Election Commission. For a state or local election, the payment may not exceed the amount required under the applicable state or local law.
(b) For the purposes of this section, for Federal elections, the terms
candidate
and
election
have the same meaning as set forth in the regulations of the Federal Election Commission. For State or local elections, the terms
candidate
and
election
have the same meaning as provided by the applicable State or local law and those terms relate to candidates for election to public office in State and local government elections.
[Docket FAA-2005-20168, 70 FR 4982, Jan. 31, 2005]
§ 91.323
Increased maximum certificated weights for certain airplanes operated in Alaska.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Federal Aviation Regulations, the Administrator will approve, as provided in this section, an increase in the maximum certificated weight of an airplane type certificated under Aeronautics Bulletin No. 7-A of the U.S. Department of Commerce dated January 1, 1931, as amended, or under the normal category of part 4a of the former Civil Air Regulations (14 CFR part 4a, 1964 ed.) if that airplane is operated in the State of Alaska by—
(1) A certificate holder conducting operations under part 121 or part 135 of this chapter; or
(2) The U.S. Department of Interior in conducting its game and fish law enforcement activities or its management, fire detection, and fire suppression activities concerning public lands.
(b) The maximum certificated weight approved under this section may not exceed—
(1) 12,500 pounds;
(2) 115 percent of the maximum weight listed in the FAA aircraft specifications;
(3) The weight at which the airplane meets the positive maneuvering load factor
n, where n
=2.1+(24,000/(W+10,000)) and W=design maximum takeoff weight, except that n need not be more than 3.8; or
(4) The weight at which the airplane meets the climb performance requirements under which it was type certificated.
(c) In determining the maximum certificated weight, the Administrator considers the structural soundness of the airplane and the terrain to be traversed.
(d) The maximum certificated weight determined under this section is added to the airplane's operation limitations and is identified as the maximum
weight authorized for operations within the State of Alaska.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34308, Aug. 18, 1989; Amdt. 91-211, 54 FR 41211, Oct. 5, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-253, 62 FR 13253, Mar. 19, 1997; Docket FAA-2015-1621, Amdt. 91-346, 81 FR 96700, Dec. 30, 2016]
§ 91.325
Primary category aircraft: Operating limitations.
(a) Unless provided for in this section, no person may operate a primary category aircraft carrying persons or property for compensation or hire in operations that:
(1) Require an air carrier or commercial operator certificate issued under part 119 of this chapter;
(2) Are listed in § 119.1(e) of this chapter;
(3) Require management specifications for a fractional ownership program issued in accordance with subpart K of this part; or
(4) Are conducted under part 129, 133, or 137 of this chapter.
(b) Except as provided in § 91.326(c), no person may operate a primary category aircraft that is maintained by the pilot-owner under an approved special inspection and maintenance program except—
(1) The pilot-owner; or
(2) A designee of the pilot-owner, provided that the pilot-owner does not receive compensation for the use of the aircraft.
(c) A primary category aircraft that is maintained by an appropriately rated mechanic or an authorized certificated repair station in accordance with the applicable provisions of part 43 of this chapter may be used to conduct flight training, checking, and testing for compensation or hire.
[Docket FAA-2023-1351, Amdt. 91-378, 89 FR 80340, Oct. 2, 2024]
§ 91.326
Exception to operating certain aircraft for the purposes of flight training, flightcrew member checking, or flightcrew member testing.
(a)
General.
Notwithstanding the prohibitions in §§ 91.315, 91.319(a), and 91.325, a person may conduct flight training, checking, or testing in a limited category aircraft, experimental aircraft, or primary category aircraft under the provisions of this section.
(b)
Operations requiring a letter of deviation authority.
Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, no person may conduct flight training, checking, or testing in a limited category or experimental aircraft without deviation authority issued under this paragraph (b).
(1) No person may operate under this section without a letter of deviation authority (LODA) issued by the Administrator.
(2) The FAA may deny an application for a letter of deviation authority if it determines the deviation would not be in the interest of safety or is unnecessary. The FAA may cancel or amend a letter of deviation authority if it determines that the deviation holder has failed to comply with the conditions and limitations or at any time if the Administrator determines that the deviation is no longer necessary or in the interest of safety.
(3) An applicant must submit a request for deviation authority in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator at least 60 days before the date of intended operations. A request for deviation authority must contain a complete description of the proposed operation that establishes a level of safety equivalent to that provided under the regulations for the deviation requested, including:
(i) A letter identifying the name and address of the applicant;
(ii) The name and contact information of the individual with ultimate responsibility for operations authorized under the deviation authority;
(iii) Specific aircraft make(s), model(s), registration number(s), and serial number(s) to be used;
(iv) Copies of each aircraft's airworthiness certificate, including the FAA-issued operating limitations, if applicable;
(v) Ejection seat information, if applicable;
(vi) A detailed training program that demonstrates the proposed activities will meet the intended training objectives;
(vii) A description of the applicant's process to determine whether a trainee has a specific need for formation or aerobatic training, or training leading to the issuance of an endorsement, if
those types of training are being requested; and
(viii) Any other information that the Administrator deems necessary to evaluate the application.
(4) The holder of a letter of deviation authority must comply with any conditions and limitations provided in that letter of deviation authority. Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, the deviation authority will include the following conditions and limitations:
(i) The operator must use the aircraft-specific flight and ground training program for the training authorized by the letter of deviation authority. Demonstration flights, discovery flights, experience flights, and other flights not related to the training program are not authorized.
(ii) As appropriate to the aircraft being flown, all trainees must hold category and class ratings; a type rating, Authorized Experimental Aircraft authorization, or temporary Letter of Authorization; and endorsements listed in § 61.31 of this chapter, as appropriate, with the following exceptions:
(A) Persons receiving gyroplane training or training leading to the initial issuance of a sport pilot certificate or flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating in a low mass, high drag aircraft with an empty weight less than 650 pounds and a V
H
≤87 Knots Calibrated Airspeed (KCAS) are not required to hold category or class ratings. For training leading to an endorsement for additional sport pilot privileges, the pilot receiving the training must hold at least a sport pilot certificate with appropriate category and class ratings and endorsements issued under § 61.31 of this chapter, as appropriate.
(B) Persons with a specific need to receive training toward the issuance of an endorsement are not required to hold the § 61.31 of this chapter endorsement sought. Any endorsements being provided must be authorized in the LODA.
(C) Persons receiving jet unusual attitude and upset recovery training, limited category type rating training, or authorized experimental aircraft authorization training, if required for the type of aircraft being flown, are not required to hold the applicable type rating, authorized experimental authorization rating, or a temporary Letter of Authorization prior to the commencement of training.
(D) For ultralight-style training, the person receiving training is not required to meet category and class ratings or § 61.31 of this chapter endorsement requirements. However, if the flight training includes a solo flight segment, this does not relieve the person receiving training from the requirements of part 61, subpart C, of this chapter. This training is limited to a low mass, high drag aircraft with an empty weight less than 650 pounds and a maximum speed in level flight with maximum continuous power less than 87 KCAS.
(iii) If the aircraft is equipped with ejection seats and systems, such systems must be rigged, maintained, and inspected in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations. Before providing training in aircraft equipped with operable ejection systems, whether armed or not armed, all aircraft occupants must complete a course of ejection seat training.
(iv) When conducting spin and upset training, the operator must maintain a minimum recovery altitude of 6,000 feet above ground level unless the Administrator authorizes a lower altitude.
(v) A copy of the LODA must be carried on board the aircraft during flight training conducted under the LODA.
(vi) The LODA holder must keep a record of the training given for a period of 36 calendar months from the completion date of the training. The authorized instructor must sign the trainee's training record certifying that the flight training or ground training was given. The training record must include the following:
(A) The name and certificate number (if applicable) of the trainee;
(B) The name, signature, and certificate number of the instructor;
(C) The date trained;
(D) The training received;
(E) The trainee's specific need for training, if applicable.
(vii) Notwithstanding § 43.1(b) of this chapter or § 91.409(c)(1), all aircraft must:
(A) Except for turbine powered or large aircraft, within the preceding 100 hours of time in service, have received an annual, 100-hour, or condition inspection equivalent to the scope and detail of appendix D to part 43 of this chapter and been approved for return to service in accordance with part 43. The 100-hour limitation may be exceeded by not more than 10 hours while enroute to reach a place where the inspection can be done. The excess time used to reach a place where the inspection can be done must be included in computing the next 100 hours of time in service; or
(B) Except for turbine powered or large aircraft, be inspected in accordance with an FAA-approved inspection program that includes provisions for ensuring continued airworthiness and recording the current status on life-limited parts and in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
(C) For turbine-powered or large aircraft, be inspected in accordance with an FAA-approved inspection program that meets the scope and detail of the requirements of § 91.409(e), (f)(4), and (g) for ensuring continued airworthiness and recording time remaining on life-limited parts in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
(viii) Notwithstanding any exception due to the experimental airworthiness certification of the aircraft, LODA holders with experimental aircraft must comply with FAA Airworthiness Directives applicable to any corresponding make or model aircraft holding a different type of airworthiness certificate or applicable to any article installed on the aircraft. The LODA holder must evaluate the aircraft and its articles to determine if compliance with the FAA Airworthiness Directive is necessary for the continued safe operation of the aircraft. LODA holders must keep a maintenance record entry of those FAA Airworthiness Directives evaluated. For those FAA Airworthiness Directives for which the LODA holder determined compliance was necessary for the continued safe operation of the aircraft, the record must also include the method of compliance, and if the FAA Airworthiness Directive requires recurring action, the time and date when the next action is required.
(5) Only the following persons may be on board the aircraft during operations conducted under the deviation authority:
(i) The authorized instructor, designated examiner, person receiving flight training or being checked or tested, or persons essential for the safe operation of the aircraft; and
(ii) Notwithstanding any operating limitation applicable under § 91.9(a) that prohibits the carriage of passengers for compensation or hire, up to two persons enrolled in a LODA training course for the same aircraft may observe the flight training from a forwardmost observer seat with an unobstructed view of the flight deck, provided carriage of those persons is not prohibited by any other regulation.
(6) The Administrator may limit the types of training, testing, and checking authorized under this deviation authority. Training, testing, and checking under this deviation authority must be conducted consistent with the training program submitted for FAA review.
(c)
Operations not requiring a letter of deviation authority.
The following operations may be conducted without a letter of deviation authority.
(1) An authorized instructor, registered owner, lessor, or lessee of an aircraft is not required to obtain a letter of deviation authority from the Administrator to allow, conduct, or receive flight training, checking, or testing in a limited category aircraft, experimental aircraft, or primary category aircraft if—
(i) The authorized instructor is not providing both the training and the aircraft;
(ii) No person advertises or broadly offers the aircraft as available for flight training, checking, or testing; and
(iii) No person receives compensation for the use of the aircraft for any flight during which flight training, checking, or testing was received, other than expenses for owning, operating, and maintaining the aircraft. Compensation for the use of the aircraft for profit is prohibited.
(2) A person may operate a limited category aircraft, experimental aircraft, or primary category aircraft to conduct flight training, checking, or testing without a letter of deviation authority if no person provides and no person receives compensation for the flight training, checking, or testing, or for the use of the aircraft.
(d)
Previously issued letters of deviation authority.
For deviation authority issued under § 91.319 prior to December 2, 2024, the following requirements apply—
(1) The deviation holder may continue to operate under the letter of deviation authority until December 1, 2026;
(2) The deviation holder must continue to comply with the conditions and limitations in the letter of deviation authority when conducting an operation under the letter of deviation authority in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(3) The letter of deviation authority may be cancelled or amended at any time; and
(4) The letter of deviation authority terminates on December 1, 2026.
[Docket FAA-2023-1351, Amdt. 91-378, 89 FR 80341, Oct. 2, 2024]
§ 91.327
Aircraft having a special airworthiness certificate in the light-sport category: Operating limitations.
(a) No person may operate an aircraft that has a special airworthiness certificate in the light-sport category for compensation or hire except—
(1) To tow a glider or an unpowered ultralight vehicle in accordance with § 91.309 of this chapter; or
(2) To conduct flight training, checking, and testing.
(b) No person may operate an aircraft that has a special airworthiness certificate in the light-sport category unless—
(1) The aircraft is maintained by a certificated repairman with a light-sport aircraft maintenance rating, an appropriately rated mechanic, or an appropriately rated repair station in accordance with the applicable provisions of part 43 of this chapter and maintenance and inspection procedures developed by the aircraft manufacturer or a person acceptable to the FAA;
(2) A condition inspection is performed once every 12 calendar months by a certificated repairman (light-sport aircraft) with a maintenance rating, an appropriately rated mechanic, or an appropriately rated repair station in accordance with inspection procedures developed by the aircraft manufacturer or a person acceptable to the FAA;
(3) The owner or operator complies with all applicable airworthiness directives;
(4) The owner or operator complies with each safety directive applicable to the aircraft that corrects an existing unsafe condition. In lieu of complying with a safety directive an owner or operator may—
(i) Correct the unsafe condition in a manner different from that specified in the safety directive provided the person issuing the directive concurs with the action; or
(ii) Obtain an FAA waiver from the provisions of the safety directive based on a conclusion that the safety directive was issued without adhering to the applicable consensus standard;
(5) Each alteration accomplished after the aircraft's date of manufacture meets the applicable and current consensus standard and has been authorized by either the manufacturer or a person acceptable to the FAA;
(6) Each major alteration to an aircraft product produced under a consensus standard is authorized, performed and inspected in accordance with maintenance and inspection procedures developed by the manufacturer or a person acceptable to the FAA; and
(7) The owner or operator complies with the requirements for the recording of major repairs and major alterations performed on type-certificated products in accordance with § 43.9(d) of this chapter, and with the retention requirements in § 91.417.
(c) No person may operate an aircraft issued a special airworthiness certificate in the light-sport category to tow a glider or unpowered ultralight vehicle for compensation or hire or conduct flight training for compensation or hire in an aircraft which that persons provides unless within the preceding
100 hours of time in service the aircraft has—
(1) Been inspected by a certificated repairman with a light-sport aircraft maintenance rating, an appropriately rated mechanic, or an appropriately rated repair station in accordance with inspection procedures developed by the aircraft manufacturer or a person acceptable to the FAA and been approved for return to service in accordance with part 43 of this chapter; or
(2) Received an inspection for the issuance of an airworthiness certificate in accordance with part 21 of this chapter.
(d) Each person operating an aircraft issued a special airworthiness certificate in the light-sport category must operate the aircraft in accordance with the aircraft's operating instructions, including any provisions for necessary operating equipment specified in the aircraft's equipment list.
(e) Each person operating an aircraft issued a special airworthiness certificate in the light-sport category must advise each person carried of the special nature of the aircraft and that the aircraft does not meet the airworthiness requirements for an aircraft issued a standard airworthiness certificate.
(f) The FAA may prescribe additional limitations that it considers necessary.
[Docket FAA-2001-11133, 69 FR 44881, July 27, 2004, as amended by Docket FAA-2023-1351, Amdt. 91-378, 89 FR 80342, Oct. 2, 2024]
§§ 91.328-91.399
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Maintenance, Preventive Maintenance, and Alterations

# Source:
Docket 18334, 54 FR 34311, Aug. 18, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 91.401
Applicability.
(a) This subpart prescribes rules governing the maintenance, preventive maintenance, and alterations of U.S.-registered civil aircraft operating within or outside of the United States.
(b) Sections 91.405, 91.409, 91.411, 91.417, and 91.419 of this subpart do not apply to an aircraft maintained in accordance with a continuous airworthiness maintenance program as provided in part 121, 129, or §§ 91.1411 or 135.411(a)(2) of this chapter.
(c) Sections 91.405 and 91.409 of this part do not apply to an airplane inspected in accordance with part 125 of this chapter.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34311, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-267, 66 FR 21066, Apr. 27, 2001; Amdt. 91-280, 68 FR 54560, Sept. 17, 2003]
§ 91.403
General.
(a) The owner or operator of an aircraft is primarily responsible for maintaining that aircraft in an airworthy condition, including compliance with part 39 of this chapter.
(b) No person may perform maintenance, preventive maintenance, or alterations on an aircraft other than as prescribed in this subpart and other applicable regulations, including part 43 of this chapter.
(c) No person may operate an aircraft for which a manufacturer's maintenance manual or instructions for continued airworthiness has been issued that contains an airworthiness limitations section unless the mandatory replacement times, inspection intervals, and related procedures specified in that section or alternative inspection intervals and related procedures set forth in an operations specification approved by the Administrator under part 121 or 135 of this chapter or in accordance with an inspection program approved under § 91.409(e) have been complied with.
(d) A person must not alter an aircraft based on a supplemental type certificate unless the owner or operator of the aircraft is the holder of the supplemental type certificate, or has written permission from the holder.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34311, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-267, 66 FR 21066, Apr. 27, 2001; Amdt. 91-293, 71 FR 56005, Sept. 26, 2006]
§ 91.405
Maintenance required.
Each owner or operator of an aircraft—
(a) Shall have that aircraft inspected as prescribed in subpart E of this part and shall between required inspections, except as provided in paragraph (c) of
this section, have discrepancies repaired as prescribed in part 43 of this chapter;
(b) Shall ensure that maintenance personnel make appropriate entries in the aircraft maintenance records indicating the aircraft has been approved for return to service;
(c) Shall have any inoperative instrument or item of equipment, permitted to be inoperative by § 91.213(d)(2) of this part, repaired, replaced, removed, or inspected at the next required inspection; and
(d) When listed discrepancies include inoperative instruments or equipment, shall ensure that a placard has been installed as required by § 43.11 of this chapter.
§ 91.407
Operation after maintenance, preventive maintenance, rebuilding, or alteration.
(a) No person may operate any aircraft that has undergone maintenance, preventive maintenance, rebuilding, or alteration unless—
(1) It has been approved for return to service by a person authorized under § 43.7 of this chapter; and
(2) The maintenance record entry required by § 43.9 or § 43.11, as applicable, of this chapter has been made.
(b) No person may carry any person (other than crewmembers) in an aircraft that has been maintained, rebuilt, or altered in a manner that may have appreciably changed its flight characteristics or substantially affected its operation in flight until an appropriately rated pilot with at least a private pilot certificate flies the aircraft, makes an operational check of the maintenance performed or alteration made, and logs the flight in the aircraft records.
(c) The aircraft does not have to be flown as required by paragraph (b) of this section if, prior to flight, ground tests, inspection, or both show conclusively that the maintenance, preventive maintenance, rebuilding, or alteration has not appreciably changed the flight characteristics or substantially affected the flight operation of the aircraft.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2120-0005)
§ 91.409
Inspections.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, no person may operate an aircraft unless, within the preceding 12 calendar months, it has had—
(1) An annual inspection in accordance with part 43 of this chapter and has been approved for return to service by a person authorized by § 43.7 of this chapter; or
(2) An inspection for the issuance of an airworthiness certificate in accordance with part 21 of this chapter.
No inspection performed under paragraph (b) of this section may be substituted for any inspection required by this paragraph unless it is performed by a person authorized to perform annual inspections and is entered as an “annual” inspection in the required maintenance records.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, no person may operate an aircraft carrying any person (other than a crewmember) for hire, and no person may give flight instruction for hire in an aircraft which that person provides, unless within the preceding 100 hours of time in service the aircraft has received an annual or 100-hour inspection and been approved for return to service in accordance with part 43 of this chapter or has received an inspection for the issuance of an airworthiness certificate in accordance with part 21 of this chapter. The 100-hour limitation may be exceeded by not more than 10 hours while en route to reach a place where the inspection can be done. The excess time used to reach a place where the inspection can be done must be included in computing the next 100 hours of time in service.
(c) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply to—
(1) An aircraft that carries a special flight permit, a current experimental certificate, or a light-sport or provisional airworthiness certificate;
(2) An aircraft inspected in accordance with an approved aircraft inspection program under part 125 or 135 of this chapter and so identified by the registration number in the operations specifications of the certificate holder having the approved inspection program;
(3) An aircraft subject to the requirements of paragraph (d) or (e) of this section; or
(4) Turbine-powered rotorcraft when the operator elects to inspect that rotorcraft in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(d)
Progressive inspection.
Each registered owner or operator of an aircraft desiring to use a progressive inspection program must submit a written request to the responsible Flight Standards office, and shall provide—
(1) A certificated mechanic holding an inspection authorization, a certificated airframe repair station, or the manufacturer of the aircraft to supervise or conduct the progressive inspection;
(2) A current inspection procedures manual available and readily understandable to pilot and maintenance personnel containing, in detail—
(i) An explanation of the progressive inspection, including the continuity of inspection responsibility, the making of reports, and the keeping of records and technical reference material;
(ii) An inspection schedule, specifying the intervals in hours or days when routine and detailed inspections will be performed and including instructions for exceeding an inspection interval by not more than 10 hours while en route and for changing an inspection interval because of service experience;
(iii) Sample routine and detailed inspection forms and instructions for their use; and
(iv) Sample reports and records and instructions for their use;
(3) Enough housing and equipment for necessary disassembly and proper inspection of the aircraft; and
(4) Appropriate current technical information for the aircraft.
The frequency and detail of the progressive inspection shall provide for the complete inspection of the aircraft within each 12 calendar months and be consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations, field service experience, and the kind of operation in which the aircraft is engaged. The progressive inspection schedule must ensure that the aircraft, at all times, will be airworthy and will conform to all applicable FAA aircraft specifications, type certificate data sheets, airworthiness directives, and other approved data. If the progressive inspection is discontinued, the owner or operator shall immediately notify the responsible Flight Standards office, in writing, of the discontinuance. After the discontinuance, the first annual inspection under § 91.409(a)(1) is due within 12 calendar months after the last complete inspection of the aircraft under the progressive inspection. The 100-hour inspection under § 91.409(b) is due within 100 hours after that complete inspection. A complete inspection of the aircraft, for the purpose of determining when the annual and 100-hour inspections are due, requires a detailed inspection of the aircraft and all its components in accordance with the progressive inspection. A routine inspection of the aircraft and a detailed inspection of several components is not considered to be a complete inspection.
(e)
Large airplanes (to which part 125 is not applicable), turbojet multiengine airplanes, turbopropeller-powered multiengine airplanes, and turbine-powered rotorcraft.
No person may operate a large airplane, turbojet multiengine airplane, turbopropeller-powered multiengine airplane, or turbine-powered rotorcraft unless the replacement times for life-limited parts specified in the aircraft specifications, type data sheets, or other documents approved by the Administrator are complied with and the airplane or turbine-powered rotorcraft, including the airframe, engines, propellers, rotors, appliances, survival equipment, and emergency equipment, is inspected in accordance with an inspection program selected under the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section, except that, the owner or operator of a turbine-powered rotorcraft may elect to use the inspection provisions of § 91.409(a), (b), (c), or (d) in lieu of an inspection option of § 91.409(f).
(f)
Selection of inspection program under paragraph (e) of this section.
The registered owner or operator of each airplane or turbine-powered rotorcraft described in paragraph (e) of this section must select, identify in the aircraft maintenance records, and use one of the following programs for the inspection of the aircraft:
(1) A continuous airworthiness inspection program that is part of a continuous airworthiness maintenance program currently in use by a person holding an air carrier operating certificate or an operating certificate issued under part 121 or 135 of this chapter and operating that make and model aircraft under part 121 of this chapter or operating that make and model under part 135 of this chapter and maintaining it under § 135.411(a)(2) of this chapter.
(2) An approved aircraft inspection program approved under § 135.419 of this chapter and currently in use by a person holding an operating certificate issued under part 135 of this chapter.
(3) A current inspection program recommended by the manufacturer.
(4) Any other inspection program established by the registered owner or operator of that airplane or turbine-powered rotorcraft and approved by the Administrator under paragraph (g) of this section. However, the Administrator may require revision of this inspection program in accordance with the provisions of § 91.415.
Each operator shall include in the selected program the name and address of the person responsible for scheduling the inspections required by the program and make a copy of that program available to the person performing inspections on the aircraft and, upon request, to the Administrator.
(g)
Inspection program approved under paragraph (e) of this section.
Each operator of an airplane or turbine-powered rotorcraft desiring to establish or change an approved inspection program under paragraph (f)(4) of this section must submit the program for approval to the responsible Flight Standards office. The program must be in writing and include at least the following information:
(1) Instructions and procedures for the conduct of inspections for the particular make and model airplane or turbine-powered rotorcraft, including necessary tests and checks. The instructions and procedures must set forth in detail the parts and areas of the airframe, engines, propellers, rotors, and appliances, including survival and emergency equipment required to be inspected.
(2) A schedule for performing the inspections that must be performed under the program expressed in terms of the time in service, calendar time, number of system operations, or any combination of these.
(h)
Changes from one inspection program to another.
When an operator changes from one inspection program under paragraph (f) of this section to another, the time in service, calendar times, or cycles of operation accumulated under the previous program must be applied in determining inspection due times under the new program.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2120-0005)
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34311, Aug. 18, 1989; Amdt. 91-211, 54 FR 41211, Oct. 5, 1989; Amdt. 91-267, 66 FR 21066, Apr. 27, 2001; Amdt. 91-282, 69 FR 44882, July 27, 2004; Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 91-350, 83 FR 9171, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 91.410
[Reserved]
§ 91.411
Altimeter system and altitude reporting equipment tests and inspections.
(a) No person may operate an airplane, or helicopter, in controlled airspace under IFR unless—
(1) Within the preceding 24 calendar months, each static pressure system, each altimeter instrument, and each automatic pressure altitude reporting system has been tested and inspected and found to comply with appendices E and F of part 43 of this chapter;
(2) Except for the use of system drain and alternate static pressure valves, following any opening and closing of the static pressure system, that system has been tested and inspected and found to comply with paragraph (a), appendix E, of part 43 of this chapter; and
(3) Following installation or maintenance on the automatic pressure altitude reporting system of the ATC transponder where data correspondence error could be introduced, the integrated system has been tested, inspected, and found to comply with paragraph (c), appendix E, of part 43 of this chapter.
(b) The tests required by paragraph (a) of this section must be conducted by—
(1) The manufacturer of the airplane, or helicopter, on which the tests and inspections are to be performed;
(2) A certificated repair station properly equipped to perform those functions and holding—
(i) An instrument rating, Class I;
(ii) A limited instrument rating appropriate to the make and model of appliance to be tested;
(iii) A limited rating appropriate to the test to be performed;
(iv) An airframe rating appropriate to the airplane, or helicopter, to be tested; or
(3) A certificated mechanic with an airframe rating (static pressure system tests and inspections only).
(c) Altimeter and altitude reporting equipment approved under Technical Standard Orders are considered to be tested and inspected as of the date of their manufacture.
(d) No person may operate an airplane, or helicopter, in controlled airspace under IFR at an altitude above the maximum altitude at which all altimeters and the automatic altitude reporting system of that airplane, or helicopter, have been tested.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34308, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-269, 66 FR 41116, Aug. 6, 2001; 72 FR 7739, Feb. 20, 2007]
§ 91.413
ATC transponder tests and inspections.
(a) No persons may use an ATC transponder that is specified in 91.215(a), 121.345(c), or § 135.143(c) of this chapter unless, within the preceding 24 calendar months, the ATC transponder has been tested and inspected and found to comply with appendix F of part 43 of this chapter; and
(b) Following any installation or maintenance on an ATC transponder where data correspondence error could be introduced, the integrated system has been tested, inspected, and found to comply with paragraph (c), appendix E, of part 43 of this chapter.
(c) The tests and inspections specified in this section must be conducted by—
(1) A certificated repair station properly equipped to perform those functions and holding—
(i) A radio rating, Class III;
(ii) A limited radio rating appropriate to the make and model transponder to be tested;
(iii) A limited rating appropriate to the test to be performed;
(2) A holder of a continuous airworthiness maintenance program as provided in part 121 or § 135.411(a)(2) of this chapter; or
(3) The manufacturer of the aircraft on which the transponder to be tested is installed, if the transponder was installed by that manufacturer.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34311, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-267, 66 FR 21066, Apr. 27, 2001; Amdt. 91-269, 66 FR 41116, Aug. 6, 2001]
§ 91.415
Changes to aircraft inspection programs.
(a) Whenever the Administrator finds that revisions to an approved aircraft inspection program under § 91.409(f)(4) or § 91.1109 are necessary for the continued adequacy of the program, the owner or operator must, after notification by the Administrator, make any changes in the program found to be necessary by the Administrator.
(b) The owner or operator may petition the Administrator to reconsider the notice to make any changes in a program in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The petition must be filed with the Executive Director, Flight Standards Service within 30 days after the certificate holder or fractional ownership program manager receives the notice.
(d) Except in the case of an emergency requiring immediate action in the interest of safety, the filing of the petition stays the notice pending a decision by the Administrator.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34311, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-280, 68 FR 54560, Sept. 17, 2003; Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 91-350, 83 FR 9171, Mar. 5, 2018]
§ 91.417
Maintenance records.
(a) Except for work performed in accordance with §§ 91.411 and 91.413, each registered owner or operator shall keep the following records for the periods specified in paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) Records of the maintenance, preventive maintenance, and alteration
and records of the 100-hour, annual, progressive, and other required or approved inspections, as appropriate, for each aircraft (including the airframe) and each engine, propeller, rotor, and appliance of an aircraft. The records must include—
(i) A description (or reference to data acceptable to the Administrator) of the work performed; and
(ii) The date of completion of the work performed; and
(iii) The signature, and certificate number of the person approving the aircraft for return to service.
(2) Records containing the following information:
(i) The total time in service of the airframe, each engine, each propeller, and each rotor.
(ii) The current status of life-limited parts of each airframe, engine, propeller, rotor, and appliance.
(iii) The time since last overhaul of all items installed on the aircraft which are required to be overhauled on a specified time basis.
(iv) The current inspection status of the aircraft, including the time since the last inspection required by the inspection program under which the aircraft and its appliances are maintained.
(v) The current status of applicable airworthiness directives (AD) and safety directives including, for each, the method of compliance, the AD or safety directive number and revision date. If the AD or safety directive involves recurring action, the time and date when the next action is required.
(vi) Copies of the forms prescribed by § 43.9(d) of this chapter for each major alteration to the airframe and currently installed engines, rotors, propellers, and appliances.
(b) The owner or operator shall retain the following records for the periods prescribed:
(1) The records specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be retained until the work is repeated or superseded by other work or for 1 year after the work is performed.
(2) The records specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be retained and transferred with the aircraft at the time the aircraft is sold.
(3) A list of defects furnished to a registered owner or operator under § 43.11 of this chapter shall be retained until the defects are repaired and the aircraft is approved for return to service.
(c) The owner or operator shall make all maintenance records required to be kept by this section available for inspection by the Administrator or any authorized representative of the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). In addition, the owner or operator shall present Form 337 described in paragraph (d) of this section for inspection upon request of any law enforcement officer.
(d) When a fuel tank is installed within the passenger compartment or a baggage compartment pursuant to part 43 of this chapter, a copy of FAA Form 337 shall be kept on board the modified aircraft by the owner or operator.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2120-0005)
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34311, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-311, 75 FR 5223, Feb. 1, 2010; Amdt. 91-323, 76 FR 39260, July 6, 2011]
§ 91.419
Transfer of maintenance records.
Any owner or operator who sells a U.S.-registered aircraft shall transfer to the purchaser, at the time of sale, the following records of that aircraft, in plain language form or in coded form at the election of the purchaser, if the coded form provides for the preservation and retrieval of information in a manner acceptable to the Administrator:
(a) The records specified in § 91.417(a)(2).
(b) The records specified in § 91.417(a)(1) which are not included in the records covered by paragraph (a) of this section, except that the purchaser may permit the seller to keep physical custody of such records. However, custody of records by the seller does not relieve the purchaser of the responsibility under § 91.417(c) to make the records available for inspection by the Administrator or any authorized representative of the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB).
§ 91.421
Rebuilt engine maintenance records.
(a) The owner or operator may use a new maintenance record, without previous operating history, for an aircraft engine rebuilt by the manufacturer or by an agency approved by the manufacturer.
(b) Each manufacturer or agency that grants zero time to an engine rebuilt by it shall enter in the new record—
(1) A signed statement of the date the engine was rebuilt;
(2) Each change made as required by airworthiness directives; and
(3) Each change made in compliance with manufacturer's service bulletins, if the entry is specifically requested in that bulletin.
(c) For the purposes of this section, a rebuilt engine is a used engine that has been completely disassembled, inspected, repaired as necessary, reassembled, tested, and approved in the same manner and to the same tolerances and limits as a new engine with either new or used parts. However, all parts used in it must conform to the production drawing tolerances and limits for new parts or be of approved oversized or undersized dimensions for a new engine.
§§ 91.423-91.499
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Large and Turbine-Powered Multiengine Airplanes and Fractional Ownership Program Aircraft

# Source:
Docket 18334, 54 FR 34314, Aug. 18, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 91.501
Applicability.
(a) This subpart prescribes operating rules, in addition to those prescribed in other subparts of this part, governing the operation of large airplanes of U.S. registry, turbojet-powered multiengine civil airplanes of U.S. registry, and fractional ownership program aircraft of U.S. registry that are operating under subpart K of this part in operations not involving common carriage. The operating rules in this subpart do not apply to those aircraft when they are required to be operated under parts 121, 125, 129, 135, and 137 of this chapter. (Section 91.409 prescribes an inspection program for large and for turbine-powered (turbojet and turboprop) multiengine airplanes and turbine-powered rotorcraft of U.S. registry when they are operated under this part or part 129 or 137.)
(b) Operations that may be conducted under the rules in this subpart instead of those in parts 121, 129, 135, and 137 of this chapter when common carriage is not involved, include—
(1) Ferry or training flights;
(2) Aerial work operations such as aerial photography or survey, or pipeline patrol, but not including fire fighting operations;
(3) Flights for the demonstration of an airplane to prospective customers when no charge is made except for those specified in paragraph (d) of this section;
(4) Flights conducted by the operator of an airplane for his personal transportation, or the transportation of his guests when no charge, assessment, or fee is made for the transportation;
(5) Carriage of officials, employees, guests, and property of a company on an airplane operated by that company, or the parent or a subsidiary of the company or a subsidiary of the parent, when the carriage is within the scope of, and incidental to, the business of the company (other than transportation by air) and no charge, assessment or fee is made for the carriage in excess of the cost of owning, operating, and maintaining the airplane, except that no charge of any kind may be made for the carriage of a guest of a company, when the carriage is not within the scope of, and incidental to, the business of that company;
(6) The carriage of company officials, employees, and guests of the company on an airplane operated under a time sharing, interchange, or joint ownership agreement as defined in paragraph (c) of this section;
(7) The carriage of property (other than mail) on an airplane operated by a person in the furtherance of a business or employment (other than transportation by air) when the carriage is within the scope of, and incidental to, that business or employment and no charge, assessment, or fee is made for
the carriage other than those specified in paragraph (d) of this section;
(8) The carriage on an airplane of an athletic team, sports group, choral group, or similar group having a common purpose or objective when there is no charge, assessment, or fee of any kind made by any person for that carriage; and
(9) The carriage of persons on an airplane operated by a person in the furtherance of a business other than transportation by air for the purpose of selling them land, goods, or property, including franchises or distributorships, when the carriage is within the scope of, and incidental to, that business and no charge, assessment, or fee is made for that carriage.
(10) Any operation identified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(9) of this section when conducted—
(i) By a fractional ownership program manager, or
(ii) By a fractional owner in a fractional ownership program aircraft operated under subpart K of this part, except that a flight under a joint ownership arrangement under paragraph (b)(6) of this section may not be conducted. For a flight under an interchange agreement under paragraph (b)(6) of this section, the exchange of equal time for the operation must be properly accounted for as part of the total hours associated with the fractional owner's share of ownership.
(c) As used in this section—
(1) A
time sharing agreement
means an arrangement whereby a person leases his airplane with flight crew to another person, and no charge is made for the flights conducted under that arrangement other than those specified in paragraph (d) of this section;
(2) An
interchange agreement
means an arrangement whereby a person leases his airplane to another person in exchange for equal time, when needed, on the other person's airplane, and no charge, assessment, or fee is made, except that a charge may be made not to exceed the difference between the cost of owning, operating, and maintaining the two airplanes;
(3) A
joint ownership agreement
means an arrangement whereby one of the registered joint owners of an airplane employs and furnishes the flight crew for that airplane and each of the registered joint owners pays a share of the charge specified in the agreement.
(d) The following may be charged, as expenses of a specific flight, for transportation as authorized by paragraphs (b) (3) and (7) and (c)(1) of this section:
(1) Fuel, oil, lubricants, and other additives.
(2) Travel expenses of the crew, including food, lodging, and ground transportation.
(3) Hangar and tie-down costs away from the aircraft's base of operation.
(4) Insurance obtained for the specific flight.
(5) Landing fees, airport taxes, and similar assessments.
(6) Customs, foreign permit, and similar fees directly related to the flight.
(7) In flight food and beverages.
(8) Passenger ground transportation.
(9) Flight planning and weather contract services.
(10) An additional charge equal to 100 percent of the expenses listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34314, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-280, 68 FR 54560, Sept. 17, 2003]
§ 91.503
Flying equipment and operating information.
(a) The pilot in command of an airplane shall ensure that the following flying equipment and aeronautical charts and data, in current and appropriate form, are accessible for each flight at the pilot station of the airplane:
(1) A flashlight having at least two size “D” cells, or the equivalent, that is in good working order.
(2) A cockpit checklist containing the procedures required by paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) Pertinent aeronautical charts.
(4) For IFR, VFR over-the-top, or night operations, each pertinent navigational en route, terminal area, and approach and letdown chart.
(5) In the case of multiengine airplanes, one-engine inoperative climb performance data.
(b) Each cockpit checklist must contain the following procedures and shall be used by the flight crewmembers when operating the airplane:
(1) Before starting engines.
(2) Before takeoff.
(3) Cruise.
(4) Before landing.
(5) After landing.
(6) Stopping engines.
(7) Emergencies.
(c) Each emergency cockpit checklist procedure required by paragraph (b)(7) of this section must contain the following procedures, as appropriate:
(1) Emergency operation of fuel, hydraulic, electrical, and mechanical systems.
(2) Emergency operation of instruments and controls.
(3) Engine inoperative procedures.
(4) Any other procedures necessary for safety.
(d) The equipment, charts, and data prescribed in this section shall be used by the pilot in command and other members of the flight crew, when pertinent.
§ 91.505
Familiarity with operating limitations and emergency equipment.
(a) Each pilot in command of an airplane shall, before beginning a flight, become familiar with the Airplane Flight Manual for that airplane, if one is required, and with any placards, listings, instrument markings, or any combination thereof, containing each operating limitation prescribed for that airplane by the Administrator, including those specified in § 91.9(b).
(b) Each required member of the crew shall, before beginning a flight, become familiar with the emergency equipment installed on the airplane to which that crewmember is assigned and with the procedures to be followed for the use of that equipment in an emergency situation.
§ 91.507
Equipment requirements: Over-the-top or night VFR operations.
No person may operate an airplane over-the-top or at night under VFR unless that airplane is equipped with the instruments and equipment required for IFR operations under § 91.205(d) and one electric landing light for night operations. Each required instrument and item of equipment must be in operable condition.
§ 91.509
Survival equipment for overwater operations.
(a) No person may take off an airplane for a flight over water more than 50 nautical miles from the nearest shore unless that airplane is equipped with a life preserver or an approved flotation means for each occupant of the airplane.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, no person may take off an airplane for flight over water more than 30 minutes flying time or 100 nautical miles from the nearest shore, whichever is less, unless it has on board the following survival equipment:
(1) A life preserver, equipped with an approved survivor locator light, for each occupant of the airplane.
(2) Enough liferafts (each equipped with an approved survival locator light) of a rated capacity and buoyancy to accommodate the occupants of the airplane.
(3) At least one pyrotechnic signaling device for each liferaft.
(4) One self-buoyant, water-resistant, portable emergency radio signaling device that is capable of transmission on the appropriate emergency frequency or frequencies and not dependent upon the airplane power supply.
(5) A lifeline stored in accordance with § 25.1411(g) of this chapter.
(c) A fractional ownership program manager under subpart K of this part may apply for a deviation from paragraphs (b)(2) through (5) of this section for a particular over water operation or the Administrator may amend the management specifications to require the carriage of all or any specific items of the equipment listed in paragraphs (b)(2) through (5) of this section.
(d) The required life rafts, life preservers, and signaling devices must be installed in conspicuously marked locations and easily accessible in the event of a ditching without appreciable time for preparatory procedures.
(e) A survival kit, appropriately equipped for the route to be flown, must be attached to each required life raft.
(f) As used in this section, the term shore means that area of the land adjacent to the water that is above the high water mark and excludes land
areas that are intermittently under water.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34314, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-280, 68 FR 54561, Sept. 17, 2003]
§ 91.511
Communication and navigation equipment for overwater operations.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (c), (d), and (f) of this section, no person operating under this subpart may take off an airplane for a flight over water more than 30 minutes flying time or 100 nautical miles from the nearest shore unless it has at least the following operable equipment:
(1) Radio communication equipment appropriate to the facilities to be used and able to transmit to, and receive from, at least one communication facility from any place along the route:
(i) Two transmitters.
(ii) Two microphones.
(iii) Two headsets or one headset and one speaker.
(iv) Two independent receivers.
(2) Appropriate electronic navigational equipment consisting of at least two independent electronic navigation units capable of providing the pilot with the information necessary to navigate the airplane within the airspace assigned by air traffic control. However, a receiver that can receive both communications and required navigational signals may be used in place of a separate communications receiver and a separate navigational signal receiver or unit.
(b) For the purposes of paragraphs (a)(1)(iv) and (a)(2) of this section, a receiver or electronic navigation unit is independent if the function of any part of it does not depend on the functioning of any part of another receiver or electronic navigation unit.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, a person may operate an airplane on which no passengers are carried from a place where repairs or replacement cannot be made to a place where they can be made, if not more than one of each of the dual items of radio communication and navigational equipment specified in paragraphs (a)(1) (i) through (iv) and (a)(2) of this section malfunctions or becomes inoperative.
(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, when both VHF and HF communications equipment are required for the route and the airplane has two VHF transmitters and two VHF receivers for communications, only one HF transmitter and one HF receiver is required for communications.
(e) As used in this section, the term
shore
means that area of the land adjacent to the water which is above the high-water mark and excludes land areas which are intermittently under water.
(f) Notwithstanding the requirements in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a person may operate in the Gulf of Mexico, the Caribbean Sea, and the Atlantic Ocean west of a line which extends from 44°47′00″ N / 67°00′00″ W to 39°00′00″ N / 67°00′00″ W to 38°30′00″ N / 60°00′00″ W south along the 60°00′00″ W longitude line to the point where the line intersects with the northern coast of South America, when:
(1) A single long-range navigation system is installed, operational, and appropriate for the route; and
(2) Flight conditions and the aircraft's capabilities are such that no more than a 30-minute gap in two-way radio very high frequency communications is expected to exist.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34314, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-249, 61 FR 7190, Feb. 26, 1996; Amdt. 91-296, 72 FR 31679, June 7, 2007; Docket FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 91-366, 87 FR 75846, Dec. 9, 2022]
§ 91.513
Emergency equipment.
(a) No person may operate an airplane unless it is equipped with the emergency equipment listed in this section.
(b) Each item of equipment—
(1) Must be inspected in accordance with § 91.409 to ensure its continued serviceability and immediate readiness for its intended purposes;
(2) Must be readily accessible to the crew;
(3) Must clearly indicate its method of operation; and
(4) When carried in a compartment or container, must have that compartment or container marked as to contents and date of last inspection.
(c) Hand fire extinguishers must be provided for use in crew, passenger, and cargo compartments in accordance with the following:
(1) The type and quantity of extinguishing agent must be suitable for the kinds of fires likely to occur in the compartment where the extinguisher is intended to be used.
(2) At least one hand fire extinguisher must be provided and located on or near the flight deck in a place that is readily accessible to the flight crew.
(3) At least one hand fire extinguisher must be conveniently located in the passenger compartment of each airplane accommodating more than six but less than 31 passengers, and at least two hand fire extinguishers must be conveniently located in the passenger compartment of each airplane accommodating more than 30 passengers.
(4) Hand fire extinguishers must be installed and secured in such a manner that they will not interfere with the safe operation of the airplane or adversely affect the safety of the crew and passengers. They must be readily accessible and, unless the locations of the fire extinguishers are obvious, their stowage provisions must be properly identified.
(d) First aid kits for treatment of injuries likely to occur in flight or in minor accidents must be provided.
(e) Each airplane accommodating more than 19 passengers must be equipped with a crash axe.
(f) Each passenger-carrying airplane must have a portable battery-powered megaphone or megaphones readily accessible to the crewmembers assigned to direct emergency evacuation, installed as follows:
(1) One megaphone on each airplane with a seating capacity of more than 60 but less than 100 passengers, at the most rearward location in the passenger cabin where it would be readily accessible to a normal flight attendant seat. However, the Administrator may grant a deviation from the requirements of this subparagraph if the Administrator finds that a different location would be more useful for evacuation of persons during an emergency.
(2) On each airplane with a seating capacity of 100 or more passengers, one megaphone installed at the forward end and one installed at the most rearward location where it would be readily accessible to a normal flight attendant seat.
§ 91.515
Flight altitude rules.
(a) Notwithstanding § 91.119, and except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, no person may operate an airplane under VFR at less than—
(1) One thousand feet above the surface, or 1,000 feet from any mountain, hill, or other obstruction to flight, for day operations; and
(2) The altitudes prescribed in § 91.177, for night operations.
(b) This section does not apply—
(1) During takeoff or landing;
(2) When a different altitude is authorized by a waiver to this section under subpart J of this part; or
(3) When a flight is conducted under the special VFR weather minimums of § 91.157 with an appropriate clearance from ATC.
§ 91.517
Passenger information.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, no person may operate an airplane carrying passengers unless it is equipped with signs that are visible to passengers and flight attendants to notify them when smoking is prohibited and when safety belts must be fastened.
(1) The signs that notify when safety belts must be fastened must be so constructed that the crew can turn them on and off.
(2) The signs that prohibit smoking and signs that notify when safety belts must be fastened must be illuminated during airplane movement on the surface, for each takeoff, for each landing, and when otherwise considered to be necessary by the pilot in command.
(b) The pilot in command of an airplane that is not required, in accordance with applicable aircraft and equipment requirements of this chapter, to be equipped as provided in paragraph (a) of this section shall ensure that the passengers are notified orally each time that it is necessary to fasten their safety belts and when smoking is prohibited.
(c) If passenger information signs are installed, no passenger or crewmember may smoke while any “no smoking” sign is lighted nor may any passenger or crewmember smoke in any lavatory.
(d) Each passenger required by § 91.107(a)(3) to occupy a seat or berth shall fasten his or her safety belt about him or her and keep it fastened while any “fasten seat belt” sign is lighted.
(e) Each passenger shall comply with instructions given him or her by crewmembers regarding compliance with paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
[Docket 26142, 57 FR 42672, Sept. 15, 1992, as amended by Docket FAA-2024-2052; Amdt. 91-377, 89 FR 68100, Aug. 23, 2024]
§ 91.519
Passenger briefing.
(a) Before each takeoff the pilot in command of an airplane carrying passengers shall ensure that all passengers have been orally briefed on—
(1)
Smoking.
Each passenger shall be briefed on when, where, and under what conditions smoking is prohibited. This briefing shall include a statement, as appropriate, that the Federal Aviation Regulations require passenger compliance with lighted passenger information signs and no smoking placards, prohibit smoking in lavatories, and require compliance with crewmember instructions with regard to these items;
(2)
Use of safety belts and shoulder harnesses.
Each passenger shall be briefed on when, where, and under what conditions it is necessary to have his or her safety belt and, if installed, his or her shoulder harness fastened about him or her. This briefing shall include a statement, as appropriate, that Federal Aviation Regulations require passenger compliance with the lighted passenger sign and/or crewmember instructions with regard to these items;
(3) Location and means for opening the passenger entry door and emergency exits;
(4) Location of survival equipment;
(5) Ditching procedures and the use of flotation equipment required under § 91.509 for a flight over water; and
(6) The normal and emergency use of oxygen equipment installed on the airplane.
(b) The oral briefing required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be given by the pilot in command or a member of the crew, but need not be given when the pilot in command determines that the passengers are familiar with the contents of the briefing. It may be supplemented by printed cards for the use of each passenger containing—
(1) A diagram of, and methods of operating, the emergency exits; and
(2) Other instructions necessary for use of emergency equipment.
(c) Each card used under paragraph (b) must be carried in convenient locations on the airplane for the use of each passenger and must contain information that is pertinent only to the type and model airplane on which it is used.
(d) For operations under subpart K of this part, the passenger briefing requirements of § 91.1035 apply, instead of the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34314, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-231, 57 FR 42672, Sept. 15, 1992; Amdt. 91-280, 68 FR 54561, Sept. 17, 2003]
§ 91.521
Shoulder harness.
(a) No person may operate a transport category airplane that was type certificated after January 1, 1958, unless it is equipped at each seat at a flight deck station with a combined safety belt and shoulder harness that meets the applicable requirements specified in § 25.785 of this chapter, except that—
(1) Shoulder harnesses and combined safety belt and shoulder harnesses that were approved and installed before March 6, 1980, may continue to be used; and
(2) Safety belt and shoulder harness restraint systems may be designed to the inertia load factors established under the certification basis of the airplane.
(b) No person may operate a transport category airplane unless it is equipped at each required flight attendant seat in the passenger compartment with a combined safety belt and shoulder harness that meets the applicable requirements specified in § 25.785 of this chapter, except that—
(1) Shoulder harnesses and combined safety belt and shoulder harnesses that
were approved and installed before March 6, 1980, may continue to be used; and
(2) Safety belt and shoulder harness restraint systems may be designed to the inertia load factors established under the certification basis of the airplane.
§ 91.523
Carry-on baggage.
No pilot in command of an airplane having a seating capacity of more than 19 passengers may permit a passenger to stow baggage aboard that airplane except—
(a) In a suitable baggage or cargo storage compartment, or as provided in § 91.525; or
(b) Under a passenger seat in such a way that it will not slide forward under crash impacts severe enough to induce the ultimate inertia forces specified in § 25.561(b)(3) of this chapter, or the requirements of the regulations under which the airplane was type certificated. Restraining devices must also limit sideward motion of under-seat baggage and be designed to withstand crash impacts severe enough to induce sideward forces specified in § 25.561(b)(3) of this chapter.
§ 91.525
Carriage of cargo.
(a) No pilot in command may permit cargo to be carried in any airplane unless—
(1) It is carried in an approved cargo rack, bin, or compartment installed in the airplane;
(2) It is secured by means approved by the Administrator; or
(3) It is carried in accordance with each of the following:
(i) It is properly secured by a safety belt or other tiedown having enough strength to eliminate the possibility of shifting under all normally anticipated flight and ground conditions.
(ii) It is packaged or covered to avoid possible injury to passengers.
(iii) It does not impose any load on seats or on the floor structure that exceeds the load limitation for those components.
(iv) It is not located in a position that restricts the access to or use of any required emergency or regular exit, or the use of the aisle between the crew and the passenger compartment.
(v) It is not carried directly above seated passengers.
(b) When cargo is carried in cargo compartments that are designed to require the physical entry of a crewmember to extinguish any fire that may occur during flight, the cargo must be loaded so as to allow a crewmember to effectively reach all parts of the compartment with the contents of a hand fire extinguisher.
§ 91.527
Operating in icing conditions.
(a) No pilot may take off an airplane that has frost, ice, or snow adhering to any propeller, windshield, stabilizing or control surface; to a powerplant installation; or to an airspeed, altimeter, rate of climb, or flight attitude instrument system or wing, except that takeoffs may be made with frost under the wing in the area of the fuel tanks if authorized by the FAA.
(b) No pilot may fly under IFR into known or forecast light or moderate icing conditions, or under VFR into known light or moderate icing conditions, unless—
(1) The aircraft has functioning deicing or anti-icing equipment protecting each rotor blade, propeller, windshield, wing, stabilizing or control surface, and each airspeed, altimeter, rate of climb, or flight attitude instrument system;
(2) The airplane has ice protection provisions that meet section 34 of Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 23; or
(3) The airplane meets transport category airplane type certification provisions, including the requirements for certification for flight in icing conditions.
(c) Except for an airplane that has ice protection provisions that meet the requirements in section 34 of Special Federal Aviation Regulation No. 23, or those for transport category airplane type certification, no pilot may fly an airplane into known or forecast severe icing conditions.
(d) If current weather reports and briefing information relied upon by the pilot in command indicate that the forecast icing conditions that would otherwise prohibit the flight will not be encountered during the flight because of changed weather conditions
since the forecast, the restrictions in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section based on forecast conditions do not apply.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34314, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-310, 74 FR 62696, Dec. 1, 2009]
§ 91.529
Flight engineer requirements.
(a) No person may operate the following airplanes without a flight crewmember holding a current flight engineer certificate:
(1) An airplane for which a type certificate was issued before January 2, 1964, having a maximum certificated takeoff weight of more than 80,000 pounds.
(2) An airplane type certificated after January 1, 1964, for which a flight engineer is required by the type certification requirements.
(b) No person may serve as a required flight engineer on an airplane unless, within the preceding 6 calendar months, that person has had at least 50 hours of flight time as a flight engineer on that type airplane or has been checked by the Administrator on that type airplane and is found to be familiar and competent with all essential current information and operating procedures.
§ 91.531
Second in command requirements.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, no person may operate the following airplanes without a pilot designated as second in command:
(1) Any airplane that is type certificated for more than one required pilot.
(2) Any large airplane.
(3) Any commuter category airplane.
(b) A person may operate the following airplanes without a pilot designated as second in command:
(1) Any airplane certificated for operation with one pilot.
(2) A large airplane or turbojet-powered multiengine airplane that holds a special airworthiness certificate, if:
(i) The airplane was originally designed with only one pilot station; or
(ii) The airplane was originally designed with more than one pilot station, but single pilot operations were permitted by the airplane flight manual or were otherwise permitted by a branch of the United States Armed Forces or the armed forces of a foreign contracting State to the Convention on International Civil Aviation.
(c) No person may designate a pilot to serve as second in command, nor may any pilot serve as second in command, of an airplane required under this section to have two pilots unless that pilot meets the qualifications for second in command prescribed in § 61.55 of this chapter.
[Docket FAA-2016-6142, Amdt. 91-351, 83 FR 30282, June 27, 2018]
§ 91.533
Flight attendant requirements.
(a) No person may operate an airplane unless at least the following number of flight attendants are on board the airplane:
(1) For airplanes having more than 19 but less than 51 passengers on board, one flight attendant.
(2) For airplanes having more than 50 but less than 101 passengers on board, two flight attendants.
(3) For airplanes having more than 100 passengers on board, two flight attendants plus one additional flight attendant for each unit (or part of a unit) of 50 passengers above 100.
(b) No person may serve as a flight attendant on an airplane when required by paragraph (a) of this section unless that person has demonstrated to the pilot in command familiarity with the necessary functions to be performed in an emergency or a situation requiring emergency evacuation and is capable of using the emergency equipment installed on that airplane.
§ 91.535
Stowage of food, beverage, and passenger service equipment during aircraft movement on the surface, takeoff, and landing.
(a) No operator may move an aircraft on the surface, take off, or land when any food, beverage, or tableware furnished by the operator is located at any passenger seat.
(b) No operator may move an aircraft on the surface, take off, or land unless each food and beverage tray and seat back tray table is secured in its stowed position.
(c) No operator may permit an aircraft to move on the surface, take off,
or land unless each passenger serving cart is secured in its stowed position.
(d) No operator may permit an aircraft to move on the surface, take off, or land unless each movie screen that extends into the aisle is stowed.
(e) Each passenger shall comply with instructions given by a crewmember with regard to compliance with this section.
[Docket 26142, 57 FR 42672, Sept. 15, 1992]
§§ 91.536-91.599
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Additional Equipment and Operating Requirements for Large and Transport Category Aircraft

# Source:
Docket 18334, 54 FR 34318, Aug. 18, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 91.601
Applicability.
This subpart applies to operation of large and transport category U.S.-registered civil aircraft.
§ 91.603
Aural speed warning device.
No person may operate a transport category airplane in air commerce unless that airplane is equipped with an aural speed warning device that complies with § 25.1303(c)(1).
§ 91.605
Transport category civil airplane weight limitations.
(a) No person may take off any transport category airplane (other than a turbine-engine-powered airplane certificated after September 30, 1958) unless—
(1) The takeoff weight does not exceed the authorized maximum takeoff weight for the elevation of the airport of takeoff;
(2) The elevation of the airport of takeoff is within the altitude range for which maximum takeoff weights have been determined;
(3) Normal consumption of fuel and oil in flight to the airport of intended landing will leave a weight on arrival not in excess of the authorized maximum landing weight for the elevation of that airport; and
(4) The elevations of the airport of intended landing and of all specified alternate airports are within the altitude range for which the maximum landing weights have been determined.
(b) No person may operate a turbine-engine-powered transport category airplane certificated after September 30, 1958, contrary to the Airplane Flight Manual, or take off that airplane unless—
(1) The takeoff weight does not exceed the takeoff weight specified in the Airplane Flight Manual for the elevation of the airport and for the ambient temperature existing at the time of takeoff;
(2) Normal consumption of fuel and oil in flight to the airport of intended landing and to the alternate airports will leave a weight on arrival not in excess of the landing weight specified in the Airplane Flight Manual for the elevation of each of the airports involved and for the ambient temperatures expected at the time of landing;
(3) The takeoff weight does not exceed the weight shown in the Airplane Flight Manual to correspond with the minimum distances required for takeoff, considering the elevation of the airport, the runway to be used, the effective runway gradient, the ambient temperature and wind component at the time of takeoff, and, if operating limitations exist for the minimum distances required for takeoff from wet runways, the runway surface condition (dry or wet). Wet runway distances associated with grooved or porous friction course runways, if provided in the Airplane Flight Manual, may be used only for runways that are grooved or treated with a porous friction course (PFC) overlay, and that the operator determines are designed, constructed, and maintained in a manner acceptable to the Administrator.
(4) Where the takeoff distance includes a clearway, the clearway distance is not greater than one-half of—
(i) The takeoff run, in the case of airplanes certificated after September 30, 1958, and before August 30, 1959; or
(ii) The runway length, in the case of airplanes certificated after August 29, 1959.
(c) No person may take off a turbine-engine-powered transport category airplane certificated after August 29, 1959, unless, in addition to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section—
(1) The accelerate-stop distance is no greater than the length of the runway plus the length of the stopway (if present); and
(2) The takeoff distance is no greater than the length of the runway plus the length of the clearway (if present); and
(3) The takeoff run is no greater than the length of the runway.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34318, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-256, 63 FR 8321, Feb. 18, 1998]
§ 91.607
Emergency exits for airplanes carrying passengers for hire.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no person may operate a large airplane (type certificated under the Civil Air Regulations effective before April 9, 1957) in passenger-carrying operations for hire, with more than the number of occupants—
(1) Allowed under Civil Air Regulations § 4b.362 (a), (b), and (c) as in effect on December 20, 1951; or
(2) Approved under Special Civil Air Regulations SR-387, SR-389, SR-389A, or SR-389B, or under this section as in effect.
However, an airplane type listed in the following table may be operated with up to the listed number of occupants (including crewmembers) and the corresponding number of exits (including emergency exits and doors) approved for the emergency exit of passengers or with an occupant-exit configuration approved under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section.
Airplane type
Maximum number of occupants including all crewmembers
Corresponding number of exits authorized for passenger use
B-307
61
4
B-377
96
9
C-46
67
4
CV-240
53
6
CV-340 and CV-440
53
6
DC-3
35
4
DC-3 (Super)
39
5
DC-4
86
5
DC-6
87
7
DC-6B
112
11
L-18
17
3
L-049, L-649, L-749
87
7
L-1049 series
96
9
M-202
53
6
M-404
53
7
Viscount 700 series
53
7
(b) Occupants in addition to those authorized under paragraph (a) of this section may be carried as follows:
(1) For each additional floor-level exit at least 24 inches wide by 48 inches high, with an unobstructed 20-inch-wide access aisleway between the exit and the main passenger aisle, 12 additional occupants.
(2) For each additional window exit located over a wing that meets the requirements of the airworthiness standards under which the airplane was type certificated or that is large enough to inscribe an ellipse 19 × 26 inches, eight additional occupants.
(3) For each additional window exit that is not located over a wing but that otherwise complies with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, five additional occupants.
(4) For each airplane having a ratio (as computed from the table in paragraph (a) of this section) of maximum number of occupants to number of exits greater than 14:1, and for each airplane that does not have at least one full-size, door-type exit in the side of the fuselage in the rear part of the cabin, the first additional exit must be a floor-level exit that complies with paragraph (b)(1) of this section and must be located in the rear part of the cabin on the opposite side of the fuselage from the main entrance door. However, no person may operate an airplane under this section carrying more than 115 occupants unless there is such an exit on each side of the fuselage in the rear part of the cabin.
(c) No person may eliminate any approved exit except in accordance with the following:
(1) The previously authorized maximum number of occupants must be reduced by the same number of additional occupants authorized for that exit under this section.
(2) Exits must be eliminated in accordance with the following priority schedule: First, non-over-wing window exits; second, over-wing window exits; third, floor-level exits located in the forward part of the cabin; and fourth, floor-level exits located in the rear of the cabin.
(3) At least one exit must be retained on each side of the fuselage regardless of the number of occupants.
(4) No person may remove any exit that would result in a ratio of maximum number of occupants to approved exits greater than 14:1.
(d) This section does not relieve any person operating under part 121 of this chapter from complying with § 121.291.
§ 91.609
Flight data recorders and cockpit voice recorders.
(a) No holder of an air carrier operating certificate or an operating certificate may conduct any operation under this part with an aircraft listed in the holder's operations specifications or current list of aircraft used in air transportation unless that aircraft complies with any applicable flight recorder and cockpit voice recorder requirements of the part under which its certificate is issued except that the operator may—
(1) Ferry an aircraft with an inoperative flight recorder or cockpit voice recorder from a place where repair or replacement cannot be made to a place where they can be made;
(2) Continue a flight as originally planned, if the flight recorder or cockpit voice recorder becomes inoperative after the aircraft has taken off;
(3) Conduct an airworthiness flight test during which the flight recorder or cockpit voice recorder is turned off to test it or to test any communications or electrical equipment installed in the aircraft; or
(4) Ferry a newly acquired aircraft from the place where possession of it is taken to a place where the flight recorder or cockpit voice recorder is to be installed.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c) and (e) of this section, an operator other than the holder of an air carrier or a commercial operator certificate may—
(1) Ferry an aircraft with an inoperative flight recorder or cockpit voice recorder from a place where repair or replacement cannot be made to a place where they can be made;
(2) Continue a flight as originally planned if the flight recorder or cockpit voice recorder becomes inoperative after the aircraft has taken off;
(3) Conduct an airworthiness flight test during which the flight recorder or cockpit voice recorder is turned off to test it or to test any communications or electrical equipment installed in the aircraft;
(4) Ferry a newly acquired aircraft from a place where possession of it was taken to a place where the flight recorder or cockpit voice recorder is to be installed; or
(5) Operate an aircraft:
(i) For not more than 15 days while the flight recorder and/or cockpit voice recorder is inoperative and/or removed for repair provided that the aircraft maintenance records contain an entry that indicates the date of failure, and a placard is located in view of the pilot to show that the flight recorder or cockpit voice recorder is inoperative.
(ii) For not more than an additional 15 days, provided that the requirements in paragraph (b)(5)(i) are met and that a certificated pilot, or a certificated person authorized to return an aircraft to service under § 43.7 of this chapter, certifies in the aircraft maintenance records that additional time is required to complete repairs or obtain a replacement unit.
(c)(1) No person may operate a U.S. civil registered, multiengine, turbine-powered airplane or rotorcraft having a passenger seating configuration, excluding any pilot seats of 10 or more that has been manufactured after October 11, 1991, unless it is equipped with one or more approved flight recorders that utilize a digital method of recording and storing data and a method of readily retrieving that data from the storage medium, that are capable of recording the data specified in appendix E to this part, for an airplane, or appendix F to this part, for a rotorcraft, of this part within the range, accuracy, and recording interval specified, and that are capable of retaining no less than 8 hours of aircraft operation.
(2) All airplanes subject to paragraph (c)(1) of this section that are manufactured before April 7, 2010, by April 7, 2012, must meet the requirements of § 23.1459(a)(7) or § 25.1459(a)(8) of this chapter, as applicable.
(3) All airplanes and rotorcraft subject to paragraph (c)(1) of this section that are manufactured on or after April 7, 2010, must meet the flight data recorder requirements of § 23.1459, § 25.1459, § 27.1459, or § 29.1459 of this
chapter, as applicable, and retain at least the last 25 hours of recorded information using a recorder that meets the standards of TSO-C124a, or later revision.
(d) Whenever a flight recorder, required by this section, is installed, it must be operated continuously from the instant the airplane begins the takeoff roll or the rotorcraft begins lift-off until the airplane has completed the landing roll or the rotorcraft has landed at its destination.
(e) Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, after October 11, 1991, no person may operate a U.S. civil registered multiengine, turbine-powered airplane or rotorcraft having a passenger seating configuration of six passengers or more and for which two pilots are required by type certification or operating rule unless it is equipped with an approved cockpit voice recorder that:
(1) Is installed in compliance with § 23.1457(a)(1) and (2), (b), (c), (d)(1)(i), (2) and (3), (e), (f), and (g); § 25.1457(a)(1) and (2), (b), (c), (d)(1)(i), (2) and (3), (e), (f), and (g); § 27.1457(a)(1) and (2), (b), (c), (d)(1)(i), (2) and (3), (e), (f), and (g); or § 29.1457(a)(1) and (2), (b), (c), (d)(1)(i), (2) and (3), (e), (f), and (g) of this chapter, as applicable; and
(2) Is operated continuously from the use of the checklist before the flight to completion of the final checklist at the end of the flight.
(f) In complying with this section, an approved cockpit voice recorder having an erasure feature may be used, so that at any time during the operation of the recorder, information recorded more than 15 minutes earlier may be erased or otherwise obliterated.
(g) In the event of an accident or occurrence requiring immediate notification to the National Transportation Safety Board under 49 CFR part 830 of its regulations that results in the termination of the flight, any operator who has installed approved flight recorders and approved cockpit voice recorders shall keep the recorded information for at least 60 days or, if requested by the Administrator or the Board, for a longer period. Information obtained from the record is used to assist in determining the cause of accidents or occurrences in connection with the investigation under 49 CFR part 830. The Administrator does not use the cockpit voice recorder record in any civil penalty or certificate action.
(h) All airplanes required by this section to have a cockpit voice recorder and a flight data recorder, that are manufactured before April 7, 2010, must by April 7, 2012, have a cockpit voice recorder that also—
(1) Meets the requirements of § 23.1457(d)(6) or § 25.1457(d)(6) of this chapter, as applicable; and
(2) If transport category, meets the requirements of § 25.1457(a)(3), (a)(4), and (a)(5) of this chapter.
(i) All airplanes or rotorcraft required by this section to have a cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder, that are manufactured on or after April 7, 2010, must have a cockpit voice recorder installed that also—
(1) Is installed in accordance with the requirements of § 23.1457 (except for paragraphs (a)(6) and (d)(5)); § 25.1457 (except for paragraphs (a)(6) and (d)(5)); § 27.1457 (except for paragraphs (a)(6) and (d)(5)); or § 29.1457 (except for paragraphs (a)(6) and (d)(5)) of this chapter, as applicable; and
(2) Retains at least the last 2 hours of recorded information using a recorder that meets the standards of TSO-C123a, or later revision.
(3) For all airplanes or rotorcraft manufactured on or after April 6, 2012, also meets the requirements of § 23.1457(a)(6) and (d)(5); § 25.1457(a)(6) and (d)(5); § 27.1457(a)(6) and (d)(5); or § 29.1457(a)(6) and (d)(5) of this chapter, as applicable.
(j) All airplanes or rotorcraft required by this section to have a cockpit voice recorder and a flight data recorder, that install datalink communication equipment on or after April 6, 2012, must record all datalink messages as required by the certification rule applicable to the aircraft.
(k) An aircraft operated under this part under deviation authority from part 125 of this chapter must comply with all of the applicable flight data
recorder requirements of part 125 applicable to the aircraft, notwithstanding such deviation authority.
[Docket 18334, 54 FR 34318, Aug. 18, 1989, as amended by Amdt. 91-226, 56 FR 51621, Oct. 11, 1991; Amdt. 91-228, 57 FR 19353, May 5, 1992; Amdt. 91-300, 73 FR 12564, Mar. 7, 2008; Amdt. 91-304, 73 FR 73178, Dec. 2, 2008; Amdt. 91-300, 74 FR 32800, July 9, 2009; Amdt. 91-313, 75 FR 17045, Apr. 5, 2010; Docket FAA-2022-1355, Amdt. 91-366, 87 FR 75846, Dec. 9, 2022]
§ 91.611
Authorization for ferry flight with one engine inoperative.
(a)
General.
The holder of an air carrier operating certificate or an operating certificate issued under part 125 may conduct a ferry flight of a four-engine airplane or a turbine-engine-powered airplane equipped with three engines, with one engine inoperative, to a base for the purpose of repairing that engine subject to the following:
(1) The airplane model has been test flown and found satisfactory for safe flight in accordance with paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, as appropriate. However, each operator who before November 19, 1966, has shown that a model of airplane with an engine inoperative is satisfactory for safe flight by a test flight conducted in accordance with performance data contained in the applicable Airplane Flight Manual under paragraph (a)(2) of this section need not repeat the test flight for that model.
(2) The approved Airplane Flight Manual contains the following performance data and the flight is conducted in accordance with that data:
(i) Maximum weight.
(ii) Center of gravity limits.
(iii) Configuration of the inoperative propeller (if applicable).
(iv) Runway length for takeoff (including temperature accountability).
(v) Altitude range.
(vi) Certificate limitations.
(vii) Ranges of operational limits.
(viii) Performance information.
(ix) Operating procedures.
(3) The operator has FAA approved procedures for the safe operation of the airplane, including specific requirements for—
(i) Limiting the operating weight on any ferry flight to the minimum necessary for the flight plus the necessary reserve fuel load;
(ii) A limitation that takeoffs must be made from dry runways unless, based on a showing of actual operating takeoff techniques on wet runways with one engine inoperative, takeoffs with full controllability from wet runways have been approved for the specific model aircraft and included in the Airplane Flight Manual:
(iii) Operations from airports where the runways may require a takeoff or approach over populated areas; and
(iv) Inspection procedures for determining the operating condition of the operative engines.
(4) No person may take off an airplane under this section if—
(i) The initial climb is over thickly populated areas; or
(ii) Weather conditions at the takeoff or destination airport are less than those required for VFR flight.
(5) Persons other than required flight crewmembers shall not be carried during the flight.
(6) No person may use a flight crewmember for flight under this section unless that crewmember is thoroughly familiar with the operating procedures for one-engine inoperative ferry flight contained in the certificate holder's manual and the limitations and performance information in the Airplane Flight Manual.
(b)
Flight tests: reciprocating-engine-powered airplanes.
The airplane performance of a reciprocating-engine-powered airplane with one engine inoperative must be determined by flight test as follows:
(1) A speed not less than 1.3 V
S1
must be chosen at which the airplane may be controlled satisfactorily in a climb with the critical engine inoperative (with its propeller removed or in a configuration desired by the operator and with all other engines operating at the maximum power determined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2) The distance required to accelerate to the speed listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and to climb to 50 feet must be determined with—
(i) The landing gear extended;
(ii) The critical engine inoperative and its propeller removed or in a configuration desired by the operator; and
(iii) The other engines operating at not more than maximum power established under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3) The takeoff, flight and landing procedures, such as the approximate trim settings, method of power application, maximum power, and speed must be established.
(4) The performance must be determined at a maximum weight not greater than the weight that allows a rate of climb of at least 400 feet per minute in the en route configuration set forth in § 25.67(d) of this chapter in effect on January 31, 1977, at an altitude of 5,000 feet.
(5) The performance must be determined using temperature accountability for the takeoff field length, computed in accordance with § 25.61 of this chapter in effect on January 31, 1977.
(c)
Flight tests: Turbine-engine-powered airplanes.
