(3) For all PHAs, after submission of their first 5-Year Plan, all subsequent 5-Year Plans must be submitted once every 5 PHA fiscal years, no later than 75 days before the commencement of the PHA's fiscal year. However, HUD may require that half of all PHAs with less than 250 public housing units submit their 5-Year Plan one fiscal year in advance (in the fourth PHA fiscal year rather than the fifth PHA fiscal year).
(4) PHAs may choose to update their 5-Year Plans every year as good management practice and must update their 5-Year Plans that were submitted for PHA fiscal years beginning before October 1, 2001, to comply with the requirements of this part as amended on December 22, 2000, at the time they submit their next Annual Plan for fiscal years beginning on or after October 1, 2001. PHAs must explain any substantial deviation from their 5-Year Plans in their Annual Plans. (Substantial deviation is determined by the PHA in accordance with criteria provided by the PHA in its Annual Plan in accordance with § 903.7(r).)
(b)
The Annual Plan.
(1) The first PHA fiscal year that is covered by the requirements of this part as amended on December 22, 2000 is the PHA fiscal year that begins October 1, 2001.
(2) For all PHAs, the first Annual Plans are due 75 days before the commencement of their fiscal year.
(3) For all PHAs, after submission of the first Annual Plan, all subsequent Annual Plans will be due no later than 75 days before the commencement of their fiscal year.
[64 FR 56862, Oct. 21, 1999, as amended at 66 FR 8898, Mar. 7, 2001; 68 FR 37671, June 24, 2003]
§ 903.6
What information must a PHA provide in the 5-Year Plan?
(a) A PHA must include in its 5-Year Plan a statement of:
(1) The PHA's mission for serving the needs of low-income, very low-income and extremely low-income families in the PHA's jurisdiction; and
(2) The PHA's goals and objectives that enable the PHA to serve the needs of the families identified in the PHA's Annual Plan. For HUD, the PHA and the public to better measure the success of the PHA in meeting its goals and objectives, the PHA must adopt quantifiable goals and objectives for serving those needs wherever possible.
(3) A statement about goals, activities, objectives, policies, or programs that will enable a PHA to serve the needs of child and adult victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
(b) After submitting its first 5-Year Plan, a PHA in its succeeding 5-Year Plans, must address:
(1) The PHA's mission, goals and objectives for the next 5 years; and
(2) The progress the PHA has made in meeting the goals and objectives described in the PHA's previous 5-Year Plan.
(c) If a PHA intends to select one or more projects for project-based assistance without competition in accordance with § 983.51(c), the PHA must include a statement of this intent in its
5-Year Plan (or an amendment to the 5-Year Plan) in order to notify the public prior to making a noncompetitive selection.
[65 FR 81222, Dec. 22, 2000, as amended at 73 FR 72344, Nov. 28, 2008; 75 FR 66262, Oct. 27, 2010; 89 FR 38292, May 7, 2024]
§ 903.7
What information must a PHA provide in the Annual Plan?
With the exception of the first Annual Plan submitted by a PHA, the Annual Plan must include the information provided in this section. HUD will advise PHAs by separate notice, sufficiently in advance of the first Annual Plan due date, of the information, described in this section that must be part of the first Annual Plan submission, and any additional instructions or directions that may be necessary to prepare and submit the first Annual Plan. The information described in this section applies to public housing, tenant-based assistance, and project-based assistance except where specifically stated otherwise. The information that the PHA must submit for HUD approval under the Annual Plan includes the discretionary policies of the various plan components or elements (for example, rent policies) and not the statutory or regulatory requirements that govern these plan components and that provide no discretion on the part of the PHA in implementation of the requirements. The PHA's Annual Plan must be consistent with the goals and objectives of the PHA's 5-Year Plan.
(a)
A statement of housing needs.
(1) This statement must address the housing needs of the low-income and very low-income families who reside in the jurisdiction served by the PHA, and other families who are on the public housing and Section 8 tenant-based and project-based assistance waiting lists, including:
(i) Families meeting the definition of extremely low-income families in 24 CFR 5.603.
(ii) Elderly families;
(iii) Households with individuals with disabilities and households of various races and ethnic groups residing in the jurisdiction or on the waiting list.
(2) A PHA must make reasonable efforts to identify the housing needs of each of the groups listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section based on information provided by the applicable consolidated plan, information provided by HUD, and other generally available data.
(i) The identification of housing needs must address issues of affordability, supply, quality, accessibility, size of units, and location.
(ii) The statement of housing needs also must describe the ways in which the PHA intends, to the maximum extent practicable, to address those needs and the PHA's reasons for choosing its strategy.
(b)
A statement of the PHA's deconcentration and other policies that govern eligibility, selection, and admissions.
This statement must describe the PHA's policies that govern resident or tenant eligibility, selection and admission. This statement also must describe any PHA admission preferences, and any occupancy policies that pertain to public housing units and housing units assisted under section 8(o) of the 1937 Act, as well as any unit assignment policies for public housing. This statement must include the following information:
(1)
Deconcentration Policy.
The PHA's deconcentration policy applicable to public housing, as described in § 903.2(a).
(2)
Waiting List Procedures.
The PHA's procedures for maintaining waiting lists for admission to the PHA's public housing developments. The statement must address any site-based waiting lists, as authorized by section 6(s) of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437d(s)), for public housing. Section 6(s) of the 1937 Act permits PHAs to establish a system of site-based waiting lists for public housing that is consistent with all applicable civil rights and fair housing laws and regulations. Notwithstanding any other regulations, a PHA may adopt site-based waiting lists where:
(i) The PHA regularly submits required occupancy data to HUD's Multifamily Tenant Characteristics Systems (MTCS) in an accurate, complete and timely manner;
(ii) The system of site-based waiting lists provides for full disclosure to each applicant of any option available to the applicant in the selection of the development in which to reside, including
basic information about available sites (location, occupancy, number and size of accessible units, amenities such as day care, security, transportation and training programs) and an estimate of the period of time the applicant would likely have to wait to be admitted to units of different sizes and types (e.g., regular or accessible) at each site;
(iii) Adoption of site-based waiting lists would not violate any court order or settlement agreement, or be inconsistent with a pending complaint brought by HUD;
(iv) The PHA includes reasonable measures to assure that adoption of site-based waiting lists is consistent with affirmatively furthering fair housing, such as reasonable marketing activities to attract applicants regardless of race or ethnicity;
(v) The PHA provides for review of its site-based waiting list policy to determine if the policy is consistent with civil rights laws and certifications through the following steps:
(A) As part of the submission of the Annual Plan, the PHA shall assess changes in racial, ethnic or disability-related tenant composition at each PHA site that may have occurred during the implementation of the site-based waiting list, based upon MTCS occupancy data that has been confirmed to be complete and accurate by an independent audit (which may be the annual independent audit) or is otherwise satisfactory to HUD;
(B) At least every three years the PHA uses independent testers or other means satisfactory to HUD, to assure that the site-based waiting list is not being implemented in a discriminatory manner, and that no patterns or practices of discrimination exist, and providing the results to HUD;
(C) Taking any steps necessary to remedy the problems surfaced during the review; and
(D) Taking the steps necessary to affirmatively further fair housing.
(3)
Other admissions policies.
The PHA's admission policies that include any other PHA policies that govern eligibility, selection and admissions for the public housing (see part 960 of this title) and tenant-based assistance programs (see part 982, subpart E of this title) and project-based assistance programs (see part 982, subpart E of this title except as provided in § 983.3, and subpart F of 983). (The information requested on site-based waiting lists and deconcentration is applicable only to public housing.)
(c)
A statement of financial resources.
This statement must address the financial resources that are available to the PHA for the support of Federal public housing, tenant-based assistance, and project-based assistance programs administered by the PHA during the plan year. The statement must include a listing, by general categories, of the PHA's anticipated resources, such as PHA operating, capital and other anticipated Federal resources available to the PHA, as well as tenant rents and other income available to support public housing, tenant-based assistance, and project-based assistance. The statement also should include the non-Federal sources of funds supporting each Federal program, and state the planned uses for the resources.
(d)
A statement of the PHA's rent determination policies.
This statement must describe the PHA's basic discretionary policies that govern rents charged for public housing units, applicable flat rents, and the rental contributions of families receiving tenant-based assistance and project-based assistance. For tenant-based assistance and project-based assistance, this statement also shall cover any discretionary minimum tenant rents and payment standard policies.
(e)
A statement of the PHA's operation and management.
(1) This statement must list the PHA's rules, standards, and policies that govern maintenance and management of housing owned, assisted, or operated by the PHA.
(2) The policies listed in this statement must include a description of any measures necessary for the prevention or eradication of pest infestation. Pest infestation includes cockroach infestation.
(3) This statement must include a description of PHA management organization, and a listing of the programs administered by the PHA.
(4) The information requested on a PHA's rules, standards and policies regarding management and maintenance
of housing applies only to public housing. The information requested on PHA program management and listing of administered programs applies to public housing, tenant-based assistance, and project-based assistance.
(f)
A statement of the PHA grievance procedures.
This statement describes the grievance and informal hearing and review procedures that the PHA makes available to its residents and applicants. These procedures include public housing grievance procedures, tenant-based assistance, and project-based assistance informal review procedures for applicants and hearing procedures for participants.
(g)
A statement of capital improvements needed.
With respect to public housing only, this statement describes the capital improvements necessary to ensure long-term physical and social viability of the PHA's public housing developments, including the capital improvements to be undertaken in the year in question and their estimated costs, and any other information required for participation in the Capital Fund. PHAs also are required to include 5-Year Plans covering large capital items.
(h)
A statement of any demolition and/or disposition
—(1)
Plan for Demolition/Disposition.
With respect to public housing only, a description of any public housing development, or portion of a public housing development, owned by the PHA for which the PHA has applied or will apply for demolition and/or disposition approval under section 18 of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437p), and the timetable for demolition and/or disposition. The application and approval process for demolition and/or disposition is a separate process. Approval of the PHA Plan does not constitute approval of these activities.
(2)
Interim Plan for Demolition/Disposition.
(i) Before submission of the first Annual Plan, a PHA may submit an interim PHA Annual Plan solely for demolition/disposition. The interim plan must provide:
(A) The required description of the action to be taken;
(B) A certification of consistency with the Consolidated Plan;
(C) A description of how the plan is consistent with the Consolidated Plan;
(D) A relocation plan that includes the availability of units in the area and adequate funding; and
(E) Confirmation that a public hearing was held on the proposed action and that the resident advisory board was consulted.
(ii) Interim plans for demolition/disposition are subject to PHA Plan procedural requirements in this part (see §§ 903.13, 903.15, 903.17, 903.19, 903.21, 903.23, 903.25), with the following exception. If a resident advisory board has not yet been formed, the PHA may seek a waiver of the requirement to consult with the resident advisory board on the grounds that organizations that adequately represent residents for this purpose were consulted.
(iii) The actual application for demolition or disposition may be submitted at the same time as submission of the interim plan or at a later date.
(i)
A statement of the public housing developments designated as housing for elderly families or families with disabilities or elderly families and families with disabilities.
(1) With respect to public housing only, this statement identifies any public housing developments owned, assisted, or operated by the PHA, or any portion of these developments, that:
(i) The PHA has designated for occupancy by:
(A) Only elderly families;
(B) Only families with disabilities; or
(C) Elderly families and families with disabilities; and
(ii) The PHA will apply for designation for occupancy by:
(A) Only elderly families;
(B) Only families with disabilities; or
(C) Elderly families and families with disabilities as provided by section 7 of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437e).
(2) The designated housing application and approval process is a separate process. Approval of the PHA Plan does not constitute approval of these activities.
(j)
A statement of the conversion of public housing to tenant-based assistance.
(1) This statement describes:
(i) Any building or buildings that the PHA is required to convert to tenant-based assistance under section 33 of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437z-5);
(ii) The status of any building or buildings that the PHA may be required to convert to tenant-based assistance under section 202 of the Fiscal Year 1996 HUD Appropriations Act (42 U.S.C. 14371 note); or
(iii) The PHA's plans to voluntarily convert under section 22 of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437t).
(2) The statement also must include an analysis of the developments or buildings required to be converted under section 33.
(3) For both voluntary and required conversions, the statement must include the amount of assistance received commencing in Federal Fiscal Year 1999 to be used for rental assistance or other housing assistance in connection with such conversion.
(4) The application and approval processes for required or voluntary conversions are separate approval processes. Approval of the PHA Plan does not constitute approval of these activities.
(5) The information required under this paragraph (j) of this section is applicable to public housing and only that tenant-based assistance which is to be included in the conversion plan.
(k)
A statement of homeownership programs administered by the PHA.
(1) This statement describes:
(i) Any homeownership programs administered by the PHA under section 8(y) of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437f(y));
(ii) Any homeownership programs administered by the PHA under an approved section 5(h) homeownership program (42 U.S.C. 1437c(h));
(iii) An approved HOPE I program (42 U.S.C. 1437aaa); or
(iv) Any homeownership programs for which the PHA has applied to administer or will apply to administer under section 5(h), the HOPE I program, or section 32 of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437z-4).
(2) The application and approval process for homeownership under the programs described in paragraph (k) of this section, with the exception of the section 8(y) homeownership program, are separate processes. Approval of the PHA Plan does not constitute approval of these activities.
(l)
A statement of the PHA's community service and self-sufficiency programs.
(1) This statement describes:
(i) Any PHA programs relating to services and amenities coordinated, promoted or provided by the PHA for assisted families, including programs provided or offered as a result of the PHA's partnership with other entities;
(ii) Any PHA programs coordinated, promoted or provided by the PHA for the enhancement of the economic and social self-sufficiency of assisted families, including programs provided or offered as a result of the PHA's partnerships with other entities, and activities under section 3 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1968 and under requirements for the Family Self-Sufficiency Program and others. The description of programs offered shall include the program's size (including required and actual size of the Family Self-Sufficiency program) and means of allocating assistance to households.
(iii) How the PHA will comply with the requirements of section 12(c) and (d) of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437j(c) and (d)). These statutory provisions relate to community service by public housing residents and treatment of income changes in public housing, tenant-based assistance, and project-based assistance recipients resulting from welfare program requirements. PHAs must address any cooperation agreements, as described in section 12(d)(7) of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437j(d)(7)), that the PHA has entered into or plans to enter into.
(2) The information required by paragraph (l) of this section is applicable to public housing, tenant-based assistance, and project-based assistance, except that the information regarding the PHA's compliance with the community service requirement applies only to public housing.
(m)
A statement of the PHA's safety and crime prevention measures.
(1) With respect to public housing only, this statement describes the PHA's plan for safety and crime prevention to ensure the safety of the public housing residents that it serves. The plan for safety and crime prevention must be established in consultation with the police officer or officers in command of the
appropriate precinct or police departments. The plan also must provide, on a development-by-development or jurisdiction wide-basis, the measures necessary to ensure the safety of public housing residents.
(2) The statement regarding the PHA's safety and crime prevention plan must include the following information:
(i) A description of the need for measures to ensure the safety of public housing residents;
(ii) A description of any crime prevention activities conducted or to be conducted by the PHA; and
(iii) A description of the coordination between the PHA and the appropriate police precincts for carrying out crime prevention measures and activities.
(3) If the PHA expects to receive drug elimination program grant funds, the PHA must submit, in addition to the information required by paragraph (m)(1) of this section, the plan required by HUD's Public Housing Drug Elimination Program regulations (see part 761 of this title).
(4) If HUD determines at any time that the security needs of a public housing development are not being adequately addressed by the PHA's plan, or that the local police precinct is not assisting the PHA with compliance with its crime prevention measures as described in the Annual Plan, HUD may mediate between the PHA and the local precinct to resolve any issues of conflict.
(5) A statement of any domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking prevention programs:
(i) A description of any activities, services, or programs provided or offered by an agency, either directly or in partnership with other service providers, to child or adult victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking;
(ii) Any activities, services, or programs provided or offered by a PHA that help child and adult victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking to obtain or maintain housing; and
(iii) Any activities, services, or programs provided or offered by a PHA to prevent domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, or to enhance victim safety in assisted families.
(n)
A statement of the PHA's policies and rules regarding ownership of pets in public housing.
This statement describes the PHA's policies and requirements pertaining to the ownership of pets in public housing. The policies must be in accordance with section 31 of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437a-3).
(o)
Civil rights certification.
(1) The PHA must certify that it will carry out its plan in conformity with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 20000d-2000d-4), the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-19), section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), and title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.
), and other applicable Federal civil rights laws. The PHA must also certify that it will affirmatively further fair housing pursuant to §§ 5.151 and 5.152 of this title.
(2) The certification is applicable to the 5-Year Plan and the Annual Plan.
(p)
Recent results of PHA's fiscal year audit.
This statement provides the results of the most recent fiscal year audit of the PHA conducted under section 5(h)(2) of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437c(h)).
(q)
A statement of asset management.
To the extent not covered by other components of the PHA Annual Plan, this statement describes how the PHA will carry out its asset management functions with respect to the PHA's public housing inventory, including how the PHA will plan for long-term operating, capital investment, rehabilitation, modernization, disposition, and other needs for such inventory.
(r)
A statement of participation in the project-based assistance program.
If a PHA participates in the project-based assistance program, the PHA's Annual Plan must include a statement of the projected number of project-based units, the general location of the project-based units, and how project-basing would be consistent with its Annual Plan.
(s)
Additional information to be provided.
(1) For all Annual Plans following submission of the first Annual Plan, a PHA must include a brief statement of the PHA's progress in meeting
the mission and goals described in the 5-Year Plan;
(2) A PHA must identify the basic criteria the PHA will use for determining:
(i) A substantial deviation from its 5-Year Plan; and
(ii) A significant amendment or modification to its 5-Year Plan and Annual Plan.
(3) A PHA must include such other information as HUD may request of PHAs, either on an individual or across-the-board basis. HUD will advise the PHA or PHAs of this additional information through advance notice.
[65 FR 81222, Dec. 22, 2000, as amended at 73 FR 72344, Nov. 28, 2008; 75 FR 66262, Oct. 27, 2010; 80 FR 42368, July 16, 2015; 81 FR 12372, Mar. 8, 2016; 85 FR 47911, Aug. 7, 2020; 86 FR 30792, June 10, 2021; 89 FR 38292, May 7, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 11025, Mar. 3, 2025, § 903.7 was amended, effective Apr. 2, 2025.
§ 903.9
May HUD request additional information in the Annual Plan of a troubled PHA?
HUD may request that a PHA that is at risk of being designated as troubled or is designated as troubled in accordance with section 6(j)(2) of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437d(j)(2)), the Public Housing Management Assessment Program (part 901 of this title) or the Public Housing Assessment System (part 902 of this chapter) include its operating budget. The PHA also must include or reference any applicable memorandum of agreement with HUD or any plan to improve performance, and such other material as HUD may prescribe.
§ 903.11
Are certain PHAs eligible to submit a streamlined Annual Plan?
(a) Yes, the following PHAs may submit a streamlined Annual Plan, as described in paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) PHAs that are determined to be high performing PHAs as of the last annual or interim assessment of the PHA before the submission of the 5-Year or Annual Plan;
(2) PHAs with less than 250 public housing units (small PHAs) and that have not been designated as troubled in accordance with section 6(j)(2) of the 1937 Act; and
(3) PHAs that only administer tenant-based assistance and/or project-based assistance and do not own or operate public housing.
(b) All streamlined plans must provide information on how the public may reasonably obtain additional information on the PHA policies contained in the standard Annual Plan, but excluded from their streamlined submissions.
(c) A streamlined plan must include the information provided in this paragraph (c). The Secretary may reduce the information requirements of streamlined Plans further, with adequate notice.
(1) For high performing PHAs, the streamlined Annual Plan must include the information required by § 903.7(a), (b), (c), (d), (g), (h), (k), (m), (n), (o), (p), (r), and (s). The information required by § 903.7(m) must be included only to the extent this information is required for PHA's participation in the public housing drug elimination program and the PHA anticipates participating in this program in the upcoming year. The information required by § 903.7(k) must be included only to the extent that the PHA participates in homeownership programs under section 8(y).
(2) For small PHAs that are not designated as troubled (see § 902.67(c)) or that are not at risk of being designated as troubled (see § 902.67(b)(4) of this chapter) under section 6(j)(2) of the 1937 Act, the requirements for streamlined Annual Plans are described in § 903.12.
(3) For PHAs that administer only tenant-based assistance and/or project-based assistance, the streamlined Annual Plan must include the information required by § 903.7(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (k), (l), (o), (p), (r), and (s).
[65 FR 49484, Aug. 14, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 55161, Sept. 12, 2000; 68 FR 37671, June 24, 2003; 89 FR 38292, May 7, 2024]
§ 903.12
What are the streamlined Annual Plan requirements for small PHAs?
(a)
General.
PHAs with less than 250 public housing units (small PHAs) and that have not been designated as troubled (see § 902.67(c) of this chapter) or that are not at risk of being designated as troubled (see § 902.67(b)(4)) under section 6(j) of the 1937 Act may submit
streamlined Annual Plans in accordance with this section.
(b)
Streamlined Annual Plan requirements for fiscal years in which its 5-Year Plan is also due.
For the fiscal year in which its 5-Year Plan is also due, the streamlined Annual Plan of the small PHA shall consist of the information required by § 903.7(a), (b), (c), (d), (g), (h), (k), (o) (r), and (s). The information required by § 903.7(a) must be included only to the extent it pertains to the housing needs of families that are on the PHA's public housing and Section 8 tenant-based assistance and project-based assistance waiting lists. The information required by § 903.7(k) must be included only to the extent that the PHA participates in homeownership programs under Section 8(y) of the 1937 Act. The information required in
§ 903.7(r)
must be included only to the extent that the PHA participates in the project-based assistance program.
(c)
Streamlined Annual Plan requirements for all other fiscal years.
For all other fiscal years, the streamlined Annual Plan must include:
(1) The information required by § 903.7(g) and (o) and, if applicable, § 903.7(b)(2) with respect to site-based waiting lists, § 903.7(k)(1)(i) with respect to homeownership programs under Section 8(y) of the 1937 Act, and § 903.7(r) with respect to participation in the project-based assistance program;
(2) A certification from the PHA that lists the policies and programs covered by § 903.7(a), (b), (c), (d), (h), (k), and (s) that the PHA has revised since submission of its last Annual Plan and provides assurance by the PHA that:
(i) The Resident Advisory Board had an opportunity to review and comment on the changes to the policies and programs before implementation by the PHA;
(ii) The changes were duly approved by the PHA board of directors (or similar governing body); and
(iii) The revised policies and programs are available for review and inspection at the principal office of the PHA during normal business hours.
[68 FR 37671, June 24, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 38292, May 7, 2024]
§ 903.13
What is a Resident Advisory Board and what is its role in development of the Annual Plan?
(a) A Resident Advisory Board refers to a board or boards, as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, whose membership consists of individuals who adequately reflect and represent the residents assisted by the PHA.
(1) The role of the Resident Advisory Board (or Resident Advisory Boards) is to assist and make recommendations regarding the development of the PHA plan, and any significant amendment or modification to the PHA plan.
(2) The PHA shall allocate reasonable resources to assure the effective functioning of Resident Advisory Boards. Reasonable resources for the Resident Advisory Boards must provide reasonable means for them to become informed on programs covered by the PHA Plan, to communicate in writing and by telephone with assisted families and hold meetings with those families, and to access information regarding covered programs on the internet, taking into account the size and resources of the PHA.
(b) Each PHA must establish one or more Resident Advisory Boards, as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) If a jurisdiction-wide resident council exists that complies with the tenant participation regulations in part 964 of this title, the PHA shall appoint the jurisdiction-wide resident council or the council's representatives as the Resident Advisory Board. If the PHA makes such appointment, the members of the jurisdiction-wide resident council or the council's representatives shall be added or another Resident Advisory Board formed to provide for reasonable representation of families receiving tenant-based assistance and/or project-based assistance where such representation is required under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) If a jurisdiction-wide resident council does not exist but resident councils exist that comply with the tenant participation regulations, the PHA shall appoint such resident councils or their representatives to serve on one or more Resident Advisory Boards. If the PHA makes such appointment, the PHA may require that the resident
councils choose a limited number of representatives.
(3) Where the PHA has a tenant-based assistance and/or project-based assistance program of significant size (where tenant-based assistance and/or project-based assistance is 20% or more of assisted households), the PHA shall assure that the Resident Advisory Board (or Boards) has reasonable representation of families receiving tenant-based assistance and/or project-based assistance and that a reasonable process is undertaken to choose this representation.
(4) Where or to the extent that resident councils that comply with the tenant participation regulations do not exist, the PHA shall appoint Resident Advisory Boards or Board members as needed to adequately reflect and represent the interests of residents of such developments; provided that the PHA shall provide reasonable notice to such residents and urge that they form resident councils with the tenant participation regulations.
(c) The PHA must consider the recommendations of the Resident Advisory Board or Boards in preparing the final Annual Plan, and any significant amendment or modification to the Annual Plan, as provided in § 903.21 of this title.
(1) In submitting the final plan to HUD for approval, or any significant amendment or modification to the plan to HUD for approval, the PHA must include a copy of the recommendations made by the Resident Advisory Board or Boards and a description of the manner in which the PHA addressed these recommendations.
(2) Notwithstanding the 75-day limitation on HUD review, in response to a written request from a Resident Advisory Board claiming that the PHA failed to provide adequate notice and opportunity for comment, HUD may make a finding of good cause during the required time period and require the PHA to remedy the failure before final approval of the plan.
[65 FR 81222, Dec. 22, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 38293, May 7, 2024]
§ 903.15
What is the relationship of the public housing agency plans to the Consolidated Plan and a PHA's Fair Housing Requirements?
(a) The PHA must ensure that the Annual Plan is consistent with any applicable Consolidated Plan for the jurisdiction in which the PHA is located.
(1) The PHA must submit a certification by the appropriate State or local officials that the Annual Plan is consistent with the Consolidated Plan and include a description of the manner in which the applicable plan contents are consistent with the Consolidated Plans.
(2) For State agencies that are PHAs, the applicable Consolidated Plan is the State Consolidated Plan.
(b) A PHA may request to change its fiscal year to better coordinate its planning with the planning done under the Consolidated Plan process, by the State or local officials, as applicable.
(c)
Fair housing requirements.
A PHA is obligated to affirmatively further fair housing in its operating policies, procedures, and capital activities. All admission and occupancy policies for public housing and Section 8 tenant-based and project-based housing programs must comply with Fair Housing Act requirements and other civil rights laws and regulations and with a PHA's plans to affirmatively further fair housing. The PHA may not impose any specific income or racial quotas for any development or developments.
(1)
Nondiscrimination.
A PHA must carry out its PHA Plan in conformity with the nondiscrimination requirements in Federal civil rights laws, including title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans with Disabilities Act, and the Fair Housing Act. A PHA may not assign housing to persons in a particular section of a community or to a development or building based on race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin for purposes of segregating populations.
(2)
Affirmatively furthering fair housing.
A PHA's policies should be designed to reduce the concentration of tenants and other assisted persons by race, national origin, and disability. Any affirmative steps or incentives a
PHA plans to take must be stated in the admission policy.
(i) HUD regulations provide that PHAs must take steps to affirmatively further fair housing. PHA policies should include affirmative steps to overcome the effects of discrimination and the effects of conditions that resulted in limiting participation of persons because of their race, national origin, disability, or other protected class.
(ii) Such affirmative steps may include, but are not limited to, marketing efforts, use of nondiscriminatory tenant selection and assignment policies that lead to desegregation, additional applicant consultation and information, provision of additional supportive services and amenities to a development (such as supportive services that enable an individual with a disability to transfer from an institutional setting into the community), and engagement in ongoing coordination with state and local disability agencies to provide additional community-based housing opportunities for individuals with disabilities and to connect such individuals with supportive services to enable an individual with a disability to transfer from an institutional setting into the community.
(3)
Validity of certification.
(i) A PHA's certification under § 903.7(o) will be subject to challenge by HUD where it appears that a PHA:
(A) Fails to meet the affirmatively furthering fair housing requirements at 24 CFR 5.150 through 5.152
(B) Takes action that is materially inconsistent with its obligation to affirmatively further fair housing; or
(C) Fails to meet the fair housing, civil rights, and affirmatively furthering fair housing requirements in 24 CFR 903.7(o).
(ii) If HUD challenges the validity of a PHA's certification, HUD will do so in writing specifying the deficiencies, and will give the PHA an opportunity to respond to the particular challenge in writing. In responding to the specified deficiencies, a PHA must establish, as applicable, that it has complied with fair housing and civil rights laws and regulations, or has remedied violations of fair housing and civil rights laws and regulations, and has adopted policies and undertaken actions to affirmatively further fair housing, including, but not limited to, providing a full range of housing opportunities to applicants and tenants in a nondiscriminatory manner. In responding to the PHA, HUD may accept the PHA's explanation and withdraw the challenge, undertake further investigation, or pursue other remedies available under law. HUD will seek to obtain voluntary corrective action consistent with the specified deficiencies. In determining whether a PHA has complied with its certification, HUD will review the PHA's circumstances relevant to the specified deficiencies, including characteristics of the population served by the PHA; characteristics of the PHA's existing housing stock; and decisions, plans, goals, priorities, strategies, and actions of the PHA, including those designed to affirmatively further fair housing.
[85 FR 47911, Aug. 7, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 30793, June 10, 2021; 89 FR 38293, May 7, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 11025, Mar. 3, 2025, § 903.15 was amended, effective Apr. 2, 2025.
§ 903.17
What is the process for obtaining public comment on the plans?
(a) The PHA's board of directors or similar governing body must conduct a public hearing to discuss the PHA plan (either the 5-Year Plan and/or Annual Plan, as applicable) and invite public comment on the plan(s). The hearing must be conducted at a location that is convenient to the residents served by the PHA.
(b) Not later than 45 days before the public hearing is to take place, the PHA must:
(1) Make the proposed PHA plan(s), the required attachments and documents related to the plans, and all information relevant to the public hearing to be conducted, available for inspection by the public at the principal office of the PHA during normal business hours; and
(2) Publish a notice informing the public that the information is available for review and inspection, and that a public hearing will take place on the plan, and the date, time and location of the hearing.
(c) PHAs shall conduct reasonable outreach activities to encourage broad public participation in the PHA plans.
§ 903.19
When is the 5-Year Plan or Annual Plan ready for submission to HUD?
A PHA may adopt its 5-Year Plan or its Annual Plan and submit the plan to HUD for approval only after:
(a) The PHA has conducted the public hearing;
(b) The PHA has considered all public comments received on the plan;
(c) The PHA has made any changes to the plan, based on comments, after consultation with the Resident Advisory Board or other resident organization.
§ 903.21
May the PHA amend or modify a plan?
(a) A PHA, after submitting its 5-Year Plan or Annual Plan to HUD, may amend or modify any PHA policy, rule, regulation or other aspect of the plan. If the amendment or modification is a significant amendment or modification, as defined in § 903.7(r)(2), the PHA:
(1) May not adopt the amendment or modification until the PHA has duly called a meeting of its board of directors (or similar governing body) and the meeting, at which the amendment or modification is adopted, is open to the public; and
(2) May not implement the amendment or modification, until notification of the amendment or modification is provided to HUD and approved by HUD in accordance with HUD's plan review procedures, as provided in § 903.23.
(b) Each significant amendment or modification to a plan submitted to HUD is subject to the requirements of §§ 903.13, 903.15, and 903.17.
§ 903.23
What is the process by which HUD reviews, approves, or disapproves an Annual Plan?
(a)
Review of the plan.
When the PHA submits its Annual Plan to HUD, including any significant amendment or modification to the plan, HUD reviews the plan to determine whether:
(1) The plan provides all the information that is required to be included in the plan;
(2) The plan is consistent with the information and data available to HUD;
(3) The plan is consistent with any applicable Consolidated Plan for the jurisdiction in which the PHA is located; and
(4) The plan is not prohibited or inconsistent with the 1937 Act or any other applicable Federal law.
(b)
Scope of HUD review.
HUD's review of the Annual Plan (and any significant amendments or modifications to the plan) will be limited to the information required by § 903.7(b), (g), (h), and (o), and any other element of the PHA's Annual Plan that is challenged.
(c)
Disapproval of the plan.
(1) HUD may disapprove a PHA plan, in its entirety or with respect to any part, or disapprove any significant amendment or modification to the plan, only if HUD determines that the plan, or one of its components or elements, or any significant amendment or modification to the plan:
(i) Does not provide all the information that is required to be included in the plan;
(ii) Is not consistent with the information and data available to HUD;
(iii) Is not consistent with any applicable Consolidated Plan for the jurisdiction in which the PHA is located; or
(iv) Is not consistent with applicable Federal laws and regulations.
(2) Not later than 75 days after the date on which the PHA submits its plan or significant amendment or modification to the plan, HUD will issue written notice to the PHA if the plan or a significant amendment or modification has been disapproved. The notice that HUD issues to the PHA must state with specificity the reasons for the disapproval. HUD may not state as a reason for disapproval the lack of time to review the plan.
(3) If HUD fails to issue the notice of disapproval on or before the 75th day after the date on which the PHA submits its plan or significant amendment or modification to the plan, HUD shall be considered to have determined that all elements or components of the plan required to be submitted and that were submitted, and to be reviewed by HUD were in compliance with applicable requirements and the plan has been approved.
(4) The provisions of paragraph (b)(3) of this section do not apply to troubled
PHAs. The plan of a troubled PHA must be approved or disapproved by HUD through written notice.
(d)
Designation of due date as submission date for first plan submissions.
For purposes of the 75-day period described in paragraph (b) of this section, the first 5-year and Annual Plans submitted by a PHA will be considered to have been submitted no earlier than the due date as provided in § 903.5.
(e)
Public availability of the approved plan.
Once a PHA's plan has been approved, a PHA must make the approved plan and the required attachments and documents related to the plan, available for review and inspection, at the principal office of the PHA during normal business hours.
(f)
Recordkeeping.
PHAs must maintain records reflecting actions to affirmatively further fair housing pursuant to §§ 5.151, 5.152, and 903.7(o) of this title.
[65 FR 81222, Dec. 22, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 37671, June 24, 2003; 80 FR 42371, July 16, 2015; 85 FR 47911, Aug. 7, 2020; 86 FR 30793, June 10, 2021]

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 11025, Mar. 3, 2025, § 903.23 was amended, effective Apr. 2, 2025.
§ 903.25
How does HUD ensure PHA compliance with its plan?
A PHA must comply with the rules, standards and policies established in the plans. To ensure that a PHA is in compliance with all policies, rules, and standards adopted in the plan approved by HUD, HUD shall, as it deems appropriate, respond to any complaint concerning PHA noncompliance with its plan. If HUD should determine that a PHA is not in compliance with its plan, HUD will take whatever action it deems necessary and appropriate.
Pt. 904

# PART 904—LOW RENT HOUSING HOMEOWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITIES
Subpart A—Introduction to Low-Rent Housing Homeownership Opportunity Program [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Turnkey III Program Description
Sec.
904.101
Introduction.
904.102
Definitions.
904.103
Development.
904.104
Eligibility and selection of homebuyers.
904.105
Counseling of homebuyers.
904.106
Homebuyers Association (HBA).
904.107
Responsibilities of homebuyer.
904.108
Break-even amount.
904.109
Monthly operating expense.
904.110
Earned Home Payments Account. (EHPA)
904.111
Nonroutine Maintenance Reserve (NRMR).
904.112
Operating reserve.
904.113
Achievement of ownership by initial homebuyer.
904.114
Payment upon resale at profit.
904.115
Achievement of ownership by subsequent homebuyers.
904.116
Transfer of title to homebuyer.
904.117
Responsibilities of homebuyer after acquisition of ownership.
904.118
Homeowners association-planned unit development (PUD).
904.119
Homeowners association-condominium.
904.120
Relationship of homeowners association to HBA.
904.121
Use of appendices.
904.122
Statutory preferences.
Appendix I to Subpart B of Part 904—Annual Contributions Contract
Appendix II to Subpart B of Part 904—Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement (Turnkey III)
Appendix III to Subpart B of Part 904—Certification of Homebuyer Status
Appendix IV to Subpart B of Part 904—Promissory Note for Payment Upon Resale by Homebuyer at Profit

# Subpart C—Homeownership Counseling and Training
904.201
Purpose.
904.202
Objectives.
904.203
Planning.
904.204
General requirements and information.
904.205
Training methodology.
904.206
Funding.
904.207
Use of appendix.
Appendix I to Subpart C of Part 904—Content Guide for Counseling and Training Program

# Subpart D—Homebuyers Association (HBA)
904.301
Purpose.
904.302
Membership.
904.303
Organizing the HBA.
904.304
Functions of the HBA.
904.305
Funding of HBA.
904.306
Performing management services.
904.307
Alternative to HBA.
904.308
Relationship with homeowners association.
904.309
Use of appendices.
Appendix I to Subpart D of Part 904—Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws of Homebuyers Association
Appendix II to Subpart D of Part 904—Recognition Agreement Between Local Housing Authority and Homebuyers Association

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1437-1437ee and 3535(d).

# Source:
39 FR 10966, Mar. 22, 1974, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 40 FR 15580, Apr. 7, 1975, and further redesignated at 49 FR 6714, Feb. 23, 1984.
Subpart A—Introduction to Low-Rent Housing Homeownership Opportunity Program [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Turnkey III Program Description
§ 904.101
Introduction.
(a)
Purpose.
This subpart sets forth the essential elements of the HUD Homeownership Opportunities Program for Low-Income Families (Turnkey III).
(b)
Applicability.
This subpart is applicable to Turnkey III developments operated by LHA. For Turnkey III developments operated by an Indian Housing Authority, applicable provisions are found at 24 CFR part 905, subpart G.
(1) With respect to any development to be operated as Turnkey III, the Annual Contributions Contract (ACC) shall contain the “Special Provisions for Turnkey III Homeownership Opportunity Project” as set forth in Appendix I. A Turnkey III development may include only units which are to be operated as such under Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreements. If for any reason it is determined that certain units should be operated as conventional rental units, such units must comprise or be made part of a conventional rental project.
(2) With respect to Turnkey III developments pursuant to an executed ACC where no Agreements with Homebuyers have been signed, the ACC shall be amended (i) to include the “Special Provisions” set forth in Appendix I, (ii) to extend its term to 30 years, and (iii) to reduce its Maximum Contribution Percentage to a rate that will amortize the debt in 30 years at the minimum Loan Interest Rate specified in the ACC for the specific Turnkey III project involved. Further development and operation shall be in accordance with this subpart including use of the form of Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement set forth in Appendix II.
(3) With respect to developments where Agreements with homebuyers have been signed, the following steps shall be taken:
(i) The ACC shall be amended to include the Special Provisions” set forth in Appendix I; further development and operation of the Project shall be in accordance with this subpart.
(ii) The LHA shall offer all qualified homebuyers in the development a new Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement as set forth in Appendix II with an amendment to section 16a to refer to “the latest approved Development Cost Budget, or Actual Development Cost Certificate if issued,” in lieu of “the Development Cost Budget in effect upon award of the Main Construction Contract or execution of the Contract of Sale,” and, if the ACC for the Project has a term of 25 years, an amendment to section 16(b) to refer to a term of 25 years, instead of 30, for the Purchase Price Schedule. Each Purchase Price Schedule shall commence with the first day of the month following the effective date of the initial Agreement. No other modification in the new Agreement may be made. In the event the homebuyer refuses to accept the new Agreement, no modifications may be made in the old Agreement and the matter shall be referred to HUD.
(4) With respect to Projects which were under ACC on the effective date of this subpart, the Total Development Cost Budget shall be revised, if financially feasible, to include the cost of the appraisals which are necessary for computation of the initial purchase prices pursuant to § 904.113. In the event this is not financially feasible, the matter shall be referred to HUD, which may, if necessary, authorize a different method for computation of such initial purchase prices on an equitable basis.
(5) With respect to all developments which were completed by the effective
date of this subpart, the appraisals which are necessary for computation of the initial purchase prices pursuant to § 904.113 shall be made as of the date of completion of the development.
[39 FR 10966, Mar. 22, 1974. Redesignated at 40 FR 15580, Apr. 7, 1975, and 49 FR 6714, Feb. 23, 1984, and amended at 56 FR 922, Jan. 9, 1991]
§ 904.102
Definitions.
(a) The term
common property
means the nondwelling structures and equipment, common areas, community facilities, and in some cases certain component parts of dwelling structures, which are contained in the development:
Provided, however,
That in the case of a development that is organized as a condominium or a planned unit development (PUD), the term
common property
shall have the meaning established by the condominium or PUD documents and the State law pursuant to which the condominium or PUD is organized, under the terms
common areas, common facilities, common elements, common estate,
or other similar terms.
(b) The term
development
means the entire undertaking including all real and personal property, funds and reserves, rights, interests and obligations, and activities related thereto.
(c) The term
EHPA
means the Earned Home Payments Account established and maintained pursuant to § 904.110.
(d) The term
homebuyer
means the member or members of a low-income family who have executed a Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement with the LHA.
(e) The term
homebuyers association
(HBA) means an organization as defined in § 904.106.
(f) The term
homeowner
means a homebuyer who has acquired title to his home.
(g) The term
homeowners association
means an association comprised of homeowners, including condominium associations, having responsibilities with respect to common property.
(h) The term
LHA
means the local housing authority which acquires or develops a low-rent housing development with financial assistance from HUD, owns the homes until title is transferred to the homebuyers, and is responsible for the management of the homeownership opportunity program.
(i) The term
NRMR
means the Nonroutine Maintenance Reserve established and maintained pursuant to § 904.111.
(j) The term
Project
is used to refer to the development in relation to matters specifically related to the Annual Contributions Contract.
[39 FR 10966, Mar. 22, 1974, as amended at 61 FR 5214, Feb. 9, 1996]
§ 904.103
Development.
(a)
Financial framework.
The LHA shall finance development or acquisition by sale of its notes (bond financing shall not be used) in the amount of the Minimum Development Cost. Payment of the debt service on the notes is assured by the HUD commitment to provide annual contributions.
(b)
Maximum total development cost.
The maximum total development cost stated in the ACC is the maximum amount authorized for development of a project and shall not exceed the amount approved in accordance with § 941.406(a) of this chapter.
(c)
Contractual framework.
There are three basic contracts:
(1) An Annual Contributions Contract containing “Special Provisions For Turnkey III Homeownership Opportunity Project,” Form HUD-53010C (see Appendix I);
(2) A Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement (see Appendix II) which sets forth the respective rights and obligations of the low-income occupants and the LHA, including conditions for achieving homeownership; and
(3) A Recognition Agreement (see Appendix II of Subpart D of this part) between the LHA and the HBA under which the LHA agrees to recognize the HBA as the established representative of the homebuyers.
(d)
Community Participation Committee
(
CPC
). In the necessary development of citizens' participation in and understanding of the Turnkey III program, the LHA should consider formation and use of a CPC to assist the community and the LHA in the development and support of the Turnkey III program. The CPC shall be a voluntary group comprised of representatives of the
low-income population primarily and may also include representatives of community service organizations.
[39 FR 10966, Mar. 22, 1974. Redesignated at 40 FR 15580, Apr. 7, 1975, and amended at 47 FR 39482, Sept. 8, 1982. Redesignated at 49 FR 6714, Feb. 23, 1984, and amended at 53 FR 41598, Oct. 24, 1988]
§ 904.104
Eligibility and selection of homebuyers.
(a)
Announcement of availability of housing; fair housing marketing.
(1) The availability of housing under Turnkey III shall be announced to the community at large. Families on the waiting list for LHA conventional rental housing who wish to be considered for Turnkey III must apply specifically for that program (see paragraph (d) of this section).
(2) The LHA shall submit to HUD an Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan and shall otherwise comply with the provisions of the Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Regulations, 24 CFR part 200, subpart M, as if the LHA were an applicant for participation in an FHA housing program. This Plan shall be submitted with the development program, and no development program may be approved without prior approval of the Plan pursuant to HUD procedures under said Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Regulations. If the development program has been approved, but the Annual Contributions Contract has not been executed, prior to the effective date of this subpart, an Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan must be approved prior to execution of said contract.
(b)
Eligibility and standards for admission.
(1) Homebuyers shall be lower income families that are determined to be eligible for admission in accordance with the provisions of 24 CFR parts 5 and 913, which prescribe income definitions, income limits, and restrictions concerning citizenship or eligible immigration status. The HUD-approved standards for admission to low-rent housing, including the LHA's established priorities and preferences and the requirements for administration of low-rent housing under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Pub. L. 88-352, 78 Stat. 241, 42 U.S.C. 2000d), shall be applicable except that the procedures used for homebuyer selection under Turnkey III shall be those set forth in this section. In carrying out these procedures the aim shall be to provide for equal housing opportunity in such a way as to prevent segregation or other discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color or national origin in accordance with the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Pub. L. 88-352, 78 Stat. 241, 42 U.S.C. 2000d) and 1968 (Pub. L. 90-284, 82 Stat. 73, 42 U.S.C. 3601).
(2) An LHA may establish income limits for Turnkey III which are different from those for its conventional rental program:
Provided
That those limits are in accord with all applicable statutory and administrative requirements and are approved by HUD.
(c)
Determination of eligibility and preparation of list.
The LHA, without participation of a recommending committee (see paragraph (e)(1) of this section), must determine the eligibility of each applicant family in respect to the income limits for the development (including the requirement that the applicant family disclose and verify Social Security Numbers, as provided by 24 CFR part 750, and sign and submit consent forms for the obtaining of wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies, as provided by 24 CFR part 760), and must then assign each eligible applicant its appropriate place on a waiting list for the development, in sequence based upon the date of the application, suitable type or size of unit, qualification for a Federal preference in accordance with § 904.122, and factors affecting preference or priority established by the LHA's regulations. Notwithstanding the fact that the LHA may not be accepting additional applications because of the length of the waiting list, the LHA may not refuse to place an applicant on the waiting list if the applicant is otherwise eligible for participation and claims that he or she qualifies for a Federal preference as provided in § 904.122(c)(2), unless the LHA determines, on the basis of the number of applicants who are already on the waiting list and who claim a Federal preference, and the anticipated number of admissions to housing under Turnkey III, that—
(1) There is an adequate pool of applicants who are likely to qualify for a Federal preference, and
(2) It is unlikely that, on the basis of the LHA's system for applying the Federal preferences, the preference or preferences that the applicant claims, and the preferences claimed by applicants on the waiting list, the applicant would qualify for admission before other applicants on the waiting list.
(d)
List of applicants.
A separate list of applicants for Turnkey III shall be maintained, consisting of families who specifically apply and are eligible for admission to such housing.
(1)
Dating of applications.
All applications for Turnkey III shall be dated as received.
(2)
Effect on applicant status.
The filing of an application for Turnkey III by a family which is an applicant for LHA conventional rental housing or is an occupant of such housing shall in no way affect its status with regard to such rental housing. Such an applicant shall not lose his place on the rental housing waiting list until his application is accepted for Turnkey III and shall not receive any different treatment or consideration with respect to conventional rental housing because of having applied for Turnkey III.
(e)
Determination of potential for homeownership
—(1)
Recommending committee.
The LHA should consider use of a recommending committee to assist in the establishment of objective criteria for the determination of potential for homeownership and in the selection of homebuyers from the families determined to have such potential. If a recommending committee is used, it should be composed of representatives of the CPC (if any), the LHA and the HBA. The LHA shall submit to the committee prompt written justification of any rejection of a committee recommendation, stating grounds, the reasonableness of which shall be in accord with applicable LHA and HUD regulations. Each member of such a committee, at the time of appointment, shall be required to furnish the LHA with a signed statement that the member will (i) follow selection procedures and policies that do not automatically deny admission to a particular class, that insure selection on a nondiscriminatory and nonsegregated basis, and that facilitate achievement of the anticipated results for occupancy stated in the approved Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan, and (ii) maintain strict confidentiality by not divulging any information concerning applicants or the deliberations of the committee to any person except to the LHA as necessary for purposes of the official business of the committee.
(2)
Potential for homeownership.
In order to be considered for selection, a family must be determined to meet at least all of the following standards of potential for homeownership:
(i) Income sufficient to result in a required monthly payment which is not less than the sum of the amounts necessary to pay the EHPA, the NRMR, and the estimated average monthly cost of utilities attributable to the home;
(ii) Ability to meet all the obligations of a homebuyer under the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement;
(iii) At least one member gainfully employed, or having an established source of continuing income.
(f)
Selection of homebuyers.
Homebuyers shall be selected from those families determined to have potential for homeownership. Such selection shall be made in sequence from the waiting list established in accordance with this section, provided that the following shall be assured:
(1) Selection procedures that do not automatically deny admission to a particular class; that ensure selection on a nondiscriminatory and nonsegregated basis; that give a Federal preference in accordance with § 904.122; and that facilitate achievement of the anticipated results for occupancy stated in the approved Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan.
(2) Achievement of an average monthly payment for the Project, including consideration of the availability of the Special Family Subsidy, which is at least 10 percent more than the breakeven amount for the Project (see § 904.108). This standard shall be complied with both in the initial selection of homebuyers and in the subsequent filling of vacancies at all times during the life of the Project. If there
is an applicant who has potential for homeownership but whose required monthly payment under the LHA's Rent Schedule would be less than the break-even amount for the suitable size and type of unit, such applicant may be selected as a homebuyer, provided that the incomes of all selected homebuyers shall result in the required average monthly payment of at least 10 percent more than the break-even amount for the Project. Such an average monthly payment for the Project may be achieved by selecting other low-income families who can afford to make required monthly payments substantially above the break-even amounts for their suitable sizes and types of units.
(g)
Notification to applicants.
(1) Once a sufficient number of applicants have been selected to assure that the provisions of paragraph (f)(2) of this section are met, the selected applicant shall be notified of the approximate date of occupancy insofar as such date can reasonably be determined.
(2) Applicants who are not selected for a specific Turnkey III development shall be notified in accordance with HUD-approved procedure. The notice shall state:
(i) The reason for the applicant's rejection (including a nonrecommendation by the recommending committee unless the applicant has previously been so notified by the committee);
(ii) That the applicant will be given an information hearing on such determination, regardless of the reason for the rejection, if the applicant makes a request for such a hearing within a reasonable time (to be specified in the notice) from the date of the notice; and
(iii) For denial of assistance for failure to establish citizenship or eligible immigration status, the applicant may request, in addition to the informal hearing, an appeal to the INS, in accordance with 24 CFR part 5.
(h)
Eligibility for continued occupancy.
(1) A homebuyer shall cease to be eligible for continued occupancy with the aid of HUD annual contributions when the LHA determines that the homebuyer's adjusted monthly income has reached, and is likely to continue at, a level at which the current amount of the homebuyer's Total Tenant Payment, determined in accordance with part 913 of this chapter, equals or exceeds the monthly housing cost (see paragraph (h)(2) of this section). In such event, if the LHA determines, with HUD approval, that suitable financing is available, the LHA shall notify the homebuyer that he or she must either: (1) Purchase the home or (ii) move from the development. If, however, the LHA determines that, because of special circumstances, the family is unable to find decent, safe, and sanitary housing within the family's financial reach although making every reasonable effort to do so, the family may be permitted to remain for the duration of such a situation if it pays as rent an amount equal to Tenant Rent, as determined in accordance with part 913 of this chapter. Such a monthly payment shall also be payable by the family if it continues in occupancy without purchasing the home because suitable financing is not available.
(2) The term “monthly housing cost,” as used in this paragraph, means the sum of:
(i) The monthly debt service amount shown on the Purchase Price Schedule (except where the homebuyer can purchase the home by the method described in § 904.113(c)(1) of this part);
(ii) One-twelfth of the annual real property taxes which the homebuyer will be required to pay as a homeowner;
(iii) One-twelfth of the annual premium attributable to fire and extended coverage insurance carried by the LHA with respect to the home;
(iv) The current monthly per unit amount budgeted for routine maintenance (EHPA), and for routine maintenance-common property; and
(v) The current LHA and HUD approved monthly allowance for utilities paid for directly by the homebuyer plus the monthly cost of utilities supplied by the LHA.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0083)
[39 FR 10966, Mar. 22, 1974. Redesignated at 40 FR 15580, Apr. 7, 1975, and at 49 FR 6714, Feb. 23, 1984, as amended at 49 FR 21490, May 21, 1984; 53 FR 1172, Jan. 15, 1988; 53 FR 6601, Mar. 2, 1988; 54 FR 39710, Sept. 27, 1989; 56 FR 7544, Feb. 22, 1991; 60 FR 14848, Mar. 20, 1995; 61 FR 13626, Mar. 27, 1996]
§ 904.105
Counseling of homebuyers.
The LHA shall provide counseling and training as provided in subpart C of this part, with funding as provided in § 904.206 of this part. Applicants for admission shall be advised of the nature of the counseling and training program available to them and the application for admission shall include a statement that the family agrees to participate and cooperate fully in all official pre-occupancy and post-occupancy training and counseling activities. Failure to participate as agreed may result in the family not being selected or retained as a homebuyer.
§ 904.106
Homebuyers Association (HBA).
An HBA is an incorporated organization composed of all the families who are entitled to occupancy pursuant to a Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement or who are homeowners. It is formed and organized for the purposes set forth in § 904.304 of this part. The HBA shall be funded as provided in § 904.305 of this part. In the absence of a duly organized HBA, the LHA shall be free to act without the HBA action required by this subpart.
§ 904.107
Responsibilities of homebuyer.
(a)
Repair, maintenance and use of home.
The homebuyer shall be responsible for the routine maintenance of the home to the satisfaction of the HBA and the LHA. This routine maintenance includes the work (labor and materials) of keeping the dwelling structure, grounds and equipment in good repair, condition and appearance so that they may be utilized continually at their designed capacities and at the satisfactory level of efficiency for their intended purposes, and in conformity with the requirements of local housing code and applicable regulations and guidelines of HUD. It includes repairs (labor and materials) to the dwelling structure, plumbing fixtures, dwelling equipment (such as range and refrigerator), shades and screens, water heater, heating equipment and other component parts of the dwelling. It also includes all interior painting and the maintenance of grounds (lot) on which the dwelling is located. It does not include maintenance and replacements provided for by the NRMR described in § 904.111.
(b)
Repair of damage.
In addition to the obligation for routine maintenance, the homebuyer shall be responsible for repair of any damage caused by him, members of his family, or visitors.
(c)
Care of home.
A homebuyer shall keep the home in a sanitary condition; cooperate with the LHA and the HBA in keeping and maintaining the common areas and property, including fixtures and equipment, in good condition and appearance; and follow all rules of the LHA and of the HBA concerning the use and care of the dwellings and the common areas and property.
(d)
Inspections.
A homebuyer shall agree to permit officials, employees, or agents of the LHA and of the HBA to inspect the home at reasonable hours and intervals in accordance with rules established by the LHA and the HBA.
(e)
Use of home.
A homebuyer shall not (1) sublet the home without the prior written approval of the LHA and HUD, (2) use or occupy the home for any unlawful purpose nor for any purpose deemed hazardous by insurance companies on account of fire or other risks, or (3) provide accommodations (unless approved by the HBA and the LHA) to boarders or lodgers. The homebuyer shall agree to use the home only as a place to live for the family (as identified in the initial application or by subsequent amendment with the approval of the LHA), for children thereafter born to or adopted by members of such family, and for aged or widowed parents of the homebuyer or spouse who may join the household.
(f)
Obligations with respect to other persons and property.
Neither the homebuyer nor any member of his family shall interfere with rights of other occupants of the development, or damage the common property or the property of others, or create physical hazards.
(g)
Structural changes.
A homebuyer shall not make any structural changes in or additions to the home unless the LHA has first determined in writing that such change would not (1) impair the value of the unit, the surrounding units, or the development as a whole,
or (2) affect the use of the home for residential purposes, or (3) violate HUD requirements as to construction and design.
(h)
Statements of condition and repair.
When each homebuyer moves in, the LHA shall inspect the home and shall give the homebuyer a written statement, to be signed by the LHA and the homebuyer, of the condition of the home and the equipment in it. Should the homebuyer vacate the home, the LHA shall inspect it and give the homebuyer a written statement of the repairs and other work, if any, required to put the home in good condition for the next occupant (see § 904.110(j)(1)). The homebuyer, his representative, and a representative of the HBA may join in any such inspections by the LHA.
(i)
Maintenance of common property.
The homebuyer may participate in nonroutine maintenance of his home and in maintenance of common property as discussed in § 904.110(d) and § 904.111(c).
(j)
Homebuyer's required monthly payment.
(1) The term “required monthly payment” as used herein means the monthly payment the homebuyer is required to pay the LHA on or before the first day of each month. The homebuyer's required monthly payment, which is based upon family income, shall be an amount equal to the Tenant Rent as determined in accordance with part 913 of this chapter. If the Utility Allowance, as defined in part 913 of this chapter, exceeds the Homebuyer's Total Tenant Payment, as determined in accordance with part 913, the LHA will pay a utility reimbursement equal to that excess to the Homebuyer, or as provided in § 913.108 of this chapter.
(2) For purposes of determining eligibility of an applicant (see 24 CFR parts 5 and 913, as well as this part) and the amount of Homebuyer payments under paragraph (j)(1) of this section, the LHA shall examine the family's income and composition and follow the procedures required by 24 CFR part 5 for determining citizenship or eligible immigration status before initial occupancy. Thereafter, for the purposes stated in this paragraph and to determine whether a Homebuyer is required to purchase the home under § 904.104(h)(1), the LHA shall reexamine the Homebuyer's income and composition regularly, at least once every 12 months, and shall undertake such further determination and verification of citizenship or eligible immigration status as required by 24 CFR part 5. The Homebuyer shall comply with the LHA's policy regarding required interim reporting of changes in the family's income and composition. If the LHA receives information from the family or other source concerning a change in the family income or other circumstances between regularly scheduled reexaminations, the LHA, upon consultation with the family and verification of the information (in accordance with 24 CFR parts 5 and 913 of this chapter) shall promptly make any adjustments determined to be appropriate in the Homebuyer payment amount or take appropriate action concerning the addition of a family member who is not a citizen with eligible immigration status. Any change in the family's income or other circumstances that results in an adjustment in the Total Tenant Payment and Tenant Rent must be verified.
(3) The LHA shall not refuse to accept monthly payments because of any other charges (other than overdue monthly payments) owed by the homebuyer to the LHA; however, by accepting monthly payments under such circumstances the LHA shall not be deemed to have waived any of its rights and remedies with respect to such other charges.
(k)
Application of monthly payment.
The LHA shall apply the homebuyer's monthly payment as follows:
(1) To the credit of the homebuyer's EHPA (see § 904.110);
(2) To the credit of the homebuyer's NRMR (see § 904.111); and
(3) For payment of monthly operating expense including contribution to operating reserve (see § 904.109).
(l)
Assignment and survivorship.
Until such time as the homebuyer obtains title to the home, it shall be used only to house a family of low income. Therefore:
(1) A homebuyer shall not assign any right or interest in the home or under the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement without the prior written approval of the LHA and HUD;
(2) In the event of death, mental incapacity or abandonment of the family by the homebuyer, the person designated as the successor in the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement shall succeed to the rights and responsibilities under the Agreement if that person is an occupant of the home at the time of the event and is determined by the LHA to meet all of the standards of potential for homeownership as set forth in § 904.104(e)(2). Such person shall be designated by the homebuyer at the time the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement is executed. This designation may be changed by the homebuyer at any time. If there is no such designation or the designee is no longer an occupant of the home or does not meet the standards of potential for homeownership, the LHA may consider as the homebuyer any family member who was an occupant at the time of the event and who meets the standards of potential for homeownership.
(3) If there is no qualified successor in accordance with paragraph (l) (2) of this section, the LHA shall terminate the Agreement and another family shall be selected except under the following circumstances: where a minor child or children of the homebuyer family are in occupancy, then in order to protect their continued occupancy and opportunity for acquisition of ownership of the home, the LHA may approve as occupants of the unit, an appropriate adult(s) who has been appointed legal guardian of the children with a duty to perform the obligations of the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement in their interest and behalf.
(m)
Termination by LHA.
(1) In the event the homebuyer breaches the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement by failure to make the required monthly payment within ten days after its due date, by misrepresenting or withholding of information in applying for admission or in connection with any subsequent reexamination of income and family composition (including the failure to submit any required evidence of citizenship or eligible immigration status, as provided by 24 CFR part 5; the failure to meet the disclosure and verification requirements for Social Security Numbers, as provided by 24 CFR part 5; or the failure to sign and submit consent forms for the obtaining of wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies, as provided by 24 CFR part 5), or by failure to comply with any of the other homebuyer obligations under the Agreement, the LHA may terminate the Agreement. No termination under this paragraph may occur less than 30 days after the LHA gives the homebuyer notice of its intention to do so, in accordance with paragraph (m)(3) of this section. For termination of assistance for failure to establish citizenship or eligible immigration status under 24 CFR part 5, the requirements of 24 CFR parts 5 and 966 shall apply.
(2) Notice of termination by the LHA shall be in writing. Such notice shall state
(i) The reason for termination,
(ii) That the homebuyer may respond to the LHA, in writing or in person, within a specified reasonable period of time regarding the reason for termination,
(iii) That in such response he may be represented or accompanied by a person of his choice, including a representative of the HBA,
(iv) That the LHA will consult the HBA concerning this termination, and
(v) That unless the LHA rescinds or modifies the notice, the termination shall be effective at the end of the 30-day notice period.
(n)
Termination by the homebuyer.
The homebuyer may terminate the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement by giving the LHA 30 days notice in writing of this intention to terminate and vacate the home. In the event that the homebuyer vacates the home without notice to the LHA, the Agreement shall be terminated automatically and the LHA may dispose of, in any manner deemed suitable by it, any items of personal property left by the homebuyer in the home.
(o)
Transfer to rental unit.
(1) Inasmuch as the homebuyer was found eligible for admission to the Project on the basis of having the necessary elements of potential for homeownership, continuation of eligibility requires continuation of this potential, subject
only to temporary unforeseen changes in circumstances. Accordingly, in the event it should develop that the homebuyer no longer meets one or more of these elements of homeownership potential, the LHA shall investigate the circumstances and provide such counseling and assistance as may be feasible in order to help the family overcome the deficiency as promptly as possible. After a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days from the date of evaluation of the results of the investigation, the LHA shall make a re-evaluation as to whether the family has regained the potential for homeownership or is likely to do so within a further reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days from the date of the reevaluation. Further extension of time may be granted in exceptional cases, but in any event, a final determination shall be made no later than 90 days from the date of evaluation of the results of the initial investigation. The LHA shall invite the HBA to participate in all investigations and evaluations.
(2) If the final determination of the LHA, after considering the views of the HBA, is that the homebuyer should be transferred to a suitable dwelling unit in an LHA rental project, the LHA shall give the homebuyer written notice of the LHA determination of the loss of homeownership potential and of the offer of transfer to a rental unit. The notice shall state that the transfer shall occur as soon as a suitable rental unit is available for occupancy, but no earlier than 30 days from the date of the notice, provided that an eligible successor for the homebuyer unit has been selected by the LHA. The notice shall also state that if the homebuyer should refuse to move under such circumstances, the family may be required to vacate the homebuyer unit, without further notice. The notice shall include a statement (i) that the homebuyer may respond to the LHA in writing or in person, within a specified reasonable time, regarding the reason for the determination and offer of transfer, (ii) that in such response he may be represented or accompanied by a person of his choice including a representative of the HBA, and (iii) that the LHA has consulted the HBA concerning this determination and offer of transfer.
(3) When a Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement is terminated pursuant to this paragraph (o), the amount in the homebuyer's EHPA shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of § 904.110(j).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0083)
[39 FR 10966, Mar. 22, 1974. Redesignated at 40 FR 15580, Apr. 7, 1975, and at 49 FR 6714, Feb. 23, 1984, as amended at 49 FR 21490, May 21, 1984; 49 FR 26719, June 29, 1984; 54 FR 39710, Sept. 27, 1989; 56 FR 7544, Feb. 22, 1991; 60 FR 14848, Mar. 20, 1995; 60 FR 13626, Mar. 27, 1996]
§ 904.108
Break-even amount.
(a)
Definition.
The term “break-even amount” as used herein means the minimum average monthly amount required to provide funds for the items listed in the illustration below. A separate break-even amount shall be established for each size and type of dwelling unit, as well as for the Project as a whole. The break-even amount for EHPA and NRMR will vary by size and type of dwelling unit; similar variations as to other line items may be made if the LHA deems this equitable.

# Illustration.
The following is an illustration of the computation of the break-even amount based upon hypothetical amounts.
(1) Operating Expense (see § 904.109):
Administration
$8.50
Homebuyer services
2.00
Project supplied utilities
3.00
Routine maintenance—common property
3.00
Protective services
2.00
General expense
6.50
Nonroutine maintenance—common property (Contribution to operating reserve)
2.00
$27.00
(2) Earned Home Payments Account (see § 904.110)
12.00
(3) Nonroutine Maintenance Reserve (see § 904.111)
7.50
Break-Even Amount
46.50
The break-even amount does not include the monthly allowance for utilities which the homebuyer pays for directly, nor does it include any amount for debt service on the Project notes.
(b)
Excess over break-even.
When the homebuyer's required monthly payment (see § 904.107(j)) exceeds the applicable break-even amount, the excess shall constitute additional Project income and shall be deposited and used in
the same manner as other Project income.
(c)
Deficit in monthly payment.
When the homebuyer's required monthly payment is less than the applicable break-even amount, the deficit shall be applied as a reduction of that portion of the monthly payment designated for operating expense (i. e., as a reduction of Project income). In all such cases, the EHPA and the NRMR shall be credited with the amount included in the break-even amount for these accounts.
§ 904.109
Monthly operating expense.
(a)
Definition and categories of monthly operating expense.
The term “monthly operating expense” means the monthly amount needed for the following purposes:
(1)
Administration.
Administrative salaries, travel, legal expenses, office supplies, postage, telephone and telegraph, etc.;
(2)
Homebuyer services.
LHA expenses in the achievement of social goals, including costs such as salaries, publications, payments to the HBA to assist its operation, contract and other costs;
(3)
Utilities.
Those utilities (such as water), if any, to be furnished by the LHA as part of operating expense;
(4)
Routine maintenance—common property.
For community building, grounds, and other common areas, if any. The amount required for routine maintenance of common property depends upon the type of common property included in the development and the extent of the LHA's responsibility for maintenance (see also § 904.109(c));
(5)
Protective services.
The cost of supplemental protective services paid by the LHA for the protection of persons and property;
(6)
General expense.
Premiums for fire and other insurance, payments in lieu of taxes to the local taxing body, collection losses, payroll taxes, etc.;
(7)
Nonroutine maintenance—common property (Contribution to operating reserve).
Extraordinary maintenance of equipment applicable to the community building and grounds, and unanticipated items for non-dwelling structures (see § 904.112).
(b)
Monthly operating expense rate.
The monthly operating expense rate for each fiscal year shall be established on the basis of the LHA's HUD-approved operating budget for that fiscal year. The operating budget may be revised during the course of the fiscal year in accordance with HUD requirements. If it is subsequently determined that the actual operating expense for a fiscal year was more or less than the amount provided by the monthly operating expense established for that fiscal year, the rate of monthly operating expenses to be established for the next fiscal year may be adjusted to account for the difference (see § 904.112(b)). Such adjustment may result in a change in the required monthly payment, see § 904.107(j)(3).
(c)
Provision for common property maintenance.
During the period the LHA is responsible for the maintenance of common property, the annual operating budget and the monthly operating expense rate shall include the amount required for routine maintenance of all common property in the development, even though a number of the homes may have been acquired by homebuyers. During such period, this amount shall be computed on the basis of the total number of homes in the development (i. e., the annual amount budgeted for routine maintenance of common property shall be divided by the number of homes in the development, resulting in the annual amount for each home; this figure shall in turn be divided by 12 to determine the monthly amount to be included in the monthly operating expense (and in the break-even amount) for routine maintenance of common property). After the home owners association assumes responsibility for maintenance of common property, the monthly operating expense (and break-even amount) shall include an amount equal to the monthly assessment by the homeowners association for the remaining homes owned by the LHA (see § 904.112(b) for nonroutine maintenance of common property).
(d)
Posting of monthly operating expense statement.
A statement showing the budgeted monthly amount allocated in the current operating budget to each operating expense category shall be provided to the HBA and copies shall be provided to homebuyers upon request.
§ 904.110
Earned Home Payments Account (EHPA)
(a)
Credits to the account.
The LHA shall establish and maintain a separate EHPA for each homebuyer. Since the homebuyer is responsible for maintaining the home, a portion of his required monthly payment equal to the LHA's estimate, approved by HUD, of the monthly cost for such routine maintenance, taking into consideration the relative type and size of the homebuyer's home, shall be set aside in his EHPA. In addition, this account shall be credited with
(1) Any voluntary payments made pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section, and
(2) Any amount earned through the performance of maintenance as provided in paragraph (d) of this section and § 904.111(c).
(b)
Charges to the account.
(1) If for any reason the homebuyer is unable or fails to perform any item of required maintenance as described in § 904.107(a), the LHA shall arrange to have the work done in accordance with the procedures established by the LHA and the HBA and the cost thereof shall be charged to the homebuyer's EHPA. Inspections of the home shall be made jointly by the LHA and the HBA.
(2) To the extent NRMR expense is attributable to the negligence of the homebuyer as determined by the HBA and approved by the LHA (see § 904.111), the cost thereof shall be charged to the EHPA.
(c)
Exercise of option; required amount in EHPA.
The homebuyer may exercise his option to buy the home, by paying the applicable purchase price pursuant to § 904.113 or § 904.115, only after satisfying the following conditions precedent:
(1) Within the first two years of his occupancy, he has achieved a balance in his EHPA equal to 20 times the amount of the monthly EHPA credit as initially determined in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) He has met, and is continuing to meet, the requirements of the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement;
(3) He has rendered, and is continuing to render, satisfactory performance of his responsibilities to the HBA.
When the homebuyer has met these conditions precedent, the LHA shall give the homebuyer a certificate to that effect. After achieving the required minimum EHPA balance within the first two years of his occupancy, the homebuyer shall continue to provide the required maintenance, thereby continuing to add to his EHPA. If the homebuyer fails to meet either his obligation to achieve the minimum EHPA balance, as specified, or his obligation thereafter to continue adding to the EHPA, the LHA and the HBA shall investigate and take appropriate corrective action, including termination of the Agreement by the LHA in accordance with § 904.107(m).
(d)
Additional equity through maintenance of common property.
Homebuyers may earn additional EHPA credits by providing in whole or in part any of the maintenance necessary to the common property of the development. When such maintenance is to be provided by the homebuyer, this may be done and credit earned therefor only pursuant to a prior written agreement between the homebuyer and the LHA (or the home owners association, depending on who has responsibility for maintenance of the property involved), covering the nature and scope of the work and the amount of credit the homebuyer is to receive. In such cases, the agreed amount shall be charged to the appropriate maintenance account and credited to the homebuyer's EHPA upon completion of the work.
(e)
Investment of excess.
(1) When the aggregate amount of all EHPA balances exceeds the estimated reserve requirements for 90 days, the LHA shall notify the HBA and shall invest the excess in federally insured savings accounts, federally insured credit unions, and/or securities approved by HUD and in accordance with any recommendations made by the HBA. If the HBA wishes to participate in the investment program, it should submit periodically to the LHA a list of HUD-approved securities, bonds, or obligations which the association recommends for investment by the LHA of the funds in the EHPAs. Interest earned on the investment of such funds shall be prorated and credited to each homebuyer's
EHPA in proportion to the amount in each such reserve account.
(2) Periodically, but not less often than semi-annually, the LHA shall prepare a statement showing (i) the aggregate amount of all EHPA balances; (ii) the aggregate amount of investments (savings accounts and/or securities) held for the account of all the homebuyers' EHPAs, and (iii) the aggregate uninvested balance of all the homebuyers' EHPAs. This statement shall be made available to any authorized representative of the HBA.
(f)
Voluntary payments.
To enable the homebuyer to acquire title to his home within a shorter period, he may, either periodically or in a lump sum, voluntarily make payments over and above his required monthly payments. Such voluntary payments shall be deposited to his credit in his EHPA.
(g)
Delinquent monthly payments.
Under exceptional circumstances as determined by the HBA and the LHA, a homebuyer's EHPA may be used to pay his delinquent required monthly payments, provided the amount used for this purpose does not seriously deplete the account and provided that the homebuyer agrees to cooperate in such counseling as may be made available by the LHA or the HBA.
(h)
Annual statement to homebuyer.
The LHA shall provide an annual statement to each homebuyer specifying at least (1) the amount in his EHPA, and (2) the amount in his NRMR. During the year, any maintenance or repair done on the dwelling by the LHA which is chargeable to the EHPA or to the NRMR shall be accounted for through a work order. A homebuyer shall receive a copy of all such work orders for his home.
(i)
Withdrawal and assignment.
The homebuyer shall have no right to assign, withdraw, or in any way dispose of the funds in its EHPA except as provided in this section or in § 904.113 and § 904.115.
(j)
Application of EHPA upon vacating of dwelling.
(1) In the event a Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement with the LHA is terminated or if the homebuyer vacates the home (see § 904.107 (m), (n) and (o)), the LHA shall charge against the homebuyer's EHPA the amounts required to pay
(i) The amount due the LHA, including the monthly payments the homebuyer is obligated to pay up to the date he vacates;
(ii) The monthly payment for the period the home is vacant, not to exceed 30 days from the date of notice of intention to vacate, or, if the homebuyer fails to give notice of intention to vacate, 30 days from the date the home is put in good condition for the next occupant in conformity with § 904.107; and
(iii) The cost of any routine maintenance, and of any nonroutine maintenance attributable to the negligence of the homebuyer, required to put the home in good condition for the next occupant in conformity with § 904.107.
(2) If the EHPA balance is not sufficient to cover all of these charges, the LHA shall require the homebuyer to pay the additional amount due. If the amount in the account exceeds these charges, the excess shall be paid to the homebuyer.
(3) Settlement with the homebuyer shall be made promptly after the actual cost of repairs to the dwelling has been determined (see paragraph (j)(1)(iii) of this section), provided that the LHA shall make every effort to make such settlement within 30 days from the date the homebuyer vacates. The homebuyer may obtain a settlement within 7 days of the date he vacates, even though the actual cost of such repair has not yet been determined, if he has given the LHA notice of intention to vacate at least 30 days prior to the date he vacates and if the amount to be charged against his EHPA for such repairs is based on the LHA's estimate of the cost thereof (determined after consultation with the appropriate representative of the HBA).
§ 904.111
Nonroutine Maintenance Reserve (NRMR).
(a)
Purpose of reserve.
The LHA shall establish and maintain a separate NRMR for each home, using a portion of the homebuyer's monthly payment. The purpose of the NRMR is to provide funds for the nonroutine maintenance of the home, which consists of the infrequent and costly items of maintenance and replacement shown on the Nonroutine Maintenance Schedule for
the home (see paragraph (b) of this section). Such maintenance may include the replacement of dwelling equipment (such as range and refrigerator), replacement of roof, exterior painting, major repairs to heating and plumbing systems, etc. The NRMR shall not be used for nonroutine maintenance of common property, or for nonroutine maintenance relating to the home to the extent such maintenance is attributable to the Homebuyer's negligence or to defective materials or workmanship.
(b)
Amount of reserve.
The amount of the monthly payments to be set aside for NRMR shall be determined by the LHA, with the approval of HUD, on the basis of the Nonroutine Maintenance Schedule showing the amount likely to be needed for nonroutine maintenance of the home during the term of the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement, taking into consideration the type of construction and dwelling equipment. This Schedule shall (1) list each item of nonroutine maintenance (e.g., range, refrigerator, plumbing, heating system, roofing, tile flooring, exterior painting, etc.), (2) show for each listed item the estimated frequency of maintenance or useful life before replacement, the estimated cost of maintenance or replacement (including installation) for each occasion, and the annual reserve requirement, and (3) show the total reserve requirements for all the listed items, on an annual and a monthly basis. This Schedule shall be prepared by the LHA and approved by HUD as part of the submission required to determine the financial feasibility of the Project. The Schedule shall be revised after approval of the working drawings and specifications, and shall thereafter be reexamined annually in the light of changing economic conditions and experience.
(c)
Charges to NRMR.
(1) The LHA shall provide the nonroutine maintenance necessary for the home and the cost thereof shall be funded as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Such maintenance may be provided by the homebuyer but only pursuant to a prior written agreement with the LHA covering the nature and scope of the work and the amount of credit the homebuyer is to receive. The amount of any credit shall, upon completion of the work, be credited to the homebuyer's EHPA and charged as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2) The cost of nonroutine maintenance shall be charged to the NRMR for the home except that (i) to the extent such maintenance is attributable to the fault or negligence of the homebuyer, the cost shall be charged to the homebuyer's EHPA after consultation with the HBA if the hombuyer disagrees, and (ii) to the extent such maintenance is attributable to defective materials or workmanship not covered by warranty, or even though covered by warranty if not paid for thereunder through no fault or negligence of the homebuyer, the cost shall be charged to the appropriate operating expense account of the Project.
(3) In the event the amount charged against the NRMR exceeds the balance therein, the difference (deficit) shall be made up from continuing monthly credits to the NRMR based upon the homebuyer's monthly payments. If there is still a deficit when the homebuyer acquires title, the homebuyer shall pay such deficit at settlement (see paragraph (d)(2) of this section).
(d)
Transfer of NRMR.
(1) In the event the Homebuyer's Ownership Opportunity Agreement is terminated, the homebuyer shall not receive any balance or be required to pay any deficit in the NRMR. When a subsequent homebuyer moves in, the NRMR shall continue to be applicable to the home in the same amount as if the preceding homebuyer had continued in occupancy.
(2) In the event the homebuyer purchases the home, and there remains a balance in the NRMR, the LHA shall pay such balance to the homebuyer at settlement. In the event the homebuyer purchases and there is a deficit in the NRMR, the homebuyer shall pay such deficit to the LHA at settlement.
(e)
Investment of excess.
(1) When the aggregate amount of the NRMR balances for all the homes exceeds the estimated reserve requirements for 90 days the LHA shall invest the excess in federally insured savings accounts, federally insured credit unions, and/or securities approved by HUD. Income earned on the investment of such funds
shall be prorated and credited to each homebuyer's NRMR in proportion to the amount in each reserve account.
(2) Periodically, but not less often than semi-annually, the LHA shall prepare a statement showing (i) the aggregate amount of all NRMR balances, (ii) the aggregate amount of investments (savings accounts and/or securities) held for the account of the NRMRs, and (iii) the aggregate uninvested balance of the NRMRs. A copy of this statement shall be made available to any authorized representative of the HBA.
§ 904.112
Operating reserve.
(a)
Purpose of reserve.
To the extent that total operating receipts (including subsidies for operations) exceed total operating expenditures of the Project, the LHA shall establish an operating reserve up to the maximum approved by HUD in connection with its approval of the annual operating budgets for the Project. The purpose of this reserve is to provide funds for
(1) The infrequent but costly items of nonroutine maintenance and replacements of common property, taking into consideration the types of items which constitute common property, such as nondwelling structures and equipment, and in certain cases, common elements of dwelling structures,
(2) Nonroutine maintenance for the homes to the extent such maintenance is attributable to defective materials or workmanship not covered by warranty,
(3) Working capital for payment of a deficit in a homebuyer's NRMR, until such deficit is offset by future monthly payments by the homebuyer or at settlement in the event the homebuyer should purchase, and
(4) A deficit in the operation of the Project for a fiscal year, including a deficit resulting from monthly payments totaling less than the break-even amount for the Project.
(b)
Nonroutine maintenance—common property (Contribution to operating reserve).
The amount under this heading to be included in operating expense (and in the break-even amount) established for the fiscal year (see § 904.108 and § 904.109) shall be determined by the LHA, with the approval of HUD, on the basis of estimates of the monthly amount needed to accumulate an adequate reserve for the items described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. This amount shall be subject to revision in the light of experience. This contribution to the operating reserve shall be made only during the period the LHA is responsible for the maintenance of any common property; and during such period, the amount shall be determined on the basis of the requirements of all common property in the development in a manner similar to that explained in § 904.109(c). When the operating reserve reaches the maximum authorized in paragraph (c) of this section, the break-even (monthly operating expense) computations (see §§ 904.108 and 904.109) for the next and succeeding fiscal years need not include a provision for this contribution to the operating reserve unless the balance of the reserve is reduced below the maximum during any such succeeding fiscal year.
(c)
Maximum operating reserve.
The maximum operating reserve that may be retained by the LHA at the end of any fiscal year shall be the sum of (1) one-half of total routine expense included in the operating budget approved for the next fiscal year and (2) one-third of total break-even amounts included in the operating budget approved for the next fiscal year; provided that such maximum may be increased if necessary as determined or approved by HUD. Total routine expense means the sum of the amounts budgeted for administration, homebuyers services, LHA-supplied utilities, routine maintenance of common property, protective services, and general expense or other category of day-to-day routine expense (see § 904.109 above for explanation of various categories of expense).
(d)
Transfer to homeowners association.
The LHA shall be responsible for and shall retain custody of the operating reserve until the homeowners acquire voting control of the homeowners association (see §§ 904.118(c) and 904.119(f). When the homeowners acquire voting control, the homeowners association shall then assume full responsibility for management and maintenance of common property under a plan approved by HUD, and there shall be
transferred to the homeowners association a portion of the operating reserve then held by the LHA. The amount of the reserve to be transferred shall be based upon the proportion that one-half of budgeted routine expense (used as a basis for determining the current maximum operating reserve—see paragraph (c) of this section) bears to the approved maximum operating reserve. Specifically, the portion of operating reserve to be transferred shall be computed as follows: Obtain a percentage by dividing one-half of budgeted routine expense by the approved maximum operating reserve; and multiply the actual operating reserve balance by this percentage.
(e)
Disposition of reserve.
If, at the end of a fiscal year, there is an excess over the maximum operating reserve this excess shall be applied to the operating deficit of the Project, if any, and any remainder shall be paid to HUD. Following the end of the fiscal year in which the last home has been conveyed by the LHA, the balance of the operating reserve held by the LHA shall be paid to HUD, provided that the aggregate amount of payments by the LHA under this paragraph shall not exceed the aggregate amount of annual contributions paid by HUD with respect to the Project.
§ 904.113
Achievement of ownership by initial homebuyer.
(a)
Determination of initial purchase price.
The LHA shall determine the initial purchase price of the home by two basic steps, as follows:
Step 1:
The LHA shall take the Estimated Total Development Cost (including the full amount for contingencies as authorized by HUD) of the development as shown in the Development Cost Budget in effect upon award of the Main Construction Contract or execution of the Contract of Sale, and shall deduct therefrom the amounts, if any, attributed to (1) relocation costs, (2) counseling and training costs, and (3) the cost of any community, administration or management facilities including the land, equipment, and furnishings attributable to such facilities as set forth in the development program for the development. The resulting amount is herein called Estimated Total Development Cost for Homebuyers.
Step 2:
The LHA shall apportion the Estimated Total Development Cost for Homebuyers among all the homes in the development. This apportionment shall be made by obtaining an FHA appraisal of each home and adjusting such appraised values (upward or downward) by the percentage difference between the total of the appraisal for all the Homes and the Estimated Total Development Cost for Homebuyers. The adjusted amount for each home shall be the initial purchase price for that home.
(b)
Purchase price schedule.
Each homebuyer shall be provided with a Purchase Price Schedule showing (1) the monthly declining purchase price over a 30-year period,
1
commencing with the initial purchase price on the first day of the month following the effective date of the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement and (2) the monthly debt service amount upon which the Schedule is based. The Schedule and debt service amount shall be computed on the basis of the initial purchase price, a 30-year period,
2
and a rate of interest equal to the minimum loan interest rate as specified in the Annual Contributions Contract for the Project on the date of HUD approval of the Development Cost Budget, described in paragraph (a) of this section, rounded up, if necessary, to the next multiple of one-fourth of one percent (
1/4
percent).
1
Change to 25-year period where appropriate pursuant to § 904.101(b)(3).
2
Under section 234(c) of the National Housing Act, as of the date of publication of this subpart, mortgage insurance for a condominium unit in a multi-family project is generally authorized only if the project is currently or has been covered by a mortgage insured under another section of the National Housing Act. There is, however, a proviso which authorizes mortgage insurance for a condominium unit in a multi-family project even though the project is not or has not been covered by such a project mortgage, if the project involves eleven or less units.
(c)
Methods of purchase.
(1) The homebuyer may achieve ownership when the amount in his EHPA, plus such portion of the NRMR as he wishes to use for the purchase, is equal to the purchase price as shown at that time on his Purchase Price Schedule plus all Incidental Costs (Incidental Costs mean the costs incidental to acquiring ownership, including, but not limited to, the costs for a credit report, field survey, title examination, title insurance, and inspections, the fees for attorneys
other than the LHA's attorney, mortgage application and organization, closing and recording, and the transfer taxes and loan discount payment, if any). If for any reason title to the home is not conveyed to the homebuyer during the month in which such circumstances occur, the purchase price shall be fixed at the amount specified for such month and the homebuyer shall be refunded (i) the net additions, if any, credited to his EHPA subsequent to such month, and (ii) such part of the monthly payments made by the homebuyer after the purchase price has been fixed which exceeds the sum of the break-even amount attributable to the unit and the interest portion of the debt service shown in the Purchase Price Schedule.
(2) Where the sum of the purchase price and Incidental Costs is greater than the amounts in the homebuyer's EHPA and NRMR as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the homebuyer may achieve ownership by obtaining financing for or otherwise paying the excess amount. The purchase price shall be the amount shown on his Purchase Price Schedule for the month in which the settlement date for the purchase occurs.
(d) The maximum period for achieving ownership shall be 30 years, but depending upon increases in the homebuyers income and the amount of credit which the homebuyer can accumulate through maintenance and voluntary payments, the period may be shortened accordingly.
§ 904.114
Payment upon resale at profit.
(a)
Promissory note.
(1) When a homebuyer achieves ownership (regardless of whether ownership is achieved under § 904.113 or § 904.115), he shall sign a note obligating him to make a payment to the LHA, subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) or this section, in the event he resells his home at a profit within 5 years of actual residence in the home after he becomes a homeowner. If, however, the homeowner should purchase and occupy another home within one year (18 months in case of a newly constructed home) of the resale of the Turnkey III home, the LHA shall refund to the homeowner the amount previously paid by him under the note, less the amount, if any, by which the resale price of the Turnkey III home exceeds the acquisition price of the new home, provided that application for such refund shall be made no later than 30 days after the date of acquisition of the new home.
(2) The note to be signed by the homebuyer pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be a non interest-bearing promissory note (see Appendix IV) to the LHA. The note shall be executed at the time the homebuyer becomes a homeowner and shall be secured by a second mortgage. The initial amount of the note shall be computed by taking the appraised value of the home at the time the homebuyer becomes a homeowner and subtracting (i) the homebuyer's purchase price plus the Incidental Costs and (ii) the increase in value of the home, determined by appraisal, caused by improvements paid for by the homebuyer with funds from sources other than the EHPA or NRMR. The note shall provide that this initial amount shall be automatically reduced by 20 percent thereof at the end of each year of residency as a homeowner, with the note terminating at the end of the five-year period of residency, as determined by the LHA. To protect the homeowner, the note shall provide that the amount payable under it shall in no event be more than the net profit on the resale, that is, the amount by which the resale price exceeds the sum of (A) the homebuyer's purchase price plus the Incidental Costs, (B) the costs of the resale, including commissions and mortgage prepayment penalties, if any, and (C) the increase in value of the home, determined by appraisal, due to improvements paid for by him as a homebuyer (with funds from sources other than the EHPA or NRMR) or as a homeowner.
(3) Amounts collected by the LHA under such notes shall be retained by the LHA for use in making refunds pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section. After expiration of the period for the filing of claims for such refunds, any remaining amounts shall be applied (i) to reduce the LHA's capital indebtedness on the Project and (ii) after such indebtedness has been paid, for
such purposes as may be authorized or approved by HUD under such Annual Contributions Contract as the LHA may then have with HUD.

# Illustration.
If the homeowner's purchase price is $10,000, the Incidental Costs are $500, the value added by improvements is $1,000, and the FHA appraised value at the time he acquires ownership is $17,000, the note computation would be as follows:
FHA appraised value
$17,000
Homeowner's purchase price
$10,000
Incidental costs
500
Improvements
1,000
11,500
Initial note amount
5,500
In this example, the amount of the note during the first year of residence is $5,500. In the second year, the amount of the note is $4,400, and in the third year, it is $3,300, etc. The note shall terminate at the end of the fifth year.
If the homeowner in this example resells his home during the first year for a sales price of $17,500, has resale costs of $1,600 (including a sales commission), and has added $1,500 value by further improvements, he would be required to pay the LHA $2,900 rather than the $5,500, as indicated in the following computations:
Resale price
$17,500
Resale costs
$1,600
Purchase price and Incidental costs
10,500
All improvements
2,500
14,600
Payable to LHA
2,900
(b)
Residency requirements.
The five-year note period does not end if the homeowner rents or otherwise does not use the home as his principal place of residence for any period within the first five years after he achieves ownership. Only the actual amount of time he is in residence is counted and the note shall be in effect until a total of five years time of residence has elapsed, at which time the homeowner may request the LHA to release him from the note, and the LHA shall do so.
§ 904.115
Achievement of ownership by subsequent homebuyers.
(a)
Definition.
In the event the initial homebuyer and his family vacate the home before having acquired ownership, a subsequent occupant who enters into a Homebuyer's Ownership Opportunity Agreement and who is not a successor pursuant to § 904.107(l)(2) is herein called a “subsequent homebuyer.”
(b)
Determination of initial purchase price.
The initial purchase price for a subsequent homebuyer shall be an amount equal to (1) the purchase price shown in the initial homebuyer's Purchase Price Schedule as of the date of this Agreement with the subsequent homebuyer plus (2) the amount, if any, by which the appraised fair market value of the home, determined or approved by HUD as of the same date, exceeds the purchase price specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)
Purchase price schedule.
The subsequent homebuyer's Purchase Price Schedule shall be the same as the unexpired portion of the initial homebuyer's Purchase Price Schedule except that where his purchase price includes an additional amount as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the initial homebuyer's Purchase Price Schedule shall be followed by an Additional Purchase Price Schedule for such additional amount based upon the same monthly debt service and the same interest rate as applied to the initial homebuyer's Purchase Price Schedule.
(d)
Residual receipts.
After payment in full of the LHA's debt, if there are any subsequent homebuyers who have not acquired ownership of their homes, the LHA shall continue to pay to HUD all residual receipts from the operation of the Project, including payments received on account of any Additional Purchase Price Schedules applicable to the homes, provided the aggregate amount of such payments of residual receipts does not exceed the aggregate amount of annual contributions paid by HUD with respect to the Project.
§ 904.116
Transfer of title to homebuyer.
When the homebuyer is to obtain ownership as described in § 904.113 or § 904.115, a closing date shall be mutually agreed upon by the parties. On the closing date the homebuyer shall pay the required amount of money to the LHA, sign the promissory note pursuant to § 904.114, and receive a deed for the home.
§ 904.117
Responsibilities of homebuyer after acquisition of ownership.
After acquisition of ownership, each homeowner shall be required to pay to the LHA or to the homeowners association, as appropriate, a monthly fee for (a) the maintenance and operation of community facilities including utility facilities, if any, (b) the maintenance of grounds and other common areas and, (c) such other purposes as determined by the LHA or the homeowners association, as appropriate, including taxes and a provision for a reserve. This requirement shall be set out in the planned unit development or condominium documents which shall be recorded prior to the date of full availability, or in an LHA-homeowner contract in this regard.
§ 904.118
Homeowners association—planned unit development (PUD).
If the development is organized as a planned unit development:
(a)
Ownership and maintenance of common property.
The common areas, sidewalks, parking lots, and other common property in the development shall be owned and maintained as provided for in the approved planned unit development (PUD) program except that the LHA shall be responsible for maintenance until such time as the homeowners association assumes such responsibility (see § 904.112(d)).
(b)
Title restrictions.
The title ultimately conveyed to each homebuyer shall be subject to restrictions and encumbrances to protect the rights and property of all other owners. The homeowners association shall have the right and obligation to enforce such restrictions and encumbrances and to assess owners for the costs incurred in connection with common areas and property and other responsibilities.
(c)
Votes in association.
There shall be as many votes in the association as there are homes in the development, and, at the outset, all the voting rights shall be held by the LHA. As each home is conveyed to the homebuyer, one vote shall automatically go to the homeowner so that, when all the homes have been conveyed, the LHA shall no longer have any interest in the homeowners association.
(d)
Voting control.
The LHA shall not lose its majority voting interest in the association as soon as a majority of the homes have been conveyed, unless the law of the state requires control to be transferred at a particular time, or the LHA so desires. If permitted by state law, provision shall be made for each home owned by the LHA to carry three votes, while each home owned by a homeowner shall carry one vote. Under this weighted voting plan, the LHA shall continue to have voting control until 75 percent of the homes have been acquired by homeowners. However, at its discretion, the LHA may transfer voting control to the homeowners when at least 50 percent of the homes have been acquired by the homeowners.
§ 904.119
Homeowners association—condominium.
If the development is organized as a condominium:
(a) The LHA at the outset shall own each condominium unit and its undivided interest in the common areas;
(b) All the land, including that land under the housing units, shall be a part of the common areas;
(c) The homeowners association shall own no property but shall maintain and operate the common areas for the individual owners of the condominium units except that the LHA shall be responsible for maintenance until such time as the homeowners association assumes such responsibility (see § 904.112(d));
(d) The percentage of undivided interest attached to each condominium unit shall be based on the ratio of the value of the units to the value of all units and shall be fixed when the development is completed. This percentage shall determine the homeowner's liability for the maintenance of the common areas and facilities;
(e) Each homeowner's vote in the homeowners association shall be identical with the percentage of undivided interest attached to his unit; and
(f) The LHA shall not lose its majority voting interest in the association as soon as units representing 50 percent of the value of all units have been conveyed, unless the law of the state requires control to be transferred at a particular time or the LHA so desires.
For voting purposes, until units representing 75 percent of the value of all units have been acquired by homeowners, the total undivided interest attributable to the homes owned by the LHA shall be multiplied by three, if such weighted voting plan is permitted by state law. Under this plan, the LHA shall continue to maintain voting control until 75 percent of the homes have been acquired by homeowners. However, at its discretion, the LHA may transfer voting control to the homeowners when units representing at least 50 percent of the value of all units have been acquired by the homeowners.
§ 904.120
Relationship of homeowners association to HBA.
The HBA and the LHA may make arrangements to permit homebuyers to participate in homeowners association matters which affect the homebuyers. Such arrangements may include rights to attend meetings and to participate in homeowners association deliberations and decisions.
§ 904.121
Use of appendices.
Use of the following Appendices is mandatory for Projects developed under this subpart:
§ 904.122
Statutory preferences.
In selecting applicants for assistance under this part, the LHA must give preference, in accordance with the authorized preference requirements described in 24 CFR 5.410 through 5.430. Notwithstanding those preferences, the LHA can limit homeownership admission to eligible homeownership candidates.
[59 FR 36651, July 18, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 9048, Mar. 6, 1996]
Pt. 904, Subpt. B, Apps. 1-4

# Appendixes I-IV to Subpart B of Part 904
Appendix I—Annual Contributions Contract “Special Provisions for Turnkey III Homeownership Opportunity Project”
Appendix II—Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement (Turnkey III)
Appendix III—Certificate of Achievement of Homebuyer Status
Appendix IV—Promissory Note for Payment Upon Resale by Homebuyer at Profit
No modification may be made in format, content or text of these Appendices except (1) as required under state or local law as determined by HUD or (2) with approval of HUD.
Pt. 904, Subpt. B, App. I

# Appendix I to Subpart B of Part 904—Annual Contributions Contract

# (Subpart B)
( ) Special Provisions for Turnkey III Homeownership Opportunity Project No. __________.
(1) The Local Authority agrees to operate the Project in accordance with requirements for the Homeownership Opportunity Program for Low-Income Families (Turnkey III) as prescribed by the Government. The Local Authority shall enter into an agreement with the occupant of each dwelling unit in the Project which agreement shall be in the form of the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement approved by the Government, which form provides an opportunity for the acquisition of ownership of the dwelling unit by each occupant who has performed all of the obligations and conditions precedent imposed upon him by such agreement. Upon conveyance of any such dwelling unit, the Local Authority's outstanding obligations in respect to the Project shall be reduced by the amount received for such conveyance, and the Government's obligation for payment of annual contributions in respect to the Project shall be reduced by the amount allocable to the initial purchase price of the dwelling unit. The term “initial purchase price” as used in these Special Provisions shall have the same meaning as in the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement, and the term “dwelling unit” shall have the same meaning as the term “Home” used in the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement.
(2) Failure of the Local Authority to enter into such Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreements at the time and in the form as required by the Government, failure to perform any such agreement, and failure to meet any of its obligations under these Special Provisions shall constitute a Substantial Default under this Contract.
(3) The books of account and records of the Local Authority shall be maintained to meet the requirements of the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement as well as the other provisions of this Contract and in such manner as will at all times show the operating receipts, operating expenditures, reserves, residual receipts, and other required accounts for the Project separate and distinct from all other Projects under this Contract.
(4) As of the Date of Full Availability, or at such earlier date as the Government may require, the Local Authority shall determine
and submit to the Government for its approval the amount below which the Development Cost of the Project will in no event fall. Upon approval thereof by the Government, such amount shall constitute and be known as the “Minimum Development Cost” of the Project. The Local Authority shall issue its Project Loan Notes, Permanent Notes or Project Notes as the Government may require to finance the Minimum Development Cost. On each Annual Contribution Date the Government shall pay an annual contribution for the Project in an amount equal to the Maximum Contribution Percentage of the latest approved Minimum Development Cost. The first annual contribution shall be paid or made available as of the next Annual Contribution Date following the approval of the Minimum Development Cost of the Project.
(5) Notwithstanding section 403(A)(4), the term “Development Cost” shall include interest on that portion of borrowed monies allocable to the Project for the period ending with the Date of Full Availability or such earlier date as may be specifically approved by the Government.
(6) (a) During the __
1
year Maximum Contribution Period established for the Project, the Local Authority shall, within 60 days after the end of each Fiscal Year, pay to the Government all Residual Receipts of the Project for such Fiscal Year for application to the reduction of Annual Contributions payable by the Government with respect to the Project.
1
25 or 30, as applicable.
(b) During the period of years immediately following and equal to the Maximum Contribution Period established for the Project, the Local Authority shall, within 60 days after the end of each Fiscal Year, pay to the Government all Residual Receipts of the Project for such Fiscal Year.
(c) Following the end of the Fiscal Year in which the last dwelling unit has been conveyed by the Local Authority, the balance of the operating reserve held by the Local Authority shall be paid to the Government, provided that the aggregate amount of payments under (b) and (c) of this paragraph shall not exceed the aggregate amount of annual contributions paid by the Government with respect to the Project.
(7) No part of the Funds on deposit in the Debt Service Fund or the Advance Amortization Fund with respect to any other Project under this Contract or the funds available for deposit in such Funds for such other Projects, shall be applied to the retirement of Notes issued for this Project, nor shall any such funds on deposit for this Project be used with respect to any other Project or Projects under this Contract.
(8) To the extent that the provisions of this section conflict with other provisions of this Contract, the provisions of this section shall be controlling with respect to the Project.
Pt. 904, Subpt. B, App. II

# Appendix II to Subpart B of Part 904—Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement (Turnkey III)

# (Subpart B)

# part i
This Agreement, made and entered into __________________, 19____, by and between __________ (herein called the “Authority”), and __________ (herein called the “Homebuyer”);

# witnesseth:
In consideration of the agreements and covenants contained in this Agreement and in Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement Part II, which is hereby incorporated into this Agreement by reference, the Authority leases to the Homebuyer the following described land and improvements thereon together with an undivided interest in all common areas and property (herein called the “Home”) located in the ________ Development (Project No. ____), which Home is identified and located as follows: [Insert address and legal description of location of Home, including rights with respect to common areas and property, and making reference to Book and Page No. in Recorder of Deeds Recorded].
A.
Term of Agreement.
The term of this Agreement shall commence on __________________, 19____, and shall expire at midnight on the last day of this same calendar month. Said term shall be extended automatically for successive periods of one calendar month for a total term of ____
1
years from the first day of the next calendar month unless the Homebuyer acquires title to the home pursuant to section 16 or 17 of Part II, as applicable, or unless this Agreement is terminated pursuant to section 24 of Part II.
1
Fill in term of years equal to term of Purchase Price Schedule (and Additional Purchase Price Schedule, if applicable) (see Section 16 or 17 of Part II as applicable).
B.
Monthly Payment.
1. Until changed in accordance with this Agreement, the Homebuyer's Monthly Payment shall be $____ per month, due and payable on or before the first day of each month. If liability for the Monthly Payment shall start on a day other than the first day of a calendar month, or if for any reason the effective date of termination occurs on other than the last day of the month, the Monthly Payment for such
month shall be proportionate to the period of occupancy during that month.
2. The amount of the Monthly Payment may be increased or decreased only by reason of changes in the Rent Schedule (see section 7c of Part II) or changes in the Homebuyer's family income or other circumstances (see section 7b of Part II). Any change in Monthly Payment shall become effective by written notice from the Authority to the Homebuyer as of the date specified in such notice, and such notice shall be deemed to constitute an Amendment to this Agreement.
C.
Option to Purchase.
In consideration of the covenants contained herein, the Authority grants the Homebuyer an option to purchase the Home for the applicable purchase price, to be exercised in accordance with section 10d of Part II.
D.
Purchase Price.
The Initial Purchase Price of this Home is $______ (this price has been determined in accordance with section 16 or 17 of Part II as applicable); this amount shall be reduced periodically in accordance with the schedule (hereinafter called Purchase Price Schedule) for that amount, which Schedule is hereby furnished the Homebuyer.
E.
Amount of NRMR.
The balance (or deficit) in the NRMR on the date of this Agreement is $______.
F.
Homebuyers Association.
Upon the signing of this Agreement, the Homebuyer's family automatically becomes a member of the Homebuyers Association, as provided in section 5 of Part II.
G.
Designation of Successor.
For the purpose of section 25 of Part II, the designee and his address are:
First Name Initial Last Name
Relationship
H.
Entire Agreement.
THIS AGREEMENT (COMPRISING PARTS I AND II, THE PURCHASE PRICE SCHEDULE, THE NONROUTINE MAINTENANCE SCHEDULE, AND THE PROMISSORY NOTE) IS THE ENTIRE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE AUTHORITY AND THE HOMEBUYER, AND, EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT, NO CHANGES SHALL BE MADE OTHER THAN IN WRITING SIGNED BY THE AUTHORITY AND THE HOMEBUYER.
THIS AGREEMENT is signed in duplicate, original for all purposes. The Homebuyer hereby acknowledges receipt of one of these signed copies.
WITNESSES:
The Authority:
By

# (Official Title)
The Homebuyer(s):
Initial
Subsequent

# part ii

# terms and conditions
1.
Introduction
—a.
The Home.
The Home described in Part I of this Agreement is part of a Development, which the Authority has acquired or caused to be constructed. This Development contains a number of dwelling units including related land, and may also include common areas and property as described in Part I for occupancy by low-income families under lease-purchase agreements, each in the form of this Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement. This Development is financed by sale of the Authority's notes which will be amortized over the period of years specified in the Annual Contributions Contract relating to this Development.
b.
Annual Contributions Contract.
The Authority has entered into an Annual Contributions Contract (“ACC”) with the Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) under which the Authority will receive Annual Contributions provided by HUD, and will perform certain operational functions, to provide housing for the Homebuyers and assist the Homebuyers in achieving homeownership.
c.
Management.
The Authority may enter into a contract or contracts for management of the Development or for performance of management functions, by the Homebuyers Association (see section 5) or others.
d.
Definitions.
(1) The term “Authority” means the local housing authority which acquires or develops a low-rent housing development with financial assistance from HUD, owns the Homes until title is transferred to the Homebuyers, and is responsible for the management of the homeownership opportunity program.
(2) The term “common property” means the nondwelling structures and equipment, common areas, community facilities, and in some cases certain component parts of dwelling structures, which are contained in the Development:
Provided, however,
That in the case of a Development that is organized as a condominium or a planned unit development (PUD), the term “common property” shall have the meaning established by the condominium or PUD documents and the State law pursuant to which the condominium or PUD is organized, under the terms, “common areas,” “common facilities,” “common elements,” “common estate,” or other similar terms.
(3) The term “Development” means the entire undertaking including all real and personal property, funds and reserves, rights, interests and obligations, and activities related thereto.
(4) The term “EHPA” means the Earned Home Payments Account established and maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Agreement.
(5) The term “Homebuyer” means the member or members of a low-income family who have executed a Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement with the Authority.
(6) The term “Homebuyers Association” (HBA) means an organization as defined in section 5 of this Agreement.
(7) The term “Homeowner” means a Homebuyer who has acquired title to his Home.
(8) The term “Homeowners Association” means an association comprised of Homeowners, including condominium associations, having responsibilities with respect to common property.
(9) The term “HUD” means the Department of Housing and Urban Development which provides the Authority with financial assistance through loans and annual contributions and technical assistance in development and operation.
(10) The term “NRMR” means the Nonroutine Maintenance Reserve established and maintained pursuant to section 11 of this Agreement.
(11) The term “Project” is used to refer to the Development in relation to matters specifically related to the Annual Contributions Contract.
2.
The Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement.
Under this Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement, the Homebuyer may achieve ownership of the home described in Part I by making the required monthly payments and providing maintenance and repairs to build up a credit in his Earned Home Payments Account (hereinafter called “EHPA”). While the Homebuyer is performing his obligations, the purchase price will be reduced in accordance with the Purchase Price Schedule, so that, while this purchase price is being reduced, the Homebuyer is increasing the amount of his EHPA. The Homebuyer may also make voluntary payments to his EHPA which will enable him to acquire ownership more quickly. The Homebuyer may take title to his Home when he is able to finance or pay in full the balance of the purchase price as shown on the Purchase Price Schedule plus the costs incidental to acquiring ownership, as provided in section 16 or 17, as applicable.
3.
Status of Homebuyer.
Until the Homebuyer satisfies the conditions set forth in section 10d precedent to the exercise of his option to purchase the Home for the applicable purchase price, the Homebuyer shall have the status of a lessee of the Authority from month to month with an obligation to build up such balance in his EHPA within the first two years of his occupancy and to continue adding to his EHPA thereafter. For convenience the term “Homebuyer” also refers to the occupant during his status as a lessee.
4.
Counseling of Homebuyers.
The Authority shall provide training and counseling, as required and approved by HUD. The Authority's own staff and resources, existing community resources, a private agency under contract with the Authority, or any combination of the three, shall be utilized to prepare Homebuyers for the rights, responsibilities, and obligations of homeownership including participation in the Homebuyers Association. The Homebuyer agrees to participate in and cooperate fully in all official training and counseling activities.
5.
Homebuyers Association.
2
Upon the signing of this Agreement, the Homebuyer's family automatically becomes a member of the Homebuyers Association having membership and purposes as set forth in the Articles of Incorporation of said Association. In the absence of a duly organized Homebuyers Association, the Authority shall be free to act without the HBA action required by this Agreement.
2
There may be cases, such as where the homes are on scattered sites, where there is no Homebuyers Association but an alternative method for homebuyer representation and counseling is provided (see 24 CFR 904.307). In such cases, section 5 and other portions of this Agreement referring to the Homebuyers Association should be modified to reflect the alternative method provided for homebuyer representation and counseling.
6.
Routine maintenance, repair and use of premises.
a.
Routine maintenance.
The Homebuyer shall be responsible for the routine maintenance of his dwelling and grounds, to the satisfaction of the Homebuyers Association and the Authority. This routine maintenance includes the work (labor and materials) of keeping the dwelling structure, grounds and equipment in good repair, condition and appearance so that they may be utilized continually at their designed capacities and at the satisfactory level of efficiency for their intended purposes, and in conformity with the requirements of local housing codes and applicable regulations and guidelines of HUD. It includes repairs (labor and materials) to the dwelling structure, plumbing fixtures, dwelling equipment (such as range and refrigerator), shades and screens, water heaters, heating equipment and other component parts of the dwelling. It also includes all interior painting and maintenance of the grounds (lot) on which the dwelling is located. It does not include maintenance and replacements provided for by the Nonroutine Maintenance Reserve described in Section 11.
b.
Repair of damage.
In addition to his obligation for routine maintenance, the Homebuyer shall be responsible for repair of any damage caused by the Homebuyer, members of his family, or visitors.
c.
Care of Home.
The Homebuyer agrees to keep his dwelling in a sanitary condition; to cooperate with the Authority and the Homebuyers Association in keeping and maintaining the common area and property, including fixtures and equipment, in good condition and appearance; and to follow all rules of the Authority and of the Homebuyers Association concerning the use and care of the dwellings and the common areas and property.
d.
Inspections.
The Homebuyer agrees to permit officials, employees, or agents of the Authority, and of the Homebuyers Association to inspect his Home at reasonable hours and intervals in accordance with rules established by the Authority and the Homebuyers Association.
e.
Use of Home.
The Homebuyer shall not (1) sublet his Home without the prior written approval of the Authority and HUD, (2) use or occupy his home for any unlawful purpose nor for any purpose deemed hazardous by insurance companies on account of fire and other risks, or (3) provide accommodations (unless approved by the Homebuyers Association and the Authority) to boarders or lodgers. The Homebuyer agrees to use the Home only as a place to live for himself and his family (as identified in his initial application or by subsequent amendment with the approval of the Authority), for children thereafter born to or adopted by members of such family, and for aged or widowed parents of the Homebuyer or spouse who may join the household.
f.
Obligations with respect to other persons and property.
Neither the Homebuyer nor any member of his family shall interfere with rights of other occupants of the Development, or damage the common property or the property of others, or create physical hazards.
g.
Structural changes.
A Homebuyer shall not make any structural changes in or additions to his Home unless the Authority has first determined in writing that such change would not (1) impair the value of the unit, the surrounding units, or the Development as a whole, or (2) affect the use of the Home for residential purposes, or (3) violate HUD requirements as to construction and design. Any changes made in accordance with this paragraph shall be at the Homebuyer's expense, and in the event of termination of this Agreement before the Homebuyer acquires title to the Home, whether by reason of the Homebuyer's default or otherwise, the Homebuyer shall not be entitled to any compensation on account of his having made such changes.
h.
Statement of condition and repair.
When the Homebuyer moves in, the Authority shall inspect the Home and shall give the Homebuyer a written statement, to be signed by the Authority and the Homebuyer, of the condition of the Home and the equipment in it. Should the Homebuyer vacate, the Authority shall inspect the Home and give the Homebuyer a written statement of the repairs and other work, if any, required to put the Home in good condition for the next occupant (see section 10k). The Homebuyer or his representative, or both, may join in any such inspections with the Authority and the Homebuyer Association.
7.
Monthly payments by Homebuyer
—a.
Determination of amount.
Except as otherwise provided hereinafter, the Homebuyer agrees to pay to the Authority, so long as this Agreement is in effect, a required Monthly Payment as lease rental in an amount determined in accordance with a schedule adopted by the Authority and approved by HUD. Although the total monthly housing cost consists of the sum of the break-even amount (see section 8) and the debt service (payment of principal and interest) on the applicable share of the capital cost of the Development, the Homebuyer, so long as he qualifies as low income, is not required to pay the full amount, but is assisted by HUD annual contributions. The schedule shall provide for payments to be based upon a percentage of the family's adjusted monthly income and shall indicate allowances for those utilities which the Homebuyer will pay for directly.
b.
Changes in monthly payment due to changes in family income or other circumstances.
The required Monthly Payment may be adjusted as a result of the Authority's regularly or specially scheduled reexamination of the Homebuyer's family income and family composition. Interim changes may be made in accordance with the Authority's policy on reexaminations, or under unusual circumstances, at the request of the Homebuyer, if both the Authority and the Homebuyers Association agree that such action is warranted.
c.
Changes in monthly payment due to changes in rent schedules.
The required Monthly Payment may also be adjusted by changes in the required percentage of income to reflect (1) changes in operating expense as described in section 9b and (2) changes in utility allowances.
d.
Acceptance of monthly payment.
The Authority shall not refuse to accept monthly payments because of any other charges (i.e., other than overdue monthly payments) owed by the Homebuyer to the Authority; however, by accepting monthly payments under such circumstances the Authority shall not be deemed to have waived any of its rights and remedies with respect to such other charges.
e.
Application of monthly payment.
The Homebuyer's Monthly Payment shall be applied by the Authority as follows: First, to the credit of the Homebuyer's EHPA pursuant to section 10 below; second, to the credit of the Nonroutine Maintenance Reserve for the Home pursuant to Section 11 below; and third, for payment of Monthly Operating Expense, including contribution to Operating Reserve, as provided in section 9 below.
8.
Break-even amount
—a.
Definition.
The term “Break-even Amount” means the minimum monthly amount needed to provide funds for:
(1) Monthly Operating Expense, including provision for a contribution to Operating Reserve, pursuant to section 9a below;
(2) The monthly amount to be credited to the Homebuyer's EHPA pursuant to Section 10 below; and
(3) The monthly amount to be credited to the Nonroutine Maintenance Reserve for the Home pursuant to section 11 below.
b.
Monthly payment in excess of break-even amount.
When the Homebuyer's required Monthly Payment exceeds the applicable Break-even Amount, the excess shall constitute additional Project income and shall be deposited and used in the same manner as other Project income.
c.
Monthly payment below break-even amount.
When the Homebuyer's required Monthly Payment is less than the applicable Break-even Amount, the deficit shall be applied as a reduction of that portion of the Monthly Payment designated for Operating Expense (i.e., as a reduction of project income). In all such cases, the EHPA and the NRMR shall be credited with the amount included in the Break-even Amount for these accounts.
9.
Monthly operating expense
—a.
Definition and categories of monthly operating expense.
The term “monthly operating expense” means the monthly amount needed for the following purposes:
(1)
Administration.
Administrative salaries, travel, legal expenses, office supplies, postage, telephone and telegraph, etc.;
(2)
Homebuyer services.
Authority expenses in the achievement of social goals, including costs such as salaries, publications, payments to the HBA to assist its operation, contract and other costs;
(3)
Utilities.
Those utilities (such as water), if any to be furnished by the Authority as part of operating expense;
(4)
Routine maintenance—Common property.
For community building, grounds, and other common areas, if any. The amount required for routine maintenance of common property depends upon the type of common property included in the Development and the extent of the Authority's responsibility for maintenance (see also section 9c);
(5)
Protective services.
The cost of supplemental protective services paid by the Authority for the protection of persons and property;
(6)
General expense.
Premiums for fire and other insurance, payments in lieu of taxes to the local taxing body, collection losses, payroll taxes, etc.;
(7)
Nonroutine maintenance—Common property (contribution to operating reserve).
Extraordinary maintenance of equipment applicable to the community building and grounds, and unanticipated items for non-dwelling structures (see section 12).
b.
Monthly operating expense rate.
The monthly operating expense rate for each fiscal year shall be established on the basis of the Authority's HUD-approved operating budget for that fiscal year. The operating budget may be revised during the course of the fiscal year in accordance with HUD requirements. If it is subsequently determined that the actual operating expense for a fiscal year was more or less than the amount provided by the monthly operating expense established for that fiscal year, the rate of monthly operating expense to be established for the next fiscal year may be adjusted to account for the difference (see section 12). Such adjustment may result in a change in the required monthly payment (see section 7c).
c.
Provision for common property maintenance.
During the period the Authority is responsible for the maintenance of common property, the annual operating budget and the monthly operating expense rate shall include the amount required for routine maintenance of all common property in the Development, even though a number of the homes may have been acquired by homebuyers. During such period, this amount shall be computed on the basis of the total number of homes in the Development (i.e., the annual amount budgeted for routine maintenance of common property shall be divided by the number of Homes in the Development, resulting in the annual amount for each Home; this figure shall in turn be divided by 12 to determine the monthly amount to be included in the monthly operating expense (and in the break-even amount) for routine maintenance of common property). After the Homeowners Association assumes responsibility for maintenance of common property, the monthly operating expense (and break-even amount) shall include an amount equal to the monthly assessment by the homeowners association for the remaining homes owned by the Authority (see section 11 for nonroutine maintenance of common property).
d.
Posting of monthly operating expense statement.
A statement showing the budgeted monthly amount allocated in the current operating budget to each operating expense category shall be provided to the HBA and a copy shall be provided to the Homebuyer upon request.
10.
Earned Home Payments Account (EHPA)
—a.
Credits to the account.
The Authority shall establish and maintain a separate EHPA for each Homebuyer. Since the Homebuyer is responsible for maintaining his Home as provided in section 6, a portion of his required Monthly Payment equal to the Authority's estimate, approved by HUD, of the monthly cost for such routine maintenance, taking into consideration the relative type and size of the Home, shall be set aside in his EHPA. In addition, this account shall also be credited with (1) any voluntary payments made pursuant to section 10g and (2) any amount earned through the performance of maintenance pursuant to paragraph e of this section. All amounts received by the Authority for credit to the Homebuyer's account, including credits for performance of maintenance pursuant to paragraph e of this section, shall be held by the Authority for the account of the Homebuyer.
b.
Use of EHPA funds.
The unused balance in the Homebuyer's EHPA may be used toward purchase of the Home as provided in section 16 or 17 as applicable, or shall be payable to the Homebuyer if he leaves the Project as provided in paragraph k of this section.
c.
Charges to the account.
(1) If for any reason the Homebuyer is unable or fails to perform any item of required maintenance as described in section 6, the Authority shall arrange to have the work done in accordance with the procedures established by the Authority and the HBA and the cost thereof shall be charged to the Homebuyer's EHPA. Inspections of the Home shall be made jointly by the Authority and the HBA.
(2) To the extent nonroutine maintenance expense is made necessary by the negligence of the Homebuyer as determined by the HBA and the Authority (see section 11), the cost thereof shall be charged to the EHPA.
d.
Exercise of option; required amount in EHPA.
The Homebuyer may exercise his option to buy the Home, by paying the applicable purchase price pursuant to section 16 or 17, only after satisfying the following conditions precedent:
(1) Within the first two years of his occupancy, he has achieved a balance in his EHPA equal to 20 times the amount of the monthly EHPA credit as initially determined in accordance with paragraph a of this section;
(2) He has met, and is continuing to meet, the requirements of this Agreement;
(3) He has rendered, and is continuing to render, satisfactory performance of his responsibilities to the HBA.
When the Homebuyer has met these conditions precedent, the Authority shall give the Homebuyer a certificate to that effect. After achieving the required minimum EHPA balance within the first two years of his occupancy, the Homebuyer shall continue to be obligated to provide the required maintenance, thereby continuing to add to his EHPA. If the Homebuyer fails to meet either his obligation to achieve the minimum EHPA balance as specified or his obligation thereafter to continue adding to the EHPA, the Authority and the HBA shall investigate and take appropriate corrective action, including termination of this Agreement by the Authority in accordance with section 24.
e.
Additional equity through other maintenance.
Besides the maintenance which the Homebuyer must provide pursuant to section 6, the Homebuyer may earn additional EHPA credits by providing in whole or in part any of the maintenance necessary to the common property of the Development or maintenance for which the Nonroutine Maintenance Reserve is established (see section 11). Such maintenance may be provided by the Homebuyer and credit earned therefor only pursuant to a prior written agreement between the Homebuyer and the Authority (or the Homeowners Association, depending on who has responsibility for maintenance of the property involved), covering the nature and scope of the work and the amount of credit the Homebuyer is to receive. Upon completion of such work, the agreed amount shall be charged to the appropriate maintenance account and credited to the Homebuyer's EHPA.
f.
Investment of excess.
When the aggregate amount of all EHPA balances exceeds the estimated reserve requirements for 90 days, the Authority shall notify the HBA and shall invest the excess in federally-insured savings accounts, federally insured credit unions, and/or securities approved by HUD and in accordance with any recommendations made by the HBA. If the HBA wishes to participate in the investment program it should submit periodically to the Authority a list of HUD approved securities, bonds, or obligations which the HBA reecommends for investment by the Authority of the funds in the EHPAs. Interest earned on the investment of such funds shall be prorated and credited to each Homebuyer's EHPA in proportion to the amount in each such reserve account.
Periodically, but not less often than semi-annually, the Authority shall prepare a statement showing: (1) the aggregate amount of all EHPA balances; (2) the aggregate amount of investments (savings accounts and/or securities) held for the account of all the Homebuyers' EHPAs, and (3) the aggregate uninvested balance of all the Homebuyers' EHPAs. This statement shall be made available to any authorized representative of the HBA.
g.
Voluntary payments.
To enable the Homebuyer to acquire title to the Home within a shorter period, he may either periodically or in a lump sum voluntarily make payments
over and above his required monthly payments. Such voluntary payments shall be deposited to his credit in his EHPA.
h.
Delinquent monthly payments.
Under exceptional circumstances as determined by the HBA and the Authority, the Homebuyer's EHPA may be used to pay his delinquent required monthly payments, provided the amount used for this purpose does not seriously deplete the account and provided that the Homebuyer agrees to cooperate in such counseling as may be made available by the Authority or the HBA.
i.
Annual statement to homebuyer.
The Authority shall provide an annual statement to the Homebuyer specifying at least (1) the amount in his EHPA, and (2) the amount in his Nonroutine Maintenance Reserve. During the year, any maintenance or repair done on the dwelling by the Authority which is chargeable to the EHPA or to the Nonroutine Maintenance Reserve, shall be accounted for through a work order. The Homebuyer shall receive a copy of all such work orders for his Home.
j.
Withdrawal and assignment.
The Homebuyer shall have no right to assign, withdraw, or in any way dispose of the funds in his EHPA except as provided in this section or in sections 16 and 17.
k.
Application of EHPA upon vacating of dwelling.
(1) In the event this Agreement is terminated or if the Homebuyer vacates the Home, the Authority shall charge against the Homebuyer's EHPA the amounts required to pay; (i) The amount due the Authority, including the monthly payments the Homebuyer is obligated to pay up to the date he vacates; (ii) the monthly payment for the period the Home is vacant, not to exceed 30 days from the date of notice of intention to vacate, or if the Homebuyer failed to give notice of intention to vacate, 30 days from the date the Home is put in good condition for the next occupant in conformity with section 6; and (iii) the cost of any routine maintenance, and of any nonroutine maintenance attributable to the negligence of the Homebuyer, required to put the Home in good condition for the next occupant in conformity with section 6.
(2) If the Homebuyer's EHPA balance is not sufficient to cover all of these charges, the Authority shall require the Homebuyer to pay the additional amount due. If the amount in the EHPA exceeds these charges, the excess shall be paid the Homebuyer.
(3) Settlement with the Homebuyer shall be made promptly after the actual cost of repairs to the dwelling has been determined (see paragraph k(1)(iii) of this section), provided that the Authority shall make every effort to make such settlement within 30 days from the date the Homebuyer vacates. The Homebuyer may obtain a settlement within 7 days of the date he vacates, even though the actual cost of such repairs has not yet been determined, if he has given the Authority notice of intention to vacate 30 days prior to the date he vacates and if the amount to be charged against his EHPA for such repairs is based on the Authority's estimate of the cost thereof (determined after consultation with the appropriate representative of the HBA).
11.
Nonroutine maintenance reserve (NRMR)
—a.
Purpose of reserve.
The Authority shall establish and maintain a separate nonroutine maintenance reserve (NRMR) for the Home, using a portion of the Homebuyer's monthly payment. The purpose of the NRMR is to provide funds for the nonroutine maintenance of the Home, which consists of the infrequent and costly items of maintenance and replacement shown on the Nonroutine Maintenance Schedule for the Home (see paragraph b of this section). Such maintenance may include the replacement of dwelling equipment (such as range and refrigerator), replacement of roof, exterior painting, major repairs to heating and plumbing systems, etc. The NRMR shall not be used for nonroutine maintenance of common property, or for nonroutine maintenance relating to the Home to the extent such maintenance is attributable to the Homebuyer's negligence or to defective materials or workmanship.
b.
Amount of reserve.
The amount of the monthly payments to be set aside for NRMR shall be determined by the Authority, with the approval of HUD, on the basis of the Nonroutine Maintenance Schedule showing the amount estimated to be needed for nonroutine maintenance of the Home during the term of this Agreement, taking into consideration the type of construction and dwelling equipment. This Schedule shall (1) list each item of nonroutine maintenance (e.g., range, refrigerator, plumbing, heating system, roofing, tile flooring, exterior painting, etc.), (2) show for each listed item the estimated frequency of maintenance or useful life before replacement, the estimated cost of maintenance or replacement (including installation) for each occasion, and the annual reserve requirement, and (3) show the total reserve requirements for all the listed items, on an annual and a monthly basis. This Schedule shall be prepared by the Authority and approved by HUD as part of the Submission required to determine the financial feasibility of the Project. The Schedule shall be revised after approval of the working drawings and specifications, and shall thereafter be reexamined annually in the light of changing economic conditions and experience.
c.
Charges to reserve.
(1) The Authority shall provide the nonroutine maintenance necessary for the Home and the cost thereof shall be funded as provided in paragraph c(2) and c(3) of this section. Such maintenance may be provided by the Homebuyer but only
pursuant to a prior written agreement with the Authority covering the nature and scope of the work and the amount of credit the Homebuyer is to receive. The amount of any credit shall, upon completion of the work, be credited to the Homebuyer's EHPA and charged as provided in paragraph c(2) of this section.
(2) The cost of nonroutine maintenance shall be charged to the NRMR for the Home except that (i) to the extent such maintenance is attributable to the fault or negligence of the Homebuyer, the cost shall be charged to the Homebuyer's EHPA after consultation with the HBA if the Homebuyer disagrees, and (ii) to the extent such maintenance is attributable to defective materials or workmanship not covered by warranty, or even though covered by warranty if not paid for through no fault or negligence of the Homebuyer, the cost shall be charged to the appropriate operating expense account of the Project.
(3) In the event the amount charged against the NRMR exceeds the balance therein, the difference (deficit) shall be made up from continuing monthly credits to the NRMR based upon the Homebuyer's monthly payments. If there is still a deficit when the Homebuyer acquires title, the Homebuyer shall pay such deficit at settlement.
d.
Transfer of NRMR.
(1) In the event this Agreement is terminated, the Homebuyer shall not receive any balance or be required to pay any deficit in the NRMR. When a subsequent Homebuyer moves in, the NRMR shall continue to be applicable to the Home in the same amount as if the preceding Homebuyer had continued in occupancy.
(2) In the event the Homebuyer purchases the Home, and there remains a balance in the NRMR, the Authority shall pay such balance to the Homebuyer at settlement. In the event the Homebuyer purchases the Home and there is a deficit in the NRMR, the Homebuyer shall pay such deficit to the Authority at settlement.
e.
Investment of excess.
(1) When the aggregate amount of the NRMR balances for all the Homes exceeds the estimated reserve requirements for 90 days, the Authority shall invest the excess in federally insured savings accounts, federally insured credit unions, and/or securities approved by HUD. Income earned on the investment of such funds shall be prorated and credited to each Homebuyer's NRMR in proportion to the amount in each reserve account.
(2) Periodically, but not less often that semi-annually, the Authority shall prepare a statement showing (i) the aggregate amount of all NRMR balances, (ii) the aggregate amount of investments (savings accounts and/or securities) held for the account of the NRMR and (iii) the aggregate uninvested balance of the NRMRs. A copy of this statement shall be made available to any authorized representative of the HBA.
12.
Operating reserve
—a.
Purpose of reserve.
To the extent that total operating receipts (including subsidies for operations) exceeds total operating expenditures of the Project, the LHA shall establish an operating reserve up to the maximum approved by HUD in connection with its approval of the annual operating budgets for the Project. The purpose of this reserve is to provide funds for (1) the infrequent but costly items of nonroutine maintenance and replacements of common property, taking into consideration the types of items which constitute common property, such as nondwelling structures and equipment, and, in certain cases, common elements of dwelling structures, (2) nonroutine maintenance for the Homes to the extent such maintenance is attributable to defective materials or workmanship not covered by warranty, (3) working capital for payment of a deficit in a Homebuyer's NRMR, until such deficit is offset by future monthly payments by the Homebuyer or at settlement in the event the Homebuyer should purchase, and (4) a deficit in the operation of the Project for a fiscal year, including a deficit resulting from monthly payments totaling less than the break-even amount for the Project.
b.
Nonroutine maintenance
—__________
common property (contribution to operating reserve).
The amount under this heading to be included in operating expense (and in the break-even amount) established for the fiscal year (see sections 8 and 9) shall be determined by the Authority, with the approval of HUD, on the basis of estimates of the monthly amount needed to accumulate an adequate reserve for the items described in paragraph a(1) of this section. This amount shall be subject to revision in the light of experience. This contribution to the Operating Reserve shall be made only during the period the Authority is responsible for the maintenance of any common property; and during such period, the amount shall be determined on the basis of the requirements of all common property in the Development in a manner similar to that explained in Section 9. When the Operating Reserve reaches the maximum authorized in paragraph c of this Section, the break-even (monthly operating expense) computations (see Sections 8 and 9) for the next and succeeding fiscal years need not include a provision for this contribution to the Operating Reserve unless the balance of the Reserve is reduced below the maximum during any such succeeding fiscal year.
c.
Maximum operating reserve.
The maximum operating reserve that may be retained by the Authority at the end of any fiscal year shall be the sum of (1) one-half of total routine expense included in the operating budget approved for the next fiscal year and (2) one-third of total break-even
amounts included in the operating budget approved for the next fiscal year; provided that such maximum may be increased if necessary as determined or approved by HUD. Total routine expense means the sum of the amounts budgeted for administration, homebuyer services. Authority-supplied utilities, routine maintenance of common property, protective services, and general expense or other category of day-to-day routine expense (see section 9 above for explanation of various categories of expense).
d.
Transfer to Homeowners Association.
The Authority shall be responsible for and shall retain custody of the Operating Reserve until the Homeowners acquire voting control of the Homeowners Association (see sections 21c and 22f). When the Homeowners acquire voting control, the Homeowners Association shall then assume full responsibility for management and maintenance of common property under a plan approved by HUD, and there shall be transferred to the Homeowners Association a portion of the Operating Reserve then held by the Authority, as determined by the Authority with the approval of HUD.
e.
Disposition of reserve.
If, at the end of a fiscal year, there is an excess over the maximum Operating Reserve, this excess shall be applied to the operating deficit of the Project, if any, and any remainder shall be paid to HUD. Following the end of the fiscal year in which the last Home has been conveyed by the Authority, the balance of the Operating Reserve held by the Authority shall be paid to HUD, provided that the aggregate amount of payments by the Authority under this paragraph shall not exceed the aggregate amount of annual contributions paid by HUD with respect to the Project.
13.
Annual statement and copies of work orders to homebuyer.
a. The Authority shall maintain books of accounts and provide a statement at least annually to each Homebuyer which will show (i) the amount in his EHPA, and (2) the amount in the NRMR for his Home.
b. During the year, any maintenance or repair done on the dwelling by the Authority, which is chargeable to the EHPA or to the NRMR shall be accounted for through a work order. The Homebuyer shall receive a copy of all such work orders for his Home.
14.
Insurance.
a. Until transfer of title to the Homebuyer, the Authority shall carry all insurance prescribed by HUD including fire and extended coverage insurance upon the Home in such form and amount and with such company or companies as it determines. The Authority shall not carry any insurance on the Homebuyer's furniture, clothing, automobile, or any other personal property, or personal liability insurance covering the Homebuyer.
b. In the event the Home is damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty, the Authority shall consult with the Homebuyer as to whether the Home shall be repaired or rebuilt. If the Authority determines that the Home should not be repaired or rebuilt but the Homebuyer disagrees, the matter shall be submitted to HUD for final determination. If the final determination is that the Home should not be repaired or rebuilt, the Authority shall terminate this Agreement upon reasonable notice to the Homebuyer. In such case, the Homebuyer shall be paid the balance in his EHPA and (to assist him in connection with relocation expenses) the balance in his NRMR, less amounts, if any, due from him to the Authority, including Monthly Payments he may be obligated to pay.
c. In the event of termination or if the Home must be vacated during the repair period, the Authority will use its best efforts to assist in relocating the Homebuyer. If the Home must be vacated during the repair period, Monthly Payments shall be suspended during the vacancy period.
15.
Eligibility for continued occupancy.
a. The Homebuyer shall cease to be eligible for continued occupancy with the aid of HUD annual contributions when the Authority determines the Homebuyer's adjusted monthly income has reached, and is likely to continue at, a level at which the Homebuyer's total payment equals or exceeds the monthly housing cost (see paragraph b of this section). In such an event, if the Authority determines, with HUD approval, that suitable financing is available, the Authority shall notify the Homebuyer that he or she must either: (1) Purchase the Home; or (2) move from the Development. If, however, the Authority determines that, because of special circumstances, the family is unable to find decent, safe and sanitary housing within the family's financial reach although making every reasonable effort to do so, the family may be permitted to remain for the duration of such a situation if it pays as rent a monthly payment consistent with its adjusted monthly income, in accordance with applicable HUD regulations prescribing rental payments for families in housing assisted under the United States Housing Act of 1937. Such a monthly payment shall also be payable by the family if it continues in occupancy without purchasing the home because suitable financing is not available.
b. The term “monthly housing cost,” as used in this section means the sum of: (1) The monthly debt service amount shown on the Purchase Price Schedule (except where the Homebuyer can purchase the Home by the method described in section 16 below); (2) one-twelfth of the annual real property taxes which the Homebuyer will be required to pay as a Homeowner; (3) one-twelfth of the annual premium attributable to fire and extended coverage insurance carried by the Authority with respect to the Home; (4) the
current monthly per unit amount budgeted for routine maintenance (EHPA) and routine maintenance-common property; and (5) the current Authority and HUD approved monthly allowance for utilities paid for directly by the Homebuyer plus the monthly cost of utilities supplied by the Authority.
16.
Achievement of ownership by initial homebuyer
—a.
Determination of initial purchase price.
The Authority shall determine the initial purchase prices of the Homes by two basic steps, as follows:
Step 1.
The Authority shall take the Estimated Total Development Cost (including the full amount for contingencies as authorized by HUD) of the Development as shown in the Development Cost Budget in effect upon award of the Main Construction Contract or execution of the Contract of Sale, and shall deduct therefrom the amounts, if any, attributed to (1) relocation costs, (2) counseling and training costs, and (3) the cost of any community, administration or management facilities including the land, equipment and furnishings attributable to such facilities as set forth in the development program for the Development.
The resulting amount is herein called Estimated Total Development Cost for Homebuyers.
Step 2.
The Authority shall apportion the Estimated Total Development Cost for Homebuyers among all the Homes in the Development. This apportionment shall be made by obtaining an FHA appraisal of each Home, and adjusting such appraised values (upward or downward) by the percentage difference between the total of the appraisal for all the Homes and the Estimated Total Development Cost for Homebuyers. The adjusted amount for each Home shall be the Initial Purchase Price for that Home.
b.
Purchase Price Schedule.
The Homebuyer shall be provided with a Purchase Price Schedule showing (1) the monthly declining purchase price over a 30-year period,
3
commencing with the initial purchase price on the first day of the month following the effective date of this Agreement and (2) the monthly debt service amount upon which the Schedule is based. This Schedule and debt service amount shall be computed on the basis of the initial purchase price, a 30-year period,
3
and a rate of interest equal to the minimum loan interest rate as specified in the Annual Contributions Contract for the Project on the date of HUD approval of the Development Cost Budget, described in paragraph a of this section, rounded up, if necessary, to the next multiple of one-fourth of one percent (
1/4
percent).
3
Change to 25-year period where appropriate pursuant to § 904.101(b)(3) of this subpart.
c.
Methods of Purchase.
(1) The Homebuyer may achieve ownership when the amount in his EHPA, plus such portion of the NRMR as he wishes to use for the purchase, is equal to the purchase price as shown at that time on his Purchase Price Schedule plus all Incidental Costs (“Incidental Costs” means the costs incidental to acquiring ownership, including, but not limited to, the costs for a credit report, field survey title examination, title insurance, and inspections, the fees for attorneys other than the LHA's attorney, mortgage application and organization, closing and recording, and the transfer taxes and loan discount payment if any). If for any reason title to the Home is not conveyed to the Homebuyer during the month in which such circumstances occur, the purchase price shall be fixed at the amount specified for such month and the Homebuyer shall be refunded (i) the net additions, if any, credited to his EHPA subsequent to such month, and (ii) such part of the monthly payments made by the Homebuyer after the purchase price has been fixed which exceeds the sum of the break-even amount attributable to the Home and the interest portion of the debt service shown in the Purchase Price Schedule.
(2) Where the sum of the purchase price and Incidental Costs is greater than the amounts in the Homebuyer's EHPA and NRMR, the Homebuyer may achieve ownership by obtaining financing for or otherwise paying the excess amount. The purchase price shall be the amount shown on his Purchase Price Schedule for the month in which the settlement date for the purchase occurs.
d. The maximum period for achieving ownership shall be 30 years, but depending upon increases in the Homebuyer's income and the amount of credit which the Homebuyer can accumulate through maintenance and voluntary payments, the period may be shortened accordingly.
17.
Achievement of Ownership by Subsequent Homebuyer
—a.
Definition.
In the event the initial Homebuyer and his family vacate the Home before having acquired ownership, a subsequent occupant who enters into a Homebuyer's Ownership Opportunity Agreement and who is not a successor pursuant to section 25 is herein called “Subsequent Homebuyer.”
b.
Determination of Initial Purchase Price.
The initial purchase price for a subsequent Homebuyer shall be an amount equal to (1) the purchase price shown in the initial Homebuyer's Purchase Price Schedule as of the date of this Agreement with the subsequent Homebuyer plus (2) the amount, if any, by which the appraised fair market value of the Home determined or approved by HUD as of the same date, exceeds the purchase price specified in (1). In the event such appraised value has not been determined by the date of execution of this Agreement, the amount of the Initial Purchase Price shall be
inserted in part I, section D after this determination has been made, with appropriate initialling or signing by the parties.
c.
Purchase Price Schedule.
The Subsequent Homebuyer's Purchase Price Schedule shall be the same as the unexpired portion of the initial Homebuyer's Purchase Price Schedule except that where his purchase price includes an additional amount as specified in paragraph b(2) of this section, the initial Homebuyer's Purchase Price Schedule shall be followed by an Additional Purchase Price Schedule for such additional amount based upon the same monthly debt service and the same interest rate as applied to the initial Homebuyer's Purchase Price Schedule.
18.
Transfer of Title to Homebuyer.
When the Homebuyer is to obtain ownership, a closing date shall be mutually agreed upon by the parties. On the closing date, the Homebuyer shall pay the required amount of money to the Authority, sign the promissory note pursuant to section 19, and receive a deed for the Home.
19.
Payment Upon Resale at Profit
—a.
Promissory Note.
(1) When a Homebuyer (whether Initial or Subsequent Homebuyer) achieves ownership, he shall sign a note obligating him to make a payment to the Authority, subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, in the event he resells his Home at a profit within 5 years of actual residence in the Home after he becomes a Homeowner. If, however, the Homeowner should purchase and occupy another Home within one year (18 months in case of a newly constructed home) of the resale of the Turnkey III Home, the Authority shall refund to the Homeowner the amount previously paid by him under the note, less the amount, if any, by which the resale price of the Turnkey III Home exceeds the acquisition price of the new home, provided that application for such refund shall be made no later than 30 days after the date of acquisition of the new home.
(2) The note to be signed by the Homebuyer pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be secured by a second mortgage. The initial amount of the note shall be computed by taking the appraised value of the Home at the time the Homebuyer becomes a Homeowner and subtracting (i) the Homebuyer's purchase price plus the Incidental Costs and (ii) the increase in value of the Home, determined by appraisal, caused by improvements paid for by the Homebuyer with funds from sources other than the EHPA or NRMR. The note shall provide that this initial amount shall be automatically reduced by 20 percent thereof at the end of each year of residency as Homeowner, with the note terminating at the end of the five-year period of residency, as determined by the Authority. To protect the Homeowner, the note shall provide that the amount payable under it shall in no event be more than the net profit on the resale, that is, the amount by which the resale price exceeds the sum of (i) the Homebuyer's purchase price plus the Incidental Costs, (ii) the costs of the resale, including commissions and mortgage prepayment penalties, if any, and (iii) the increase in value of the Home, determined by appraisal, resulting from improvements paid for by him as a Homebuyer (with funds other than from the EHPA or NRMR) or as a Homeowner.
(b)
Residency requirements.
The five-year note periods does not end if the Homeowner rents or otherwise does not use the Home as his principal place of residence for any period within the first five years after he achieves ownership. Only the actual amount of time he is in residence is counted and the note shall be in effect until a total of five years time of residence has elapsed, at which time the Homeowner may request the Authority to release him from the note, and the Authority shall do so.
20.
Responsibilities of Homeowner.
After acquisition of ownership, the Homeowner shall pay to the Authority or to the Homeowners Association, as appropriate, a monthly fee for (a) the maintenance and operation of community facilities including utility facilities, if any, (b) the maintenance of grounds and other common areas, and (c) such other purpose as determined by the Authority or the Homeowners Association, as appropriate, including taxes and a provision for a reserve.
21.
Homeowners Association—Planned Unit Development (PUD)
4
4
If this Home is a Development of scattered sites, delete both sections 21 and 22. If this Home is in a Planned Unit Development, delete section 22. If this Home is in a Condominium, delete section 21.
If the Development is organized as a planned unit development:
a. The common areas, sidewalks, parking lots and other common property in the Development shall be owned and maintained as provided for in the approved planned unit development (PUD) program, except that the Authority shall be responsible for maintenance until such time as the Homeowners Association assumes such responsibility (see section 12 above).
b. The title ultimately conveyed to the Homebuyer shall be subject to restrictions and encumbrances to protect the rights and property of all other Homeowners. The Homeowners Association shall have the right and obligation to enforce such restrictions and encumbrances and to assess Homeowners for the costs incurred in connection with common areas and property and other responsibilities.
c. There shall be as many votes in the Association as there are Homes in the Development, and at the outset all the voting rights will be held by the Authority. As each Home
is conveyed to a Homebuyer, one vote shall automatically go to that Homebuyer so that when all the Homes have been conveyed, the Authority shall no longer have any interest in the Homeowners Association.
d. The Authority shall not lose its majority voting interest in the Association as soon as a majority of the Homes have been conveyed, unless the law of the state requires control to be transferred at a particular time or the Authority so desires. If permitted by state law, provisions shall be made for each Home owned by the Authority to carry three votes while each Home owned by a Homeowner shall carry one vote. Under this weighted voting plan, the Authority will continue to have voting control until 75 percent of the Homes have been acquired by Homeowners. However, at its discretion, the Authority may transfer voting control to the Homeowners when at least 50 percent of the Homes have been acquired by the Homeowners.
22.
Homeowners Association—Condominium.
5
If the Development is organized as a condominium:
5
If this Home is a Development of scattered sites, delete both sections 21 and 22. If this Home is in a Planned Unit Development, delete section 22. If this Home is in Condominium, delete section 21.
a. The Authority at the outset shall own each condominium unit and the undivided interest of such unit in the common areas.
b. All the land, including that land under the housing units, shall be a part of the common areas.
c. The Homeowners Association shall own no property and shall merely maintain and operate the common areas for the individual owners of the condominium units, except that the Authority shall be responsible for maintenance until such time as the Homeowners Association assumes such responsibility (see section 12 above).
d. The percentage of undivided interest attached to each condominium unit shall be based on the ratio of the value of the unit to the value of all units and shall be fixed when the Development is completed. This percentage shall determine the Homeowner's liability for the maintenance of the common areas and facilities.
e. Each Homeowner vote in the Homeowners Association will be identical with the percentage of undivided interest attached to his unit.
f. The Authority shall not lose its majority voting interest in the Association as soon as units representing more than 50 percent of the value of all units have been conveyed, unless the law of the state requires control to be transferred at a particular time or the Authority so desires. For voting purposes, until units representing 75 percent of the value of all units have been acquired by Homeowners, the total undivided interest attributable to the Homes owned by the Authority shall be multiplied by three, if such weighted voting plan is permitted by state law. Under this plan, the Authority will continue to have voting control until units representing 75 percent of the value of all units have been acquired by Homeowners. However, at its discretion the Authority may transfer voting control to the Homeowners when units representing at least 50 percent of the value of all units have been acquired by the Homeowners.
23.
Relationship of Homeowners Association to Homebuyers Association.
The Homebuyers Association and the Authority may make arrangements with the Homeowners Association to permit Homebuyers to participate in Homeowners Association matters which affect the Homebuyers. Such arrangements may include rights to attend meetings and to participate in Homeowners Association deliberations and decisions.
24.
Termination of Agreement
—a.
Termination by the Authority
—(1) In the event the Homebuyer should breach this Agreement by failure to make a required Monthly Payment within 10 days after its due date, by misrepresentation or withholding of information in applying for admission or in connection with any subsequent reexamination of income and family composition, or by failure to comply with any other Homebuyer obligation under this Agreement, the Authority may terminate this Agreement 30 days after giving the Homebuyer notice of its intention to do so in accordance with paragraph (2) of this section.
(2) Notice of termination by the Authority shall be in writing. Such notice shall state (i) the reason for termination, (ii) that the Homebuyer may respond to the Authority, in writing or in person, within a specified reasonable period of time regarding the reason for termination, (iii) that in such response he may be represented or accompanied by a person of his choice, including a representative of the HBA, (iv) that the Authority will consult the HBA concerning the termination, and (v) that, unless the Authority rescinds or modifies the notice, the termination will be effective at the end of the 30-day notice period.
b.
Termination by the Homebuyer.
The Homebuyer may terminate this Agreement by giving the Authority 30 days notice in writing of his intention to terminate and to vacate the Home. In the event that the Homebuyer vacates the Home without notice to the Authority, this Agreement shall be terminated automatically and the Authority may dispose of, in any manner deemed suitable by it, any items of personal property left by the Homebuyer in the Home.
c.
Transfer to rental unit.
(1) Inasmuch as the Homebuyer was found eligible for admission to the Project on the basis of having the necessary elements, of potential for Homeownership, continuation of eligibility requires continuation of this potential, subject only to temporary unforeseen changes in circumstances. The standards of potential for Homeownership are the following:
(i) Income sufficient to result in a required monthly payment which is not less than the sum of the amounts necessary to pay the EHPA, the NRMR, and the estimated average monthly cost of utilities attributable to the Home;
(ii) Ability to meet all the obligations of a Homebuyer under the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement;
(iii) At least one member gainfully employed, or having an established source of continuing income.
(2) Accordingly, in the event it should develop that the Homebuyer no longer meets one or more of these elements of Homeownership potential, the Authority shall investigate the circumstances and provide such counseling and assistance as may be feasible in order to help the family overcome the deficiency as promptly as possible. After a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days from the date of evaluation of the results of the investigation, the Authority shall make a re-evaluation as to whether the family has regained the potential for Homeownership or is likely to do so within a further reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days from the date of the re-evaluation. Further extension of time may be granted in exceptional cases, but in any event a final determination shall be made no later than 90 days from the date of evaluation of the results of the initial investigation. The Authority shall invite the HBA to participate in all investigations and evaluations.
(3) If the final determination of the Authority, after considering the views of the HBA, is that the Homebuyer should be transferred to a suitable dwelling unit in an Authority rental project, the Authority shall give the Homebuyer written notice of the Authority determination of the loss of Homeownership potential and of the offer of transfer to a rental unit. The notice shall state that the transfer shall occur as soon as a suitable rental unit is available for occupancy but no earlier than 30 days from the date of the notice, provided that an eligible successor for the Homebuyer unit has been selected by the Authority. The notice shall also state that if the Homebuyer should refuse to move under such circumstances, the family may be required to vacate the Homebuyer unit, without further notice. The notice shall include a statement (i) that the Homebuyer may respond to the Authority in writing or in person, within a specified reasonable time, regarding the reason for the determination and offer of transfer, (ii) that in such response he may be represented or accompanied by a person of his choice including a representative of the HBA, and (iii) that the Authority has consulted the HBA concerning this determination and offer of transfer.
(4) When a Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement is terminated pursuant to this paragraph 24c, the amount in the Homebuyer's EHPA shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 10k of this Agreement.
25.
Survivorship.
(1) In the event of death, mental incapacity or abandonment of the family by the Homebuyer, the person designated as the successor in part I of this Agreement shall succeed to the rights and responsibilities under the Agreement if that person is an occupant of the Home at the time of the event and is determined by the Authority to meet all of the standards of potential for homeownership as set forth in section 24a. This designation may be changed by the Homebuyer at any time. If there is no such designation or the designee is no longer an occupant of the Home or does not meet the standards of potential for homeownership, the Authority may consider as the Homebuyer any family member who was in occupancy at the time of the event and who meets the standards of potential for homeownership.
(2) If there is no qualified successor in accordance with the above, the Authority shall terminate the Agreement and another family shall be selected, except under the following circumstances: where a minor child or children of the Homebuyer family are in occupancy, then in order to protect their continued occupancy and opportunity for acquisition of ownership of the Home, the Authority may approve as occupants of the unit, an appropriate adult(s) who has been appointed legal guardian of the children with a duty to perform the obligations of the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement in their interest and behalf.
26.
Nonassignability and Use of Reserves and Accounts
—a.
Nonassignability.
The Homebuyer shall not assign this Agreement, or assign, mortgage or pledge any right or interest in the Home or in this Agreement including any right or interest in any reserve or account, except with the prior written approval of the Authority and HUD.
b.
Use of Reserves and Accounts.
It is understood and agreed that the Homebuyer shall have no right to receive or use the money in any reserve or account created pursuant to this Agreement except for the limited purposes and under the special circumstances set forth by the terms of this Agreement. It is further understood and agreed that both the Authority and HUD have a financial and a governmental interest in the Earned Home
Payments Account and other reserves as security for the financial integrity of the Development, as a means of savings in cost to the Government by minimizing the amount and period over which HUD annual contributions must be paid, and as a means of advancing the public interest and welfare by assisting low-income families to achieve homeownership.
27.
Notices.
Any notice required hereunder or by law shall be sufficient if delivered in writing to the Homebuyer personally or to an adult member of his family residing in the dwelling unit or if sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, properly addressed to the Homebuyer, postage prepaid. Notice to the Authority shall be in writing, and either delivered to any Authority employee at the office of the Authority or sent to the Authority by certified mail, properly addressed, postage prepaid.
28.
Grievance Procedure.
All grievances or appeals arising under this Agreement shall be processed and resolved pursuant to the grievance procedure of the Authority, which procedure shall provide for participation of the HBA in the grievance process. This grievance procedure shall be posted in the Authority's Office.
[39 FR 10966, Mar. 22, 1974. Redesignated at 49 FR 15580, Apr. 7, 1975. Redesignated at 49 FR 6714, Feb. 23, 1984, and amended at 49 FR 21490, May 21, 1984]
Pt. 904, Subpt. B, App. III

# Appendix III to Subpart B of Part 904—Certification of Homebuyer Status

# (Subpart B)
State of __________
County of __________
This is to certify that
(Homebuyer)
of the Home located at ______________:
(1) Has achieved, within the first two years of his occupancy a balance in his Earned Home Payments Account (EHPA) of at least __________ dollars (representing 20 times the amount of the monthly EHPA credit applicable to said Home);
(2) Has met and is continuing to meet the requirements of his Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement; and
(3) Has rendered and is continuing to render satisfactory performance of his responsibilities to the Homebuyers Association.
Accordingly, said Homebuyer may, upon payment of the purchase price, exercise the option to purchase the Home in accordance with and subject to the provisions of his Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement.Housing Authority
By
(Signature and official title)
(Date) ____________________
Homebuyers Association
By
(Signature and official title)
(Date) ____________________
Pt. 904, Subpt. B, App. IV

# Appendix IV to Subpart B of Part 904—Promissory Note for Payment upon Resale by Homebuyer at Profit

# (Subpart B)
FOR VALUE RECEIVED,
(Homeowner) promises to pay to
(Authority) or order, the principal sum of ____________________
1
Dollars
($________), without interest, on the date of resale by the Homeowner of the property conveyed by the Authority to the Homeowner.
1
Amount determined in accordance with section 19 of the Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement.
Such principal sum shall be reduced automatically by 20 percent of the initial amount at the end of each year of such residency, as a Homeowner, and this note shall terminate at the end of five years of such residency, as determined by the Authority; Provided, however, that the amount payable under this note shall in no event be more than the net profit on the resale, that is, the amount by which the resale price exceeds the sum of (1) the Homeowner's purchase price, (2) the costs incidental to his acquisition of ownership, (3) the costs of the resale, including commissions and mortgage prepayment penalties, if any, and (4) the increase in value of the Home, determined by appraisal, due to improvements paid for by the Homeowner whether as a Homebuyer (with funds from sources other than his Earned Home Payments Account or his Nonroutine Maintenance Reserve) or as a Homeowner.
If the Homeowner shall pay this note at the time and in the manner set forth above, or if, by its provisions, the amount of this note shall be zero, then the note shall terminate and the Authority shall, within thirty (30) days after written demand therefor by the Homeowner, execute a release and satisfaction of this note. The Homeowner hereby waives the benefits of all statutes or laws which require the earlier execution or delivery of such release and satisfaction by the Authority.
Presentment, protest, and notice are hereby waived.
Dated ________________________, 19____
Local Housing Authority
By: ____________________(Homeowner)
____________________ (Homeowner's Spouse)

# Subpart C—Homeownership Counseling and Training
§ 904.201
Purpose.
The purpose of the counseling and training program shall be to assure that the homebuyers, individually and collectively through their homebuyers association (HBA), will be more capable of dealing with situations with which they may be confronted, making decisions related to these situations, and understanding and accepting the responsibility and consequences that accompany those decisions.
§ 904.202
Objectives.
The counseling and training program should seek to achieve the following objectives:
(a) Enable the potential homebuyer to have a full understanding of the responsibilities that accompany his participation in the Homeownership Opportunity Program;
(b) Enable the potential homebuyer to have an understanding of homeownership tasks with specific training given to individuals as the need and readiness for counseling or training indicates;
(c) Assure that the role of the HBA is understood and plans for its organization are initiated at the earliest practical time;
(d) Develop an understanding of the role of the LHA and of the need for a cooperative relationship between the homebuyer and the LHA;
(e) Encourage the development of self-help by the homebuyer through reducing dependency and increasing independent action;
(f) Develop an understanding of mutual assistance and cooperation that will develop a feeling of self-respect, pride and community responsibility;
(g) Develop local resources that can be of assistance to the individual and the community on an on-going basis.
§ 904.203
Planning.
(a) The counseling and training program shall be flexible and responsive to the needs of each prospective homebuyer. While many subjects lend themselves to group sessions, consideration shall be given to individual counseling. Individuals should not be required to attend training classes on subject matter they are familiar with unless they can actively participate in the instruction process.
(b) The program may be provided by contract with an outside organization, or by the LHA staff, in either case with voluntary involvement and assistance of groups and individuals within the community. It is essential that the training entity be completely knowledgeable and supportive of the entire Homeownership Opportunity Program. It may be recognized that most of the objectives stated require specialized instructional skill and content knowledge. There shall be recognition of the differences in communication and in value systems, and an understanding and respect for past experience of the individual. Maximum possible use shall be made of indigenous trainers to insure good communication and rapport. Special attention shall be directed to the needs of working members of the family for counseling and training sessions to be held where and during the time they can attend. Where the services of outside contractors are utilized, there shall be a close working relationship with the LHA and a program for phasing in LHA staff who will have the on-going responsibility for the program. The value of local agencies, educational institutions, etc., for implementing the program rather than an outside firm shall be carefully considered since the continuing presence of such agencies and institutions in the community can often develop into an on-going resource beyond the contract period.
(c) In planning a homeownership counseling and training program, whether self-administered or contracted, the LHA shall consult with HUD for advice and information on programs, qualified contractors, local resources, reasonable costs, and other similar matters.
(d) Where the program is to be contracted to an outside group, proposals shall be secured either by public advertising or by sending requests for proposals to a number of competent public or private organizations.
(e) In areas where there are large concentrations of homebuyers who do not read, write, or understand English
fluently, the native language of the people shall be used. If feasible all instructional materials shall be in both languages.
§ 904.204
General requirements and information.
(a) The counseling and training program shall be designed to meet the needs of the homebuyers and be sufficiently flexible to meet new needs as they arise. The nature of the program suggests four phases of counseling: (1) Pre-occupancy; (2) move-in; (3) post-occupancy; (4) assistance to the HBA. While some elements of the program lend themselves more to one phase than another, the program areas shall be coordinated and interrelated. It is recommended that the entity providing these services work closely with the participants and ensure that policies established are agreeable to both the LHA and the homebuyer.
(b) The following is a description of major elements of the program which experience thus far has shown to be relevant. More detailed information is set forth in Appendix I, “Content Guide for Counseling and Training Program.”
(1)
Pre-occupancy phase.
The purpose of this phase is to prepare the selected families to assume the responsibilities of homeownership, and to provide an opportunity for the LHA and each family to reassess the family's potential for successful participation in the homeownership development.
(i) An overload of information should be avoided in this phase since many of the subjects will be dealt with in greater depth after the family is in occupancy, and experience has shown that much of the information will be more relevant at that time.
(ii) This phase should be completed for each family before the beginning of its occupancy.
(2)
Move-in phase.
During this phase, the counseling and training staff should be available to the homebuyers on an individual basis. Services may include (i) inspecting the units, interior and exterior, with the homebuyers and a representative of the LHA, (ii) testing appliances and equipment, (iii) providing information on the moving process (packing, trucks, etc.), and (iv) assisting homebuyers in making adjustments occasioned by the move, serving as liaison among homebuyers, LHA, builder and other agencies, and assisting homebuyers in meeting new neighbors.
(3)
Post-occupancy phase.
Before this phase begins, a period (possibly one month) should elapse to allow homebuyers an opportunity to adjust to their new surroundings. This is a time when new questions and problems come to light that can be dealt with in further counseling and training. This phase should be designed to cover many of the same basic subjects as the pre-occupancy phase, both by review and refresher where necessary but in much greater depth.
(4)
Assistance to the HBA.
The parties responsible for the counseling and training program shall be responsible for the formation, incorporation, and development of the HBA, including the execution of the Recognition Agreement between the LHA and HBA, as provided in subpart D of this part.
§ 904.205
Training methodology.
Equal in importance to the content of the pre- and post-occupancy training is the training methodology. Because groups vary, there should be adaptability in the communication and learning experience. Methods to be utilized may include group presentations, small discussion groups, special classes, and workshops. Especially important to a successful program are individual family home visits for discussion and instruction on unique problems and operation of equipment.
§ 904.206
Funding.
(a)
Source of funds.
For purpose of funding counseling and training pursuant to this subpart and for establishing the HBA, the LHA shall include an amount equal to $500 per dwelling unit in the development cost budget. If additional funds should be needed for any of these purposes, the LHA with the assistance of the CPC, if any, shall explore all other possible sources of services and funds.
(b)
Planned use of $500-per-unit funds.
These funds are to be used to pay for:
(1) Pre- and post-occupancy counseling and training;
(2) Establishment and initial operation of the HBA (for operation in the management phase, see § 904.305).
In planning the use of these funds, the LHA shall recognize that for a number of years after the initial counseling and training there is likely to be some turnover and follow-up counseling and training needs. Therefore, the LHA shall limit the amounts for the counseling and training of the initial homebuyers and shall reserve a reasonable amount for future counseling and training needs during the management phase of the development.
(c)
Period of availability of $500-per-unit funds.
These funds shall be available during the development phase, and a specific amount shall be set aside, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, to be used for ongoing needs after the close of the development period.
(d)
Budgeting of $500-per-unit funds.
(1) The Development Cost Budget submitted with the Development Program shall include an estimated amount for counseling and training program costs. However, such costs shall not be incurred until after HUD approval of the counseling and training program.
(2) Upon HUD approval of the counseling and training program, the LHA shall include the approved amount in its Contract Award Development Cost Budget. This amount shall constitute the maximum amount that may be included for such purposes in the project development cost; provided that, if the approved amount is less than $500 per dwelling unit, it may, if necessary, be amended with HUD approval, but not later than the Final Development Cost Budget and subject to the $500-per-unit limitation.
(e)
Application for approval of counseling and training program.
(1) The LHA shall submit an application for approval of a counseling and training program and for approval of funds therefor. This application shall be submitted to HUD at the time of the submission of the development program or as soon thereafter as possible but no later than the submission of the working drawings and specifications.
(2) The application shall include a narrative statement outlining the counseling and training program, including any services and funds to be obtained from other sources, together with copies of any proposed contract and other pertinent documents. This statement shall include the following:
(i) Indication that the training entity is completely knowledgeable of the Homeownership Opportunity Program and is aware of the needs and problems of prospective homebuyers;
(ii) The method and/or instruments to be used to determine individual training and counseling needs;
(iii) The scope of the proposed program, including a detailed breakdown of tasks to be performed, products to be produced, and a time schedule, including provision for progress payments for specific tasks;
(iv) An outline of the proposed content of the counseling and training to be provided, and the local community resources to be utilized;
(v) The methods of counseling and training to be utilized;
(vi) The experience and qualifications of the organization and of personnel who will directly provide the counseling and training;
(vii) The estimated cost, source of funds, and methods of payment for the tasks and products to be performed or produced, including estimates of costs for each of the following categories:
(
a
) Counseling and training during development phase:
Salaries
Materials, supplies and expendable equipment
Contract costs
Other costs
(
b
) Establishment and initial operation of HBA
(
c
) Counseling and training during management phase
§ 904.207
Use of appendix.
A Content Guide for Counseling and Training Program (Appendix I) is provided as further detailed information for consideration in designing the counseling and training program. The items set forth therein are not to be considered mandatory.
Pt. 904, Subpt. C, App. I

# Appendix I to Subpart C of Part 904—Content Guide for Counseling and Training Program

# (Subpart C)
Inclusion of the following items in the Counseling and Training Program should be considered, keeping in mind that the extent to which they are covered will depend on specific needs of homebuyers in the given development.

# preoccupancy phase
1.
Explanation of program.
Includes the background and a full description of the program with special emphasis on the financial and legal responsibilities of the homebuyers, the HBA, and the LHA; and a review for homebuyers of the computation of the monthly payment and of the accumulation and purpose of EHPA and reserves.
2.
Property care and maintenance.
Includes making homebuyers generally familiar with the overall operation of the home, including fixtures, equipment, interior designing, and building and equipment warranties, and the appropriate procedures for obtaining services and repairs to which the homebuyers may be entitled. (This aspect will probably have to be covered in more detail during the Post-Occupancy Phase.)
3.
Money management.
Includes budgeting, consumer education, credit counseling, insurance, utility costs, etc.
4.
Developing community.
Includes a view of the surrounding community, and especially how the homebuyer relates to it as an individual and as a member of the HBA.
5.
Referrals.
Includes information as to community resources and services where assistance can be obtained in relation to individual or family problems beyond the scope of the contract agency. This may include referrals to community services that can upgrade employment skills, provide legal services, offer educational opportunities, care for health and dental needs, care for children of working mothers, provide guidance in marital problems and general family matters, including drugs and alcohol.

# post-occupancy phase
1.
Home maintenance.
This should include builder responsibility, identification of minor and major repairs, instructions on do-it-yourself repairs and methods of having major repairs completed.
2.
Money management.
This should involve an in-depth study of the legal and financial aspects of consumer credit, savings and investments, and budget counseling.
3.
Developing community.
This will consist primarily of creating an awareness on the part of the homebuyer of the nature and function of the HBA and the value of his participation in, and working through, the HBA as a responsible member of his community. By this means much will be learned about relationships with neighbors, community cooperation, and the ways in which individual and group problems are solved.

# other items
In addition to the above, there are other needs and concerns, especially those expressed by the homebuyers, that may be dealt with in special classes or workshops. These may include such topics as child care, selection of furnishings, decorating and furnishing, refinishing of furniture, upholstery, sewing, food and nutrition, care of clothing, etc.

# Subpart D—Homebuyers Association (HBA)
§ 904.301
Purpose.
(a) It is essential that the homebuyers have an organized vehicle for pursuing their common interests, for effectively representing the needs of residents in dealing with the LHA, and for undertaking eventual management responsibility for the development. Although this organization, called the homebuyers association (HBA), shall be representative of the homebuyers and independent of the LHA, it shall be the responsibility of the LHA and the training and counseling staff to assist the homebuyers in their initial efforts at organization.
(b) Except as noted in § 904.307, each Turnkey III development shall have an HBA. There shall be a separate HBA for each development or developments where there is a physical and financial community of interest.
§ 904.302
Membership.
Every family entitled to occupancy pursuant to a Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement and every family which is a homeowner shall automatically be a member of the HBA.
§ 904.303
Organizing the HBA.
(a) The HBA should be organized and incorporated as early in the life of the development as is feasible, in order to allow selected homebuyers an opportunity to meet each other and begin forging a sense of community, but in any case the HBA shall be organized and incorporated no later than the date on which 50 percent of the homebuyers
have been selected. Interim officers and directors shall be designated as part of the initial organization of the HBA to serve until full-term officers and directors are elected. Such full-term officers and directors shall be elected when 60 percent of the homebuyers are in occupancy, but, in any event, not later than one year from the date the first home is occupied.
(b) The LHA, in cooperation with the CPC, if any, shall be responsible for assuring that competent counseling and training assistance pursuant to Subpart C of this part will be provided in organizing the HBA. These services shall be continued until the HBA is fully operational.
(c) The provision of such services shall include at least the following functions:
(1) Assembling homebuyers for initial orientation and planning;
(2) Explaining to homebuyers the structure and functions of an HBA and the rights and responsibilities of the HBA and the LHA;
(3) Aiding in the preparation of charters, by-laws, contracts with the LHA and other appropriate documents;
(4) Assisting in the formation of the organization, including such things as the initial designation of interim officers and directors and subsequent election of full-term HBA officers and directors, and the establishment of necessary committees, if any.
(d) The LHA and the HBA shall execute an agreement recognizing the HBA as the official representative of the homebuyers, and establishing the functions, rights, and responsibilities of both parties (see Appendix II). This agreement shall be executed as soon as possible after incorporation of the HBA.
§ 904.304
Functions of the HBA.
(a) Subject to possible variations agreed to by the HBA and approved by HUD, the functions of the HBA shall include the following:
(1) Representing its members, individually and collectively, with respect to any deficiencies in the development or in the homes and with respect to fulfillment of the construction contract and related warranties;
(2) Representing its members, individually and collectively, in their relationships with the LHA and others in regard to financial matters such as monthly payments, credits to and charges against reserves, settlement upon vacating the home, acquisition of ownership, and other matters pertaining to operation and management of the development;
(3) Recommending policies and rules to the LHA for operation and management including rules concerning use of the common areas and community facilities;
(4) Participating in the operation of official grievance mechanisms;
(5) Advising and assisting its members regarding procedures and practices relative to the Earned Home Payments Account and the acquisition of homeownership;
(6) Participating with the LHA in periodic maintenance inspections of homes after occupancy, and making recommendations in case of disagreements arising out of maintenance inspections;
(7) Participating with the LHA in the selection of subsequent homebuyers;
(8) Coordinating, supervising, or managing the operation of credit union, child care, or other supportive services established for the development;
(9) Participating with the LHA in the establishment and implementation of policies related to collection of monthly payments, termination of occupancy, and resolution of hardship situations; and
(10) Performing management services as specified under contract with the Authority or with the Homeowners Association and participating in other activities pursuant to agreement with the LHA or with the Homeowners Association.
(b) In addition, the HBA may offer such special services as the following:
(1) The development of self-help such as consumer clubs, furniture and other co-ops, credit unions, transportation pools, and skill pools;
(2) Assisting homebuyers in acquiring group insurance;
(3) Developing programs and contracting for services such as child care
centers to be located in the community facility where such a facility exists;
(4) Assisting homebuyers in their employment, especially by participating in skill development and apprenticeship programs in cooperation with local educational organizations;
(5) Assisting homebuyers in planning the management role of the HBA and in negotiating any contract for management services with the LHA.
§ 904.305
Funding of HBA.
(a) In addition to providing the HBA with noncash contributions such as office space and duplicating services, the LHA shall make cash contributions for operating expenses of the HBA, in the amount provided for in paragraph (b) of this section. Until the project goes into management, these contributions shall be made from the development funds budgeted for the counseling and training program (see § 904.206). Thereafter, these contributions shall be provided for in the annual operating budgets of the LHA.
(b) The cash contributions pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be in the amount provided for in the LHA budget (development cost budget or annual operating budget, as the case may be) and approved by HUD. Such contributions shall be subject to whatever restrictions are applied by HUD to the funding of tenant councils generally, but they shall not exceed $3 per year per dwelling unit; provided that as an incentive to the HBA to provide additional funds from other sources such as homebuyer's dues, contributions, revenues from special projects or activities, etc., the LHA shall, to the extent approved by HUD in the LHA budget, match such additional funds beyond the $3 up to a maximum of $4.50, for a total LHA share of $7.50 where the total funding for the HBA is $12 or more. The HBA shall not be precluded from seeking to achieve total funding in excess of $12 per unit where this can be done with additional funds from sources other than the LHA. Furthermore, funding by the LHA for the normal expenses of the HBA is not to be confused with fees paid pursuant to management services contracts as described in § 904.306.
§ 904.306
Performing management services.
The LHA may also contract with the HBA to perform some or all of the functions of project management for which the HBA may be better suited or located than the LHA. Such functions may include security, maintenance of common property, or collection of monthly payments. For this purpose, the HBA may form a management corporation and the officers of the HBA shall be the directors of such corporation. This corporation and the LHA shall then negotiate a management services contract. Such arrangements are consistent with the objective of providing for maximum participation by residents in the management of their developments. As an alternative, the HBA and the LHA may elect to undertake any other arrangement approved by HUD.
§ 904.307
Alternative to HBA.
Where the homes are on scattered sites (noncontiguous lots throughout a multi-block area, with no common property), or where the number of homes may be too few to support an HBA, and where an alternative method for homebuyer representation and continuing counseling is provided, an HBA shall not be required. For such cases, a modified form of homebuyers association may be called for or a less formal organization may be desirable. This decision shall be made jointly by the LHA and the homebuyers, acting on the recommendation of HUD.
§ 904.308
Relationship with homeowners association.
The HBA and the homeowners association are, in legal terms, separate and distinct organizations with different functions. The homeowners association may hold title to and be responsible for maintenance of common property (see §§ 904.119 and 904.120), while the HBA has more general service and representative functions. While all residents are members of the HBA, only those who have acquired title to their homes are members of the homeowners association.
§ 904.309
Use of appendices.
Use of the Articles of Incorporation (Part I of Appendix I) and the Recognition Agreement between the Local Housing Authority and Homebuyers Association (Appendix II) is mandatory for projects developed under subpart B of this part which have homebuyers associations. No modification may be made in format, content or text of these Appendices except (1) as required under state or local law as determined by HUD or (2) with approval of HUD. The By-Laws of the Homebuyers Association is provided as a guide for such projects and it may be used or modified to the extent required by the HBA and LHA respectively to meet local needs and desires.
Pt. 904, Subpt. D, App. I

# Appendix I to Subpart D of Part 904—Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws of ______________ Homebuyers Association

# (Subpart D)
Part I—
Articles of Incorporation
In compliance with the requirements of
(reference to statute under which incorporation is sought) the undesigned, all of whom are natural persons, residents of ____________________, of full age, have this day voluntarily associated themselves together for the purpose of forming a Corporation, not-for-profit, and do hereby certify:

# Article I—Name
The name of the corporation is
______________ Homebuyers Association (hereinafter referred to as the “Association”).

# Article II—Office
The principal office of the Association is
located at

# Article III—Agent
________________________, whose address is ________________________, is hereby appointed the initial registered agent of the Association.

# Article IV—Duration
The period of duration of the Association is perpetual.

# Article V—Membership
Membership in the Association shall be limited to families who are entitled to occupancy of a Home in the Development pursuant to a Homebuyers Ownership Opportunity Agreement and families who are Homeowners in the Development, and all such families shall automatically be members so long as they are in occupancy of a Home. For purposes of these Articles, the term “Development” includes the following described Development or Developments in the Homeownership Opportunity Program of ____________________ (hereinafter referred to as the Authority):

# Article VI—Purposes
The purposes for which this Association is formed shall not result in pecuniary gain or profit to the members thereof. These purposes are to provide organization and representation for its members in their relationships with the Authority in all matters regarding the homeownership opportunity program and, if appropriate, to perform management responsibilities for the Development under contract with the Authority.
1. In order to carry out these purposes, the Association shall perform the following functions:
a. Represent its members, individually and collectively, with respect to any deficiencies in the Development or in the Homes and with respect to fulfillment of the construction contract and related warranties;
b. Represent its members, individually and collectively, in their relationships with the Authority and others in regard to financial matters such as monthly payments, credits to and charges against reserves, settlement upon vacating a Home, and acquisition of ownership, and other matters pertaining to operation and management of the development;
c. Recommend policies and rules to the Authority for operation and management including rules concerning use of the common areas and community facilities;
d. Participate in the operation of official grievance mechanisms;
e. Advise and assist its members regarding procedures and practices relative to their Earned Home Payments Accounts and to their acquisition of homeownership;
f. Participate with the Authority in periodic maintenance inspections of the Homes after occupancy and make recommendations in case of disagreement arising out of maintenance inspections;
g. Participate with the Authority in the selection of subsequent homebuyers;
h. Coordinate, supervise, or manage the operation of credit union, child care, or other supportive services established for the Development;
i. Participate with the Authority in the establishment and implementation of policies related to collection of monthly payments, termination of occupancy, and resolution of hardship situations;
j. Perform management services as specified under contract with the Authority or with the Homeowners Association and participate in other activities pursuant to agreement with the Authority or with the Homeowners Association.
2. The Association may also offer special services such as:
a. The development of self-help such as consumer clubs, furniture and other co-ops, credit unions, transportation pools, and skill pools;
b. Assisting Homebuyers in acquiring group insurance;
c. Developing programs and contracting for services such as child care centers to be located in the community facility, where such a facility exists;
d. Assisting Homebuyers in their employment, especially by participating in skill development and apprenticeship programs in cooperation with local educational organizations; and
e. Assisting Homebuyers in planning the management role of the Association and in negotiating any contract for management services with the Authority.

# Article VII—Powers
This Association shall have all the powers, privileges, rights and immunities which are necessary or convenient for carrying out its purposes and which are conferred by the provisions of all applicable laws of the State of __________________ pertaining to non-profit corporations.

# Article VIII—Voting
There shall be only one vote per Home regardless of the number of persons in the family that occupies the Home.

# Article IX—Board of Directors and By-laws
The affairs of the Association shall be managed by a Board of Directors, all of whom shall be members of the Association. The number of Directors shall be as provided in the By-Laws of the Association. The following persons shall serve as the first Board of Directors and as the first officers:
Office
Address
This Board shall manage the affairs of the Association until election of their successors by the membership.
Promptly after 60 percent of the Homes are occupied, or one year from the date the first Home is occupied, whichever occurs sooner, the Board shall call the first annual meeting of the Association at which the members shall adopt By-Laws and elect one-third of the Board for a term of one year, one-third for a term of two years, and one-third for a term of three years. At each annual meeting thereafter the members shall elect one-third of the Board for a term of three years.

# Article X—Dissolution
After all members have acquired ownership of their Homes, the Association shall be dissolved with the assent given in writing and signed by not less than two-thirds of the members. The dissolution shall be effective when all of the assets of the Association remaining after payment of its liabilities have been granted, conveyed and assigned in such manner as the Association and Authority may mutually agree.

# Article XI—Amendment
Amendment of these Articles shall require the assent of 75 percent of the entire membership.
In witness whereof,
for the purposes of incorporating this Association under the laws of the State of ______________, we, the undersigned constituting the incorporators of this Association, have executed these Articles of Incorporation this ____________ day of ______________, 19____.
[Witness, Notary, or Acknowledgment as required by state law]

# Note:
The following is a suggested form of By-Laws. Different format and content to meet local needs may be used. For example, it may be considered desirable to combine HBA offices, eliminate or change functions of various committees, provide for other committees, etc.
Part II—
By-Laws
The members of the __________________ Homebuyers Association (hereinafter referred to as the “Association”) do hereby adopt in accordance with Article IX of the Articles of Incorporation the following By-Laws:
Section 1.
Organization
—The affairs of the Association shall be managed by a Board of Directors elected by and from the members of the Association. The Board shall elect officers of the Association, including a President, Vice President, Secretary, and Treasurer, who shall carry out such functions and duties as are prescribed by these By-Laws and the Board.
Sec. 2.
Association meetings
—A.
Annual meetings.
The Association shall have an annual meeting at ______________ (time) on the __________________ (day of week and month) each year for the purpose of transacting such business as may be necessary or appropriate. If the date of the annual meeting is a legal
holiday, the meeting shall be held at the same hour on the first day following which is not a legal holiday.
B.
Quarterly and special meetings.
Between annual meetings, quarterly meetings shall be called by the President and be held for the purpose of advising the membership of activities of the Board and enabling the members to bring up matters of common concern. Special meetings may be called at any time (1) by the President with the written concurrence of at least two of the other officers or (2) by a petition filed with the Secretary stating the purpose of the meeting and signed by at least one-fifth of the total number of members in the Association.
C.
Notice of meetings.
Written notice of each annual, quarterly or special meeting of the members shall be given by, or at the direction of, the Secretary by mailing a copy of such notice at least fifteen days before an annual or quarterly meeting or at least seven days before a special meeting, addressed to each member at the member's address shown on the records of the Association. Such notice shall specify the place, date, and hour of the meeting and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose of such meeting. No business shall be transacted at any special meeting other than that stated in the notice unless by consent of at least one-half of the total number of votes of the Association.
D.
Quorum.
A quorum at any meeting shall consist of members entitled to cast votes which represent at least one-tenth of the votes of the Association. If such a quorum is not present, those present shall have the power to reschedule the meeting from time to time without notice other than an announcement at the meeting until there is a quorum. At any rescheduled meeting at which a quorum is present, the only business which may be transacted is that which might have been transacted at the original meeting.
E.
Voting.
Each family shall designate in writing to the Secretary the family member who is to cast the family vote. That designee may appoint as a proxy for a specific meeting any other member of the Association. A proxy must be in writing and filed with the Secretary not later than the time that meeting is called to order. Every proxy shall be revocable and shall be automatically revoked when the person who appointed the proxy attends the meeting or ceases to have voting privileges in the Association. Votes represented by proxy shall be counted in determining the presence or absence of a quorum at any meeting.
F.
Agenda.
An agenda shall be prepared for every meeting.
Sec. 3.
Board of Directors
—A.
Number of directors.
The affairs of the Association shall be managed by a Board of ______ Directors, all of whom shall be members of the Association. The number of Directors may be changed by amendment of the By-Laws of the Association.
B.
Term of Office.
The Board of Directors shall be elected at the annual meeting of the Association. At the first annual meeting, the members shall elect ______
1
Directors for a term of one year, ______
1
Directors for a term of two years, and ______
1
Directors for a term of three years. At each annual meeting thereafter the members shall elect ______
1
Directors for a term of three years.
1
Each group shall be one-third of the total number of Directors.
C.
Removal and other vacancies of Directors.
Any Director may be removed from the Board, for cause, by a majority of the votes of the Association at any annual or quarterly meeting or any special meeting called for such purpose, provided that the Director has been given an opportunity to be heard at such meeting. In the event of death, resignation or removal of a Director, his successor shall be elected by the remaining members of the Board and shall serve for the unexpired term of his predecessor.
D.
Chairman of the Board.
At the first regular Board meeting after each annual meeting, the Board of Directors shall elect a Chairman from among their number.
E.
Compensation.
No compensation shall be paid to the Board for its services. However, any Director may be reimbursed for his actual expense incurred in the performance of his duties, as long as such expense receives approval of the Board and is within the approved Association budget.
Sec. 4.
Nomination and election of the board
—A.
Nomination.
Nomination for election to the Board of Directors (other than for filling of vacancies under section 3. C.) shall be made by the Nomination Committee; provided, however, that nominations may also be made from the floor at the annual meeting by motion properly made and seconded, or by a petition which states the name of the person nominated, is signed by members representing at least ten votes, and is filed with the Secretary not later than the day prior to the annual meeting. Persons nominated must be members of the Association.
B.
Election.
Election of the Board of Directors shall be in accordance with Section 2.E., and by secret written ballot. The ballots shall be prepared by the Secretary. Cumulative voting is not permitted (that is, a voter who refrains from voting with respect to one or more vacancies may not on that account cast any extra vote or votes with respect to another vacancy). The persons receiving the largest number of votes shall be elected.
Sec. 5.
Meetings of Directors
—A.
Regular meetings.
Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held monthly at such time
and hours as may be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board. Notice of time and place of the meetings shall be mailed to each Director no later than seven days before the meeting.
B.
Special meetings.
Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held when called by the President of the Association, the Chairman of the Board or by any two Directors, after not less than three days notice to each Director.
C.
Quorum.
A simple majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Every act or decision done or made by a majority of the Board present at a duly held meeting shall be regarded as an act of the Board.
D.
Action taken without a meeting.
Any action which could be otherwise taken at a Board meeting may be taken in the absence of a meeting, by obtaining the written approval of all Directors. Any action so approved shall have the same effect as though taken at a meeting of the Board.
Sec. 6.
Power and duties of the Board of Directors
—A.
Power and duties generally.
The Board of Directors shall have and exercise all the powers, duties, and authority necessary for the administration of the affairs and to carry out the purposes of the Association, excepting only those acts and things as are required by law, by the Articles of Incorporation, or by these By-Laws to be exercised and done by the members or their officers.
B.
Powers.
The Board shall have the power to: (1) Adopt and publish such rules and regulations as are appropriate in the exercise of its powers and duties, including but not limited to rules and regulations governing the amount and payment of dues, use of common areas and facilities and the conduct of the members and their guests thereon, and the establishment of penalties for violation of such rules and regulations; (2) appoint or designate officers, agents, and employees, and make such delegations of authority as in its judgment are in the best interest of the Association; (3) declare the office of a member of the Board of Directors to be vacant in the event such member shall be absent from at least three consecutive regular meetings of the Board of Directors.
C.
Duties.
It shall be the duty of the Board of Directors to: (1) Cause to be kept a complete record of all its acts and Association affairs, and to present a statement thereof to the members at the annual meeting, or at any special meeting when such statement is requested in writing by members representing at least one-fifth of the votes of the Association; (2) cause to be prepared an annual audit of the Association books to be made at the completion of each fiscal year; (3) cause to be supervised all officers, agents, and employees of the Association, and see that their duties are properly performed; (4) procure and maintain adequate liability and hazard insurance on any property owned by the Association; (5) cause such officers or employees having fiscal responsibilities to be bonded as the Board may deem appropriate; (6) cause to be performed the functions listed in Article V of the Articles of Incorporation.
Sec. 7.
Association officers and their duties
—A.
Election.
The Board of Directors shall elect the following officers of the Association: a President, a Vice President, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and such other special officers as, in the opinion of the Board, the Association may require. The President and Vice President shall be elected from members of the Board. The election of officers shall take place biennially at the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of the members.
B.
Term.
The officers shall hold office for two years unless they shall resign sooner, be removed, or otherwise be disqualified to serve; provided, however, that special officers shall hold office for such period as the Board may determine, but not to exceed one year.
C.
Removal and resignation.
Any officer may be removed from office, for cause, by the Board. Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board, the President or the Secretary. Such resignation shall take effect on the date of receipt of such notice or at any later time specified therein; and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
D.
Vacancies.
A vacancy in any office may be filled by appointment by the Board. The officer appointed to such vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the term of the officer he replaces.
E.
Multiple Officers.
No person shall simultaneously hold more than one of the offices required by these By-Laws.
F.
Duties.
The duties of the officers are as follows:
(1)
President.
The President shall preside at all Association meetings; shall execute the orders and resolutions of the Board; shall sign all leases, mortgage, deeds, and other written instruments; and shall cosign with the Treasurer all checks and promissory notes.
(2)
Vice President.
The Vice President shall act in place and stead of the President in the event of his absence or disability and shall exercise and discharge such other duties as may be required of him by the Board.
(3)
Secretary.
The Secretary shall record the votes and keep the minutes of all meetings and proceedings of the Board and of the Association; shall keep the corporate seal of the Association and affix it on all papers requiring said seal; shall serve notice of the meetings of the Board and of the Association; shall keep appropriate current records showing the names and addresses of the
members of the Association; and shall perform such duties as may be required by the Board.
(4)
Treasurer.
The Treasurer shall receive and deposit in appropriate bank accounts all funds of the Association and shall disburse such funds as directed by resolution of the Board of Directors; shall cosign with the President all checks and promissory notes of the Association; shall keep proper books of account; and shall prepare an annual budget and statement of income and expenditures which shall be approved by the Board before presentation to the Association at its regular annual meeting, and furnish a copy to each of the members.
(5)
Special officers.
Special officers shall have such authority and perform such duties as the Board may determine.
(6)
Compensation.
Officers may not be compensated except as may be determined by the Board, in accordance with the approved Association budget.
Sec. 8.
Committees.
A.
Committees to be established.
The Board of Directors shall establish the following committees:
(1)
Representation Committee
which shall represent members, individually and collectively, with respect to: any deficiencies in the Development or the individual Homes therein; fulfillment of the construction contract and related warranties; relationships with the Authority and others in regard to financial matters such as monthly payments, credits to and charges against reserves, settlement upon vacating the home, and acquisition of ownership; matters pertaining to project management; and matters in the Authority's official grievance mechanisms.
(2)
Rules Committee
which shall present to the Board for recommendation to the Authority policies for operation and management and, where appropriate, assist the Board in establishing Association rules in that respect.
(3)
Homeownership Committee
which shall advise and assist members in regard to maintenance and acquisition of ownership of their homes, financial matters and other matters related to homeownership and home management.
(4)
Selection Committee
which shall recommend proposed homebuyers from a list of eligible applicants.
(5)
Nominating Committee
which shall consist of a chairman, who shall be a member of the Board of Directors, and two or more members of the Association, none of whom are Directors. The Nominating Committee shall be appointed by the Board of Directors prior to each annual meeting, to serve from the close of such annual meeting until the close of the next annual meeting and such appointment shall be announced at each annual meeting. The Nominating Committee shall make as many nominations for election to the Board of Directors as it shall in its discretion determine, but not less than the number of vacancies to be filled.
B.
Other committees.
The Board may establish other committees, permanent or temporary, which it deems necessary or desirable to carry out the purposes of the Association.
C.
Committee Chairman and Members.
The chairmen of all committees, except the Nominating Committee, shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the President. Committee members shall be appointed by the chairman of the committee on which they are to serve and shall serve until a new chairman is appointed.
D.
Committee Reports.
The chairman of each committee shall make a report to the President in writing of committee meetings and activities prior to each regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors.
E.
Authority.
Unless specifically authorized in writing by the Board of Directors or the President, a committee chairman or a committee shall have no authority to legally obligate the Association or incur any expenditure on behalf of the Association.
Sec. 9.
Suspension of rights.
The Board may suspend, by a majority vote of the Board, the voting rights and rights to use the recreational facilities, of a member, and his family and guests, during any period in which the member shall be in default in the payment of any dues or assessment imposed by the Association. Such rights may also be suspended, after notice and hearing, for a period not to exceed sixty days, for violation of the Association's rules and regulations.
Sec. 10.
Books and records.
The books, records and papers of the Association shall at all times, during reasonable business hours, be subject to inspection by any member.
Sec. 11.
Amendments.
Amendments to these By-Laws may be introduced and discussed at any annual or special meeting of the Association, provided that copies of any proposed amendment shall be mailed to all the members with the notice of the meeting at which such amendment will be introduced. A vote on adopting such amendment shall be taken at the first Association meeting held at least two weeks subsequent to the meeting at which the amendment was introduced. Amendments shall be adopted by a vote of a majority of the members of the Association.
Sec. 12.
Corporate seal.
The Association shall have a seal which shall appear as follows: [
seal
]
Sec. 13.
Fiscal year.
The first fiscal year of the Association shall begin on the date of incorporation and shall end on the last day of __________ (month, year). Each successive fiscal year shall begin on the first day of __________ (month) and end on the last day of __________ (month).
The foregoing By-Laws were adopted at the first annual meeting of the Association held __________ by the undersigned members of the Association.
Pt. 904, Subpt. D, App. II

# Appendix II to Subpart D of Part 904—Recognition Agreement Between Local Housing Authority and Homebuyers Association

# (Subpart D)
WHEREAS, the ____________________ (“Authority”), a public body corporate and politic, has developed or acquired with the aid of loans and annual contributions from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”), the following Development or Developments in its homeownership opportunity program (hereinafter referred to as the “Development”):
1
1
List here the specific Development or Developments whose Homebuyers are represented by the Homebuyers Association with which this Agreement is entered into.
WHEREAS, an organization of residents (“Homebuyers”) is an essential element in such Development for purposes of effective participation of the Homebuyers in the management of the Development and representation of the Homebuyers in their relationships with the Authority, and for other purposes; and
WHEREAS, the ____________________ Homebuyers Association (“Association”) fully represents the Homebuyers of the Development;
NOW, THEREFORE, this agreement is entered into by and between the Authority and the Association and they do hereby agree as follows:
1. The Association, whose Articles of Incorporation are attached hereto and made a part hereof, is hereby recognized as the established representative of the Homebuyers of the Development and is the sole group entitled to represent them as tenants or Homebuyers before the Authority;
2. For each fiscal year, the Authority shall make available funds to the Association for its normal expenses, in such amounts as may be available to the Authority for such purposes and subject to whatever applicable HUD regulations;
3. The Association shall be entitled to the use of office space in __________ at the Development without charge by the Authority for such use;
4. The Authority and the officers of the Association shall meet at a location convenient to both parties on the __________ (day) of each month to discuss matters of interest to either party;
5. In the event the parties later agree that the Association should assume management responsibilities now held by the Authority, a contract for such purpose will be negotiated by ____________________ the Association;
____________________ terminate upon dissolution of the Association.
IN WITNESS HEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on ____________________, 19____.
Local Housing Authority
By (Official Title)
Homebuyers Association
By (Official Title)
WITNESSES:
________________________
Pt. 905

# PART 905—THE PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
905.100
Purpose, general description, and other requirements.
905.102
Applicability.
905.104
HUD approvals.
905.106
Compliance.
905.108
Definitions.
905.110
Incorporation by reference.

# Subpart B—Eligible Activities
905.200
Eligible activities.
905.202
Ineligible activities and costs.
905.204
Emergencies and natural disasters.

# Subpart C—General Program Requirements
905.300
Capital fund submission requirements.
905.302
Timely submission of the CF ACC amendment by the PHA.
905.304
CF ACC term and covenant to operate.
905.306
Obligation and expenditure of Capital Fund grants.
905.308
Federal requirements applicable to all Capital Fund activities.
905.310
Disbursements from HUD.
905.312
Design and construction.
905.314
Cost and other limitations.
905.316
Procurement and contract requirements.
905.318
Title and deed.
905.320
Contract administration and acceptance of work.
905.322
Fiscal closeout.
905.324
Data reporting requirements.
905.326
Records.

# Subpart D—Capital Fund Formula
905.400
Capital Fund formula (CF formula).

# Subpart E—Use of Capital Funds for Financing
905.500
Purpose and description.
905.505
Program requirements.
905.507
Streamlined application requirements for standard and high-performing PHAs.
905.510
Submission requirements.
905.515
HUD review and approval.

# Subpart F—Development Requirements
905.600
General.
905.602
Program requirements.
905.604
Mixed-finance development.
905.606
Development proposal.
905.608
Site acquisition proposal.
905.610
Technical processing.
905.612
Disbursement of Capital Funds—predevelopment costs.

# Subpart G—Other Security Interests
905.700
Other security interests.

# Subpart H—Compliance, HUD Review, Penalties, and Sanctions
905.800
Compliance.
905.802
HUD review of PHA performance.
905.804
Sanctions.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1437g, 42 U.S.C. 1437z-2, 42 U.S.C. 1437z-7, and 3535(d).

# Source:
65 FR 14426, Mar. 16, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
78 FR 63770, Oct. 24, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 905.100
Purpose, general description, and other requirements.
(a)
Purpose.
The Public Housing Capital Fund Program (Capital Fund Program or CFP) provides financial assistance to public housing agencies (PHAs) and resident management corporations (RMC) (pursuant to 24 CFR 964.225) to make improvements to existing public housing. The CFP also provides financial assistance to develop public housing, including mixed-finance developments that contain public housing units.
(b)
General description.
Congress appropriates amounts for the Capital Fund in HUD's annual appropriations. In order to receive a Capital Fund grant, the PHA must:
(1) Validate project-level information in HUD's data systems, as prescribed by HUD;
(2) Have an approved CFP 5-Year Action Plan;
(3) Enter into a Capital Fund Annual Contributions Contract (CF ACC) Amendment to the PHA's Annual Contributions Contract (as defined in 24 CFR 5.403) with HUD; and
(4) Provide a written certification and counsel's opinion that all property receiving Capital Fund assistance is under a currently effective Declaration of Trust (DOT) and is in compliance with the CF ACC and the Act.
(c)
Informational requirements.
Section 905.300 of this part describes the information to be submitted to HUD for the CFP. HUD uses the CF formula set forth in § 905.400 of this part, along with data provided by the PHA and other information, including, but not limited to, the high-performance information from the Real Estate Assessment Center (REAC) and location cost indices, to determine each PHA's annual grant amount. HUD notifies each PHA of the amount of the grant and provides a CF ACC Amendment that must be signed by the PHA and executed by HUD in order for the PHA to access the grant. After HUD executes the CF ACC Amendment, the PHA may draw down funds for eligible costs that have been described in its CFP Annual Statement/Performance and Evaluation Report or CFP 5-Year Action Plan.
(d)
Eligible activities.
Eligible Capital Fund costs and activities as further described in subpart B of this part include, but are not limited to, making physical improvements to the public housing stock and developing public housing units to be added to the existing inventory. With HUD approval, a PHA may also leverage its public housing inventory by borrowing additional capital on the private market and pledging a portion of its annual Capital Funds for debt service, in accordance with § 905.500 of this part.
(e)
Obligation and expenditure requirements.
A PHA must obligate and expend its Capital Funds in accordance with § 905.306 of this part. The PHA will directly employ labor, either temporarily or permanently, to perform work
(force account) or contract for the required work in accordance with 2 CFR part 200”. Upon completion of the work, the PHA must submit an Actual Modernization Cost Certificate (AMCC) or Actual Development Cost Certificate (ADCC) and a final Performance and Evaluation Report (in accordance with § 905.322 of this part) to HUD to close out each Capital Fund grant.
(f)
Financing and development.
Section 905.500 of this part regulates financing activities using Capital Funds and Operating Funds. Section 905.600 of this part contains the development requirements, including those related to mixed-finance development, formerly found in 24 CFR part 941. Section 905.700 of this part describes the criteria for the use of Capital Funds for other security interests. Section 905.800 of this part addresses PHA compliance with Capital Fund requirements and HUD capability for review and sanction for noncompliance.
(g)
Protections for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault and Stalking.
Public housing agencies must apply the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, to mixed finance developments covered under § 905.604.
[78 FR 63770, Oct. 24, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015; 81 FR 80815, Nov. 16, 2016]
§ 905.102
Applicability.
All PHAs that have public housing units under an Annual Contributions Contract (ACC), as described in 24 CFR 5.403, are eligible to receive Capital Funds.
§ 905.104
HUD approvals.
All HUD approvals required in this part must be in writing and from an official designated to grant such approval.
§ 905.106
Compliance.
PHAs or owner/management entities or their partners are required to comply with all applicable provisions of this part. Execution of the CF ACC Amendment, submissions required by this part, and disbursement of Capital Fund grants from HUD are individually and collectively deemed to be the PHA's certification that it is in compliance with the provisions of this part and all other Public Housing Program Requirements. Noncompliance with any provision of this part or other applicable requirements may subject the PHA and/or its partners to sanctions contained in § 905.804 of this part.
§ 905.108
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this part:
1937 Act.
The term “1937 Act” is defined in 24 CFR 5.100.
Accessible.
As defined in 24 CFR 8.3.
ACC.
The Annual Contributions Contract between HUD and a PHA covering a public housing project or multiple public housing projects.
ACC Amendment.
An Amendment to the ACC to reflect specific changes made to a PHA's public housing inventory or funding. An ACC Amendment may be a Capital Fund ACC Amendment, a Mixed-Finance ACC Amendment, a Capital Fund Financing ACC Amendment, or other form of amendment specified by HUD.
Additional Project Costs.
The sum of the following HUD-approved costs related to the development of a public housing project, which are not included in the calculation of the Total Development Cost (TDC) limit, but are included in the maximum project cost as stated in § 905.314(b). Additional project costs include the following:
(1) Costs for the demolition or remediation of environmental hazards associated with public housing units that will not be rebuilt on the original site; and
(2) Extraordinary site costs that have been verified by an independent state-registered, licensed engineer (e.g., removal of underground utility systems; replacement of off-site underground utility systems; extensive rock and/or soil removal and replacement; and amelioration of unusual site conditions, such as unusual slopes, terraces, water catchments, lakes, etc.); and
(3) Cost effective energy-efficiency measures in excess of standard building codes.
Capital Fund
(CF). The fund established under section 9(d) of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C.) 1437g(d).
Capital Fund Annual Contributions Contract Amendment (CF ACC).
An amendment to the Annual Contributions Contract (ACC) under the 1937 Act between HUD and the PHA containing the terms and conditions under which the Department assists the PHA in providing decent, safe, and sanitary housing for low-income families. The CF ACC must be in a form prescribed by HUD, under which HUD agrees to provide assistance in the development, modernization, and/or operation of a low-income housing project under the 1937 Act and the PHA agrees to modernize and operate the project in compliance with all Public Housing Requirements.
Capital Fund Program Fee.
A fee that may be charged to a Capital Fund grant by the PHA to cover costs associated with oversight and management of the CFP by the PHA Central Office Cost Center (COCC). These costs include duties related to general capital planning, preparation of the Annual Plan, processing of the Line of Credit Control System (LOCCS), preparation of reports, drawing of funds, budgeting, accounting, and procurement of construction and other miscellaneous contracts. The CFP fee is the administrative cost for managing a Capital Fund grant for a PHA subject to asset management.
Community Renewal Costs.
Community Renewal Costs consist of the sum of the following HUD-approved costs related to the development of a public housing project: planning (including proposal preparation); administration; site acquisition; relocation; demolition of—and site remediation of environmental hazards associated with—public housing units that will be replaced on the project site; interest and carrying charges; off-site facilities; community buildings and nondwelling facilities; contingency allowance; insurance premiums; any initial operating deficit; on-site streets; on site utilities; and other costs necessary to develop the project that are not covered under the Housing Construction Cost (HCC). Public housing capital assistance may be used to pay for Community Renewal Costs in an amount equivalent to the difference between the HCC paid for with public housing capital assistance and the TDC limit.
Cooperation agreement.
An agreement, in a form prescribed by HUD, between a PHA and the applicable local governing body or bodies that assures exemption from real and personal property taxes, provides for local support and services for the development and operation of public housing, and provides for PHA payments in lieu of taxes (PILOT).
Date of Full Availability (DOFA).
The last day of the month in which substantially all (95 percent or more) of the units in a public housing project are available for occupancy.
Declaration of Restrictive Covenant.
The Declaration of Restrictive Covenant is a legal instrument that binds the PHA and the Owner Entity to develop mixed-finance projects in compliance with Public Housing Requirements and restricts disposition of the property, including transferring, conveying, assigning, leasing, mortgaging, pledging or otherwise encumbering the property.
Declaration of Trust (DOT).
A legal instrument that grants HUD an interest in public housing property. It provides public notice that the property must be operated in accordance with all public housing federal requirements, including the requirement not to convey or otherwise encumber the property unless expressly authorized by federal law and/or HUD.
Development.
Any or all undertakings necessary for planning, land acquisition, demolition, construction, or equipment in connection with a public housing project.
Emergency work.
Capital Fund related physical work items that if not done pose an immediate threat to the health or safety of residents, and which must be completed within one year of funding. Management Improvements are not eligible as emergency work and therefore must be covered by the CFP 5-Year Action Plan before the PHA may carry them out.
Energy audit.
A systematic review of the energy requirements and consumption for property with the intent to
identify potential opportunities for energy and water savings through improved operational efficiency or more efficient components.
Expenditure.
Capital Funds disbursed by the PHA to pay for obligations incurred in connection with work included in a CFP 5-Year Action Plan that has been approved by the PHA Board of Commissioners and HUD. Total funds expended means cash actually disbursed and does not include retainage.
Federal Fiscal Year (FFY).
The Federal Fiscal Year begins each year on October 1 and ends on September 30 of the following year.
Force account labor.
Labor employed directly by the PHA on either a permanent or a temporary basis.
Fungibility.
As it relates to the Capital Fund Program, fungibility allows the PHA to substitute work items between any of the years within the latest approved CFP 5-Year Action Plan, without prior HUD approval.
HCC.
The sum of the following HUD-approved costs related to the development of a public housing project: dwelling unit hard costs (including construction and equipment), builder's overhead and profit, the cost of extending utilities from the street to the public housing project, finish landscaping, and the payment of Davis-Bacon wage rates.
Line of Credit Control System (LOCCS).
LOCCS is a HUD grant disbursement system. LOCCS currently provides disbursement controls for over 100 HUD grant programs. LOCCS-Web is an intranet version of LOCCS for HUD personnel. eLOCCS is the Internet link to LOCCS data for HUD business partners.
Mixed-finance modernization.
Use of the mixed-finance method of development to modernize public housing projects described in § 905.604.
Modernization.
Modernization means the activities and items listed in § 905.200(b)(4-18).
Natural disaster.
An extraordinary event, such as an earthquake, flood, or hurricane, affecting only one or few PHAs, but excluding presidentially declared emergencies and major disasters under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121
et seq
).
Obligation.
A binding agreement for work or financing that will result in outlays, immediately or in the future. All obligations must be incorporated within the CFP 5-Year Action Plan that has been approved by the PHA Board of Commissioners and HUD. This includes funds obligated by the PHA for work to be performed by contract labor (
i.e.
, contract award), or by force account labor (
i.e.
, work actually started by PHA employees). Capital Funds identified in the PHA's CFP 5-Year Action Plan to be transferred to operations are obligated by the PHA once the funds have been budgeted and drawn down by the PHA. Once these funds are drawn down they are subject to the requirements of 24 CFR part 990.
Open grant.
Any grant for which a cost certificate has not been submitted and which has not reached fiscal closeout as described in § 905.322 of this part.
Operating fund.
Assistance provided under 24 CFR part 990 pursuant to section 9(e) of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437g(e)) for the purpose of operation and management of public housing.
Owner entity.
An entity that owns public housing units. In mixed-finance development, the Owner Entity may be the PHA, or may be an entity in which the PHA owns a partial interest, or may be an entity in which the PHA has no ownership interest. The Owner Entity is subject to the applicable requirements of this subpart.
Partner.
A third-party entity with which the PHA has entered into a partnership or other contractual arrangement to provide for the mixed-finance development of public housing units pursuant to this subpart. The partner has primary responsibility with the PHA for the development and/or operation of the public housing units and is subject to the applicable requirements of subpart F of this part.
Physical Needs Assessment (PNA).
A systematic review of all the major physical components of property to result in a long-term schedule for replacement of each component and estimated capital costs required to meet the replacement need.
PIH Information Center (PIC).
PIH's current system for recording data concerning: the public housing inventory, the characteristics of public housing and Housing Choice Voucher —assisted families, the characteristics of PHAs, and performance measurement of PHAs receiving Housing Choice Voucher funding.
Public Housing Agency (PHA).
Any state, county, municipality, or other governmental entity or public body or agency or instrumentality of these entities that is authorized to engage or assist in the development or operation of public housing under this part.
Public Housing Assessment System (PHAS).
The assessment system under 24 CFR part 902 for measuring the properties and PHA management performance in essential housing operations, including rewards for high performers and consequences for poor performers.
Public housing capital assistance.
Assistance provided by HUD under the Act in connection with the development of public housing under this part, including Capital Fund assistance provided under section 9(d) of the Act, public housing development assistance provided under section 5 of the Act, Operating Fund assistance used for capital purposes under section 9(g)(2) or 9(e)(1)(I) (with HUD's approval of such financing of rehabilitation and development of public housing units) of the Act, and HOPE VI grant assistance.
Public housing funds.
Any funds provided through the Capital Fund or Other Public Housing Development Sources, such as HOPE VI, Choice Neighborhoods, Development Funds, disposition proceeds that a PHA may realize under section 18 of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437p), or any other funds appropriated by Congress for public housing.
Public housing project.
The term “public housing” means low-income housing, and all necessary appurtenances thereto, assisted under the 1937 Act, other than assistance under 42 U.S.C. 1437f of the 1937 Act (section 8). The term “public housing” includes dwelling units in a mixed-finance project that are assisted by a public housing agency with public housing capital assistance or Operating Fund assistance. When used in reference to public housing, the term “project” means housing developed, acquired, or assisted by a PHA under the 1937 Act, and the improvement of any such housing.
Public housing requirements.
All requirements applicable to public housing including, but not limited to, the 1937 Act; HUD regulations; the Consolidated Annual Contributions Contract, including amendments; HUD notices; and all applicable federal statutes, executive orders, and regulatory requirements, as these requirements may be amended from time to time.
Reasonable cost.
An amount to rehabilitate or modernize an existing structure that is not greater than 90 percent of the TDC for a new development of the same structure type, number, and size of units in the same market area. Reasonable costs are also determined with consideration of HUD regulations including 2 CFR part 200.
Reconfiguration.
The altering of the interior space of buildings (e.g., moving or removing interior walls to change the design, sizes, or number of units).
Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS).
As defined in 24 CFR 8.32; see also 24 CFR part 40.
[78 FR 63770, Oct. 24, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 905.110
Incorporation by reference.
(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part, with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register, under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, HUD must publish notice of change in the
Federal Register
and the material must be available to the public. Incorporated material is available from the sources listed below and is available for inspection at HUD's Office of Policy Development and Research, Affordable Housing Research and Technology Division, Department of Housing and Urban Development, telephone number 202-408-4370 (this is not a toll-free number). This material is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 (this is not a
toll-free number) or go to
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(b) American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers, Inc., 1791 Tulle Circle NE., Atlanta, GA 30329 (
http://www.ashrae.org/standards-research-technology/standards-guidelines
).
(1) ASHRAE 90.1-2010, “Energy Standard for Buildings Except Low-Rise Residential Buildings,” copyright 2010, IBR approved for §§ 905.200(b) and 905.312(b) of this part.
(2) [Reserved]
(c) International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue NW., 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20001.
(1) International Energy Conservation Code (IECC), January 2009, IBR approved for §§ 905.200(b) and 905.312(b).
(2) [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Eligible Activities

# Source:
78 FR 63773, Oct. 24, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 905.200
Eligible activities.
(a)
General.
Activities that are eligible to be funded with Capital Funds as identified in this section include only items specified in an approved CFP 5-Year Action Plan as identified in § 905.300, or approved by HUD for emergency and natural disaster assistance, other than presidentially declared natural disasters and emergencies.
(b)
Eligible activities.
Eligible activities include the development, financing, and modernization of public housing projects, including the redesign, reconstruction, and reconfiguration of public housing sites and buildings (including compliance with the accessible design and construction requirements contained in 24 CFR 8.32, 24 CFR part 40, 24 CFR part 100, 28 CFR 35.151, and 28 CFR part 36, as applicable) and the development of mixed-finance projects, including the following:
(1)
Modernization.
Modernization is defined in § 905.108 of this part;
(2)
Development.
Development refers to activities and related costs to add units to a PHA's public housing inventory under § 905.600 of this part, including: construction and acquisition with or without rehabilitation; any and all undertakings necessary for planning, design, financing, land acquisition, demolition, construction, or equipment, including development of public housing units, and buildings, facilities, and/or related appurtenances (
i.e.
, nondwelling facilities/spaces). Development of mixed-finance projects include the provision of public housing through a regulatory and operating agreement, master contract, individual lease, condominium or cooperative agreement, or equity interest.
(3)
Financing.
Debt and financing costs (e.g., origination fees, interest) incurred by PHAs for development or modernization of PHA projects that involves the use of Capital Funds, including, but not limited to:
(i) Mixed finance as described in § 905.604 of this part;
(ii) The Capital Fund Financing Program (CFFP) as described in § 905.500 of this part; and
(iii) Any other use authorized by the Secretary under section 30 of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437).
(4)
Vacancy reduction.
Physical improvements to reduce the number of units that are vacant. Not included are costs for routine vacant unit turnaround, such as painting, cleaning, and minor repairs. Vacancy reduction activities must be remedies to a defined vacancy problem detailed in a vacancy reduction program included in the PHA's CFP 5-Year Action Plan.
(5)
Nonroutine maintenance.
Work items that ordinarily would be performed on a regular basis in the course of maintenance of property, but have become substantial in scope because they have been postponed and involve expenditures that would otherwise materially distort the level trend of maintenance expenses. These activities also include the replacement of obsolete utility systems and dwelling equipment.
(6)
Planned code compliance.
Building code compliance includes design and physical improvement costs associated with:
(i) Correcting violations of local building code or the Uniform Physical Condition Standards (UPCS) under the Public Housing Assessment System (PHAS), and
(ii) A national building code, such as those developed by the International Code Council or the National Fire Protection Association; and the IECC or ASHRAE 90.1-2010 (both incorporated by reference, see, § 905.110 of this part), for multifamily high-rises (four stories or higher), or a successor energy code or standard that has been adopted by HUD for new construction pursuant to section 109 of the Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act, Public Law 101-625, codified at 42 U.S.C. 12709, or other relevant authority.
(7)
Management improvements.
Noncapital activities that are project-specific or PHA-wide improvements needed to upgrade or improve the operation or maintenance of the PHA's projects, to promote energy conservation, to sustain physical improvements at those projects, or correct management deficiencies. PHAs must be able to demonstrate the linkage between the management improvement and the correction of an identified management deficiency, including sustaining the physical improvements. HUD encourages PHAs, to the greatest extent feasible, to hire residents as trainees, apprentices, or employees to carry out activities under this part, and to contract with resident owned businesses as required by section 3 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1968, 12 U.S.C. 1701u. Management improvement costs shall be fundable only for the implementation period of the physical improvements, unless a longer period, up to a maximum of 4 years, is clearly necessary to achieve performance targets. Eligible activities include the following costs:
(i) Training for PHA personnel in operations and procedures, including resident selection, rent collection and eviction;
(ii) Improvements to management, financial, and accounting control systems of the PHA;
(iii) Improvement of resident and project security;
(iv) Activities that assure or foster equal opportunity; and
(v) Activities needed in conjunction with capital expenditures to facilitate programs to improve the empowerment and economic self-sufficiency of public housing residents, including the costs for resident job training and resident business development activities to enable residents and their businesses to carry out Capital Fund-assisted activities.
(vi) Resident management costs not covered by the Operating Fund include:
(A) The cost of technical assistance to a resident council or RMC to assess feasibility of carrying out management functions for a specific development or developments;
(B) The cost to train residents in skills directly related to the operation and management of the development(s) for potential employment by the RMC;
(C) The cost to train RMC board members in community organization, board development, and leadership;
(D) The cost of the formation of an RMC; and
(E) Resident participation costs that promote more effective resident participation in the operation of the PHA in its Capital Fund activities, including costs for staff support, outreach, training, meeting and office space, childcare, transportation, and access to computers that are modest and reasonable.
(8)
Economic self-sufficiency.
Capital expenditures to facilitate programs to improve the empowerment and economic self-sufficiency of public housing residents.
(9)
Demolition and reconfiguration.
(i) The costs to demolish dwelling units or nondwelling facilities subject to prior approval by HUD, where required, and other related costs for activities such as relocation, clearing, and grading the site after demolition, and subsequent site improvements to benefit the remaining portion of the existing public housing property, as applicable.
(ii) The costs to develop dwelling units or nondwelling facilities approved by HUD, where required, and other related costs for activities such as relocation, clearing and grading the site prior to development.
(iii) The costs to reconfigure existing dwelling units to units with different bedroom sizes or to a nondwelling use.
(10)
Resident relocation and mobility counseling.
Relocation and other assistance (e.g., reimbursement to affected residents of reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with
temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from temporary housing and any increase in monthly rent/utility costs) as may be required or permitted by applicable Public Housing Requirements for permanent or temporary relocation, as a direct result of modernization, development, rehabilitation, demolition, disposition, reconfiguration, acquisition, or an emergency or disaster.
(11)
Security and safety.
Capital expenditures designed to improve the security and safety of residents.
(12)
Homeownership.
Activities associated with public housing homeownership, as approved by HUD, such as:
(i) The cost of a study to assess the feasibility of converting rental units to homeownership units and the preparation of an application for the conversion to homeownership or for the sale of units;
(ii) Construction or acquisition of units;
(iii) Downpayment assistance;
(iv) Closing cost assistance;
(v) Subordinate mortgage loans;
(vi) Construction or permanent financing such as write downs for new construction, or acquisition with or without rehabilitation; and
(vii) Other activities in support of the primary homeownership activities above, including but not limited to:
(A) Demolition to make way for new construction;
(B) Abatement of environmentally hazardous materials;
(C) Relocation assistance and mobility counseling;
(D) Homeownership counseling;
(E) Site improvements; and
(F) Administrative and marketing costs.
(13)
Capital Fund-related legal costs
(e.g., legal costs related to preparing property descriptions for the DOT, zoning, permitting, environmental review, procurement, and contracting).
(14)
Energy efficiency.
Allowed costs include:
(i) Energy audit or updated energy audits to the extent Operating Funds are not available and the energy audit is included within a modernization program.
(ii) Integrated utility management and capital planning to promote energy conservation and efficiency measures.
(iii) Energy and water conservation measures identified in a PHA's most recently updated energy audit.
(iv) Improvement of energy and water-use efficiency by installing fixtures and fittings that conform to the American Society of Mechanical Engineers/American National Standards Institute standards A112.19.2-1998 and A112.18.1-2000, or any revision thereto, applicable at the time of installation, and by increasing energy efficiency and water conservation by such other means as the Secretary determines are appropriate.
(v) The installation and use of Energy Star appliances whenever energy systems, devices, and appliances are replaced, unless it is not cost-effective to do so, in accordance with Section 152 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, 42 U.S.C. 15841.
(vi) Utility and energy management system automation, and metering activities, including changing mastermeter systems to individually metered systems if installed as a part of a modernization activity to upgrade utility systems; for example, electric, water, or gas systems of the PHA consistent with the requirements of 24 CFR part 965.
(15)
Administrative costs.
Any administrative costs, including salaries and employee benefit contributions, other than the Capital Fund Program Fee, must be related to a specific public housing development or modernization project and detailed in the CFP 5-Year Action Plan.
(16)
Audit.
Costs of the annual audit attributable to the portion of the audit covering the CFP in accordance with § 905.322(c) of this part.
(17)
Capital Fund Program Fee.
This fee covers costs associated with oversight and management of the CFP attributable to the HUD-accepted COCC as described in 24 CFR part 990 subpart H. These costs include duties related to capital planning, preparing the CFP Annual Statement/Performance and Evaluation Report, preparing the CFP 5-Year Action Plan, the monitoring of LOCCS, preparing reports, drawing
funds, budgeting, accounting, and procuring construction and other miscellaneous contracts. This fee is not intended to cover costs associated with construction supervisory and inspection functions that are considered a front-line cost of the project.
(18)
Emergency activities.
Capital Fund related activities identified as emergency work, as defined in § 905.108 of this part, whether or not the need is indicated in the CFP 5-Year Action Plan.
§ 905.202
Ineligible activities and costs.
The following are ineligible activities and costs for the CFP:
(a) Costs not associated with a public housing project or development, as defined in § 905.604(b)(1);
(b) Activities and costs not included in the PHA's CFP 5-Year Action Plan, with the exception that expenditures for emergencies and disasters, as defined in § 905.204 of this subpart, that are not identified in the 5-year Action Plan because of their emergent nature are eligible costs;
(c) Improvements or purchases that are not modest in design and cost because they include amenities, materials, and design in excess of what is customary for the locality. Air conditioning is an eligible modest amenity;
(d) Any costs not authorized as outlined in 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, including, but not limited to, indirect administrative costs and indemnification;
(e) Public housing operating assistance, except as provided in § 905.314(l) of this part;
(f) Direct provision of social services through either force account or contract labor. Examples of ineligible direct social services include, but are not limited to, salaries for social workers or GED teachers;
(g) Eligible costs that are in excess of the amount directly attributable to the public housing units when the physical or management improvements, including salaries and employee benefits and contributions, will benefit programs other than public housing, such as section 8 Housing Choice Voucher or local revitalization programs;
(h) Ineligible management improvements include:
(1) Costs for security guards or ongoing security services (Capital Funds may only be used for the initial capital (e.g., fencing, lights, and cameras) or noncapital (e.g., training of in-house security staff) management improvements but may not be used for the ongoing costs, such as security guards after the end of the implementation period of the physical improvements);
(2) General remedial education; and
(3) Job counseling, job development and placement, supportive services during training, and the hiring of a resident coordinator. No continued Capital Funds will be provided after the end of the implementation period of the management improvements. The PHA shall be responsible for finding other funding sources, reducing its ongoing management costs, or terminating the management activities;
(i) Eligible cost that is funded by another source and would result in duplicate funding; and
(j) Any other activities and costs that HUD may determine on a case-by-case basis.
[78 FR 63770, Oct. 24, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 905.204
Emergencies and natural disasters.
(a)
General.
PHAs are required by the CF ACC to carry various types of insurance to protect it from loss. In most cases, insurance coverage will be the primary source of funding to pay repair or replacement costs associated with emergencies and natural disasters. Where the Department's Annual Appropriations Act establishes a set-aside from the Capital Fund appropriation for emergencies and natural disasters, the procedures in this section apply.
(b)
Emergencies and natural disasters.
An emergency is an unforeseen or unpreventable event or occurrence that poses an immediate threat to the health and safety of the residents that must be corrected within one year of funding. A natural disaster for purposes of the Capital Fund reserve, is a non-presidentially declared disaster. In the event an emergency or natural disaster arises, HUD may require a PHA to use any other source that may legally be available, including unobligated Capital Funds, prior to providing
emergency or natural disaster funds from the set-aside. The Department will review, on a case-by-case basis, requests for emergency and natural disaster funding from PHAs.
(c)
Procedure to request emergency or natural disaster funds.
To obtain emergency or natural disaster funds, a PHA shall submit a written request in the form and manner prescribed by HUD. In a natural disaster where the PHA requires immediate relief to preserve the property and safety of the residents, the PHA may submit a preliminary request outlined in paragraph (d) of this section. Subsequently, the PHA is required to complete and submit the remaining information outlined in paragraph (e) of this section, at a time prescribed by HUD. For emergency requests, PHAs are to follow the procedures outlined in paragraph (e) of this section.
(d)
Procedure to request preliminary natural disaster grant for immediate preservation.
A PHA may request a preliminary grant only for costs necessary for immediate preservation of the property and safety of the residents. The application should include the reasonable identification of damage and preservation costs as determined by the PHA. An independent assessment will be required when the PHA submits the final request or when the PHA reconciles the preliminary application grant with the actual amounts received from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), insurance carriers, and other natural disaster relief sources. Regardless of whether further funding from the set-aside is requested, at a time specified by HUD, the PHA will be expected to provide a reconciliation of all funds received, to ensure that the PHA does not receive duplicate funding.
(e)
Procedure for an emergency or a final request for natural disaster funds.
In the request the PHA shall:
(1) Identify the public housing project(s) with the emergency or natural disaster condition(s).
(2) Identify and provide the date of the conditions that present an unforeseen or unpreventable threat to the health, life, or safety of residents, in the case of emergency; or Natural disaster (e.g., hurricane, tornado, etc.).
(3) Describe the activities that will be undertaken to correct the emergency or the conditions caused by the natural disaster and the estimated cost.
(4) Provide an independent assessment of the extent of and the cost to correct the condition. The assessment must be specific as to the damage and costs associated with the emergency or natural disaster. An independent estimate of damage and repair cost is required as a part of the final natural disaster application. For natural disasters, the assessment must identify damage specifically caused by the natural disaster. The set-aside can be used only to pay costs to repair or replace a public housing project damaged as a result of the natural disaster, not for nonroutine maintenance or other improvements.
(5) Provide a copy of a currently effective DOT covering the property and an opinion of counsel that there are no preexisting liens or other encumbrances on the property.
(6) Demonstrate that without the requested funds from the set-aside, the PHA does not have adequate funds available to correct the emergency condition(s).
(7) Identify all other sources of available funds (e.g., insurance proceeds, FEMA).
(8) Any other material required by HUD.
(f)
HUD Action.
HUD shall review all requests for emergency or natural disaster funds. If HUD determines that a PHA's request meets the requirements of this section, HUD shall approve the request subject to the availability of funds in the set-aside, in the order in which requests are received and are determined approvable.
(g)
Submission of the CF ACC.
Upon being provided with a CF ACC Amendment from HUD, the PHA must sign and date the CF ACC Amendment and return it to HUD by the date established by HUD. HUD will execute the signed and dated CF ACC Amendment submitted by the PHA.

# Subpart C—General Program Requirements

# Source:
78 FR 63773, Oct. 24, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 905.300
Capital fund submission requirements.
(a)
General.
Unless otherwise stated, the requirements in this section apply to both qualified PHAs (as described in § 903.3(c) of this chapter) and nonqualified PHAs. Each PHA must complete a comprehensive physical needs assessment (PNA).
(1)
Applicability.
Small PHAs (PHAs that own or operate fewer than 250 public housing units) must comply with the requirements of this section beginning 30 days after the end of the federal fiscal year quarter following HUD's publication of a notice in the
Federal Register.
(2) [Reserved]
(b)
Capital Fund program submission requirements.
At the time that the PHA submits the ACC Amendment(s) for its Capital Fund Grants(s) to HUD, the PHA must also submit the following items:
(1)
CFP 5-Year Action Plan.
(i)
Content.
The CFP 5-Year Action Plan must describe the capital improvements necessary to ensure long-term physical and social viability of the PHA's public housing developments, including the capital improvements to be undertaken within the 5-year period, their estimated costs, status of environmental review, and any other information required for participation in the CFP, as prescribed by HUD. In order to be entitled to fungibility, PHA's must have an approved 5-year Action Plan. Except in the case of emergency/disaster work, the PHA shall not spend Capital Funds on any work that is not included in an approved CFP 5-Year Action Plan and its amendments.
(ii)
Budget.
The Capital Fund Budget for each of the 5 years shall be prepared by a PHA using the form(s) prescribed by HUD. Work items listed in the budget must include, but are not limited to, the following:
(A) Where a PHA has an approved Capital Fund Financing Program (CFFP) loan, debt service payments for the grants from which the payments are scheduled;
(B) Where a PHA has an approved CFFP loan, the PHA shall also include all work and costs, including debt service payments, in the CFP 5-Year Action Plan. Work associated with the use of financing proceeds will be reported separately in a form and manner prescribed by HUD; or
(C) Work affecting health and safety and compliance with regulatory requirements such as section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 8, and the lead-based paint poisoning prevention standards at 24 CFR part 35, before major systems (e.g., heating, roof, etc.) and other costs of lower priority.
(iii) PHA Criteria for Significant Amendment or Modification. The PHA must include in the basic criteria that the PHA will use for determining a significant amendment or modification to the CFP 5-Year Action Plan. In addition to the criteria established by the PHA, for the purpose of the CFP, a proposed demolition, disposition, homeownership, Capital Fund financing, development, or mixed-finance proposal are considered significant amendments to the CFP 5-Year Action Plan.
(iv)
Submission.
The PHA must submit a Board-approved CFP 5-Year Action Plan at least once every 5 years. The PHA may choose to update its CFP 5-Year Action Plan every year. The PHA shall indicate whether its CFP 5-Year Action Plan is fixed or rolling. Prior to submission to HUD, the 5-Year Action Plan must have been approved by the PHA's Board of Commissioners. In any given year that a PHA does not have a CFP 5-Year Action Plan that is approved by the PHA Board of Commissioners and HUD, the Capital Fund grant(s) for these PHAs will be reserved and obligated; however, the PHA will not have access to those funds until its CFP 5-Year Action Plan is approved by the PHA Board of Commissioners and HUD.
(v) Significant amendments or modification to the CFP 5 Year Action Plan. PHAs making significant amendments or modifications to the CFP 5-Year Action Plan, as defined in paragraph
(b)(1)(iii) of this section, must follow the requirements of this section.
(A) A PHA after submitting its 5-Year Action Plan may amend or modify the plan. If the amendment or modification is a significant amendment or modification, as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, the PHA:
(1) May not adopt the amendment or modification until the PHA has duly called a meeting of its Board of Commissioners (or similar governing body) and the meeting at which the amendment or modification is adopted, is open to the public; and
(2) May not implement the amendment or modification until notification of the amendment or modifications are provided to HUD and approved by HUD in accordance with HUD's plan review procedures, as provided in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(B) Each significant amendment or modification to a plan submitted to HUD is subject to the requirement of paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2)
Certifications required for receipt of Capital Fund grants.
The PHA is also required to submit various certifications to HUD, in a form prescribed by HUD, including, but not limited to:
(i) Certification of PIC Data;
(ii) Standard Form—Disclosure of Lobbying Activities;
(iii) Civil Rights Compliance, in a form prescribed by HUD; and
(iv) Certification of Compliance with Public Hearing Requirements.
(3)
Conduct of public hearing and Resident Advisory Board Consultation.
A PHA must annually conduct a public hearing and consult with the Resident Advisory Board (RAB) of the PHA to discuss the Capital Fund submission. The PHA may elect to conduct a separate annual public hearing in order to solicit public comments or to hold the annual public hearing at the same time as the hearing for the Annual PHA Plan, the 5-Year Plan, or the required annual hearing for qualified public housing authorities. The hearing must be conducted at a location that is convenient to the residents served by the PHA.
(i) Not later than 45 days before the public hearing is to take place, the PHA must:
(A) Make the Capital Fund submission along with the material required under this paragraph (b) available to the residents and the RAB; and
(B) Publish a notice informing the public that the information is available for review and inspection; that a public hearing will take place on the plan; and of the date, time, and location of the hearing.
(C) PHAs shall conduct reasonable outreach activities to encourage broad public participation in the review of the Capital Fund submission.
(4)
Public and RAB comments.
The PHA must consider the comments from the residents, the public, and the RAB on the Capital Fund submission, or any significant modification thereto. In submitting the final CFP 5-Year Action Plan to HUD for approval, or any significant amendment or modification to the 5-Year Action Plan to HUD for approval, the PHA must include a copy of the recommendations made by the RAB(s) and a description of the manner in which the PHA addressed these recommendations.
(5)
Consistency with Consolidated Plan.
The Capital Fund submission must be consistent with any applicable Consolidated Plan.
(6)
HUD review and approval.
The CFP submission requirements must meet the requirements of this part as well as the Public Housing Program Requirements as defined in § 905.108 of this part. A PHA is required to revise or correct information that is not in compliance, and HUD has the authority to impose administrative sanctions until the appropriate revisions are made. HUD will review the CFP submission requirements to determine whether:
(i) All of the information that is required to be submitted is included;
(ii) The information is consistent with the needs identified in the PNA and data available to HUD; and
(iii) There are any issues of compliance with applicable laws, regulations, or contract requirements that have not been addressed with the proposed use of the Capital Fund.
(7)
Time frame for submission of CFP requirements.
The requirements identified in this paragraph (b) must be submitted to HUD, in a format prescribed
by HUD, at the time that the PHA submits its signed CF ACC Amendment.
(8)
Performance and Evaluation Report.
(i) All PHAs must prepare a CFP Annual Statement/Performance and Evaluation Report at a time and in a format prescribed by HUD. These reports shall be retained on file for all grants for which a final Actual Modernization Cost Certificate (AMCC) or an Actual Development Cost Certificate (ADCC) has not been submitted. A final Performance and Evaluation Report must be submitted in accordance with 24 CFR 905.322, at the time the PHA submits its AMCC or ADCC.
(ii) PHAs that are designated as troubled performers under PHAS (24 CFR part 902) or as troubled under the Section 8 Management Assessment Program (SEMAP) (24 CFR part 985), and/or were identified as noncompliant with section 9(j) obligation and expenditure requirements during the fiscal year, shall submit their CFP Annual Statement/Performance and Evaluation Reports to HUD for review and approval.
(iii) All other PHAs, that are not designated as troubled performers under PHAS and are not designated as troubled under SEMAP, and that were in compliance with section 9(j) obligation and expenditure requirements during the fiscal year, shall prepare a CFP Annual Statement/Performance and Evaluation report for all open grants and shall retain the report(s) on file at the PHA, to be available to HUD upon request.
(9)
Moving to Work (MTW) PHAs.
MTW PHAs are to submit the Capital Fund submissions as part of the MTW Plan annually, as required by the MTW Agreement.
(c)-(d) [Reserved]
§ 905.302
Timely submission of the CF ACC amendment by the PHA.
Upon being provided with a CF ACC Amendment from HUD, the PHA must sign and date the CF ACC Amendment and return it to HUD by the date established. HUD will execute the signed and dated CF ACC Amendment submitted by the PHA. If HUD does not receive the signed and dated Amendment by the submission deadline, the PHA will receive the Capital Fund grant for that year; however, it will have less than 24 months to obligate 90 percent of the Capital Fund grant and less than 48 months to expend these funds because the PHA's obligation start date and disbursement end date for these grants will remain as previously established by HUD.
§ 905.304
CF ACC term and covenant to operate.
(a)
Period of obligation to operate as public housing.
The PHA shall operate all public housing projects in accordance with the CF ACC, as amended, and applicable HUD regulations, for the statutorily prescribed period. These periods shall be evidenced by a recorded DOT on all public housing property. If the PHA uses Capital Funds to develop public housing or to modernize existing public housing, the CF ACC term and the covenant to operate those projects are as follows:
(1)
Development activities.
Each public housing project developed using Capital Funds shall establish a restricted use covenant, either in the DOT or as a Declaration of Restrictive Covenants, to operate under the terms and conditions applicable to public housing for a 40-year period that begins on the date on which the project becomes available for occupancy, as determined by HUD.
(2)
Modernization activities.
For PHAs that receive Capital Fund assistance, the execution of each new CF ACC Amendment establishes an additional 20-year period that begins on the latest date on which modernization is completed, except that the additional 20-year period does not apply to a project that receives Capital Fund assistance only for management improvements.
(3)
Operating Fund.
Any public housing project developed that receives Operating Fund assistance shall have a covenant to operate under requirements applicable to public housing for a 10-year period beginning upon the conclusion of the fiscal year for which such amounts were provided, except for such shorter period as permitted by HUD by an exception.
(b)
Mortgage or security interests.
The PHA shall not allow
any mortgage
or security interest in public housing assets, including under section 30 of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437z-2), without
prior written approval from HUD. PHAs that undertake financing unsecured by public housing assets shall include the following nonrecourse language in all financing documents as follows:
“This financing is non-recourse to any public housing property (real or personal property including all public housing assets or income), or disposition proceeds approved pursuant to Section 18 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (unless explicitly permitted by HUD in the Section 18 approval letter).”
(c)
Applicability of latest expiration date.
All public housing subject to this part or required by law shall be maintained and operated as public housing, as prescribed, until the latest expiration date provided in section 9(d)(3) of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437g(d)(3)) or any other provision of law or regulation mandating the operation of the housing as public housing, or under terms and conditions applicable to public housing, for a specified period of time.
§ 905.306
Obligation and expenditure of Capital Fund grants.
(a)
Obligation.
A PHA shall obligate each Capital Fund grant, including formula grants, Replacement Housing Factor (RHF) grants, Demolition and Disposition Transitional Funding (DDTF) grants, and natural disaster grants, no later than 24 months after, and emergency grants no later than 12 months after, the date on which the funds become available to the PHA for obligation, except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. However, a PHA with unobligated funds from a grant shall disregard this requirement for up to not more than 10 percent of the originally allocated funds from that grant. The funds become available to the PHA when HUD executes the CF ACC Amendment. With HUD approval, and subject to the availability of appropriations, the PHA can accumulate RHF grants for up to 5 years or until it has adequate funds to undertake replacement housing. The PHA shall obligate 90 percent of the RHF grant within 24 months from the date that the PHA accumulates adequate funds, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Items and costs.
For funds to be considered obligated, all items and costs must meet the definition of “obligation” in § 905.108 of this part.
(c)
Extension to obligation requirement.
The PHA may request an extension of the obligation deadline, and HUD may grant an extension for a period of up to 12 months, based on:
(1) The size of the PHA;
(2) The complexity of the CFP of the PHA;
(3) Any limitation on the ability of the PHA to obligate the amounts allocated for the PHA from the Capital Fund in a timely manner as a result of state or local law; or
(4) Any other factors that HUD determines to be relevant.
(d)
HUD extension for other reasons.
HUD may extend the obligation deadline for a PHA for such a period as HUD determines to be necessary, if HUD determines that the failure of the PHA to obligate assistance in a timely manner is attributable to:
(1) Litigation;
(2) Delay in obtaining approvals from the Federal Government or a state or local government that is not the fault of the PHA;
(3) Compliance with environmental assessment and abatement requirements;
(4) Relocating residents;
(5) An event beyond the control of the PHA; or
(6) Any other reason established by HUD by notice in the
Federal Register.
(e)
Failure to obligate.
(1) For any month during the fiscal year, HUD shall withhold all new Capital Fund grants from any PHA that has unobligated funds in violation of paragraph (a) of this section. The penalty will be imposed once the violations of paragraph (a) are known. The PHA may cure the noncompliance by:
(i) Requesting in writing that HUD recapture the unobligated balance of the grant; or
(ii) Continuing to obligate funds for the grant in noncompliance until the noncompliance is cured.
(2) After the PHA has cured the noncompliance, HUD will release the withheld Capital Fund grant(s) minus a
penalty of one-twelfth of the grant for each month of noncompliance.
(f)
Expenditure.
The PHA shall expend all grant funds within 48 months after the date on which funds become available, as described in paragraph (a) of this section. The deadline to expend funds may be extended only by the period of time of a HUD-approved extension of the obligation deadline. No other extensions of the expenditure deadline will be granted. All funds not expended will be recaptured.
§ 905.308
Federal requirements applicable to all Capital Fund activities.
(a) The PHA shall comply with the requirements of 24 CFR part 5 (General HUD Program Requirements; Waivers), 2 CFR part 200, and this part.
(b) The PHA shall also comply with the following program requirements.
(1)
Nondiscrimination and equal opportunity.
The PHA shall comply with all applicable nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements, including, but not limited to, the Department's generally applicable nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements at 24 CFR 5.105(a) and the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4151
et seq.
), and its implementing regulations at 24 CFR parts 40 and 41. The PHA shall affirmatively further fair housing in its use of funds under this part, which includes, but is not limited to, addressing modernization and development in the completion of requirements at 24 CFR 903.7(o).
(2)
Environmental requirements.
All activities under this part are subject to an environmental review by a responsible entity under HUD's environmental regulations at 24 CFR part 58 and must comply with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA)(42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
) and the related laws and authorities listed at 24 CFR 58.5. HUD may make a finding in accordance with 24 CFR 58.11 and may perform the environmental review itself under the provisions of 24 CFR part 50. In those cases where HUD performs the environmental review under 24 CFR part 50, it will do so before approving a proposed project, and will comply with the requirements of NEPA and the related requirements at 24 CFR 50.4.
(3)
Wage rates.
(i) Davis-Bacon wage rates. For all work or contracts exceeding $2,000 in connection with development activities or modernization activities (except for nonroutine maintenance work, as defined in § 905.200(b)(5) of this part), all laborers and mechanics employed on the construction, alteration, or repair shall be paid not less than the wages prevailing in the locality, as determined by the Secretary of Labor pursuant to the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 3142).
(ii) HUD-determined wage rates. For all operations work and contracts, including routine and nonroutine maintenance work (as defined in § 905.200(b)(5) of this part), all laborers and mechanics employed shall be paid not less than the wages prevailing in the locality, as determined or adopted by HUD pursuant to section 12(a) of the 1937 Act, 42 U.S.C. 1437j(a).
(iii)
State wage rates.
Preemption of state prevailing wage rates as provided at 24 CFR 965.101.
(iv)
Volunteers.
The prevailing wage requirements of this section do not apply to volunteers performing development, modernization, or nonroutine maintenance work under the conditions set out in 24 CFR part 70.
(4)
Technical wage rates.
All architects, technical engineers, draftsmen, and technicians (other than volunteers under the conditions set out in 24 CFR part 70) employed in a development or modernization project shall be paid not less than the wages prevailing in the locality, as determined or adopted (subsequent to a determination under applicable state or local law) by HUD.
(5)
Lead-based paint poisoning prevention.
The PHA shall comply with the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (LPPPA) (42 U.S.C. 4821
et seq.
), the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act (42 U.S.C. 4851
et seq.
), and the Lead Safe Housing Rule and the Lead Disclosure Rule at 24 CFR part 35.
(6)
Fire safety.
A PHA shall comply with the requirements of section 31 of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2227).
(7)
Flood insurance and floodplain requirements.
The PHA will not engage in the acquisition, construction, or improvement of a public housing project
located in an area that has been identified by the FEMA as having special flood hazards, unless:
(i) The requirements of 24 CFR part 55, Floodplain Management, have been met, including a determination by a responsible entity under 24 CFR part 58 or by HUD under 24 CFR part 50 that there is no practicable alternative to locating in an area of special flood hazards and the minimization of unavoidable adverse impacts;
(ii) Flood insurance on the building is obtained in compliance with the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4001
et seq.
); and
(iii) The community in which the area is situated is participating in the National Flood Insurance Program in accordance with 44 CFR parts 59 through 79, or less than one year has passed since FEMA notification regarding flood hazards.
(8)
Coastal barriers.
In accordance with the Coastal Barriers Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
), no financial assistance under this part may be made available within the Coastal Barrier Resources System.
(9)
Displacement, relocation, and real property acquisition.
All acquisition or rehabilitation activities carried out under the Capital Fund, including acquisition of any property for development, shall comply with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (URA) (42 U.S.C. 4601-4655) and with implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24. Demolition or disposition under section 18 of the 1937 Act, 42 U.S.C. 1437p, is covered by the relocation provisions at 24 CFR 970.21.
(10)
Procurement and contract requirement.
PHAs and their contractors shall comply with section 3 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1701u) and HUD's implementing rules at 24 CFR part 75.
[78 FR 63770, Oct. 24, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015; 85 FR 61568, Sept. 29, 2020]
§ 905.310
Disbursements from HUD.
(a) The PHA shall initiate a fund requisition from HUD only when funds are due and payable, unless HUD approves another payment schedule as authorized by 2 CFR 200.305.
(b) The PHA shall maintain detailed disbursement records to document eligible expenditures (e.g., contracts or other applicable documents), in a form and manner prescribed by HUD.
[78 FR 63770, Oct. 24, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 905.312
Design and construction.
The PHA shall meet the following design and construction standards, as applicable, for all development and modernization.
(a) Physical structures shall be designed, constructed, and equipped to be consistent with the neighborhoods they occupy; meet contemporary standards of modest design, comfort, and livability (see also § 905.202(c) of this part); promote security; promote energy conservation; and be attractive so as to harmonize with the community.
(b) All development projects shall be designed and constructed in compliance with:
(1) A national building code, such as those developed by the International Code Council or the National Fire Protection Association; and the IECC or ASHRAE 90.1-2010 (both incorporated by reference, see § 905.110 of this part), for multifamily high-rises (four stories or higher), or a successor energy code or standard that has been adopted by HUD pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 12709 or other relevant authority;
(2) Applicable state and local laws, codes, ordinances, and regulations;
(3) Other federal requirements, including fire protection and safety standards implemented under section 31 of the Fire Administration Authorization Act of 1992, 15 U.S.C. 2227 and HUD minimum property standards (e.g., 24 CFR part 200, subpart S);
(4) Accessibility Requirements as required by section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 794) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 8; title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.
) and implementing regulations at 28 CFR part 35; and, if applicable, the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 100; and
(5) Occupancy of high-rise elevator structures by families with children. Pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 1437d(a), a high-
rise elevator structure shall not be provided for families with children regardless of density, unless the PHA demonstrates and HUD determines that there is no practical alternative.
(c) All modernization projects shall be designed and constructed in compliance with:
(1) The modernization standards as prescribed by HUD;
(2) Accessibility requirements as required by section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 794) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 8; title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.
) and implementing regulations at 28 CFR part 35; and, if applicable, the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 100; and
(3) Cost-effective energy conservation measures, identified in the PHA's most recently updated energy audit.
(d) Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005, in purchasing appliances, PHAs shall purchase appliances that are Energy Star products or Federal Energy Management Program designed products, unless the PHA determines that the purchase of these appliances is not cost effective.
(e)
Broadband infrastructure.
Any new construction or substantial rehabilitation, as substantial rehabilitation is defined in 24 CFR 5.100, of a building with more than 4 rental units and funded by a grant awarded or Capital Funds allocated after January 19, 2017 must include installation of broadband infrastructure, as this term is also defined in 24 CFR 5.100, except where the PHA determines and, in accordance with § 905.326, documents the determination that:
(1) The location of the new construction or substantial rehabilitation makes installation of broadband infrastructure infeasible;
(2) The cost of installing broadband infrastructure would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of its program or activity or in an undue financial burden; or
(3) The structure of the housing to be rehabilitated makes installation of broadband infrastructure infeasible.
[78 FR 63773, Oct. 24, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 92639, Dec. 20, 2016]
§ 905.314
Cost and other limitations.
(a)
Eligible administrative costs.
Where the physical or management improvement costs will benefit programs other than Public Housing, such as the Housing Choice Voucher program or local revitalization programs, eligible administrative costs are limited to the amount directly attributable to the public housing program.
(b)
Maximum project cost.
The maximum project cost represents the total amount of public housing capital assistance used in connection with the development of a public housing project, and includes:
(1) Project costs that are subject to the TDC limit (
i.e.
, HCC and Community Renewal Costs); and
(2) Project costs that are not subject to the TDC limit (
i.e.
, Additional Project Costs). The total project cost to be funded with public housing capital assistance, as set forth in the proposal and as approved by HUD, becomes the maximum project cost stated in the ACC Amendment. Upon completion of the project, the actual project cost is determined based upon the amount of public housing capital assistance expended for the project, and this becomes the maximum project cost for purposes of the ACC Amendment.
(c)
TDC limit.
(1) Public housing funds, including Capital Funds, may not be used to pay for HCC and Community Renewal Costs in excess of the TDC limit, as determined under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. However, HOPE VI grantees will be eligible to request a TDC exception for public housing and HOPE VI funds awarded in FFY 1996 and prior years. PHAs may also request a TDC exception for integrated utility management, capital planning, and other capital and management activities that promote energy conservation and efficiency. HUD will examine the request for TDC exceptions to ensure that they would be cost-effective, so as to ensure that up-front expenditures subject to the exceptions would be justified by future cost savings.
(2)
Determination of TDC limit.
HUD will determine the TDC limit for a public housing project as follows:
(i)
Step 1: Unit construction cost guideline.
HUD will first determine the applicable “construction cost guideline” by averaging the current construction costs as listed in two nationally recognized residential construction cost indices for publicly bid construction of a good and sound quality for specific bedroom sizes and structure types. The two indices HUD will use for this purpose are the R.S. Means cost index for construction of “average” quality and the Marshall
Swift cost index for construction of “good” quality. HUD has the discretion to change the cost indices to other such indices that reflect comparable housing construction quality through a notice published in the
Federal Register.
(ii)
Step 2: Bedroom size and structure types.
The construction cost guideline is then multiplied by the number of units for each bedroom size and structure type.
(iii)
Step 3: Elevator and nonelevator type structures.
HUD will then multiply the resulting amounts from step 2 by 1.6 for elevator type structures and by 1.75 for nonelevator type structures.
(iv)
Step 4: TDC limit.
The TDC limit for a project is calculated by adding the resulting amounts from step 3 for all the public housing units in the project.
(3)
Costs not subject to the TDC limit.
Additional project costs are not subject to the TDC limit.
(4)
Funds not subject to the TDC limit.
A PHA may use funding sources not subject to the TDC limit (e.g., Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds, low-income housing tax credits, private donations, private financing, etc.) to cover project costs that exceed the TDC limit or the HCC limit described in this paragraph (c). Such funds, however, may not be used for items that would result in substantially increased operating, maintenance, or replacement costs, and must meet the requirements of section 102 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 (Pub. L. 101-235, approved December 15, 1989) (42 U.S.C. 3545). These funds must be included in the project development cost budget.
(d)
Housing Construction Costs (HCC).
(1)
General.
A PHA may not use Capital Funds to pay for HCC in excess of the amount determined under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2)
Determination of HCC limit.
HUD will determine the HCC limit as listed in at least two nationally recognized residential construction cost indices for publicly bid construction of a good and sound quality for specific bedroom sizes and structure types. The two indices HUD will use for this purpose are the R.S. Means cost index for construction of “average” quality and the Marshal
Swift cost index for construction of “good” quality. HUD has the discretion to change the cost indices to other such indices that reflect comparable housing construction quality through a notice published in the
Federal Register.
The resulting construction cost guideline is then multiplied by the number of public housing units in the project, based upon bedroom size and structure type. The HCC limit for a project is calculated by adding the resulting amounts for all public housing units in the project.
(3) The HCC limit is not applicable to the acquisition of existing housing, whether or not such housing will be rehabilitated. The TDC limit is applicable to such acquisition.
(e)
Community Renewal Costs.
Capital Funds may be used to pay for Community Renewal Costs in an amount equivalent to the difference between the HCC paid for with public housing capital assistance and the TDC limit.
(f)
Rehabilitation of existing public housing projects.
The HCC limit is not applicable to the rehabilitation of existing public housing projects. The TDC limit for modernization of existing public housing is 90 percent of the TDC limit as determined under paragraph (c) of this section. This limitation does not apply to the rehabilitation of any property acquired pursuant to § 905.600 of this part.
(g)
Modernization cost limits.
If the modernization costs are more than 90 percent of the TDC, then the project shall not be modernized. Capital Funds shall not be expended to modernize an existing public housing development that fails to meet the HUD definition of reasonable cost found in § 905.108 of this part, except for:
(1) Emergency work;
(2) Essential maintenance necessary to keep a public housing project habitable until the demolition or disposition application is approved; or
(3) The costs of maintaining the safety and security of a site that is undergoing demolition.
(h)
Administrative cost limits and Capital Fund Program Fee.
(1) Administrative cost limits (for non-asset-management PHAs). The PHA shall not budget or expend more than 10 percent of its annual Capital Fund grant on administrative costs, in accordance with the CFP 5-Year Action Plan.
(2) Capital Fund Program Fee (for asset-management PHAs). For a PHA that is under asset management, the Capital Fund Program Fee and administrative cost limits are the same. For the Capital Fund Program Fee, a PHA may charge a management fee of up to 10 percent of the annual CFP formula grant(s) amount, excluding emergency and disaster grants and also excluding any costs related to lead-based paint or asbestos testing, in-house architectural and engineering work, or other special administrative costs required by state or local law.
(i) Modernization. The PHA shall not budget or expend more than 10 percent of its annual Capital Fund grant on administrative costs, in accordance with its CFP 5-Year Action Plan. The 10 percent limit excludes any costs related to lead-based paint or asbestos testing, in-house Architectural and Engineering work, or other special administrative costs required by state or local law.
(ii) Development. For development work with Capital Fund and RHF grants, the administrative cost limit is 3 percent of the total project budget, or, with HUD's approval, up to 6 percent of the total project budget.
(i)
Management improvement cost limits.
In Fiscal Year (FY) 2014, a PHA shall not use more than 18 percent of its annual Capital Fund grant for eligible management improvement costs identified in its CFP 5-Year Action Plan. In FY 2015, a PHA shall not use more than 16 percent of its annual Capital Fund grant for eligible management improvement costs identified in its CFP 5-Year Action Plan. In FY 2016, a PHA shall not use more than 14 percent of its annual Capital Fund grant for eligible management improvement costs identified in its CFP 5-Year Action Plan. In FY 2017, a PHA shall not use more than 12 percent of its annual Capital Fund grant for eligible management improvement costs identified in its CFP 5-Year Action Plan. In FY 2018 and thereafter, a PHA shall not use more than 10 percent of its annual Capital Fund grant for eligible management improvement costs identified in its CFP 5-Year Action Plan. Management improvements are an eligible expense for PHAs participating in asset management.
(j)
Types of labor.
A PHA may use force account labor for development and modernization activities if included in a CFP 5-Year Action Plan that is approved by the PHA Board of Commissioners and HUD. HUD approval to use force account labor is not required when the PHA is designated as a high performer under PHAS.
(k)
RMC activities.
When the entire development, financing, or modernization activity, including the planning and architectural design, is administered by an RMC, the PHA shall not retain any portion of the Capital Funds for any administrative or other reason, unless the PHA and the RMC provide otherwise by contract.
(l)
Capital Funds for operating costs.
A PHA may use Capital Funds for operating costs only if it is included in the CFP 5-Year Action Plan that is approved by the PHA Board of Commissioners and HUD, and limited as described in paragraphs (l)(1) and (2) of this section. Capital Funds identified in the CFP 5-Year Action Plan to be transferred to operations are obligated once the funds have been budgeted and drawn down by the PHA. Once such transfer of funds occurs, the PHA must follow the requirements of 24 CFR part 990 with respect to those funds.
(1)
Large PHAs.
A PHA with 250 or more units may use no more than 20 percent of its annual Capital Fund grant for activities that are eligible under the Operating Fund at 24 CFR part 990.
(2)
Small PHAs.
A PHA with less than 250 units, that is not designated as troubled under PHAS, may use up to 100 percent of its annual Capital Fund grant for activities that are eligible
under the Operating Fund at 24 CFR part 990, except that the PHA must have determined that there are no debt service payments, significant Capital Fund needs, or emergency needs that must be met prior to transferring 100 percent of its funds to operating expenses.
§ 905.316
Procurement and contract requirements.
(a)
General.
PHAs shall comply with 2 CFR part 200, and HUD implementing instructions, for all capital activities including modernization and development, except as provided in paragraph (c) in this section.
(b)
Contracts.
The PHA shall use all contract forms prescribed by HUD. If a form is not prescribed, the PHA may use any Office of Management and Budget (OMB) approved form that contains all applicable federal requirements and contract clauses.
(c)
Mixed-finance development projects.
Mixed-finance development partners may be selected in accordance with 24 CFR 905.604(h). Contracts and other agreements with mixed-finance development partners must specify that they comply with the requirements of §§ 905.602 and 905.604 of this part.
(d)
Assurances of completion.
Notwithstanding 24 CFR 85.36 (as revised April 1, 2013), for each construction contract over $100,000, the contractor shall furnish the PHA with the following:
(1) A bid guarantee from each bidder, equivalent to 5 percent of the bid price; and
(2) One of the following:
(i) A performance bond and payment bond for 100 percent of the contract price;
(ii) A performance bond and a payment bond, each for 50 percent or more of the contract price;
(iii) A 20 percent cash escrow;
(iv) A 10 percent irrevocable letter of credit with terms acceptable to HUD, or
(v) Any other payment method acceptable to HUD.
(e)
Procurement of recovered materials.
PHAs that are state agencies and agencies of a political subdivision of a state that are using assistance under this part for procurement, and any person contracting with such PHAs with respect to work performed under an assisted contract, must comply with the requirements of section 6002 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. In accordance with section 6002, these agencies and persons must procure items designated in guidelines of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) at 40 CFR part 247 that contain the highest percentage of recovered material practicable, consistent with maintaining a satisfactory level of competition, where the purchase price of the item exceeds $10,000 or the value of the quantity acquired in the preceding fiscal year exceeded $10,000; must procure solid waste management services in a manner that promotes energy and resource recovery; and must have established an affirmative procurement program for procurement of recovered materials identified in the EPA guidelines.
[78 FR 63770, Oct. 24, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 905.318
Title and deed.
The PHA, or, in the case of mixed-finance, the Owner Entity, shall obtain title insurance that guarantees the title is good and marketable before taking title to any and all sites and properties acquired with public housing funds. Immediately upon taking title to a property, the PHA or Owner Entity shall record the deed and a Declaration of Trust or, in the case of mixed finance, a Declaration of Restrictive Covenants, in the form and in the manner and order prescribed by HUD. The PHA shall at all times maintain a recorded Declaration of Trust or Declaration of Restrictive Covenants in the form and in the manner and order prescribed by HUD on all public housing projects covering the term required by this part.
§ 905.320
Contract administration and acceptance of work.
(a)
Contract administration.
The PHA is responsible, in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, for all contractual and administrative issues arising out of their procurements. The PHA shall maintain full and complete records on the history of each procurement transaction.
(b)
Inspection and acceptance.
The PHA, or, in the case of mixed finance, the Owner Entity shall carry out inspections of work in progress and goods delivered, as necessary, to ensure compliance with existing contracts. If, upon inspection, the PHA determines that the work and/or goods are complete, satisfactory and, as applicable, otherwise undamaged, except for any work that is appropriate for delayed completion, the PHA shall accept the work. The PHA shall determine any holdback for items of delayed completion and the amount due and payable for the work that has been accepted, including any conditions precedent to payment that are stated in the construction contract or contract of sale. The contractor shall be paid for items only after the PHA inspects and accepts that work.
(c)
Guarantees and warranties.
The PHA or, in the case of mixed finance, the Owner Entity, shall specify the guaranty period and amounts to be withheld, as applicable, and shall provide that all contractor, manufacturer, and supplier warranties required by the construction and modernization documents shall be assigned to the PHA. The PHA shall inspect each dwelling unit and the overall project approximately 3 months after the beginning of the project guaranty period, 3 months before its expiration, and at other times as may be necessary to exercise its rights before expiration of any warranties. The PHA shall require repair or replacement of all defective items prior to the expiration of the guaranty or warranty periods.
(d)
Notification of completion.
The PHA, or in the case of mixed finance, the Owner Entity, shall require that all contractors and developers notify the PHA in writing when the contract work, including any approved off-site work, will be completed and ready for inspection.
[78 FR 63770, Oct. 24, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 905.322
Fiscal closeout.
(a)
General.
Each Capital Fund grant and/or development project is subject to fiscal closeout. Fiscal closeout includes the submission of a cost certificate; an audit, if applicable; a final Performance and Evaluation Report; and HUD approval of the cost certificate.
(b)
Submission of cost certificate.
(1) When an approved development or modernization activity is completed or when HUD terminates the activity, the PHA must submit to HUD the:
(i) Actual Development Cost Certificate (ADCC) within 12 months. For purposes of the CF ACC, costs incurred between the completion of the development and the date of full availability (DOFA) becomes the actual development cost; and
(ii) Actual Modernization Cost Certificate (AMCC) for each grant, no later than 12 months after the expenditure deadline but no earlier than the obligation end date. A PHA with under 250 units with an approved CFP 5-Year Action Plan for use of 100 percent of the Capital Fund grant in operations may submit the cost certificate any time after the funds have been budgeted to operations and withdrawn, as described in § 905.314(l) of this part.
(2) If the PHA does not submit the cost certificate and the final CFP Annual Statement/Performance and Evaluation Report within the period prescribed in this section, HUD may impose restrictions on open Capital Fund grants; e.g., establish review thresholds, set the grant to “auto review” (HUD automatically reviews it on a periodic basis), or suspend grants, until the cost certificate for the affected grant is submitted. These restrictions may be imposed by HUD after notification of the PHA.
(c)
Audit.
The cost certificate is a financial statement subject to audit pursuant to 2 CFR part 200, subpart F. After submission of the cost certificate to HUD, the PHA shall provide the cost certificate to its independent public auditor (IPA) as part of its annual audit. After audit, the PHA will notify HUD of the grants included in the audit, any exceptions noted by the PHA auditor, and the schedule to complete corrective actions recommended by the auditor.
(d)
Review and approval.
For PHAs exempt from the audit requirements, HUD will review and approve the cost certificate based on available information regarding the Capital Fund grant.
For PHAs subject to an audit, HUD will review the information from the annual audit provided by the PHA and approve the certificate after all exceptions, if any, have been resolved.
(e)
Recapture.
All Capital Funds in excess of the actual cost incurred for the grant are subject to recapture. Any funds awarded to the PHA that are returned or any funds taken back from the PHA in a fiscal year after the grant was awarded are subject to recapture.
[78 FR 63770, Oct. 24, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 905.324
Data reporting requirements.
The PHA shall provide, at minimum, the following data reports, at a time and in a form prescribed by HUD:
(a) The Performance and Evaluation Report as described in § 905.300(b)(8) of this part;
(b) Updates on the PHA's building and unit data as required by HUD;
(c) Reports of obligation and expenditure; and
(d) Any other information required for participation in the Capital Fund Program.
§ 905.326
Records.
(a) The PHA will maintain full and complete records of the history of each Capital Fund grant, including, but not limited to, CFP 5-Year Action Plans, procurement, contracts, obligations, and expenditures.
(b) The PHA shall retain for 5 years after HUD approves either the actual development or modernization cost certificate all documents related to the activities for which the Capital Fund grant was received, unless a longer period is required by applicable law.
(c) HUD and its duly authorized representatives shall have full and free access to all PHA offices, facilities, books, documents, and records, including the right to audit and make copies.

# Subpart D—Capital Fund Formula

# Source:
78 FR 63773, Oct. 24, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 905.400
Capital Fund formula (CF formula).
(a)
General.
This section describes the formula for allocating Capital Funds to PHAs.
(b)
Formula allocation based on relative needs.
HUD shall allocate Capital Funds to the PHAs in accordance with the CF formula. The CF formula measures the existing modernization needs and accrual needs of PHAs.
(c)
Allocation for existing modernization needs under the CF formula.
HUD shall allocate one-half of the available Capital Fund amount based on the relative existing modernization needs of PHAs, determined in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(d)
PHAs with 250 or more units in FFY 1999, except the New York City and Chicago Housing Authorities.
The estimates of the existing modernization needs for these PHAs shall be based on the following:
(1) Objective measurable data concerning the following PHA, community, and project characteristics applied to each project:
(i) The average number of bedrooms in the units in a project (Equation coefficient 4604.7);
(ii) The total number of units in a project (Equation coefficient: 10.17);
(iii) The proportion of units in a project in buildings completed in 1978 or earlier. In the case of acquired projects, HUD will use the DOFA unless the PHA provides HUD with the actual date of construction completion. When the PHA provides the actual date of construction completion, HUD will use that date (or, for scattered sites, the average dates of construction of all the buildings), subject to a 50-year cap. (Equation coefficient: 4965.4);
(iv) The cost index of rehabilitating property in the area (Equation coefficient: −10608);
(v) The extent to which the units of a project were in a nonmetropolitan area as defined by the United States Bureau of the Census (Census Bureau) during FFY 1996 (Equation coefficient: 2703.9);
(vi) The PHA is located in the Southern census region, as defined by the Census Bureau (Equation coefficient: −269.4);
(vii) The PHA is located in the Western census region, as defined by the Census Bureau (Equation coefficient: −1709.5);
(viii) The PHA is located in the Midwest census region as defined by the Census Bureau (Equation coefficient: 246.2); and
(2) An equation constant of 13851.
(i)
Newly constructed units.
Units with a DOFA date of October 1, 1991, or after, shall be considered to have a zero existing modernization need.
(ii)
Acquired projects.
Projects acquired by a PHA with a DOFA date of October 1, 1991, or after, shall be considered to have a zero existing modernization need.
(3)
For New York City and Chicago Housing Authorities, based on a large sample of direct inspections.
Prior to the cost calibration in paragraph (d)(5) of this section, the number used for the existing modernization need of family projects shall be $16,680 in New York City and $24,286 in Chicago, and the number for elderly projects shall be $14,622 in New York City and $16,912 in Chicago.
(i)
Newly constructed units.
Units with a DOFA date of October 1, 1991, or after, shall be considered to have a zero existing modernization need.
(ii)
Acquired projects.
Projects acquired by a PHA with a DOFA date of October 1, 1991, or after, shall be considered to have a zero existing modernization need.
(4)
PHAs with fewer than 250 units in FFY 1999.
The estimates of the existing modernization need shall be based on the following:
(i) Objective measurable data concerning the PHA, community, and project characteristics applied to each project:
(A) The average number of bedrooms in the units in a project. (Equation coefficient: 1427.1);
(B) The total number of units in a project. (Equation coefficient: 24.3);
(C) The proportion of units in a project in buildings completed in 1978 or earlier. In the case of acquired projects, HUD shall use the DOFA date unless the PHA provides HUD with the actual date of construction completion, in which case HUD shall use the actual date of construction completion (or, for scattered sites, the average dates of construction of all the buildings), subject to a 50-year cap. (Equation coefficient: −1389.7);
(D) The cost index of rehabilitating property in the area, as of FFY 1999. (Equation coefficient: −20163);
(E) The extent to which the units of a project were in a nonmetropolitan area as defined by the Census Bureau during FFY 1996. (Equation coefficient: 6157.7);
(F) The PHA is located in the Southern census region, as defined by the Census Bureau. (Equation coefficient: 4379.2);
(G) The PHA is located in the Western census region, as defined by the Census Bureau. (Equation coefficient: 3747.7);
(H) The PHA is located in the Midwest census region as defined by the Census Bureau. (Equation coefficient: −2073.5); and
(ii) An equation constant of 24762.
(A)
Newly constructed units.
Units with a DOFA date of October 1, 1991, or after, shall be considered to have a zero existing modernization need.
(B)
Acquired projects.
Projects acquired by a PHA with a DOFA date of October 1, 1991, or after, shall be considered by HUD to have a zero existing modernization need.
(5)
Calibration of existing modernization need for cost index of rehabilitating property in the area.
The estimated existing modernization need determined under paragraphs (d)(1), (2), or (3) of this section shall be adjusted by the values of the cost index of rehabilitating property in the area.
(6)
Freezing of the determination of existing modernization need.
FFY 2008 is the last fiscal year that HUD will calculate the existing modernization need. The existing modernization need will be frozen for all developments at the calculation as of FFY 2008 and will be adjusted for changes in the inventory and paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
(e)
Allocation for accrual needs under the CF formula.
HUD shall allocate the other half of the remaining Capital Fund amount based on the relative accrual needs of PHAs, determined in accordance with this paragraph of this section.
(1) PHAs with 250 or more units, except the New York City and Chicago Housing Authorities. The estimates of the accrual need shall be based on the following:
(i) Objective measurable data concerning the following PHA, community, and project characteristics applied to each project:
(A) The average number of bedrooms in the units in a project. (Equation coefficient: 324.0);
(B) The extent to which the buildings in a project average fewer than 5 units. (Equation coefficient: 93.3);
(C) The age of a project, as determined by the DOFA date. In the case of acquired projects, HUD shall use the DOFA date unless the PHA provides HUD with the actual date of construction completion, in which case HUD shall use the actual date of construction (or, for scattered sites, the average dates of construction of all the buildings), subject to a 50-year cap. (Equation coefficient: −7.8);
(D) Whether the development is a family project. (Equation coefficient: 184.5);
(E) The cost index of rehabilitating property in the area. (Equation coefficient: −252.8);
(F) The extent to which the units of a project were in a nonmetropolitan area as defined by the Census Bureau during FFY 1996. (Equation coefficient: −121.3);
(G) PHA size of 6,600 or more units in FFY 1999. (Equation coefficient: −150.7);
(H) The PHA is located in the Southern census region, as defined by the Census Bureau. (Equation coefficient: 28.4);
(I) The PHA is located in the Western census region, as defined by the Census Bureau. (Equation coefficient: −116.9);
(J) The PHA is located in the Midwest census region as defined by the Census Bureau. (Equation coefficient: 60.7); and
(ii) An equation constant of 1371.9.
(2) For the New York City and Chicago Housing Authorities, based on a large sample of direct inspections. Prior to the cost calibration in paragraph (e)(4) of this section the number used for the accrual need of family developments is $1,395 in New York City, and $1,251 in Chicago, and the number for elderly developments is $734 in New York City and $864 in Chicago.
(3) PHAs with fewer than 250 units. The estimates of the accrual need shall be based on the following:
(i) Objective measurable data concerning the following PHA, community, and project characteristics applied to each project:
(A) The average number of bedrooms in the units in a project. (Equation coefficient: 325.5);
(B) The extent to which the buildings in a project average fewer than 5 units. (Equation coefficient: 179.8);
(C) The age of a project, as determined by the DOFA date. In the case of acquired projects, HUD shall use the DOFA date unless the PHA provides HUD with the actual date of construction completion. When provided with the actual date of construction completion, HUD shall use this date (or, for scattered sites, the average dates of construction of all the buildings), subject to a 50-year cap. (Equation coefficient: −9.0);
(D) Whether the project is a family development. (Equation coefficient: 59.3);
(E) The cost index of rehabilitating property in the area. (Equation coefficient: −1570.5);
(F) The extent to which the units of a project were in a nonmetropolitan area as defined by the Census Bureau during FFY 1996. (Equation coefficient: −122.9);
(G) The PHA is located in the Southern census region, as defined by the Census Bureau. (Equation coefficient: −564.0);
(H) The PHA is located in the Western census region, as defined by the Census Bureau. (Equation coefficient: −29.6);
(I) The PHA is located in the Midwest census region as defined by the Census Bureau. (Equation coefficient: −418.3); and
(ii) An equation constant of 3193.6.
(4)
Calibration of accrual need for the cost index of rehabilitating property in the area.
The estimated accrual need determined under either paragraph (e)(2) or (3) of this section shall be adjusted by the values of the cost index of rehabilitation.
(f)
Calculation of number of units.
(1)
General.
For purposes of determining the number of a PHA's public housing units and the relative modernization needs of PHAs:
(i) HUD shall count as one unit:
(A) Each public housing and section 23 bond-financed CF unit, except that each existing unit under the Turnkey III program shall count as one-fourth of a unit. Units receiving operating subsidy only shall not be counted.
(B) Each existing unit under the Mutual Help program.
(ii) HUD shall add to the overall unit count any units that the PHA adds to its inventory when the units are under CF ACC amendment and have reached DOFA by the date that HUD establishes for the FFY in which the CF formula is being run (hereafter called the “reporting date”). New CF units and those reaching DOFA after the reporting date shall be counted for CF formula purposes in the following FFY.
(2)
Replacement units.
Replacement units newly constructed on or after October 1, 1998, that replace units in a project funded in FFY 1999 by the Comprehensive Grant formula system or the Comprehensive Improvement Assistance Program (CIAP) formula system shall be given a new CF ACC number as a separate project and shall be treated as a newly constructed development as outlined in § 905.600 of this part.
(3)
Reconfiguration of units.
Reconfiguration of units may cause the need to be calculated by the new configuration based on the formula characteristics in the building and unit's PIC module (refer to the formula sections here). The unit counts will be determined by the CF units existing after the reconfiguration.
(4)
Reduction of units.
For a project losing units as a result of demolition and disposition, the number of units on which the CF formula is based shall be the number of units reported as eligible for Capital Funds as of the reporting date. Units are eligible for funding until they are removed due to demolition and disposition in accordance with a schedule approved by HUD.
(g)
Computation of formula shares under the CF formula.
(1)
Total estimated existing modernization need.
The total estimated existing modernization need of a PHA under the CF formula is the result of multiplying for each project the PHA's total number of formula units by its estimated existing modernization need per unit, as determined by paragraph (d) of this section, and calculating the sum of these estimated project needs.
(2)
Total accrual need.
The total accrual need of a PHA under the CF formula is the result of multiplying for each project the PHA's total number of formula units by its estimated accrual need per unit, as determined by paragraph (e) of this section, and calculating the sum of these estimated accrual needs.
(3)
PHA's formula share of existing modernization need.
A PHA's formula share of existing modernization need under the CF formula is the PHA's total estimated existing modernization need divided by the total existing modernization need of all PHAs.
(4)
PHA's formula share of accrual need.
A PHA's formula share of accrual need under the CF formula is the PHA's total estimated accrual need divided by the total existing accrual need of all PHAs.
(5)
PHA's formula share of capital need.
A PHA's formula share of capital need under the CF formula is the average of the PHA's share of existing modernization need and its share of accrual need (by which method each share is weighted 50 percent).
(h)
CF formula capping.
(1) For units that are eligible for funding under the CF formula (including replacement housing units discussed below), a PHA's CF formula share shall be its share of capital need, as determined under the CF formula, subject to the condition that no PHA's CF formula share for units funded under the CF formula can be less than 94 percent of its formula share had the FFY 1999 formula system been applied to these CF formula-eligible units. The FFY 1999 formula system is based upon the FFY 1999 Comprehensive Grant formula system for PHAs with 250 or more units in FFY 1999 and upon the FFY 1999 Comprehensive Improvement Assistance Program (CIAP) formula system for PHAs with fewer than 250 units in FFY 1999.
(2) For a Moving to Work (MTW) PHA whose MTW agreement provides that its CF formula share is to be calculated in accordance with the previously existing formula, the PHA's CF formula share, during the term of the MTW agreement, may be approximately the formula share that the PHA would have received had the FFY 1999 formula funding system been applied to the CF formula eligible units.
(i)
Replacement Housing Factor to reflect formula need for developments with demolition or disposition occurring on or after October 1, 1998, and prior to September 30, 2013.
(1)
RHF generally.
PHAs that have a reduction in the number of units attributable to demolition or disposition of units during the period (reflected in data maintained by HUD) that lowers the formula unit count for the CFF calculation qualify for application of an RHF, subject to satisfaction of criteria stated in paragraph (i)(5) of this section
(2)
When applied.
The RHF will be added, where applicable:
(i) For the first 5 years after the reduction of units described in paragraph (i)(1) of this section; and
(ii) For an additional 5 years if the planning, leveraging, obligation, and expenditure requirements are met. As a prior condition of a PHA's receipt of additional funds for replacement housing provided for the second 5-year period or any portion thereof, a PHA must obtain a firm commitment of substantial additional funds, other than public housing funds, for replacement housing, as determined by HUD.
(3)
Computation of RHF.
The RHF consists of the difference between the CFF share without the CFF share reduction of units attributable to demolition or disposition and the CFF share that resulted after the reduction of units attributable to demolition or disposition.
(4)
Replacement housing funding in FFYs 1998 and 1999.
Units that received replacement housing funding in FFY 1998 will be treated as if they had received 2 years of replacement housing funding by FFY 2000. Units that received replacement housing funding in FFY 1999 will be treated as if they had received one year of replacement housing funding as of FFY 2000.
(5)
PHA Eligibility for the RHF.
A PHA is eligible for this factor only if the PHA satisfies the following criteria:
(i) The PHA will use the funding in question only for replacement housing;
(ii) The PHA will use the restored funding that results from the use of the replacement factor to provide replacement housing in accordance with the PHA's 5-Year Action Plan, as approved by HUD under part 903 of this chapter as well as the PHA's Board of Commissioners;
(iii) The PHA has not received funding for public housing units that will replace the lost units under Public Housing Development, Major Reconstruction of Obsolete Public Housing, HOPE VI, Choice Neighborhoods, Rental Assistance Payment (RAP), or programs that otherwise provide for replacement with public housing units;
(iv) The PHA, if designated as a troubled PHA by HUD, and not already under the direction of HUD or an appointed receiver, in accordance with part 902 of this chapter, uses an Alternative Management Entity, as defined in part 902 of this chapter, for development of replacement housing and complies with any applicable provisions of its Memorandum of Agreement executed with HUD under that part; and
(v) The PHA undertakes any development of replacement housing in accordance with applicable HUD requirements and regulations.
(6)
Failure to provide replacement housing in a timely fashion.
(i) A PHA will be subject to the actions described in paragraph (i)(7)(ii) of this section if the PHA does not:
(A) Use the restored funding that results from the use of the RHF to provide replacement housing in a timely fashion, as provided in paragraph (i)(7)(i) of this section and in accordance with applicable HUD requirements and regulations, and
(B) Make reasonable progress on such use of the funding, in accordance with applicable HUD requirements and regulations.
(ii) If a PHA fails to act as described in paragraph (i)(6)(i) of this section, HUD will require appropriate corrective action under these regulations, may recapture and reallocate the
funds, or may take other appropriate action.
(7)
Requirement to obligate and expend RHF funds within the specified period.
(i) In addition to the requirements otherwise applicable to obligation and expenditure of funds, PHAs are required to obligate assistance received as a result of the RHF within:
(A) 24 months from the date that funds become available to the PHA; or
(B) With specific HUD approval, 24 months from the date that the PHA accumulates adequate funds to undertake replacement housing.
(ii) To the extent the PHA has not obligated any funds provided as a result of the RHF within the time frames required by this paragraph, or has not expended such funds within a reasonable time, HUD shall recapture the unobligated amount of the grant.
(j)
Demolition and Disposition Transitional Funding (DDTF) to reflect formula need for developments with demolition or disposition on or after October 1, 2013.
(1)
DDTF generally.
In FFY 2014 and thereafter, PHAs that have a reduction in the number of units occurring in FFY 2013 and attributable to demolition or disposition are automatically eligible to receive Demolition and Disposition Transitional Funding. The DDTF will be included in their annual Capital Fund grant for a 5-year period to offset the reduction in funding a PHA would receive from removing units from inventory. DDTF is subject to the criteria stated in paragraph (j)(4) of this section.
(2)
When applied.
DDTF will be added to a PHA's annual CFP grant, where applicable, for 5 years after the reduction of units described in paragraph (j)(1) of this section.
(3)
Computation of DDTF.
The DDTF consists of the difference between the CFF share without the CFF share reduction of units attributable to demolition or disposition and the CFF share that resulted after the reduction of units attributable to demolition or disposition.
(4)
PHA eligibility for the DDTF.
A PHA is eligible for this factor only if the PHA satisfies the following criteria:
(i) The PHA will automatically receive the DDTF for reduction of units in accordance with paragraph (j)(1) of this section, unless the PHA rejects the DDTF funding for that fiscal year in writing;
(ii) The PHA will use the funding in question for eligible activities under the Capital Fund Program, found at 905.200—such as modernization and development—that are included in the PHA's HUD approved CFP 5-Year Action Plan.
(iii) The PHA has not received funding for public housing units that will replace the lost units from disposition proceeds, or under Public Housing Development, Major Reconstruction of Obsolete Public Housing, HOPE VI, Choice Neighborhoods, RAP, or programs that otherwise provide for replacement with public housing units;
(iv) The PHA, if designated as a troubled PHA by HUD, and not already under the direction of HUD or an appointed receiver, in accordance with part 902 of this chapter, uses an Alternative Management Entity, as defined in part 902 of this chapter, and complies with any applicable provisions of its Memorandum of Agreement executed with HUD under that part; and
(v) The PHA undertakes any eligible activities in accordance with applicable HUD requirements and regulations.
(5)
Requirement to obligate and expend DDTF funds within the specified period.
(i) In addition to the requirements otherwise applicable to obligation and expenditure of Capital Funds, including 42 U.S.C. 1437g(j) and the terms of the appropriation from Congress, PHAs are required to obligate funds received as a result of the DDTF within 24 months from the date that funds become available to the PHA; or
(ii) To the extent the PHA has not obligated any funds provided as a result of the DDTF within the time frames required by this paragraph, or expended such funds within a reasonable time frame, HUD shall reduce the amount of DDTF to be provided to the PHA.
(k)
RHF Transition.
(1) PHAs that would be newly eligible for RHF in FFY 2014 will receive 5 years of DDTF.
(2) PHAs that received a portion of a first increment RHF grant in FY 2013, for units removed from inventory prior to the reporting date of June 30, 2012,
will receive up to 10 years of funding consisting of the remainder of first-increment RHF, subject to the requirements of § 905.400(i) of this part, and, if eligible, 5 years of DDTF, subject to the requirements of § 905.400(j) of this part.
(3) PHAs that received a portion of a second increment RHF grant in FY 2013, for units removed from inventory prior to the reporting date of June 30, 2012, will continue to receive the remaining portion of the 5-year increment as a separate second increment RHF grant, as described in § 905.400(i) of this part.
(l)
Performance reward factor.
(1)
High performer.
A PHA that is designated a high performer under the PHA's most recent final PHAS score may receive a performance bonus that is:
(i) Three (3) percent above its base formula amount in the first 5 years these awards are given (for any year in this 5-year period in which the performance reward is earned); or
(ii) Five (5) percent above its base formula amount in future years (for any year in which the performance reward is earned);
(2)
Condition.
The performance bonus is subject only to the condition that no PHA will lose more than 5 percent of its base formula amount as a result of the redistribution of funding from nonhigh performers to high performers.
(3)
Redistribution.
The total amount of Capital Funds that HUD has recaptured or not allocated to PHAs as a sanction for violation of expenditure and obligation requirements shall be allocated to the PHAs that are designated high performers under PHAS.

# Subpart E—Use of Capital Funds for Financing

# Source:
75 FR 65208, Oct. 21, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 905.500
Purpose and description.
(a) This subpart provides the requirements necessary for a PHA to participate in the Capital Fund Financing Program (CFFP), under which the PHA may obtain HUD approval to borrow private capital and pledge a portion of its annual Capital Fund grant or public housing assets and other public housing property of the public housing agency as security.
(b) Under the CFFP, PHAs are permitted to borrow private capital to finance public housing development or modernization activities. A PHA may use a portion of its Capital Fund for debt service payments and usual and customary financing costs associated with public housing development or modernization (including public housing in mixed-finance developments). A PHA that undertakes such financing activities may, subject to HUD's written approval, grant a security interest in its future annual Capital Fund grants, which shall be subject to the appropriation of those funds by Congress. The PHA's financing activities are not obligations or liabilities of the Federal Government. The Federal Government does not assume any liability with respect to any such pledge of future appropriations, and the Federal Government neither guarantees nor provides any full faith and credit for these financing transactions.
§ 905.505
Program requirements.
(a)
Written approval.
A PHA shall obtain written HUD approval for all Capital Fund financing transactions that pledge, encumber, or otherwise provide a security interest in public housing assets or other property, including Capital Funds, and use Capital Funds for the payment of debt service or other financing costs. HUD approval shall be based on:
(1) The ability of the PHA to complete the financing transaction along with the associated improvements;
(2) The reasonableness of the provisions in the Capital Fund Financing Proposal considering the other pledges or commitments of public housing assets, the PHA's capital needs, and the pledge being proposed; and
(3) Whether the PHA meets the requirements of this subpart.
(b)
Antideficiency.
Any pledge of future year Capital Fund grants under this section is subject to the availability of appropriations by Congress for that year. All financing documents related to future year Capital Fund amounts must include a statement that the pledging of funds is subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c)
Conditions on use
—(1)
Development.
Any public housing that is developed using amounts under this part (including proceeds from financing authorized under this part) shall be operated under the terms and conditions applicable to public housing during the 40-year period that begins on the date on which the project becomes available for occupancy, except as otherwise provided in the 1937 Act.
(2)
Modernization.
Any public housing or portion of public housing that is modernized using amounts under this part (including proceeds from financing authorized under this part) shall be maintained and operated during the 20-year period that begins on the latest date on which the modernization is completed, except as otherwise provided in the 1937 Act.
(3)
Applicability of latest expiration date.
Public housing subject to the use conditions described in paragraph (c) of this section, or to any other provision of law mandating the operation of housing as public housing for a specific length of time, shall be maintained and operated as required until the latest such expiration date.
(4)
Declaration of Trust.
All public housing rental projects must show evidence satisfactory to HUD of an effective Declaration of Trust being recorded in first position, meeting the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section and covering the term of the financing. If part of a mixed-finance project, this evidence will be with the mixed-finance evidentiary documents.
(d)
Public Housing Assessment System (PHAS) designation.
Generally, a PHA shall be designated a standard performer or high performer under PHAS (24 CFR part 902), and must be a standard performer or higher on the management and financial condition indicators. HUD will consider requests from a PHA designated as troubled under PHAS when the PHA is able to show that it has developed appropriate management and financial capability and controls that demonstrate its ability to successfully undertake the Capital Fund Financing Proposal. The PHA must comply with all applicable fair housing and civil rights requirements in 24 CFR 5.105(a). If a PHA has received a letter of findings, charge, or lawsuit involving ongoing systemic noncompliance under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Fair Housing Act, or Section 109 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, and the letter of findings, charge, or lawsuit has not been resolved to HUD's satisfaction, then unless the Capital Fund Financing Proposal is part of a plan to address such findings, charge, or lawsuit, the PHA will not be eligible for financing pursuant to the CFFP. HUD will determine if actions to resolve the charge, lawsuit, or letter of findings taken are sufficient to resolve the matter.
(e)
Management capacity.
A PHA shall have the capacity to undertake and administer private financing and construction or modernization of the size and type contemplated. In order to determine capacity, HUD may require the PHA to submit a management assessment conducted by an independent third party, in a form and manner prescribed by HUD.
(f)
Existing financing.
A PHA shall identify the nature and extent of any existing encumbrances, pledges, or other financing commitments of public housing funds undertaken by the PHA.
(g)
Need for financing.
(1) A PHA must complete a physical needs assessment at the project level, in the form and manner prescribed by HUD that covers the PHA's entire public housing portfolio for the term of the financing and that takes into consideration existing needs and the lifecycle repair and replacement of major building components. The activity to be financed must be identified as a need in the physical needs assessment.
(2) Based on the assessment under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the PHA must demonstrate that the financing will not negatively impact the ability of the PHA to meet the ongoing needs of its public housing portfolio over the term of the financing. In making this demonstration, PHAs must reduce any projected future Capital Fund grants to account for planned or anticipated activities that would have the effect of reducing or otherwise limiting the availability of future Capital Fund grants. PHA projections must be detailed on the portfolio schedule form
prescribed by HUD, and shall project a stabilized number of units (Stabilized Base Unit Count) to be reached in no more than 5 years after all planned or anticipated activities have been completed that would reduce future Capital Fund grants. PHAs must also take into consideration projected use of Capital Funds for other eligible activities under part 905, and may take into consideration alternative sources of financing that are available to help meet its needs.
(3) For PHAs that are proposing to borrow more than $2 million on a cumulative basis, to the extent that:
(i) Capital and other eligible Capital Fund needs exceed projected Capital Fund program funding amounts, and the PHA is not leveraging non-public housing funds as part of its Capital Fund Financing Proposal transaction, then
(ii) The PHA must demonstrate that it has considered leveraging non-public housing funds, and state why the proposed financing is appropriate in light of alternative sources available.
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraphs (g)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, PHAs that size their financing by utilizing only replacement housing factor (RHF) funds, or PHAs that propose to use their Capital Fund Financing Proposal proceeds as part of a mixed-finance modernization transaction, are not required to comply with § 905.505(g).
(h)
CFP Plan.
(1) The use of the CFFP proceeds shall be included in a form and manner as required by HUD for CFP planning and budgeting and in a same manner as a Capital Fund grant. The CFFP proceeds shall be included as a separate Capital Fund grant to the same extent that PHAs are required to plan and budget Capital Fund grants. The use of Capital Funds for the payment of debt service and related costs shall be planned and budgeted as would other eligible uses of Capital Funds.
(2) As part of its Capital Fund Financing Proposal, the PHA shall submit a Capital Fund financing budget, in the form and manner required by HUD, detailing the proposed use of the Capital Fund Financing Proposal proceeds. There shall be no requirement for PHAs to submit a Capital Fund financing budget as part of their Capital Fund financing proceeds where the sizing of the financing is based upon the use of RHF funds for debt service, or where the Capital Fund Financing Proposal proceeds are being used as part of a mixed-finance transaction. Approval letters for mixed-finance and RHF-related Capital Fund financing transactions shall be conditioned upon the approval of the mixed-finance proposal, or, in the case of conventional development, upon the approval of the development proposal and the execution of an associated construction contract with which the Capital Fund financing proceeds would be used.
(3) The work financed with Capital Funds and described in the Capital Fund financing budget will be based on the physical needs assessment. The Capital Fund financing budget shall list the work items (e.g., roof replacement, window replacement, accessibility modifications) by development. These work items will constitute performance measures upon which the PHA's performance will be evaluated. A general representation of the work (e.g., “rehabilitation of the development”) is not sufficient.
(4) The CFP Plan (submission (as described in paragraph (h) of this section) shall include a copy of the physical needs assessment described in § 905.505(g).
(5) Financing proceeds under this part may be used only for the modernization or development of public housing and related costs including the modernization or development of non-dwelling space. Financing proceeds may not be used for administration or central office cost center costs (except for mixed-finance projects), management improvements, or upon non-viable projects, such as those subject to required conversion. Financing proceeds may be used to reimburse predevelopment costs, but only to the extent they were incurred in conformance with applicable regulatory requirements.
(i)
Debt Coverage Percentage.
(1) Except as stated in § 905.505(i)(2), a PHA shall not pledge more than 33 percent of its annual future Capital Fund
grants for debt service payments, assuming level Capital Fund appropriations over the term of the debt obligation and any reduction attributable to activities projected by the PHA to occur during the term of the financing such as demolition, disposition, or conversion of public housing units or other occurrences that could limit the availability of Capital Funds, including a voluntary compliance agreement. This percentage of Capital Funds dedicated for debt service, taking into account adjustments for activities that would reduce the receipt of Capital Funds, is called the “Debt Coverage Percentage.”
(2) A PHA may pledge up to 100 percent of any projected replacement housing factor (RHF) grants for debt service payments, provided that the pledge extends to the formula fund portion of its Capital Fund grants also, but that not more than 50 percent of its overall projected Capital Fund grants (including formula funds and RHF funds) are pledged. RHF projections shall account for any projected reductions in RHF over the term of the financing. Unless otherwise approved by HUD, PHAs shall be limited to sizing their loans based upon increments of RHF currently being received by the PHA. CFFP transactions pledging RHF funds shall include accelerated amortization provisions, requiring all RHF funds received by the PHA to pay debt service as those RHF funds are received. A RHF grant shall be used only to develop or pay financing costs for the development of replacement public housing units in accordance with § 905.10.
(3) Subject to the reasonableness test in § 905.505(a)(2), PHAs may exceed 33 percent when pledging existing Capital Fund grants and RHF grants for the payment of debt service. Existing grants are grants that have been received by the PHA at the time of HUD's approval of the Capital Fund Financing Proposal.
(j)
Terms and conditions of financing.
The terms and conditions of all financing shall be reasonable based on current market conditions. The financing documents shall include the following, as applicable:
(1)
Term.
The term of the Capital Fund financing transaction shall not be more than 20 years. All Capital Fund financing transactions shall be fully amortizing. Bridge loans and other short-term loans are permitted; however, unless otherwise approved by HUD, the CFFP Financing transaction may not be structured in a manner that generates program income.
(2)
Acceleration.
Unless otherwise approved by HUD, the financing documents shall provide that HUD approval is required before a lender may accelerate a PHA's debt obligation, for default or otherwise.
(3)
Public housing assets.
A PHA may not pledge any public housing assets unless specifically approved in writing by HUD. PHAs seeking approval of a pledge of public housing assets must submit documentation to HUD that details the nature and priority of the pledge.
(4)
Variable interest rate.
All variable-rate transactions shall include an interest-rate cap. The financing documents must specify that the PHA shall not be liable to pay debt service with public housing funds, and that there shall be no recourse to public housing assets, beyond the interest-rate cap. The limitation on the pledge of Capital Funds specified in § 905.505(i) shall be calculated based on the interest-rate cap.
(5)
Other pledges or commitments.
PHAs seeking approval of a pledge of public housing assets must describe the nature and extent of existing commitments or pledges of public housing assets, providing documentation of such other commitments or pledges to the extent required by HUD.
(6)
Terms and conditions.
Financing documents must include any other terms and conditions as required by HUD.
(k)
Fairness opinion.
The PHA shall provide an opinion, in a form and manner prescribed by HUD, from a qualified, independent, third-party financial advisor attesting that the terms and conditions of the proposed financing transaction are reasonable given current market conditions with respect to such matters as interest rate, fees, costs of issuance, call provisions, and reserve fund requirements.
(l)
Financial controls and construction management.
(1) The PHA shall have a financial control and construction management plan describing how the PHA will ensure that:
(i) Adequate controls are in place regarding the use of the Capital Fund financing proceeds; and
(ii) The improvements will be developed and completed in a timely manner consistent with the contract documents.
(2) This plan shall contain protocols and financial control mechanisms that address the design of the improvements, construction inspections, construction draws, and requisition approval checks and balances. A PHA that is designated troubled under PHAS, or other PHAs as determined by HUD, may be required to institute risk mitigation measures to ensure that the funds are used properly and for the purposes intended.
(m)
Work items.
To the extent that any changes in work items financed by Capital Fund financing proceeds meet or exceed the following threshold requirements determined by HUD, PHAs must obtain written approval of amendments to their Capital Fund financing budget from HUD:
(1) A change in the type of activity being financed (for example, if the approved Capital Fund financing budget contemplated the proceeds being used for modernization, but after the proposal is approved, the PHA decides instead to pursue development);
(2) A change in the project being modernized or developed with the proceeds;
(3) A reduction in 20 percent or more in the number of public housing units being modernized; or
(4) An increase of 20 percent or more of the cost of non-dwelling space.
(n)
Applicability of other Federal requirements.
The proceeds of the Capital Fund financing are subject to all laws, regulations, and other requirements applicable to the use of Capital Fund grants made under 24 CFR part 905, unless otherwise approved by HUD in writing. PHAs undertaking CFFP transactions shall be subject to the following requirements, which shall be further enumerated in a Capital Fund Financing Amendment to the Annual Contributions Contract (CFF ACC Amendment):
(1) Amounts payable to the PHA by HUD pursuant to the CFFP and pledged to the payment of debt service by the PHA shall be used exclusively for debt service in accordance with the debt service schedule approved by HUD and shall not be available for any other purpose;
(2) The financing does not constitute a debt or liability of HUD or the United States, the full faith and credit of the United States are not pledged to the payment of debt service, and debt service is not guaranteed by HUD or the United States;
(3) Nothing in this CFF ACC Amendment or 24 CFR part 905 is intended to diminish HUD's authority to administer, monitor, and regulate the public housing program, including HUD's authority to exercise any administrative sanction or remedy provided by law; provided, however, that except as required by law, HUD will not assert any claim or right under the ACC, including the exercise of administrative sanctions and remedies, if and to the extent that the effect of such claim or right would be to reduce the payment of Capital Fund moneys to the PHA below the level necessary to pay debt service or delay the time for payment of such moneys such that required amounts would not be available to pay debt service when due;
(4) The financing is subject to mandatory prepayment prior to the obligation end date and expenditure end date of the Capital Fund financing proceeds to the extent necessary for the Capital Fund Financing Proposal proceeds to comply with section 9(j) of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437g(j)). Bond and loan documents shall include appropriate provisions such that prepayment shall be made by the lender, trustee, or appropriate third-party servicer approved by HUD, without any action by HUD post-approval;
(5) HUD agrees, subject to the availability of appropriations, to approve immediately upon receipt from the PHA (subject to any legal requirements or constraints applicable at the time), a CFP Plan document (as described in 24 CFR 905.505(h)) and/or an annual CFF ACC Amendment, to the extent and in
an amount sufficient to make the applicable debt service payment;
(6) Prior to cumulatively reducing its inventory of public housing units by more than 5 percent of the Stabilized Base Unit Count, if, after the removal of units from inventory, the Debt Coverage Percentage under § 905.505(i)(1) would constitute more than 33 percent of future Capital Funds, the PHA shall prepay the financing such that the reduction in inventory shall not cause the Debt Coverage Percentage to increase. If the reduction in inventory is required by law or public housing requirements, the prepayment is not required to be made prior to the reduction in inventory, but instead shall be made as soon as possible after the PHA becomes aware of the requirement of law or public housing requirements, but only to the extent that Capital Funds are not otherwise needed by the PHA to address the health and safety issues or other requirements of law in the PHA's public housing portfolio, all as determined by HUD. For PHAs that size their loans based upon the projected receipt of RHF funds, prior to undertaking an activity that will reduce its RHF units below the number of units projected in the Capital Fund Financing Proposal as required by § 905.505(i)(3), the PHA shall prepay its loan such that debt service does not exceed 100 percent of projected RHF after accounting for the reduction in RHF units, all as determined by HUD.
(o)
Performance measures.
Pursuant to 24 CFR 905.505(h) a PHA is required to identify in its CFP Plan documents specific items of work that will be accomplished using the proceeds of the proposed financing. The identified items, which shall be quantifiable, shall be the basis on which HUD evaluates a PHA's performance. HUD may also utilize the Capital Fund financing budget, and Capital Fund Financing Proposal approval documents as the basis to evaluate a PHA's performance. Failure to meet performance measures may result in:
(1) Failure to receive HUD approval for future financing transactions;
(2) Failure to be considered for future competitive grant programs; and
(3) Other sanctions HUD deems appropriate and authorized by law or regulation.
(p)
Reporting requirements.
(1) The use of the CFFP proceeds shall be reported in the same manner as a Capital Fund grant. The PHA shall submit a performance and evaluation report on a quarterly basis. PHAs that utilize their Capital Fund financing proceeds as part of a mixed-finance transaction, and PHAs that size their financing based upon RHF in their Capital Fund financing transactions, are not required to submit quarterly reports.
(2) Each CFFP transaction and/or development project is subject to fiscal closeout in the same manner of a Capital Fund grant. Fiscal closeout includes the submission of an Actual Modernization Cost Certificate (AMCC) or Actual Development Cost Certificate (ADCC), an audit, if applicable, a final quarterly report, and a final Performance and Evaluation report.
§ 905.507
Streamlined application requirements for standard and high-performing PHAs.
(a) PHAs with cumulative CFFP borrowings of less than $2 million and that are standard or high performers under PHAS; PHAs that are high performers under PHAS with cumulative CFFP borrowings of less than $20 million; PHAs that propose to use their CFFP proceeds in a mixed-finance transaction, or proposals where the sizing of the financing is based only upon the use of RHF funds for debt service, shall not be required to submit:
(1) A third-party management assessment under § 905.505(e);
(2) A third-party fairness opinion under § 905.505(k);
(3) An assurance of financial controls and construction management under § 905.505(l).
(b) Notwithstanding § 905.507(a), if HUD determines that interest or other costs do not appear to meet industry norms, or other aspects of the proposal present atypical risks, HUD retains the discretion to require assessments, opinions, or controls, or to return the proposal.
§ 905.510
Submission requirements.
(a) All requests for HUD approval of CFFP transactions shall be submitted to the Office of Public and Indian Housing (PIH), Attention: Office of Capital Improvements, in such form and in such number of copies as designated by PIH through direct notice.
(b) Each Capital Fund Financing Proposal shall be tabbed and presented with the following information in the order listed:
(1)
PHA transmittal letter.
The PHA must submit a letter signed by the PHA Executive Director (or Chief Executive Officer, if applicable) briefly describing the proposed financing and use of proceeds, the percentage of Capital Funds being dedicated to debt service, the percent of the PHA's public housing units benefiting from the financing, and the impact of the financing upon the public housing portfolio, and transmit to HUD a request for approval of the CFFP transaction. The transmittal letter shall provide any additional information required pursuant to this subpart including, but not limited to:
(i) Describing the transaction being proposed;
(ii) Describing in detail any existing financing or similar commitments of public housing funds;
(iii) Describing and providing justification for significant financial or legal provisions, such as variable interest or acceleration provisions;
(iv) Describing construction management and financial controls.
(2)
Term sheet, table of contents, and contact information.
The PHA must submit the HUD-prescribed term sheet that describes the basic terms of the transaction and financing structure, including the proposed amount of the financing, the term, interest rates, security, and reserve requirements. A table of contents must identify the materials submitted, as well as list the materials the PHA is not required to submit pursuant to this rule. Contact information for all of the participating parties is also required.
(3)
Financing schedules.
The PHA must submit financing schedules that include a debt service schedule, sources and uses schedule, and a portfolio schedule (including projections for RHF, as appropriate), and an adequacy-of-Capital Funds schedule, all in a format prescribed by HUD.
(4)
Other required submissions.
The following submissions must be incorporated in the proposal to the extent required to be submitted by this part: Capital fund financing budget, management assessment, fairness opinion, and physical needs assessment.
(5)
Financing documents.
The PHA must submit a complete set of the legal documents that the PHA will execute in connection with the CFFP transaction. The legal documents must identify the nature and extent of any security being provided, as well as the position of any security interest (e.g., first lien position, second lien position). The legal documents are to be submitted to HUD only after they have been negotiated and agreed upon by the parties to the transaction. HUD will not review preliminary documents that are still under negotiation.
(6)
Declaration of Trust requirements.
The PHA must submit evidence that the PHA has conformed to the Declaration of Trust requirements in accordance with this subpart.
(7)
Board resolution and counsel's opinion.
The PHA must submit evidence of a PHA Board resolution that authorizes the PHA to: Undertake the loan up to a specified amount, provide all security interests required by the loan, and repay the loan with Capital Funds (including RHF funds, when applicable) as required by the financing documents. The Board resolution must also provide authorization for the Executive Director or other executive staff to negotiate and enter into all legal documents required as part of the transaction. The PHA must submit PHA counsel's opinion, which opines that the PHA has the authority to enter into the transaction, and affirms that the transaction complies with the requirements of the 1937 Act, as amended; Federal regulations; and the ACC, as amended.
(8)
Depository Agreement and ACC.
The PHA must submit a Depository Agreement (form HUD-51999) and a CFF ACC Amendment.
(9) Other documents as required by HUD.
§ 905.515
HUD review and approval.
(a) After receipt of a Capital Fund Financing Proposal, HUD shall review the proposal for completeness. HUD will return to the PHA all incomplete or unapprovable proposals, identifying the deficiencies, and will not take any further action. HUD will also return proposals submitted by entities other than the PHA (e.g., the PHA's consultants). HUD shall review all complete proposals for compliance with the requirements under this subpart. HUD may require the PHA to make modifications to any of the CFFP documents submitted and may require the PHA to resubmit all or any portion of the proposal. After HUD determines that a proposal complies with all applicable requirements, HUD shall notify the PHA in writing of its approval and any condition(s) of the approval.
(b) (1) A copy or copies of the CFF ACC Amendment shall accompany the approval letter.
(2) Within 60 days of the date of HUD's approval of the transaction or, if HUD sets conditions on its approval, within 60 days of the date that the PHA satisfies such conditions (as evidenced by documentation retained in the PHA's file and available to HUD upon request), but in no event longer than 120 days after the HUD approval, unless the time has otherwise been extended by HUD in writing, the PHA must submit:
(i) Closing documents as directed by HUD; and
(ii) All documents required by HUD to take certain actions such as initiating debt service payments through HUD's automated systems.
(3) Failure to provide the required documents to HUD within the time frame required under § 905.515(b)(2) may result in HUD rescinding its approval.

# Subpart F—Development Requirements

# Source:
78 FR 63786, Oct. 24, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 905.600
General.
(a)
Applicability.
This subpart F applies to the development of public housing units to be included under an ACC and which will receive funding from public housing funds. PHAs must comply, or cause the Owner Entity and its contractors to comply, as applicable, with all of the applicable requirements in this subpart. Pursuant to § 905.106 of this part, when a PHA, a PHA partner, and/or an Owner Entity submits a development proposal and, if applicable, a site acquisition proposal, and executes an ACC covering the public housing units being developed, it is deemed to have certified by those executed submissions its compliance with this subpart. Noncompliance with any provision of this subpart or other applicable statutes or regulations, or the ACC Amendment, and any amendment thereto may subject the PHA, the PHA's partner and/or the Owner Entity to sanctions contained in § 905.804 of this part.
(b)
Description.
A PHA may develop public housing through the construction of new units or the acquisition, with or without rehabilitation, of existing units. A PHA may use any generally accepted method of development including, but not limited to:
(1)
Conventional.
The PHA designs a project on a property it owns. The PHA then competitively selects an entity to build or rehabilitate the project.
(2)
Turnkey.
The PHA advertises for and competitively selects a developer who will develop public housing units on a site owned or to be owned by the developer. Following HUD approval of the development proposal, the PHA and the developer execute a contract of sale and the developer builds the project. Once the project is complete, the developer sells it to the PHA.
(3)
Acquisition with or without rehabilitation.
The PHA acquires an existing property that requires substantial, moderate, or no repair. Any repair work is done by PHA staff or contracted out by the PHA. The PHA must certify that the property was not constructed with the intent of selling it to the PHA or, alternatively, the PHA must certify that HUD requirements were followed in the development of the property.
(4)
PHA use of force account labor.
The PHA uses staff to carry out new construction or rehabilitation, as provided in § 905.314(j) of this part.
(5)
Mixed finance.
Development or modernization of public housing units where the public housing units are owned in whole or in part by an entity other than a PHA, pursuant to Section 905.604.
(c)
Development process.
The general development process for public housing development, using any method and with any financing, is as follows:
(1) The PHA will identify a site to be acquired or a public housing project to be developed or redeveloped. The PHA or its Partner and/or the Owner Entity will prepare a site acquisition proposal pursuant to § 905.608 of this part and/or a development proposal pursuant to § 905.606 of this part for submission to HUD or as otherwise directed by HUD. The PHA may request predevelopment funding necessary for preparation of the acquisition proposal and/or development proposal, as stated in § 905.612(a) of this part.
(2) The PHA must consult with affected residents prior to submission of an acquisition proposal, development proposal, or both to HUD to solicit resident input into development of the public housing project.
(3) After HUD approval of the site acquisition proposal and/or development proposal, HUD and the PHA shall execute the applicable ACC Amendment for the public housing units and record a Declaration of Trust or Declaration of Restrictive Covenants on all property acquired and/or to be developed. The PHA may then commence development of the units.
(4) Upon completion of the public housing project, the PHA will establish the DOFA. After the DOFA, the PHA will submit a cost certificate to HUD attesting to the actual cost of the project that will be subject to audit.
(d)
Funding sources.
A PHA may engage in development activities using any one or a combination of the following sources of funding:
(1) Capital Funds;
(2) HOPE VI funds;
(3) Choice Neighborhoods funds;
(4) Proceeds from the sale of units under a homeownership program in accordance with 24 CFR part 906;
(5) Proceeds resulting from the disposition of PHA-owned land or improvements;
(6) Private financing used in accordance with § 905.604 of this part, Mixed-finance development;
(7) Capital Fund Financing Program (CFFP) proceeds under § 905.500 of this part;
(8) Proceeds resulting from an Operating Fund Financing Program (OFFP) approved by HUD pursuant to 24 CFR part 990; and
(9) Funds available from any other eligible sources.
§ 905.602
Program requirements.
(a)
Local cooperation.
Except as provided under § 905.604(i) of this part for mixed-finance projects, the PHA must enter into a Cooperation Agreement with the applicable local governing body that includes sufficient authority to cover the public housing being developed under this subpart, or provide an opinion of counsel that the existing, amended, or supplementary Cooperation Agreement between the jurisdiction and the PHA includes the project or development.
(b)
New construction limitation.
These requirements apply to the development (including new construction and acquisition) of public housing. All proposed new development projects must meet both of the following requirements:
(1)
Limitation on the number of units.
A PHA may not use Capital Funds to pay for the development cost of public housing units if such development would result in a net increase in the number of public housing units that the PHA owned, assisted, or operated on October 1, 1999. Subject to approval by the Secretary, a PHA may develop public housing units in excess of the limitation if:
(i) The units are available and affordable to eligible low-income families and the CF formula does not provide additional funding for the specific purpose of constructing, modernizing, and operating such excess units; or
(ii) The units are part of a mixed-finance project or otherwise leverage significant additional investment, and the cost of the useful life of the projects is less than the estimated cost of providing tenant-based assistance under section 8(o) of the 1937 Act.
(2)
Limitations on cost.
A PHA may not construct public housing unless the
cost of construction is less than the cost of acquisition or acquisition and rehabilitation of existing units, including the amount required to establish, as necessary, an upfront reserve for replacement accounts for major repairs. A PHA shall provide evidence of compliance with this subpart either by:
(i) Demonstrating through a cost comparison that the cost of new construction in the neighborhood where the PHA proposes to construct the housing is less than the cost of acquisition of existing housing, with or without rehabilitation, in the same neighborhood; or
(ii) Documenting that there is insufficient existing housing in the neighborhood to acquire.
(c)
Existing PHA-owned nonpublic housing properties.
Nonpublic housing properties may be used in the development of public housing units provided all requirements of the 1937 Act and the development requirements of this part are met.
(d)
Site and neighborhood standards.
Each proposed site to be newly acquired for a public housing project or for construction or rehabilitation of public housing must be reviewed and approved by the field office as meeting the following standards, as applicable:
(1) The site must be adequate in size, exposure, and contour to accommodate the number and type of units proposed. Adequate utilities (e.g., water, sewer, gas, and electricity) and streets shall be available to service the site.
(2) The site and neighborhood shall be suitable to facilitating and furthering full compliance with the applicable provisions of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, Executive Order 11063, and HUD regulations issued under these statutes.
(3) The site for new construction shall not be located in an area of minority concentration unless:
(i) There are already sufficient, comparable opportunities outside areas of minority concentration for housing minority families in the income range that is to be served by the proposed project; or
(ii) The project is necessary to meet overriding housing needs that cannot feasibly be met otherwise in that housing market area. “Overriding housing needs” shall not serve as the basis for determining that a site is acceptable if the only reason that these needs cannot otherwise feasibly be met is that, due to discrimination because of race, color, religion, creed, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin, sites outside areas of minority concentration are unavailable.
(4) The site for new construction shall not be located in a racially mixed area if the project will cause a significant increase in the proportion of minority to nonminority residents in the area.
(5) Notwithstanding the foregoing, after demolition of public housing units a PHA may construct public housing units on the original public housing site or in the same neighborhood if the number of replacement public housing units is significantly fewer than the number of public housing units demolished. One of the following criteria must be satisfied:
(i) The number of public housing units being constructed is not more than 50 percent of the number of public housing units in the original development; or
(ii) In the case of replacing an occupied development, the number of public housing units being constructed is the number needed to house current residents who want to remain at the site, so long as the number of public housing units being constructed is significantly fewer than the number being demolished; or
(iii) The public housing units being constructed constitute no more than 25 units.
(6) The site shall promote greater choice of housing opportunities and avoid undue concentration of assisted persons in areas containing a high proportion of low-income persons.
(7) The site shall be free from adverse environmental conditions, natural or manmade, such as: Toxic or contaminated soils and substances; mudslide or other unstable soil conditions; flooding; septic tank backups or other sewage hazards; harmful air pollution or excessive smoke or dust; excessive noise or vibrations from vehicular traffic; insect, rodent, or vermin infestation; or fire hazards. The neighborhood
shall not be seriously detrimental to family life. It shall not be filled with substandard dwellings nor shall other undesirable elements predominate, unless there is a concerted program in progress to remedy the undesirable conditions.
(8) The site shall be accessible to social, recreational, educational, commercial, and health facilities; health services; and other municipal facilities and services that are at least equivalent to those typically found in neighborhoods consisting largely of similar unassisted standard housing. The availability of public transportation must be considered.
(9) The site shall be accessible to a range of jobs for low-income workers and for other needs. The availability of public transportation must be considered, and travel time and cost via public transportation and private automobile must not be excessive. This requirement may be given less consideration for elderly housing.
(10) The project may not be built on a site that has occupants unless the relocation requirements at § 905.308(b)(9) of this part are met.
(11) The site shall not be in an area that HUD has identified as having special flood hazards and in which the sale of flood insurance has been made available under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, unless the development is covered by flood insurance required by the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 and meets all applicable HUD standards and local requirements.
(e)
Relocation.
All acquisition or rehabilitation activities carried out with public housing funds must comply with the provisions of § 905.308(b)(9).
(f)
Environmental requirements.
All activities under this part are subject to an environmental review by a responsible entity under HUD's environmental regulations at 24 CFR Part 58 and must comply with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
) and the related laws and authorities listed at 24 CFR 58.5. HUD may make a finding in accordance with 24 CFR 58.11 and may perform the environmental review itself under the provisions of 24 CFR Part 50. In those cases where HUD performs the environmental review under 24 CFR Part 50, it will do so before approving a proposed project, and will comply with the requirements of NEPA and the related requirements at 24 CFR 50.4.
§ 905.604
Mixed-finance development.
(a)
General.
Mixed-finance development refers to the development (through new construction or acquisition, with or without rehabilitation) or modernization of public housing, where the public housing units are owned in whole or in part by an entity other than a PHA. If the public housing units being developed are 100 percent owned by the PHA, the project is not a mixed-finance project and will be not be subject to mixed-finance development requirements. However, all other development requirements of part 905 are applicable, and, if the project includes both public housing funds and private funding for development, the project may be subject to other applicable program requirements; e.g., the Capital Fund Financing Program, Operating Fund Financing Program, Public Housing Mortgage Program, etc.
(1)
Ownership.
There are various potential scenarios for the ownership structure of a mixed-finance project, such as: public housing units may be owned entirely by a private entity; a PHA may co-own with a private entity; or a PHA affiliate or instrumentality may own or co-own the units.
(2)
Partnerships.
PHAs may choose to enter into a partnership or other contractual arrangement with a third party entity for the mixed-finance development and/or ownership of public housing units.
(3)
Funding.
Funding for mixed-finance developments may include one or a combination of funding sources, pursuant to § 905.600(d) of this part.
(4)
Modernization.
A mixed-finance project that involves modernization, rather than new construction, shall maintain the DOFA date that existed prior to modernization and shall be subject to the provisions of § 905.304(a)(2) of this part regarding the applicable period of obligation to operate the public housing units.
(b)
Definitions applicable to this subpart.
(1)
Mixed-finance.
The development (through new construction or acquisition, with or without rehabilitation) or modernization of public housing, using public housing, nonpublic housing, or a combination of public housing and nonpublic housing funds, where the public housing units are owned in whole or in part by an entity other than the PHA. A mixed-finance development may include 100 percent public housing (if there is an Owner Entity other than the PHA) or a mixture of public housing and nonpublic housing units.
(2)
Owner Entity.
As defined in § 905.108 of this part.
(3)
PHA instrumentality.
An instrumentality is an entity related to the PHA whose assets, operations, and management are legally and effectively controlled by the PHA, and through which PHA functions or policies are implemented, and which utilizes public housing funds or public housing assets for the purpose of carrying out public housing development functions of the PHA. An instrumentality assumes the role of the PHA, and is the PHA under the Public Housing Requirements, for purposes of implementing public housing development activities and programs, and must abide by the Public Housing Requirements. Instrumentalities must be authorized to act for and to assume such responsibilities. For purposes of development, ownership of public housing units by an instrumentality would be considered mixed-finance development.
(4)
PHA affiliate.
An affiliate is an entity, other than an instrumentality, formed by a PHA and in which a PHA has a financial or ownership interest or participates in its governance. The PHA has some measure of control over the assets, operations, or management of the affiliate, but such control does not rise to the level of control to qualify the entity as an instrumentality. For the purposes of development, ownership of public housing units by an affiliate would be considered mixed-finance development.
(5)
Public housing funds.
As defined in § 905.108 of this part.
(c)
Structure of projects.
Each mixed-finance project must be structured to:
(1) Ensure the continued operation of the public housing units in accordance with all Public Housing Requirements;
(2) Ensure that public housing funds committed to a mixed-finance project are used only to pay for costs associated with the public housing units, including such costs as demolition, site work, infrastructure, and common area improvements.
(3) To ensure that the amount of public housing funds committed to a project is proportionate to the number of public housing units contained in the project. To meet this “pro rata test,” the proportion of public housing funds compared to total project funds committed to a project must not exceed the proportion of public housing units compared to total number of units contained in the project. For example, if there are a total of 120 units in the project and 50 are public housing units, the public housing units are 42 percent of the total number of units in the project. Therefore the amount of public housing funds committed to the project cannot exceed 42 percent of the total project budget, unless otherwise approved by the Secretary. However, if public housing funds are to be used to pay for more than the pro rata cost of common area improvements, HUD will evaluate the proposal to ensure that common area improvements will benefit the residents in the development in a mixed-income project; and
(4) Ensure that the project is within the Total Development Cost (TDC) and Housing Construction Cost (HCC) limits pursuant to § 905.314(c) and (d) of this part.
(d)
Process.
Except as provided in this section, development of a mixed-finance project under this subpart is subject to the same requirements as development of public housing by a PHA entirely with public housing funds, as stated in § 905.600 of this part. PHAs must submit an acquisition proposal under § 905.608 and/or a development proposal under § 905.606 or as otherwise specified by HUD.
(e)
Conflicts.
In the event of a conflict between the requirements for a mixed-finance project and other requirements of this subpart, the mixed-finance Public Housing Requirements shall apply, unless HUD determines otherwise.
(f)
HUD approval.
For purposes of this section only, any action or approval that is required by HUD pursuant to the requirements set forth in this section shall be construed to mean HUD Headquarters, unless the field office is authorized in writing by Headquarters to carry out a specific function in this section.
(g)
Comparability.
Public housing units built in a mixed-financed development must be comparable in size, location, external appearance, and distribution to nonpublic housing units within the development.
(h)
Mixed-finance procurement.
The requirements of 2 CFR part 200 and 24 CFR 905.316 are applicable to this subpart with the following exceptions:
(1) PHAs may select a development partner using competitive proposals procedures for qualifications-based procurement, subject to negotiation of fair and reasonable compensation and compliance with TDC and other applicable cost limitations;
(2) An Owner Entity (which, as a private entity, would normally not be subject to 2 CFR part 200) shall be required to comply with 2 CFR part 200 if HUD determines that the PHA or PHA instrumentality, or either of their members or employees, exercises significant decision making functions within the Owner Entity with respect to managing the development of the proposed units. HUD may, on a case-by-case basis, exempt such an Owner Entity from the need to comply with 2 CFR part 200 if it determines that the Owner Entity has developed an acceptable alternative procurement plan.
(i)
Identity of interest.
If the Owner Entity or partner (or any other entity with an identity of interest with the Owner Entity or partner) of a mixed-finance project wants to serve as the general contractor for the mixed-finance project, it may award itself the construction contract only if:
(1) The identity of interest general contractor's bid is the lowest bid submitted in response to a request for bids; or
(2) The PHA submits a written justification to HUD that includes an independent third-party cost estimate that demonstrates that the identity of interest general contractor's costs are less than or equal to the independent third-party cost estimate; and
(3) HUD approves the identity of interest general contractor in conjunction with HUD's approval of the development proposal for the mixed-finance project.
(j)
Operating Subsidy-Only and Capital Fund-Only Assistance.
(1)
General.
This section refers to the mixed-finance development of public housing units that will be developed without public housing funds but will receive operating subsidy, or will be developed with public housing funds but will not receive operating subsidy.
(2)
Operating Subsidy-Only Development.
Operating Subsidy-Only Development refers to mixed-finance projects where public housing units are developed without the use of public housing funds, but for which HUD agrees to provide operating subsidies under Section 9(e) of the 1937 Act. These types of project are subject to the following provisions:
(i) The newly developed public housing units will be included in the calculation of the Capital Fund formula in § 905.400 of this part.
(ii) An ACC Amendment will be executed to include the new public housing units. The term of the ACC Amendment will be determined based on the assistance as provided in § 905.304, unless reduced by the Secretary.
(iii) There shall be no disposition of the public housing units without the prior written approval of HUD, during, and for 10 years after the end of, the period in which the public housing units receive operating subsidy from the PHA, as required by 42 U.S.C. 1437g(3), as those requirements may be amended from time to time. However, if the PHA is no longer able to provide operating subsidies to the Owner Entity pursuant to Section 9(e) of the 1937 Act, the PHA may (on behalf of the Owner Entity) request that HUD terminate the Declaration of Trust or Declaration of Restrictive Covenants, as applicable. Termination under this section does not require disposition approval from HUD pursuant to Section 18 of the 1937 Act, 42 U.S.C. 1437p. However, the PHA must provide public housing residents with a decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable unit to which
they can relocate, which may include a public housing unit in another development or a Housing Choice Voucher, and pay for the tenant's reasonable moving costs. The URA is not applicable in this situation.
(iv) Where the PHA elects in the future to use public housing funds for modernization of these units, the PHA must execute an ACC Amendment with a 20-year use restriction and record a Declaration of Trust or Declaration of Restrictive Covenants, in accordance with § 905.304. There may be no disposition of the public housing units without the prior written approval of HUD during the 20-year period, and the public housing units shall be maintained and operated in accordance with all applicable Public Housing Requirements (including the ACC), as those requirements may be amended from time to time.
(3)
Capital Fund-Only Development.
Capital Fund-Only projects refers to mixed-finance projects where a PHA and its partners may develop public housing units using public housing funds for development of new units, but for which HUD will not be providing operating subsidy under Section 9(e) of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1437g(e). These types of projects are subject to the following provisions:
(i) The newly developed public housing units will not be included in the calculation of the Operating Fund formula.
(ii) The PHA must sign an ACC Amendment, with a 40-year use restriction, for development of new units and record a Declaration of Trust or Declaration of Restrictive Covenants in accordance with § 905.304 of this part, unless the time period is reduced by the Secretary.
(iii) There shall be no disposition of the public housing units, without the prior written approval of HUD, during a 40-year period, and the public housing units shall be maintained and operated in accordance with all applicable Public Housing Requirements (including the ACC), as required by section 9(d)(3) of the 1937 Act, 42 U.S.C. 1437g(d)(3), as those requirements may be amended from time to time.
(4)
Procedures.
PHAs must follow the development approval process identified in § 905.600.
(k)
Mixed-finance operations: Deviation from HUD requirements pursuant to section 35(h) of the 1937 Act, 42 U.S.C. 1437z-7(h).
(1)
Deviation.
If a PHA enters into a contract with an entity that owns or operates a mixed-finance project, and the terms of the contract obligate the entity to operate and maintain a specified number of units in the project as public housing units, the contract may include terms that allow the Owner Entity to deviate from otherwise applicable Public Housing Requirements regarding rents, income eligibility, and other areas of public housing management with respect to all or a portion of the public housing units, subject to the following conditions:
(i) There are a significant number of units in the mixed-finance project that are not public housing units;
(ii) There is a reduction in appropriations under Section 9(e) of the 1937 Act (see 42 U.S.C. 1437g(e)) or a change in applicable law that results in the PHA being unable to fulfill its contractual obligation to the Owner Entity with respect to the public housing units;
(iii) Prior to implementation of the contractual terms related to deviation from the Public Housing Requirements, HUD approves an Alternative Management Plan for the mixed-finance project; and
(iv) The deviation shall be to the extent necessary to preserve the viability of those units while maintaining the low-income character of the units to the maximum extent practicable.
(2)
Preparation of an Alternative Management Plan.
Should the PHA and the Owner Entity determine a need to deviate from the Public Housing Requirements, the PHA, on behalf of the Owner Entity, must submit an Alternative Management Plan to HUD for review and approval prior to implementation of any changes. The Plan must include the following:
(i) A statement describing the Owner Entity's reasons for deviating from the Public Housing Requirements;
(ii) An explanation of the Owner Entity's proposed remedies, including, but not limited to:
(A) How the Owner Entity will select the residents (including the number and income levels of the families proposed to be admitted to the public housing units) and units to be affected by the proposed change;
(B) The Owner Entity's timetable for implementing the Alternative Management Plan;
(C) The impact on existing residents. Note that for any resident who is unable to remain in the unit as a result of implementation of the Alternative Management Plan, the resident must be relocated to a public housing unit or given a Housing Choice Voucher by the PHA or by another entity as provided for in the contractual agreement between the PHA and the Owner Entity;
(iii) An amendment to the existing contractual agreement between the PHA and the Owner Entity that includes provisions which ensure that:
(A) An update on the Alternative Management Plan is submitted annually to HUD to ensure that implementation of the provisions of the Alternative Management Plan continue to be appropriate;
(B) The Owner Entity complies with the requirements of this subpart in its management and operation of the public housing units in accordance with the Alternative Management Plan;
(C) The Owner Entity provides the PHA any income that is generated by the public housing units in excess of the Owner Entity's expenses on behalf of those units, as a result of implementation of provisions in the Alternative Management Plan;
(D) The Owner Entity reinstates all Public Housing Requirements (including rent and income eligibility requirements) with respect to the original number of public housing units and number of bedrooms in the mixed-finance development, following the PHA's reinstatement of operating subsidies at the level originally agreed to in its contract with the Owner Entity; and
(iv) Additional evidence. The PHA must provide documentation that:
(A) The Owner Entity has provided copies of the Alternative Management Plan to residents of the project and provided the opportunity for review and comment prior to submission to HUD. The Owner Entity must have provided written notice to each of the public housing residents in the mixed-finance development of its intention to implement the Alternative Management Plan. Such notice must comply with all relevant federal, state, and local substantive and procedural requirements and, at a minimum, provide public housing residents 90 days advance notice of any proposal to increase rents or to relocate public housing residents to alternative housing;
(B) The revenues being generated by the public housing units (in combination with the reduced allocation of Operating Subsidy resulting primarily from a reduction in appropriations or changes in applicable law such that the PHA is unable to comply with its contractual obligations to the Owner Entity) are inadequate to cover the reasonable and necessary operating expenses of the public housing units. Documentation should include a financial statement showing actual operating expenses and revenues over the past 5 years and the projected expenses and revenues over the next 10 years;
(C) A demonstration that the PHA cannot meet its contractual obligation, and;
(D) The Owner Entity has attempted to offset with regard to the project, the impact of reduced operating subsidies or changes in applicable law by all available means; including the use of other public and private development resources, the use of cash flow from any nonpublic housing units, and funds from other operating deficient reserves.
(3)
HUD review.
HUD will review the Alternative Management Plan to ensure that the plan meets the requirements of this subpart and that any proposed deviation from the Public Housing Requirements will be implemented only to the extent necessary to preserve the viability of the public housing units. Upon completion of HUD's review, HUD will either approve or disapprove the Alternative Management Plan. Reasons for HUD disapproval may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) The justification for deviation from the Public Housing Requirements does not qualify in accordance with
section 35(h) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437z-7(h)).
(ii) The proposed deviation(s) from the Public Housing Requirements are not limited to preserving the viability of the public housing units.
(iii) The information that HUD requires to be included in the Alternative Management Plan has not been included, is not accurate, or does not support the need for deviation from the Public Housing Requirements.
(iv) HUD has evidence that the proposed Alternative Management Plan is not in compliance with other federal requirements, including civil rights laws.
(4)
HUD reevaluation and reapproval.
The PHA, on behalf of the Owner Entity, must provide to HUD, for HUD approval, an annual update on the implementation of the Alternative Management Plan. The update must provide the status of the project and whether the circumstances originally triggering the need for the conditions contained in the Alternative Management Plan remain valid and appropriate. Any proposed changes in the Alternative Management Plan should also be identified. Once the annual update of the Alternative Management Plan is properly submitted, the existing Alternative Management Plan shall remain in effect until such time as HUD takes additional action to approve or disapprove the annual update.
[78 FR 63770, Oct. 24, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 905.606
Development proposal.
(a)
Development proposal.
Prior to developing public housing, either through new construction or through acquisition, with or without rehabilitation, a PHA must submit a development proposal to HUD in the form prescribed by HUD, which will allow HUD to assess the viability and financial feasibility of the proposed development. A development proposal must be submitted for all types of public housing development, including mixed-finance. Failure to submit and obtain HUD approval of a development proposal may result in the public housing funds used in conjunction with the project being deemed ineligible expenses. In determining the amount of information to be submitted by the PHA, HUD shall consider whether the documentation is required for HUD to carry out mandatory statutory, regulatory, or Executive order reviews; the quality of the PHA's past performance in implementing development projects under this subpart; the PHA's demonstrated administrative capability; and other program requirements. The development proposal shall include some or all of the following documentation, as deemed necessary by HUD.
(1)
Project description.
A description of the proposed project, including:
(i) Proposed development method (e.g., mixed-finance, new construction, acquisition with or without rehabilitation, turnkey, etc.), including the extent to which the PHA will use force account labor and use procured contractors. For new construction projects, the PHA must meet the program requirements contained in § 905.602. For projects involving acquisition of existing properties less than 2 years old, the PHA must include an attestation from the PHA and the owner of the property that the property was not constructed with the intent that it would be sold to the PHA or, if it was constructed with the intent that it be sold to the PHA, that it was constructed in compliance with all applicable requirements (e.g., Davis Bacon wage rates, accessibility, etc.);
(ii) Type of residents to occupy the units (e.g., family, elderly, persons with disabilities, or families that include persons with disabilities);
(iii) Number and type of unit (detached, semidetached, row house, walkup, elevator), with bedroom count, broken out by public housing vs. nonpublic housing, if applicable;
(iv) The type and size of nondwelling space, if applicable; and
(v) Schematic drawings of the proposed buildings, unit plans, and additional information regarding plans and specifications, as needed by HUD to review the project.
(2)
Site information.
An identification and description of the proposed site and neighborhood, a site plan, and a map of the neighborhood.
(3)
Participant description.
Identification of participating parties and a description of the activities to be undertaken by each of the participating parties and the PHA; and the legal and business relationships between the PHA and each of the participating parties, as applicable.
(4)
Development project schedule.
A schedule for the development project that includes each major stage of development, through and including the submission of an Actual Development Cost Certificate to HUD.
(5)
Accessibility.
A PHA must provide sufficient information for HUD to determine that dwelling units and other public housing facilities meet accessibility requirements specified at § 905.312 of this part, including, but not limited to, the number, location, and bedroom size distribution of accessible dwelling units (see 24 CFR 8.32 and 24 CFR part 40).
(6)
Project costs.
(i)
Budgets.
To allow HUD to assess sources of funding and projected uses of funds, the PHA shall submit a project budget, in the form prescribed by HUD, reflecting the total permanent development budget for the project, including all sources and uses of funds, including hard and soft costs. The PHA shall also submit a budget for the construction period and a construction draw schedule showing the timing of construction financing contributions and disbursements. In addition, the PHA shall submit an independent construction cost estimate or actual construction contract that supports the permanent and construction budgets.
(ii)
TDC calculation.
The PHA must submit a calculation of the TDC and HCC, subject to § 905.314 of this part.
(iii)
Financing.
A PHA must submit a detailed description of all financing necessary for the implementation of the project, specifying the sources and uses. In addition, HUD may require documents related to the financing (e.g., loan documents, partnership or operating agreement, regulatory and operating agreement, etc.) to be submitted in final draft form as part of the development proposal. Upon financial closing, HUD may also require final, executed copies of these documents to be submitted to HUD for final approval, per § 905.612(b)(2) of this part.
(A)
Commitment of funds.
Documents submitted pursuant to this section must irrevocably commit funds to the project. Irrevocability of funds means that binding legal documents—such as loan agreements, mortgages, deeds of trust, partnership agreements or operating agreements, or similar documents committing funds—have been executed by the applicable parties; though disbursement of such funds may be subject to meeting progress milestones, the absence of default, and/or other conditions generally consistent with similar non-public housing transactions. For projects involving revolving loan funds, the irrevocability of funds means that funds in an amount identified to HUD as the maximum revolving loan have been committed pursuant to legally binding documents; though disbursement of such funds may be subject to meeting progress milestones, the absence of default, and/or other conditions generally consistent with similar affordable housing transactions. The PHA must confirm the availability of each party's financing, the amount and source of financing committed to the proposal by the parties, and the irrevocability of those funds.
(B)
Irrevocability of funds.
To ensure the irrevocable nature of the committed funds, the PHA shall review the legal documents committing such funds to ensure that the progress milestones and conditions precedent contained in such contracts are generally consistent with similar affordable housing transactions; that the PHA and/or its Owner Entity know of no impediments that would prevent the project from moving forward consistent with the project milestones and conditions precedent; and, after conducting sufficient due diligence, that such documents are properly executed by persons or entities legally authorized to bind the entity committing such funds.
(C)
Third-party documents.
The PHA is not required to ensure the availability of funds by enforcing documents to which it is not a party.
(D)
Opinion of counsel.
As part of the proposal, the PHA may certify as to the irrevocability of funds through the submission of an opinion of the PHA's
counsel attesting that counsel has examined the availability of the participating parties' financing, and the amount and source of financing committed to the project by the participating parties, and has determined that such financing has been irrevocably committed, as defined in paragraph (a)(6)(iii)(A) of this section, and that such commitments are consistent with the project budget submitted under paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section.
(7)
Operating pro-forma/Operating Fund methodology.
To allow HUD to assess the financial feasibility of projects, PHAs shall submit a 10-year operating pro-forma, including all assumptions, to assure that operating expenses do not exceed operating income. For mixed-finance development, the PHA must describe its methodology for providing and distributing operating subsidy to the Owner Entity for the public housing units.
(8)
Local Cooperation Agreement.
A PHA may elect to exempt all public housing units in a mixed-finance project from the payment in lieu of taxes provisions under section 6(d) of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1437d(d), and from the finding of need and cooperative agreement provisions under sections 5(e)(1)(ii) and (e)(2) of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1437c(e)(1)(ii) and (e)(2), and instead subject units to local real estate taxes, but only if the PHA provides documentation from an authorized official of the local jurisdiction that development of the units is consistent with the jurisdiction's comprehensive housing affordability strategy. If the PHA does not elect this exemption, the Cooperation Agreement as provided in § 905.602(a) is required and must be submitted.
(9)
Environmental requirements.
The PHA must provide an approved Request for Release of Funds and environmental certification, submitted in accordance with 24 CFR part 58, or approval in accordance with 24 CFR part 50. HUD will not approve a development proposal without the appropriate environmental approval.
(10)
Market analysis.
For a mixed-finance development that includes nonpublic housing units, the PHA must include an analysis of the projected market for the proposed project.
(11)
Program income and fees.
The PHA must provide information identifying fees to be paid to the PHA, the PHA's partner(s), the Owner Entity, and/or other participating parties identified by HUD and on the receipt and use of program income.
(b)
Additional HUD-requested information.
PHAs are required to provide any additional information that HUD may need to assess the development proposal.
§ 905.608
Site acquisition proposal.
(a)
Submission.
When a PHA determines that it is necessary to acquire vacant land for development of public housing through new construction, using public housing funds, prior to submission and approval of a development proposal under § 905.606 of this part, the PHA must submit an acquisition proposal to HUD for review and approval prior to acquisition. The acquisition proposal shall include the following:
(b)
Justification.
A justification for acquiring property prior to development proposal submission and approval.
(c)
Description.
A description of the property (
i.e.
, the proposed site and/or project) to be acquired.
(d)
Project description; site and neighborhood standards.
An identification and description of the proposed project, site plan, and neighborhood, together with information sufficient to enable HUD to determine that the proposed site meets the site and neighborhood standards at § 905.602(d) of this part.
(e)
Zoning.
Documentation that the proposed project is permitted by current zoning ordinances or regulations, or evidence to indicate that needed rezoning is likely and will not delay the project.
(f)
Appraisal.
Documentation attesting that an appraisal of the proposed property by an independent, state certified appraiser has been conducted and that the acquisition is in compliance with § 905.308(b)(9) of this part. The purchase price of the site/property may not exceed the appraised value without HUD approval.
(g)
Schedule.
A schedule of the activities to be carried out by the PHA.
(h)
Environmental assessment.
An environmental review or request for HUD to perform the environmental review pursuant to § 905.308(b)(2) of this part.
§ 905.610
Technical processing.
(a)
Review.
HUD shall review all development proposals and site acquisition proposals for compliance with the statutory, Executive order, and regulatory requirements applicable to the development of public housing and the project. HUD's review will evaluate whether the proposed sources and uses of funds are eligible and reasonable, and whether the financing and other documentation establish to HUD's satisfaction that the development is financially viable and structured so as to adequately protect the federal investment of funds in the development. For this purpose, HUD will consider the PHA's proposed methodology for allocating operating subsidies on behalf of the public housing units, the projected revenue to be generated by any nonpublic housing units in a mixed-finance development, and the 10-year operating pro forma and other information contained in the development proposal.
(b)
Subsidy layering analysis.
After the PHA submits the documentation required under paragraph (a) of this section, HUD or its designee (e.g., the State Housing Finance Agency) shall carry out a subsidy layering analysis, pursuant to section 102(d) of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545) (see 24 CFR part 4), to determine that the amount of assistance being provided for the development is not more than necessary to make the assisted activity feasible after taking into account the other governmental assistance.
(c)
Safe harbor standards.
For mixed-finance projects, in order to expedite the mixed-finance review process and control costs, HUD may make available safe harbor and maximum fee ranges for a number of costs. If a project is at or below a safe harbor standard, no further review will be required by HUD. If a project is above a safe harbor standard, additional review by HUD will be necessary. In order to approve terms above the safe harbor, the PHA must demonstrate to HUD in writing that the negotiated terms are appropriate for the level of risk involved in the project, the scope of work, any specific circumstances of the development, and the local or national market for the services provided.
(d)
Approval.
If HUD determines that a site acquisition proposal or a development proposal is approvable, HUD shall notify the PHA in writing of its approval. The HUD approval of a development proposal will include the appropriate form of ACC for signature. The PHA must execute the ACC and return it to HUD for execution. Until HUD approves a development proposal, a PHA may only expend public housing funds for predevelopment costs, as provided in § 905.612 of this part.
(e)
Amendments to approved development proposals.
HUD must approve any material change to an approved development proposal. HUD defines material change as:
(1) A change in the number of public housing units;
(2) A change in the number of bedrooms by an increase/decrease of more than 10 percent;
(3) A change in cost or financing by an increase/decrease of more than 10 percent; or
(4) A change in the site.
§ 905.612
Disbursement of Capital Funds—predevelopment costs.
(a)
Predevelopment costs.
After a new development project has been included in the CFP 5-Year Action Plan that has been approved by the PHA Board of Commissioners and HUD, a PHA may use funding for predevelopment expenses. Predevelopment funds may be expended in accordance with the following requirements:
(1) Predevelopment assistance may be used to pay for materials and services related to proposal development and project soft costs. It may also be used to pay for costs related to the demolition of units on a proposed site. Absent HUD approval, predevelopment assistance may not be used to pay for site work, installation of infrastructure, construction, or other hard costs related to a development.
(2) For non-mixed-finance projects, predevelopment funding up to 5 percent of the total amount of the public housing funds committed to a project does not require HUD approval. HUD shall determine on a case-by-case basis that an amount greater than 5 percent may be drawn down by a PHA to pay for necessary and reasonable predevelopment costs, based upon a consideration of the nature and scope of activities proposed to be carried out by the PHA. Before a request for predevelopment assistance in excess of 5 percent may be approved, the PHA must provide to HUD information and documentation specified in §§ 905.606 and 905.608 of this part, as HUD deems appropriate.
(3) For mixed-finance projects, all funding for predevelopment costs must be reviewed and approved by HUD prior to expenditure.
(4) The requirements in paragraph (b) of this section to disburse funds for mixed-financed projects in an approved ratio to other public and private funding do not apply to disbursement of predevelopment funds.
(b)
Standard drawdown requirements.
(1)
General.
If HUD determines that the proposed development is approvable, it may execute with the PHA the applicable ACC Amendment to provide funds for the purposes and in the amounts approved by HUD. Upon approval of the development proposal and all necessary documentation evidencing and implementing the development plan, the PHA may disburse amounts as are necessary and consistent with the approved development proposal without further HUD approval, unless HUD determines that such approval is necessary. Once HUD approves the site acquisition proposal, the PHA may request funds for acquisition activities. Each Capital Fund disbursement from HUD is deemed to be an attestation of compliance by the PHA with the requirements of this part, as prescribed in § 905.106 of this part. If HUD determines that the PHA is in noncompliance with any provision of this part, the PHA may be subject to the sanctions in § 905.800, subpart H, of this part.
(2)
Mixed-finance projects.
For mixed-finance projects, prior to PHA disbursement of public housing funds, except predevelopment funds identified in paragraph (a) of this section, HUD may require a PHA to submit to HUD, for review and approval, copies of final, fully executed, and, where appropriate, recorded documents, submitted as part of the development proposal process. Upon completion of the project, the ratio of public housing funds to non-public housing funds for the overall project must remain as reflected in the executed documents. The ratio does not apply during the construction period.

# Subpart G—Other Security Interests

# Source:
78 FR 63786, Oct. 24, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 905.700
Other security interests.
(a) The PHA may not pledge, mortgage, enter into a transaction that provides recourse to public housing assets, or otherwise grant a security interest in any public housing project, portion thereof, or other property of the PHA without the written approval of HUD.
(b) The PHA shall submit the request in the form and manner prescribed by HUD.
(c) HUD shall consider:
(1) The ability of the PHA to complete the financing, the improvements, and repay the financing;
(2) The reasonableness of the provisions in the proposal; or
(3) Any other factors HUD deems appropriate.

# Subpart H—Compliance, HUD Review, Penalties, and Sanctions

# Source:
78 FR 63786, Oct. 24, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 905.800
Compliance.
As provided in § 905.106 of this part, PHAs or other owner/management entities and their partners are required to comply with all applicable provisions of this part. Execution of the CF ACC Amendment received from the PHA, submissions required by this part, and disbursement of Capital Fund grants from HUD are individually and
collectively deemed to be the PHA's certification that it is in compliance with the provisions of this part and all other Public Housing Program Requirements. Noncompliance with any provision of this part or other applicable requirements may subject the PHA and/or its partners to sanctions contained in § 905.804 of this part.
§ 905.802
HUD review of PHA performance.
(a)
HUD determination.
HUD shall review the PHA's performance in completing work in accordance with this part. HUD may make such other reviews when and as it determines necessary. When conducting such a review, HUD shall, at minimum, make the following determinations:
(1) HUD shall determine whether the PHA has carried out its activities under this part in a timely manner and in accordance with its CFP 5-Year Action Plan and other applicable requirements.
(2) HUD shall determine whether the PHA has a continuing capacity to carry out its Capital Fund activities in a timely manner.
(3) HUD shall determine whether the PHA has accurately reported its obligation and expenditures in a timely manner.
(4) HUD shall determine whether the PHA has accurately reported required building and unit data for the calculation of the formula.
(5) HUD shall determine whether the PHA has obtained approval for any CFFP or OFFP proposal and any PHA development proposal.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 905.804
Sanctions.
(a) If at any time, HUD finds that a PHA has failed to comply substantially with any provision this part, HUD may impose one or a combination of sanctions, as it determines is necessary. Sanctions associated with failure to obligate or expend in a timely manner are specified at § 905.306 of this part. Other possible sanctions that HUD may impose for noncompliance by the PHA include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Issue a corrective action order, at any time, by notifying the PHA of the specific program requirements that the PHA has violated, and specifying that any of the corrective actions listed in this section must be taken. Any corrective action ordered by HUD shall become a condition of the CF ACC Amendment.
(2) Require reimbursement from non-HUD sources.
(3) Limit, withhold, reduce, or terminate Capital Fund or Operating Fund assistance.
(4) Issue a Limited Denial of Participation or Debar responsible PHA officials, pursuant to 2 CFR parts 180 and 2424.
(5) Withhold assistance to the PHA under section 8 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1437f.
(6) Declare a breach of the CF ACC with respect to some or all of the PHA's functions.
(7) Take any other available corrective action or sanction as HUD deems necessary.
(b)
Right to appeal.
Before taking any action described in paragraph (a) of this section, HUD shall notify the PHA of its finding and proposed action and provide to the PHA an opportunity, within a prescribed period of time, to present any arguments or additional facts and data concerning the finding and proposed action to HUD's Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing.
Pt. 906

# PART 906—PUBLIC HOUSING HOMEOWNERSHIP PROGRAMS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
906.1
Purpose.
906.2
Definitions.
906.3
Requirements applicable to homeownership programs previously approved by HUD.

# Subpart B—Basic Program Requirements
906.5
Dwelling units and types of assistance that a PHA may make available under a homeownership program under this part.
906.7
Physical requirements that a property offered for sale under this part must meet.
906.9
Title restrictions and encumbrances on properties sold under a homeownership program.

# Subpart C—Purchaser Requirements
906.11
Eligible purchasers.
906.13
Right of first refusal.
906.15
Requirements applicable to a family purchasing a property under a homeownership program.
906.17
PHA handling of homeownership applications.
906.19
Requirements applicable to a purchase and resale entity (PRE).

# Subpart D—Program Administration
906.23
Protections available to non-purchasing public housing residents.
906.24
Protections available to non-purchasing residents of housing other than public housing.
906.25
Ownership interests that may be conveyed to a purchaser.
906.27
Limitations applicable to net proceeds on the sale of a property acquired through a homeownership program.
906.29
Below-Market sales and financing.
906.31
Requirements applicable to net proceeds resulting from sale.
906.33
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
906.35
Inapplicability of section 18 of the United States Housing Act of 1937.
906.37
Davis-Bacon and HUD wage rate requirements.

# Subpart E—Program Submission and Approval
906.38
Requirement of HUD approval to implement a homeownership program under this part.
906.39
Contents of a homeownership program.
906.40
Supporting documentation.
906.41
Additional supporting documentation for acquisition of non-public housing for homeownership.
906.43
Where a PHA is to submit a homeownership program for HUD approval.
906.45
HUD criteria for reviewing a proposed homeownership program.
906.47
Environmental requirements.
906.49
HUD approval; implementing agreements.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1437z-4 and 3535(d).

# Source:
68 FR 1172, Mar. 11, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 906.1
Purpose.
(a) This part states the requirements and procedures governing public housing homeownership programs involving sales of individual dwelling units to families or to purchase and resale entities (PREs) for resale to families carried out by public housing agencies (PHAs), as authorized by section 32 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437z-4) (1937 Act). A PHA may only transfer public housing units for homeownership under a homeownership program approved by HUD under this part, except as provided under § 906.3. This section does not govern new construction or substantial rehabilitation of units sold under this part. Such construction or rehabilitation is governed by the public housing development and modernization regulations.
(b) Under a public housing homeownership program, a PHA makes available for purchase by low-income families for use as their principal residences public housing dwelling units, public housing developments, and other housing units or developments owned, assisted, or operated, or otherwise acquired by the PHA for sale under a homeownership program in connection with the use of assistance provided under the 1937 Act (1937 Act funds). A PHA may sell all or a portion of a property for purposes of homeownership in accordance with a HUD-approved homeownership program, and in accordance with the PHA's annual plan under part 903 of this title.
§ 906.2
Definitions.
Annual Contributions Contract
(ACC) is defined in 24 CFR 5.403.
Low-income family
is defined in the 1937 Act, 42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(2).
Non-public housing unit
means a housing unit that does not receive assistance under the 1937 Act (other than Section 8 assistance).
PHA Plan
means the 5-year or annual plan required under section 5A of the 1937 Act, 42 U.S.C. 1437c-1, and its implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 903.
Purchase and Resale Entity (PRE)
means an entity that acquires units for resale to low-income families in accordance with this part.
§ 906.3
Requirements applicable to homeownership programs previously approved by HUD.
(a) Any existing section 5(h) or Turnkey III homeownership program continues to be governed by the requirements of part 906 or part 904 of this title, respectively, contained in the April 1, 2002, edition of 24 CFR, parts 700 to 1699. The use of other program income for homeownership activities continues to be governed by agreements executed with HUD.
(b) A PHA may convert an existing homeownership program, or a specific number of the units in such a program, to a homeownership program under this part with HUD approval.

# Subpart B—Basic Program Requirements
§ 906.5
Dwelling units and types of assistance that a PHA may make available under a homeownership program under this part.
(a) A homeownership program under this part may provide for sale of:
(1) Units that are public housing units; and
(2) Other units owned, operated, assisted, or acquired for homeownership sale and that have received the benefit of 1937 Act funds or are to be sold with the benefit of 1937 Act funds (non-public housing units). In selecting such units to be sold in a homeownership program under this part, the PHA shall not select units such that it could not comply with § 906.7(a).
(b) A homeownership program under this part may provide for financing to eligible families (
see
§ 905.15 of this title) purchasing dwelling units eligible under paragraph (a) of this section under the program, or for acquisition of housing units or developments by the PHA for sale under the program.
(1) Under this part, a PHA may use assistance from amounts it receives under the Capital Fund under section 9(d) of the 1937 Act or from other income earned from its 1937 Act programs to provide assistance to public housing residents only to facilitate the purchase of homes (
e.g.,
counseling, closing costs, that portion of the down payment not required to be supplied from the purchaser's funds under the provisions of § 906.15(c), financing, and moving assistance). Public housing residents may use such assistance to purchase the unit in which they reside, another public housing unit, or a residence not located in a public housing development.
(2) A PHA may provide financing assistance for other eligible purchasers from other income,
i.e.,
funds not from 1937 Act programs, such as proceeds from selling public housing units, loan repayments, and public housing debt forgiveness funding not already committed to another purpose.
(3) In accordance with the rules and regulations governing the Section 8(y) Homeownership Option, found in 24 CFR part 982 subpart M, a PHA may make its housing choice voucher funds available to provide assistance to a family purchasing a unit under this part. A family receiving assistance under the Section 8(y) program and participating in a homeownership program under this part must meet the requirements of both programs.
(c) A PHA must not use 1937 Act funds to rehabilitate units that are not public housing units.
§ 906.7
Physical requirements that a property offered for sale under this part must meet.
(a)
Property standards.
A property offered for sale under a homeownership program must meet local code requirements (or, if no local code exists, the housing quality standards established by HUD for the Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher Program, 24 CFR part 982) and the relevant requirements of the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 4821-4846), the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851-4856), and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 35, subparts A, B, L, and R of this title. When a prospective purchaser who has known disabilities, or who has a family member with known disabilities requires accessible features, the features must be added as a reasonable accommodation to the
disability, in accordance with the requirements of § 8.29 of this title. Further, the property must be in good repair, with the major components having a remaining useful life that is sufficient to justify a reasonable expectation that homeownership will be affordable by the purchasers. These standards must be met as a condition for conveyance of a dwelling to an individual purchaser.
(b) A unit in this program for which the purchasing family is receiving assistance under Section 8(y) must be an eligible unit for purposes of the Homeownership Option under 24 CFR part 982, subpart M.
§ 906.9
Title restrictions and encumbrances on properties sold under a homeownership program.
(a) If the property is subject to indebtedness under the Annual Contributions Contract (ACC), HUD will continue to make any debt service contributions for which it is obligated under the ACC, and the property sold will not be subject to the encumbrance of that indebtedness.
(b) Upon sale of a public housing unit to a public housing tenant or eligible family, or to a PRE operating the units as non-public housing, in accordance with the HUD-approved homeownership program, HUD will execute a release of the title restrictions prescribed by the ACC. Because the property will no longer be subject to the ACC after sale, it will cease to be eligible for public housing Operating Fund or Capital Fund payments.

# Subpart C—Purchaser Requirements
§ 906.11
Eligible purchasers.
Entities that purchase units from the PHA for resale to low-income families (purchase and resale entities or PREs) and low-income families are eligible to purchase properties made available for sale under a PHA homeownership program.
§ 906.13
Right of first refusal.
(a) In selling a public housing unit under a homeownership program, the PHA or PRE must initially offer the unit to the resident occupying the unit, if any, notwithstanding the requirements of §§ 906.15(a) and 906.15(c).
(b) This program does not require the PHA, when selling a unit that is a non-public housing unit, to offer the unit for sale first to the current resident of the unit.
§ 906.15
Requirements applicable to a family purchasing a property under a homeownership program.
(a)
Low-income requirement.
Except in the case of a PHA's offer of first refusal to a resident occupying the unit under § 906.13, a family purchasing a property under a PHA homeownership program must be a low-income family, as defined in section 3 of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437a), at the time the contract to purchase the property is executed.
(b)
Principal residence requirement.
The dwelling unit sold to an eligible family must be used as the principal residence of the family.
(c)
Financial capacity requirement.
Eligibility must be limited to families who are capable of assuming the financial obligations of homeownership, under minimum income standards for affordability, taking into account the unavailability of public housing operating subsidies and modernization funds after conveyance of the property by the PHA. A homeownership program may, however, take account of any available subsidy from other sources. Under this affordability standard, an applicant must meet the following requirements:
(1)
Cost/income ratio.
On an average monthly estimate, the amount of the applicant's payments for mortgage principal and interest, plus insurance, real estate taxes, utilities, maintenance, and other regularly recurring homeownership costs (such as condominium, cooperative, or other homeownership association fees) will not exceed the sum of:
(i) 35 percent of the applicant's adjusted income as defined in 24 CFR part 913; and
(ii) Any subsidy that will be available for such payments;
(2)
Down payment requirement.
Each family purchasing housing under a homeownership program must provide a down payment in connection with any loan for acquisition of the housing,
in an amount determined by the PHA or PRE, in accordance with an approved homeownership program. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the PHA or PRE must permit the family to use grant amounts, gifts from relatives, contributions from private sources, and other similar amounts in making the down payment;
(3) The family must use its own resources other than grants, gifts, contributions, or similar amounts, to contribute an amount of the down payment that is not less than one percent of the purchase price of the housing. The PHA or PRE must maintain records that are verifiable by HUD through audits regarding the source of this one percent contribution.
(d)
Other requirements established by the PHA.
A PHA may establish requirements or limitations for families to purchase housing under a homeownership program, including but not limited to requirements or limitations regarding:
(1) Employment or participation in employment counseling or training activities;
(2) Criminal activity;
(3) Participation in homeownership counseling programs; and
(4) Evidence of regular income.
§ 906.17
PHA handling of homeownership applications.
Families who are interested in purchasing a unit must submit applications to the PHA or PRE for that specific purpose, and those applications must be handled separately from applications for other PHA programs. Application for homeownership must not affect an applicant's place on any other PHA waiting list for rental units.
§ 906.19
Requirements applicable to a purchase and resale entity (PRE).
(a)
In general.
In the case of a purchase of units for resale to low-income families by a PRE, the PHA must have an approved homeownership program that describes the use of a PRE to sell the units to low-income families within 5 years from the date of the PRE's acquisition of the units.
(b)
PRE requirements.
The PHA must demonstrate in its homeownership program that the PRE has the necessary legal capacity and administrative capability to carry out its responsibilities under the program. The PHA's homeownership program also must contain a written agreement (not required to be submitted as part of the homeownership plan) that specifies the respective rights and obligations of the PHA and the PRE, and which includes:
(1) Assurances that the PRE will comply with all provisions of the HUD-approved homeownership program;
(2) Assurances that the PRE will be subject to a title restriction providing that the property must be resold or otherwise transferred only by conveyance of individual dwellings to eligible families, in accordance with the HUD-approved homeownership program, or by reconveyance to the PHA, and that the property will not be encumbered by the PRE without the written consent of the PHA;
(3) Protection against fraud or misuse of funds or other property on the part of the PRE, its employees, and agents;
(4) Assurances that the resale proceeds will be used only for the purposes specified by the HUD-approved homeownership program;
(5) Limitation of the PRE's administrative and overhead costs, and of any compensation or profit that may be realized by the PRE, to amounts that are reasonable in relation to its responsibilities and risks;
(6) Accountability to the PHA and residents for the recordkeeping, reporting, and audit requirements of § 906.33;
(7) Assurances that the PRE will administer its responsibilities under the plan on a nondiscriminatory basis, in accordance with the Fair Housing Act, its implementing regulations, and other applicable civil rights statutes and authorities, including the authorities cited in § 5.105(a) of this title; and
(8) Adequate legal remedies for the PHA and residents, in the event of the PRE's failure to perform in accordance with the agreement.
(c)
Sale to low-income families.
The requirement for a PRE to sell units under a homeownership program only to low-income families must be recorded as a deed restriction at the time of purchase by the PRE.
(d)
Resale within five years.
A PRE must agree that, with respect to any units it acquires under a homeownership program under this part, it will transfer ownership to the PHA if the PRE fails to resell the unit to a low-income family within 5 years of the PRE's acquisition of the unit.

# Subpart D—Program Administration
§ 906.23
Protections available to non-purchasing public housing residents.
(a) If a public housing resident does not exercise the right of first refusal under § 906.13, and the PHA determines to move the tenant for the purpose of transferring possession of the unit, the PHA must provide the notice stated in this section 90 days before the date the resident is displaced, and may not displace the resident, except as stated in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, for the full 90-day period. The PHA:
(1) Must notify the resident residing in the unit 90 days prior to the displacement date, except in cases of imminent threat to health or safety, that:
(i) The public housing unit will be sold;
(ii) The transfer of possession of the unit will not occur until the resident is relocated; and
(iii) Each resident displaced by such action will be offered comparable housing (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section);
(2) Must provide for the payment of the actual costs and reasonable relocation expenses of the resident to be displaced;
(3) Must ensure that the resident is offered comparable housing under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section;
(4) Must provide counseling for displaced residents regarding their rights to comparable housing, including their rights under the Fair Housing Act to choice of a unit on a nondiscriminatory basis, without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, disability, age, sex, or familial status; and
(5) Must not transfer possession of the unit until the resident is relocated.
(b) For purposes of this section, the term “comparable housing” means housing:
(1) That meets housing quality standards;
(2) That is located in an area that is generally not less desirable than the displaced resident's original development; and
(3) Which may include:
(i) Tenant-based assistance (tenant-based assistance must only be provided upon the relocation of the resident to the comparable housing);
(ii) Project-based assistance; or
(iii) Occupancy in a unit owned, operated, or assisted by the PHA at a rental rate paid by the resident that is comparable to the rental rate applicable to the unit from which the resident is vacating.
§ 906.24
Protections available to non-purchasing residents of housing other than public housing.
Residents of non-public housing that would be displaced by a homeownership program are eligible for assistance under the Uniform Relocation Act and part 42 of this title. For purposes of this part, a family that was over-income (
i.e.,
an individual or family that is not a low-income family) at the time of initial occupancy of public housing and was admitted in accordance with section 3(a)(5) of the 1937 Act, is treated as a non-purchasing resident of non-public housing.
§ 906.25
Ownership interests that may be conveyed to a purchaser.
A homeownership program may provide for sale to the purchasing family of any ownership interest that the PHA considers appropriate under the homeownership program, including but not limited to:
(a) Ownership in fee simple;
(b) A condominium interest;
(c) An interest in a limited dividend cooperative;
(d) A shared appreciation interest with a PHA providing financing; or
(e) A leasehold under a bona fide lease-purchase arrangement.
§ 906.27
Limitations applicable to net proceeds on the sale of a property acquired through a homeownership program.
(a) Where the family has owned a unit under this part, the following rules apply:
(1) In this section, the term
gain from appreciation
means the financial gain on resale attributable solely to the home's appreciation in value over time, and not attributable to government-provided assistance or any below-market financing provided under § 906.29.
(2) In this section, the term
net proceeds
means the financial gain on resale received by the seller after satisfying all amounts owing under mortgages, paying closing costs, and receiving an amount equal to the down payment (made from the seller's own funds) and principal payments on the mortgage(s).
(3) A PHA must have a policy that provides for the recapture of net proceeds in an amount that the PHA considers appropriate under the guidelines in this section.
(4) A PHA must have a policy that provides the recapture of the following amounts, if a family resells a homeownership unit it purchased under this part during the 5-year period beginning upon purchase of the dwelling unit:
(i) All or a portion of the gain from appreciation; and
(ii) All or a portion of the assistance provided (which includes below-market financing, but which does not include Section 8(y) assistance used for mortgage payments under this part) under the homeownership program to the family to the extent there are net proceeds, considering the factors the PHA establishes under paragraphs (b)(1)-(7) of this section.
(b) The PHA's program under this part may provide for consideration of any factors the PHA considers appropriate in determining how much of the gain from appreciation and assistance to recapture, including but not limited to the following:
(1) The aggregate amount of assistance provided under the homeownership program to the family;
(2) The contribution of equity by the purchasing family;
(3) The period of time elapsed between purchase by the homebuyer under the homeownership program and resale by the homebuyer;
(4) The reason for resale;
(5) Any improvements made by the family purchasing under the homeownership program;
(6) Any appreciation in the value of the property; and
(7) Any other factors that the PHA considers appropriate in making the recapture determination under this section.
(c) After the expiration of the 5-year period in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the PHA must recapture all or a portion of the assistance provided under the homeownership program to the family to the extent there are net proceeds.
(d) The PHA must enforce its recapture policy through an appropriate form of title restriction.
§ 906.29
Below-Market sales and financing.
A homeownership plan may provide for below-market purchase prices or below-market financing to enable below-market purchases, or a combination of the two. Discounted purchase prices may be determined on a unit-by-unit basis, based on the particular purchaser's ability to pay, or may be determined by any other fair and reasonable method (
e.g.,
uniform prices for a group of comparable dwellings, within a range of affordability by potential purchases). Below-market financing may include any lawful type of public or private financing, including but not limited to purchase-money mortgages, non-cash second mortgages, promissory notes, guarantees of mortgage loans from other lenders, shared equity, or lease-purchase arrangements.
§ 906.31
Requirements applicable to net proceeds resulting from sale.
(a)
PHA use of net proceeds.
The PHA must use any net proceeds of any sales under a homeownership program remaining after payment of all costs of the sale for purposes relating to low-income housing and in accordance with its PHA plan.
(b)
PRE use of resale net proceeds.
The PHA may require the PRE to return the net proceeds from the resale of the units to the PHA. If the PHA permits the PRE to retain the net proceeds, the PRE must use these proceeds for low-income housing purposes.
(c)
Transfer of unsold unit to PHA.
In a situation where the PRE fails to sell a unit to an eligible family within 5 years, and the provision of § 906.19(d) requiring that the unit be transferred to the PHA applies:
(1) If the unit has not been operated by the PRE as a public housing unit at any time during the 5-year period, the PHA may resell the unit in accordance with this part or any successor homeownership program of the department, or apply to have the unit included in its public housing program, if it meets all statutory and regulatory requirements of the public housing program; or
(2) If the unit has been operated by the PRE as a public housing unit within such a 5-year period, the PHA must return the unit to operation in its regular public housing program.
(d)
Transfer of unsold unit operated as public housing to PHA.
Where the PRE operates the unit as public housing during the 5-year interim period under § 960.40, and fails to sell the unit to an eligible family within such 5-year period and the provision of § 906.19(d) applies, the PHA must return the unit to operation in its regular public housing program.
§ 906.33
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
The PHA is responsible for the maintenance of records (including sale and financial records) for all activities incident to implementation of the HUD-approved homeownership program. Where a PRE is responsible for the sale of units, the PHA must ensure that the PRE's responsibilities include proper recordkeeping and accountability to the PHA, sufficient to enable the PHA to monitor compliance with the approved homeownership program and to meet its audit responsibilities. All books and records must be subject to inspection and audit by HUD and the General Accounting Office (GAO). The PHA must report annually to HUD on the progress of each program approved under this part. The PHA must report as part of the Annual Plan process under § 903.7(k) of this title, except for those PHAs under §§ 903.11(c)(1) and (2) of this title who are not required to include information on their public housing homeownership programs in their Annual Plan. Those PHAs must report by providing a description of the homeownership program to HUD, including the cumulative number of units sold.
§ 906.35
Inapplicability of section 18 of the United States Housing Act of 1937.
The provisions of section 18 of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437p) do not apply to disposition of public housing dwelling units under a homeownership program approved by HUD under this part, or to the sale of a unit to a PRE to operate as public housing and sell to a low-income family within 5 years, under the requirements of § 906.19.
§ 906.37
Davis-Bacon and HUD wage rate requirements.
(a)
Wage rates applicable to laborers and mechanics.
Wage rate requirements in accordance with § 968.110(e) of this title apply to the following activities:
(1) Rehabilitation, repairs, and accessibility modifications performed under an agreement or contract with the PHA or by the PHA, pursuant to § 906.7. Davis-Bacon or HUD-determined wage rates apply as follows:
(i) Existing public housing units that will be sold under a homeownership program: Davis-Bacon rates apply, except that HUD rates apply to nonroutine maintenance as defined in § 968.105 of this title;
(ii) Non-public housing units acquired by a PHA using Capital Funds that will be sold under a homeownership program: Davis-Bacon rates apply; and
(iii) Non-public housing units owned or acquired by a PHA with the intent to use 1937 Act funds to finance the sale of the units, or otherwise provide assistance to purchasers of the units: Davis-Bacon rates apply;
(2) New construction of non-public housing units pursuant to a contract for acquisition by a PHA for the purpose of sale under a homeownership program: Davis-Bacon rates apply;
(3) Operation, rehabilitation, and repair of units operated as public housing units by a PRE: HUD rates apply to nonroutine maintenance, as defined in
§ 968.105 of this title, and routine maintenance. Davis-Bacon rates apply to rehabilitation and repair that does not qualify as nonroutine maintenance.
(b)
Technical wage rates.
All architects, technical engineers, draftsmen, and technicians employed in the development of units under a homeownership program shall be paid not less than the HUD-determined wage rates in accordance with § 968.100(f) of this title.

# Subpart E—Program Submission and Approval
§ 906.38
Requirement of HUD approval to implement a homeownership program under this part.
A PHA must obtain HUD approval before implementing a homeownership program under this part. A homeownership program under this part must be carried out in accordance with the requirements of this part and the PHA Plan submitted under part 903 of this title.
§ 906.39
Contents of a homeownership program.
A homeownership program must include the following matters, as applicable to the particular factual situation:
(a)
Method of Sale:
The PHA should indicate how units will be sold, including a description of the exact method of sale, such as, for example, fee simple conveyance, lease-purchase, or sale of a cooperative share. PHAs may sell units directly to a tenant or eligible family directly or via a
bona fide
lease-purchase arrangement. The PHA must indicate whether it, or a PRE will sell units to families directly or via such lease-purchase method. If the PHA or PRE will use a lease-purchase method the proposal should indicate the terms of the lease-purchase arrangement. The terms of the lease-purchase arrangement shall include, but are not limited to the periodic documentation to be provided to the family regarding the amount they have accrued toward the down payment, and the length of the lease period (with regard to PREs the sales must be completed within the statutory 5-year period.);
(b)
Property description.
(1) If the program involves only financing assistance to the family purchasing the unit, the PHA need not specify property addresses, but it must describe the area(s) in which the assistance is to be used;
(2) If the PHA is selling existing public housing, it must describe the property, including identification of the property by project number, or street address if there is no project number, and the specific dwellings to be sold, with bedroom distribution by size and type broken down by development;
(3) If the PHA is acquiring units with 1937 Act funds to sell under the program, it must comply with the provisions of § 906.40 concerning this element of the program;
(c)
Repair or rehabilitation.
If applicable, a plan for any repair or rehabilitation needed to meet the requirements of § 906.7, based on the assessment of the physical condition of the property that is included in the supporting documentation. The restriction in 906.5(c) of this part applies to such repair or rehabilitation;
(d)
Purchaser eligibility and selection.
The standards and procedures to be used for homeownership applications and the eligibility and selection of purchasers, consistent with the requirements of § 906.15. If the homeownership program allows application for purchase of units by families who are not presently public housing or Section 8 residents and not already on the PHA's waiting lists for those programs, the program must include an affirmative fair housing marketing strategy for such families, including specific steps to inform them of their eligibility to apply, and to solicit applications from those in the housing market who are least likely to apply for the program without special outreach, including persons with disabilities;
(e)
Sale and financing.
Terms and conditions of sale and financing, including any below-market financing under § 906.29;
(f)
Consultation with residents and purchasers.
A description of resident input obtained during the resident consultation process required by the PHA Plan under part 903 of this title. If the PHA is one whose Plan does not require information regarding homeownership under § 903.11(b)(1) of this title, the
PHA must consult with the Resident Advisory Board or Boards regarding the homeownership plan, and provide the information required in this paragraph;
(g)
Counseling.
Counseling, training, and technical assistance to be provided to purchasers;
(h)
Sale via PRE.
If the program contemplates sale to residents by an entity other than the PHA, a description of that entity's responsibilities and information demonstrating that the requirements of § 906.19 have been met or will be met in a timely fashion;
(i)
Non-purchasing residents.
If applicable, a plan for non-purchasing residents, in accordance with § 906.23;
(j)
Sale proceeds.
An estimate of the sale proceeds and an explanation of how they will be used, in accordance with § 906.31;
(k)
Records, accounts, and reports.
A description of the recordkeeping, accounting, and reporting procedures to be used, including those required by § 906.33;
(l)
Budget.
A budget estimate, showing any rehabilitation or repair cost, any financing assistance, and the costs of implementing the program, and the sources of the funds that will be used;
(m)
Timetable.
An estimated timetable for the major steps required to carry out the program;
(n)
Deed restrictions.
A deed restriction or covenant running with the land that will assure to HUD's satisfaction that the requirements of §§ 906.27 and 906.15(b) are met.
§ 906.40
Supporting documentation.
The following supporting documentation must be submitted to HUD with the proposed homeownership program, as appropriate for the particular program:
(a)
Supporting documentation—PREs.
In approving homeownership programs in which the PHA contemplates selling public housing units to a PRE for operation as public housing during the 5 year interim period the department will require evidentiary materials including but not limited to:
(1) Organizational documents of the PRE;
(2) Regulatory and operating agreement between the PHA and PRE regarding the provision of operating subsidy and the operation of the public housing units in accordance with all applicable public housing requirements;
(3) Management agreement and plan;
(4) Financing documents, if any;
(5) A description of the use of operating subsidy during the PRE's period of ownership, in the form of an operating pro forma;
(6) A mixed-finance ACC amendment governing these units;
(7) A deed restriction or covenant running with the land that will assure to HUD's satisfaction that the PRE will operate the units in accordance with public housing laws and regulations, including § 906.19.
(8) A bond for repairs or proof of insurance to cover any damage to the property during the period of PRE ownership and operation;
(9) Such other materials as may be required by HUD.
(b)
Physical assessment.
An assessment of the physical condition of the properties, based on the standards specified in § 906.7;
(c)
Feasibility.
A statement demonstrating the practical feasibility of the program, based on analysis of data on such elements as purchase prices, costs of repair or rehabilitation, accessibility costs, if applicable, homeownership costs, family incomes, availability of financing, and the extent to which there are eligible residents who are expected to be interested in purchase (
See
§ 906.45(a));
(d)
PHA performance in homeownership.
A statement of the commitment and capability of the PHA (and any other entity with substantial responsibility for implementing the homeownership program) to successfully carry out the homeownership program. The statement must describe the PHA's (and other entity's) past experience in carrying out homeownership programs for low-income families, and (if applicable) its reasons for considering such programs to have been successful. A PHA that has not previously implemented a homeownership program for low-income families instead must submit a statement describing its experience in carrying out public housing modernization and development
projects under part 905 of this title, respectively;
(e)
Nondiscrimination certification.
The PHA's or PRE's certification that it will administer the plan on a nondiscriminatory basis, in accordance with the Fair Housing Act, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Executive Order 11063, other authorities cited in § 5.105(a) of this title, and the implementing regulations, and will assure compliance with those requirements by any other entity that may assume substantial responsibilities for implementing the program;
(f)
Legal opinion.
An opinion by legal counsel to the PHA, stating that counsel has reviewed the program and finds it consistent with all applicable requirements of federal, state, and local law, including regulations as well as statutes. At a minimum, the attorney must certify that the documents to be used will ensure sales only to eligible families under § 906.15, compliance with the 5-year PRE sale guarantee in § 906.19(d), and compliance with the restriction of use of resale proceeds of § 906.27;
(g)
Board resolution.
A resolution by the PHA's Board of Commissioners, evidencing its approval of the program;
(h)
Section 8(y).
In any case where the PHA plans to provide families with assistance under the Section 8(y) homeownership option in connection with homeownership under this part, a certification that the PHA will comply with the requirements of the Section 8(y) statute and implementing regulations;
(i)
Other information.
Any other information that may reasonably be required for HUD review of the program. Except for the PHA-HUD implementing agreement under § 906.49 and the deed restriction required by § 906.39(n), HUD approval is not required for documents to be prepared and used by the PHA in implementing the program (such as contracts, applications, deeds, mortgages, promissory notes, and cooperative or condominium documents), if their essential terms and conditions are described in the program. Consequently, those documents need not be submitted as part of the program or the supporting documentation.
§ 906.41
Additional supporting documentation for acquisition of non-public housing for homeownership.
(a)
Proposal contents.
The PHA must submit an acquisition proposal to the HUD field office for review and approval before its homeownership plan containing acquisition of non-public housing can be approved. This proposal must contain the following:
(1)
Property description.
A description of the properties, including the number of housing units, unit types, and number of bedrooms, and any non-dwelling facilities on the properties to be acquired;
(2)
Certification.
If the housing units were constructed under a contract or an agreement that they be sold to the PHA, a certification that the developer/owner complied with all Davis-Bacon wage rate requirements under § 906.37, including all required contractual provisions and compliance measures, and that the PHA received all applicable HUD environmental approvals and all applicable HUD releases of funds before executing the contract or agreement, in accordance with § 906.47(d).
(3)
Site information.
A description of the proposed general location of the properties to be acquired, or where specific properties have been identified, street addresses of the properties;
(4)
Property costs.
The detailed budget of costs for acquiring the properties, including relocation and closing costs, and an identification of the sources of funding;
(5)
Appraisal.
An appraisal of the proposed properties by an independent, state-certified appraiser (when the sites have been identified);
(6)
Property acquisition schedule.
A copy of the PHA acquisition schedule;
(7)
Environmental information.
(i) The environmental information required by § 906.47(f), where HUD will perform the environmental review under 24 CFR part 50, or a statement identifying the responsible entity that has performed or will perform the review under 24 CFR part 58. This paragraph (a)(7)(i) does not apply to a property where a contract or agreement for sale to the PHA has already been executed and HUD has already given prior approval
of the property following environmental review under 24 CFR part 50.
(ii) Where the PHA's homeownership program is submitted for approval to HUD and contemplates acquisition of properties not identified at the time of submission or approval, the procedures at § 906.47(e) apply.
(8)
Market analysis.
An analysis of the potential market of eligible purchasers for the homeownership units.
(9)
Additional HUD-requested information.
Any additional information that may be needed for HUD to determine whether it can approve the proposal.
(b)
Cost limit.
The acquisition cost of each property is limited by the housing cost cap limit, as determined by HUD.
§ 906.43
Where a PHA is to submit a homeownership program for HUD approval.
A PHA must submit its proposed homeownership program together with supporting documentation, in a format prescribed by HUD, to the Special Applications Center with a copy to the appropriate HUD field office.
§ 906.45
HUD criteria for reviewing a proposed homeownership program.
HUD will use the following criteria in reviewing a homeownership program:
(a)
Feasibility.
The program must be practically feasible, with sound potential for long-term success. Financial viability, including the capability of purchasers to meet the financial obligations of homeownership, is a critical requirement.
(b)
Legality.
Counsel for the PHA shall certify that the homeownership program is consistent with applicable law, including the requirements of this part and any other applicable federal, state, and local statutes and regulations, including existing contracts, and HUD shall accept such certification unless HUD has information indicating that the certification is incorrect.
(c)
Documentation.
The program must be clear and complete enough to serve as a working document for implementation, as well as a basis for HUD review.
(d)
PHA performance in homeownership.
The PHA (and any other entity with substantial responsibility for implementing the homeownership program) must have demonstrated the commitment and capability to successfully implement the homeownership program based upon the criteria stated in § 906.41(d).
§ 906.47
Environmental requirements.
(a)
General.
HUD environmental regulations at 24 CFR part 58 apply to this part, unless, under § 58.11 of this title, HUD itself performs the environmental review under 24 CFR part 50. The PHA conducting a homeownership program under this part must comply with this section and part 50 or 58, as applicable.
(b)
Assistance to facilitate the purchase of homes.
Where the PHA's homeownership program involves assistance provided under the 1937 Act solely to assist homebuyers to purchase existing dwelling units or dwelling units under construction, an environmental review is not required under part 58 or part 50 of this title. However, the requirements of § 58.6 or § 50.19(b)(15) of this title are still applicable.
(c)
Public housing units in the PHA's inventory.
Before the PHA rehabilitates or repairs units in its inventory for use for homeownership, or expends or commits HUD or local funds for such activities, the responsible entity must comply with part 58 and the PHA, where required, must submit and receive HUD approval of its request for release of funds, or HUD must have completed any part 50 environmental review and notified the PHA of its approval of the property. HUD may not release funds under this part before the appropriate approval is obtained.
(d)
Units to be acquired with federal funds and used for public housing homeownership.
A PHA may not enter into any contract for acquisition of real property to be used in a homeownership program unless the required environmental reviews have been performed and approvals have been obtained.
(e)
Specific units unidentified.
Where the PHA's homeownership program contemplates acquisition of properties not identified at the time of submission, the PHA must certify that it will comply with this section, including paragraph (f) of this section, prior to such acquisition or construction. HUD may conditionally approve such a
homeownership program; however, HUD will not give final approval of any site or unit until the required environmental review has been completed.
(f)
Information.
The PHA shall supply all relevant information necessary for the responsible entity, or HUD, if applicable, to perform the environmental review for each property included in the homeownership program, and, if necessary, shall carry out mitigating measures or select alternate eligible properties. Where HUD performs the environmental review, the PHA shall comply with 24 CFR 50.3(h).
(g)
Non-exclusivity.
Nothing in this section relieves the participating PHA, and its partners and contractors, from complying with all requirements of 24 CFR part 50 or part 58, as applicable.
§ 906.49
HUD approval; implementing agreement.
HUD may approve a homeownership program as submitted, conditionally approve it under § 906.47(e), or return it to the PHA for revision and resubmission. Where such conditional approval is given, the PHA, partners, and contractors remain subject to the restrictions in § 906.47. Upon HUD notification to the PHA that the homeownership program is approvable (in final form that satisfies all applicable requirements of this part), the PHA and HUD will execute a written implementing agreement, in a form prescribed by HUD, to evidence HUD approval and authorization for implementation. The program itself, as approved by HUD, must be incorporated in the implementing agreement. Any of the items of supporting documentation may also be incorporated, if agreeable to the PHA and HUD. The PHA is obligated to carry out the approved homeownership program and other provisions of the implementing agreement without modification, except with written approval by HUD.
Pt. 907

# PART 907—SUBSTANTIAL DEFAULT BY A PUBLIC HOUSING AGENCY
Sec.
907.1
Purpose and scope.
907.3
Bases for substantial default.
907.5
Procedures for declaring substantial default.
907.7
Remedies for substantial default.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1437d(j), 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
76 FR 10162, Feb. 23, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 907.1
Purpose and scope.
This part provides the criteria and procedures for determining and declaring substantial default by a public housing agency (PHA) and the actions available to HUD to address and remedy substantial default by a PHA. Nothing in this part shall limit the discretion of HUD to take any action available under the provisions of section 6(j)(3)(A) of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437d(j)(3)(A)), any applicable annual contributions contract (ACC), or any other law or regulation that may authorize HUD to take actions against a PHA that is in substantial default.
§ 907.3
Bases for substantial default.
(a)
Violations of laws and agreements.
A PHA may be declared in substantial default when the PHA:
(1) Violates a federal statute;
(2) Violates a federal regulation; or
(3) Violates one or more terms of an ACC, or other covenants or conditions to which the PHA is subject.
(b)
Failure to act.
In addition to the violations listed in paragraph (a) of this section, in the case where a PHA is designated as a troubled performer under PHAS, the PHA shall be in substantial default if the PHA:
(1) Fails to execute an MOA;
(2) Fails to comply with the terms of an MOA; or
(3) Fails to show substantial improvement, as provided in § 902.75(d) of this chapter.
§ 907.5
Procedures for declaring substantial default.
(a)
Notification of finding of substantial default.
If the PHA is found in substantial default, the PHA shall be notified of such determination in writing. Except in situations as described in paragraph (d) of this section, the PHA shall have an opportunity to respond to the written determination, and an opportunity to cure the default, if a cure of the default is determined appropriate by HUD. The determination of substantial default shall be transmitted to the
Executive Director of the PHA, the Chairperson of the Board of the PHA, and the appointing authority(ies) of the PHA's Board of Commissioners, and shall:
(1) Identify the specific statute, regulation, covenants, conditions, or agreements of which the PHA is determined to be in violation;
(2) Identify the specific events, occurrences, or conditions that constitute the violation;
(3) Specify the time period, which shall be a period of 10 but not more than 30 days, during which the PHA shall have an opportunity to demonstrate that the determination or finding is not substantively accurate, if required;
(4) If determined by HUD to be appropriate, provide for an opportunity to cure and specify the time period for the cure; and
(5) Notify the PHA that, absent a satisfactory response in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, action shall be taken as determined by HUD to be appropriate.
(b)
Receipt of notification and response.
Upon receipt of the notification described in paragraph (a) of this section, the PHA may submit a response, in writing and within the specified time period, demonstrating:
(1) The description of events, occurrences, or conditions described in the written determination of substantial default is in error, or establish that the events, occurrences, or conditions described in the written determination of substantial default do not constitute noncompliance with the statute, regulation, covenants, conditions, or agreements that are cited in the notification under paragraph (a) of this section; or
(2) If any opportunity to cure is provided, that the violations have been cured or will be cured in the time period specified by HUD.
(c)
Waiver of notification and the opportunity to respond.
A PHA may waive, in writing, receipt of written notification from HUD of a finding of substantial default and the opportunity to respond to such finding. HUD may then immediately proceed with the remedies as provided in § 907.7.
(d)
Emergency situations.
A PHA shall not be afforded the opportunity to respond to a written determination or to cure a substantial default in any case where:
(1) HUD determines that conditions exist that pose an imminent threat to the life, health, or safety of public housing residents or residents of the surrounding neighborhood; or
(2) The events or conditions precipitating the default are determined to be the result of criminal or fraudulent activity.
§ 907.7
Remedies for substantial default.
(a) Except as provided in § 907.7(c), upon determining that events have occurred or conditions exist that constitute a substantial default, HUD may:
(1) Take any action provided for in section 6(j)(3) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437d(j)(3));
(2) Provide technical assistance for existing PHA management staff; or
(3) Provide assistance deemed necessary, in the discretion of HUD, to remedy emergency conditions.
(b) HUD may take any of the actions described in paragraph (a) of this section sequentially or simultaneously in any combination.
(c) In the case of a substantial default by a troubled PHA pursuant to § 902.83(b):
(1) For a PHA with 1,250 or more units, HUD shall petition for the appointment of a receiver pursuant to section 6(j)(3)(A)(ii) of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437d(j)(3)(A)(ii)); or
(2) For a PHA with fewer than 1,250 units, HUD shall either petition for the appointment of a receiver pursuant to section 6(j)(3)(A)(ii) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437d(j)(3)(A)(ii)), or take possession of the PHA (including all or part of any project or program of the PHA) pursuant to section 6(j)(3)(A)(iv) of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437d(j)(3)(A)(iv)), and appoint, on a competitive or noncompetitive basis, an individual or entity as an administrative receiver to assume the responsibilities of HUD for the administration of all or part of the PHA (including all or part of any project or program of the PHA).
(d) To the extent feasible, while a PHA is operating under any of the actions that may have been taken by
HUD, all services to residents will continue uninterrupted.
(e) HUD may limit remedies under this part to one or more of a PHA's specific operational areas (
e.g.,
maintenance, capital improvement, occupancy, or financial management), to a single program or group of programs, or to a single project or a group of projects. For example, HUD may select, or participate in the selection of, an AME to assume management responsibility for a specific project, a group of projects in a geographical area, or a specific operational area, while permitting the PHA to retain responsibility for all programs, operational areas, and projects not so designated.
Pt. 908

# PART 908—ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION OF REQUIRED FAMILY DATA FOR PUBLIC HOUSING, INDIAN HOUSING, AND THE SECTION 8 RENTAL VOUCHER, AND MODERATE REHABILITATION PROGRAMS
Sec.
908.101
Purpose.
908.104
Requirements.
908.108
Cost.
908.112
Extension of time.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1437f, 3535(d), 3543, 3544, and 3608a.

# Source:
60 FR 11628, Mar. 2, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 908.101
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to require Public Housing Agencies (PHAs), including Moving-to-Work (MTW) PHAs, that operate Public Housing, Indian Housing, or Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher (HCV), Rental Voucher, and Moderate Rehabilitation programs to electronically submit certain data to HUD for those programs. These electronically submitted data are required for HUD forms: HUD-50058, including the Family Self-Sufficiency (FSS) Addendum. Applicable program entities must retain at a minimum, the last three years of the form HUD-50058, and supporting documentation, during the term of each assisted lease, and for a period of at least 3 years from the end of participation (EOP) date, to support billings to HUD and to permit an effective audit. Electronic retention of form HUD-50058 and HUD-50058-FSS and supporting documentation fulfills the record retention requirement under this section.
[74 FR 68934, Dec. 29, 2009, as amended at 89 FR 38293, May 7, 2024]
§ 908.104
Requirements.
(a)
Automated HAs.
Housing agencies that currently use automated software packages to transmit Forms HUD-50058 and HUD-50058-FSS information by tape or diskette to the Department's data processing contractor must convert to telephonic electronic transmission of that data in a HUD specified format by June 30, 1995.
(b)
Nonautomated HAs.
Housing agencies that currently prepare and transmit the HUD-50058 and HUD-50058-FSS information to HUD paper must:
(1) Complete a vendor search and obtain either:
(i) The necessary hardware and software required to develop and maintain an in-house automated data processing system (ADP) used to generate electronic submission of the data for these forms via telephonic network; or
(ii) A service contract for the operation of an automated system to generate electronic submission of the data for these forms via telephonic network;
(2) Complete their data loading; and
(3) Begin electronic transmission by March 2, 1996.
(c)
Electronic transmission of data.
Electronic transmission of data consists of submission of all required data fields (correctly formatted) from the forms HUD-050058 and HUD-50058-FSS telephonically, in accordance with HUD instructions. Regardless of whether an HA obtains the ADP system itself or contracts with a service bureau to provide the system, the software must be periodically updated to incorporate changes or revisions in legislation, regulations, handbooks, notices, or HUD electronic transmission data format requirements.
(d)
Service contract.
HAs that determine that the purchase of hardware and/or software is not cost effective may contract out the electronic data transmission function to organizations that provide such services, including,
but not limited to the following organizations: local management associations and management agents with centralized facilities. HAs that contract out the electronic transmission function must retain the ability to monitor the day-to-day operations of the project at the HA site and be able to demonstrate the ability to the relevant HUD Field Office.
(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Department may approve transmission of the data by tape or diskette if it determines that the cost of telephonic transmission would be excessive.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0083)
§ 908.108
Cost.
(a)
General.
The costs of the electronic transmission of the correctly formatted data, including either the purchase and maintenance of computer hardware or software, or both, the cost of contracting for those services, or the cost of centralizing the electronic transmission function, shall be considered Section 8 Administrative expenses, or eligible public and Indian housing operating expenses that can be included in the public and Indian housing operating budget. At the HA's option, the cost of the computer software may include service contracts to provide maintenance or training, or both.
(b)
Sources of funding.
For public and Indian housing, costs may be covered from operating subsidy for which the HA is already eligible, or the initial cost may be covered by funds received by the HA under HUD's Comprehensive Improvement Assistance Program (CIAP) or Comprehensive Grant Program (CGP). For Section 8 programs, the costs may be covered from ongoing administrative fees or the Section 8 operating reserve.
§ 908.112
Extension of time.
The HUD Field Office may grant an HA an extension of time, of a reasonable period, for implementation of the requirements of § 908.104, if it determines that such electronic submission is infeasible because of one of the following:
(a) Lack of staff resources;
(b) Insufficient financial resources to purchase the required hardware, software or contractual services; or
(c) Lack of adequate infrastructure, including, but not limited to, the inability to obtain telephone service to transmit the required data.
Pt. 943

# PART 943—PUBLIC HOUSING AGENCY CONSORTIA AND JOINT VENTURES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
943.100
What is the purpose of this part?

# Subpart B—Consortia
943.115
What programs are covered under this subpart?
943.118
What is a consortium?
943.120
What programs of a PHA are included in a consortium's functions?
943.122
How is a consortium organized?
943.124
What elements must a consortium agreement contain?
943.126
What is the relationship between HUD and a consortium?
943.128
How does a consortium carry out planning and reporting functions?
943.130
What are the responsibilities of participating PHAs?

# Subpart C—Subsidiaries, Affiliates, Joint Ventures in Public Housing
943.140
What programs and activities are covered by this subpart?
943.142
In what types of operating organizations may a PHA participate?
943.144
What financial impact do operations of a subsidiary, affiliate, or joint venture have on a PHA?
943.146
What impact does the use of a subsidiary, affiliate, or joint venture have on financial accountability to HUD and the Federal government?
943.148
What procurement standards apply to PHAs selecting partners for a joint venture?
943.150
What procurement standards apply to a PHA's joint venture partner?
943.151
What procurement standards apply to a joint venture itself?

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1437k and 3535(d).

# Source:
65 FR 71207, Nov. 29, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 943.100
What is the purpose of this part?
This part authorizes public housing agencies (PHAs) to form consortia, joint ventures, affiliates, subsidiaries, partnerships, and other business arrangements under section 13 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437k). Under this authority, PHAs participating in a consortium enter into a consortium agreement, submit joint PHA Plans to HUD, and may combine all or part of their funding and program administration. This part does not preclude a PHA from entering cooperative arrangements to operate its programs under other authority, as long as they are consistent with other program regulations and requirements.

# Subpart B—Consortia
§ 943.115
What programs are covered under this subpart?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this subpart applies to the following:
(1) PHA administration of public housing or Section 8 programs under an Annual Contributions Contract (ACC) with HUD; and
(2) PHA administration of grants to the PHA in connection with its public housing or Section 8 programs.
(b) This subpart does not apply to the following:
(1) PHA administration of Section 8 projects assigned to a PHA for contract administration pursuant to an ACC entered under the Request for Proposals (RFP) published May 19, 1999 (64 FR 27358);
(2) Section 8 contract administration of a restructured subsidized multifamily project by a Participating Administrative Entity in accordance with part 401 of this title; or
(3) A PHA in its capacity as owner of a Section 8 project.
§ 943.118
What is a consortium?
A consortium consists of two or more PHAs that join together to perform planning, reporting, and other administrative or management functions for participating PHAs, as specified in a consortium agreement. A consortium also submits a joint PHA Plan. The lead agency collects the assistance funds from HUD that would be paid to the participating PHAs for the elements of their operations that are administered by the consortium and allocates them according to the consortium agreement. The participating PHAs must adopt the same fiscal year so that the applicable periods for submission and review of the joint PHA Plan are the same. Notwithstanding any other regulation, PHAs proposing to form consortia may request and HUD may approve changes in PHA fiscal years to make this possible.
§ 943.120
What programs of a PHA are included in a consortium's functions?
(a) A PHA may enter a consortium under this subpart for administration of any of the following program categories:
(1) The PHA's public housing program (which may include either the operating fund or the capital fund, or both);
(2) The PHA's Section 8 voucher program (including the project-based voucher program and special housing types);
(3) The PHA's Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation program, including Single Room Occupancy program;
(4) All other project-based Section 8 programs administered by the PHA under an ACC with HUD; and
(5) Any grant programs of the PHA in connection with its Section 8 or public housing programs, such as the Drug Elimination program or the Resident Opportunities and Self-Sufficiency program, to the extent not inconsistent with the terms of the governing documents for the grant program's funding source.
(b) If a PHA elects to enter a consortium with respect to a category specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the consortium must cover the PHA's whole program under the ACC with HUD for that category, including all dwelling units and all funding for that program under the ACC with HUD.
[65 FR 71207, Nov. 29, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 38293, May 7, 2024]
§ 943.122
How is a consortium organized?
(a) PHAs that elect to form a consortium enter into a consortium agreement among the participating PHAs, specifying a lead agency (see § 943.124), and submit a joint PHA Plan (§ 943.118). HUD enters into any necessary payment agreements with the lead agency and the other participating PHAs (see § 943.126) to provide that HUD funding to the participating PHAs for program categories covered by the consortium will be paid to the lead agency.
(b) The lead agency must not be a PHA that is designated as a “troubled PHA” by HUD, that has been determined by HUD to fail the civil rights compliance threshold for new funding, or that has had a PHAS designation withheld for civil rights or other reasons. The lead agency is designated to receive HUD program payments on behalf of participating PHAs, to administer HUD requirements for administration of the funds, and to apply the funds in accordance with the consortium agreement and HUD regulations and requirements.
§ 943.124
What elements must a consortium agreement contain?
(a) The consortium agreement among the participating PHAs governs the formation and operation of the consortium. The consortium agreement must be consistent with any payment agreements between the participating PHAs and HUD and must specify the following:
(1) The names of the participating PHAs and the program categories each PHA is including under the consortium agreement;
(2) The name of the lead agency;
(3) The functions to be performed by the lead agency and the other participating PHAs during the term of the consortium;
(4) The allocation of funds among participating PHAs and responsibility for administration of funds paid to the consortium; and
(5) The period of existence of the consortium and the terms under which a PHA may join or withdraw from the consortium before the end of that period. To provide for orderly transition, addition or withdrawal of a PHA and termination of the consortium must take effect on the anniversary of the consortium's fiscal year.
(b) The agreement must acknowledge that the participating PHAs are subject to the joint PHA Plan submitted by the lead agency.
(c) The agreement must be signed by an authorized representative of each participating PHA.
§ 943.126
What is the relationship between HUD and a consortium?
HUD has a direct relationship with the consortium through the PHA Plan process and through one or more payment agreements, executed in a form prescribed by HUD, under which HUD and the participating PHAs agree that program funds will be paid to the lead agency on behalf of the participating PHAs. Such funds must be used in accordance with the consortium agreement, the joint PHA Plan and HUD regulations and requirements.
§ 943.128
How does a consortium carry out planning and reporting functions?
(a) During the term of the consortium agreement, the consortium must submit joint five-year Plans and joint Annual Plans for all participating PHAs, in accordance with part 903 of this chapter. HUD may prescribe methods of submission for consortia generally and where the consortium does not cover all program categories.
(b) The consortium must maintain records and submit reports to HUD, in accordance with HUD regulations and requirements, for all of the participating PHAs. All PHAs will be bound by Plans and reports submitted to HUD by the consortium for programs covered by the consortium.
(c) Each PHA must keep a copy of the consortium agreement on file for inspection. The consortium agreement must also be a supporting document to the joint PHA Plan.
§ 943.130
What are the responsibilities of participating PHAs?
(a)
Responsibilities, generally.
Despite participation in a consortium, each participating PHA remains responsible for its own obligations under its ACC with HUD. This means that the PHA
has an obligation to assure that all program funds, including funds paid to the lead agency for administration by the consortium, are used in accordance with HUD regulations and requirements, and that the PHA program is administered in accordance with HUD regulations and requirements. Any breach of program requirements with respect to a program covered by the consortium agreement is a breach of the ACC with each of the participating PHAs, so each PHA is responsible for the performance of the consortium.
(b)
Applicability of independent audit and performance assessment system requirements to consortia.
Where the lead agency will manage substantially all program and activities of the consortium, HUD interprets financial accountability to rest with the consortium and thus HUD will apply independent audit and performance assessment requirements on a consortium-wide basis. Where the lead agency will not manage substantially all programs and activities of a consortium, the consortium shall indicate in its PHA Plan submission which PHAs have financial accountability for the programs. The determination of financial accountability shall be made in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as determined in consultation with an independent public accountant. In such situations, HUD will apply independent audit and performance assessment requirements consistent with that determination. With respect to any consortium, however, HUD may determine (based on a request from the consortium or other circumstances) to apply independent audit and performance requirements on a different basis where this would promote sound management.

# Subpart C—Subsidiaries, Affiliates, Joint Ventures in Public Housing
§ 943.140
What programs and activities are covered by this subpart?
(a) This subpart applies to the provision of a PHA's public housing administrative and management functions, and to the provision (or arranging for the provision) of supportive and social services in connection with public housing. This subpart does not apply to activities of a PHA that are subject to the requirements of part 941, subpart F, of this title.
(b) For purposes of this subpart, the term “joint venture partner” means a participant (other than a PHA) in a joint venture, partnership, or other business arrangement or contract for services with a PHA.
(c) This part does not affect a PHA's authority to use joint ventures, as may be permitted under State law, when using non-1937 Act funds.
§ 943.142
In what types of operating organizations may a PHA participate?
(a) A PHA may create and operate a wholly owned or controlled subsidiary or other affiliate; may enter into joint ventures, partnerships, or other business arrangements with individuals, organizations, entities, or governmental units. A subsidiary or affiliate may be a nonprofit corporation. A subsidiary or affiliate may be an organization controlled by the same persons who serve on the governing board of the PHA or who are employees of the PHA.
(b) The purpose of any of these operating organizations would be to administer programs of the PHA.
§ 943.144
What financial impact do operations of a subsidiary, affiliate, or joint venture have on a PHA?
Income generated by subsidiaries, affiliates, or joint ventures formed under the authority of this subpart is to be used for low-income housing or to benefit the residents assisted by the PHA. This income will not cause a decrease in funding provided under the public housing program, except as otherwise provided under the Operating Fund and Capital Fund formulas.
§ 943.146
What impact does the use of a subsidiary, affiliate, or joint venture have on financial accountability to HUD and the Federal government?
None; the subsidiary, affiliate, or joint venture is subject to the same authority of HUD, HUD's Inspector General, and the Comptroller General to audit its conduct.
§ 943.148
What procurement standards apply to PHAs selecting partners for a joint venture?
(a) The requirements of part 85 of this title are applicable to this part, subject to paragraph (b) of this section, in connection with the PHA's public housing program.
(b) A PHA may use competitive proposal procedures for qualifications-based procurement (request for qualifications or “RFQ”), or may solicit a proposal from only one source (“sole source”) to select a joint venture partner to perform an administrative or management function of its public housing program or to provide or arrange to provide supportive or social services covered under this part, under the following circumstances:
(1) The proposed joint venture partner has under its control and will make available to the partnership substantial, unique and tangible resources or other benefits that would not otherwise be available to the PHA on the open market (
e.g.,
planning expertise, program experience, or financial or other resources). In this case, the PHA must maintain documentation to substantiate both the cost reasonableness of its selection of the proposed partner and the unique qualifications of the partner: or
(2) A resident group or a PHA subsidiary is willing and able to act as the PHA's partner in performing administrative and management functions or to provide supportive or social services. This entity must comply with the requirements of 2 CFR part 200 (if the entity is a nonprofit or a State or local government) with respect to its selection of the members of the team and the members must be paid on a cost-reimbursement basis only. The PHA must maintain documentation that indicates both the cost reasonableness of its selection of a resident group or PHA subsidiary and the ability of that group or subsidiary to act as the PHA's partner under this provision.
[65 FR 71207, Nov. 29, 2000, as amended at 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 943.150
What procurement standards apply to a PHA's joint venture partner?
(a)
General.
A joint venture partner is not a grantee or subgrantee and, accordingly, is not required to comply with 2 CFR part 200 in its procurement of goods and services under this part. The partner must comply with all applicable State and local procurement and conflict of interest requirements with respect to its selection of entities to assist in PHA program administration.
(b)
Exception.
If the joint venture partner is a subsidiary, affiliate, or identity of interest party of the PHA, it is subject to the requirements of 2 CFR part 200 of this title. HUD may, on a case-by-case basis, exempt such a joint venture partner from the need to comply with requirements under 2 CFR part 200 of this title if HUD determines that the joint venture has developed an acceptable alternative procurement plan.
(c)
Contracting with identity-of-interest parties.
A joint venture partner may contract with an identity-of-interest party for goods or services, or a party specified in the selected bidder's response to a RFP or RFQ (as applicable), without the need for further procurement if:
(1) The PHA can demonstrate that its original competitive selection of the partner clearly anticipated the later provision of such goods or services;
(2) Compensation of all identity-of-interest parties is structured to ensure there is no duplication of profit or expenses; and
(3) The PHA can demonstrate that its selection is reasonable based upon prevailing market costs and standards, and that the quality and timeliness of the goods or services is comparable to that available in the open market. For purposes of this paragraph (c), an “identity-of-interest party” means a party that is wholly owned or controlled by, or that is otherwise affiliated with, the partner or the PHA. The PHA may use an independent organization experienced in cost valuation to determine the cost reasonableness of the proposed contracts.
[65 FR 71207, Nov. 29, 2000, as amended at 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 943.151
What procurement standards apply to a joint venture itself?
(a) When the joint venture as a whole is controlled by the PHA or an identity of interest party of the PHA, the joint venture is subject to the requirements of 2 CFR part 200 of this title.
(b) If a joint venture is not controlled by the PHA or an identity of interest party of the PHA, then the rules that apply to the other partners apply. See § 943.150.
[65 FR 71207, Nov. 29, 2000, as amended at 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015]
Pt. 945

# PART 945—DESIGNATED HOUSING—PUBLIC HOUSING DESIGNATED FOR OCCUPANCY BY DISABLED, ELDERLY, OR DISABLED AND ELDERLY FAMILIES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
945.101
Purpose.
945.103
General policies.
945.105
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Application and Approval Procedures
945.201
Approval to designate housing.
945.203
Allocation plan.
945.205
Designated housing for disabled families.

# Subpart C—Operating Designated Housing
945.301
General requirements.
945.303
Requirements governing occupancy in designated housing.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1473e and 3535(d).

# Source:
59 FR 17662, Apr. 13, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 945.101
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to provide for designated housing as authorized by section 7 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437e). Section 7 provides public housing agencies with the option, subject to the requirements and procedures of this part, to designate public housing projects, or portions of public housing projects, for occupancy by disabled families, elderly families, or mixed populations of disabled families and elderly families.
§ 945.103
General policies.
(a)
Agency participation.
Participation in this program is limited to public housing agencies (PHAs) (as this term is defined in 24 CFR 913.102) that elect to designate public housing projects for occupancy by disabled families, elderly families, or disabled families and elderly families, as provided by this part.
(b)
Eligible housing
—(1)
Designation of public housing.
Projects eligible for designation under this part are public housing projects as described in the definition of “project” in § 945.105.
(2)
Additional housing resources.
To meet the housing and supportive service needs of elderly families, and disabled families, including non-elderly disabled families, who will not be housed in a designated project, PHAs shall utilize housing resources that they own, control, or have received preliminary notification that they will obtain (e.g., section 8 vouchers). They also may utilize housing resources for which they plan to apply during the period covered by the allocation plan, and that they have a reasonable expectation of obtaining. PHAs also may utilize, to the extent practicable, any housing facilities that they own or control in which supportive services are already provided, facilitated or coordinated, such as mixed housing, shared housing, family housing, group homes, and congregate housing.
(3)
Exemption of mixed population projects.
A PHA with a public housing project with a mixed population of elderly families and disabled families that plans to house them in such project in accordance with the requirements of 24 CFR part 960, subpart D, is not required to meet the designation requirements of this part.
(c)
Family Participation in designated housing
—(1)
Voluntary participation.
The election to reside in designated housing is voluntary on the part of a family. No disabled family or elderly family may be required to reside in designated housing, nor shall a decision not to reside in designated housing adversely affect the family with respect to occupancy of another appropriate project.
(2)
Meeting stated eligibility requirements.
Nothing in this part shall be construed to require or permit a PHA
to accept for admission to a designated project a disabled family or elderly family who does not meet the stated eligibility requirements for occupancy in the project (for example, income), as set forth in HUD's regulations in 24 CFR parts 912 and 913, and in the PHA's admission policies.
[59 FR 17662, Apr. 13, 1994, as amended at 89 FR 38293, May 7, 2024]
§ 945.105
Definitions.
The terms
Department, Elderly person, HUD, NAHA, Public Housing Agency (PHA),
and
Secretary
are defined in 24 CFR part 5.
Act
means the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437-1440).
Accessible units
means units that meet the requirement of accessibility with respect to dwellings as set forth in the second definition of “accessible” in 24 CFR 8.3.
Allocation plan.
See § 945.201.
CHAS
means the comprehensive housing affordability strategy required by section 105 of the National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12705) or any successor plan prescribed by HUD.
Designated family
means the category of family for whom the project is designated (e. g., elderly family in a project designated for elderly families).
Designated housing
or
designated project
means a project (or projects), or a portion of a project (or projects) (as these terms are defined in this section), that has been designated in accordance with the requirements of this part.
Disabled family
means a family whose head or spouse or sole member is a person with disabilities. The term “disabled family” may include two or more persons with disabilities living together, and one or more persons with disabilities living with one or more persons who are determined to be essential to the care or well-being of the person or persons with disabilities. A disabled family may include persons with disabilities who are elderly.
Elderly family
means a family whose head, spouse, or sole member is an elderly person. The term “elderly family” includes an elderly person, two or more elderly persons living together, and one or more elderly persons living with one or more persons who are determined to be essential to the care or well-being of the elderly person or persons. An elderly family may include elderly persons with disabilities and other family members who are not elderly.
Family
includes but is not limited to a single person as defined in this part, a displaced person (as defined in 24 CFR part 912), a remaining member of a tenant family, a disabled family, an elderly family, a near-elderly family, and a family with children. It also includes an elderly family or a disabled family composed of one or more elderly persons living with one or more disabled persons.
Housing
has the same meaning as “project,” which is defined in this section.
Mixed population project
means a public housing project reserved for elderly families and disabled families. This is the project type referred to in NAHA as being designated for elderly and disabled families. A PHA that has a mixed population project or intends to develop one need not submit an allocation plan or request a designation. However, the project must meet the requirements of 24 CFR part 960 subpart D.
Near-elderly family
means a family whose head, spouse, or sole member is a near-elderly person. The term “near-elderly family” includes two or more near-elderly persons living together, and one or more near-elderly persons living with one or more persons who are determined to be essential to the care or well-being of the near-elderly person or persons. A near-elderly family may include other family members who are not near-elderly.
Near-elderly person
means a person who is at least 50 years of age but below the age of 62, who may be a person with a disability.
Non-elderly disabled person
means a person with a disability who is less than 62 years of age.
Person with disabilities
means a person who—
(a) Has disability as defined in section 223 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 423), or
(b) Is determined to have a physical, mental, or emotional impairment that—
(1) Is expected to be of long-continued and indefinite duration,
(2) Substantially impedes his or her ability to live independently, and
(3) Is of such a nature that such ability could be improved by more suitable housing conditions, or
(c) Has a developmental disability as defined in section 102 of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act (42 U.S.C. 6001(5)).
The term “person with disabilities” does not exclude persons who have the disease of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or any conditions arising from the etiologic agent for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
Portion of project
includes: One or more buildings in a multi-building project; one or more floors of a project or projects; a certain number of dwelling units in a project or projects. (Designation of a portion of a project does not require that the buildings, floors or units be contiguous.)
Project
means low-income housing developed, acquired, or assisted by a PHA under the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 (other than section 8) for which there is an Annual Contributions Contract (ACC) between HUD and the PHA. For purposes of this part, the terms
housing
and
public housing
mean the same as project. Additionally, as used in this part, and unless the context indicates otherwise, the term
project
when used in the singular includes the plural, and when used in the plural, includes the singular, and also includes a “portion of a project,” as defined in this section.
Public housing
or
public housing project.
See definition of “project” in this section.
Service provider
means a person or organization qualified and experienced in the provision of supportive services, and that is in compliance with any licensing requirements imposed by State or local law for the type of service or services to be provided. The service provider may provide the service on either a for-profit or not-for-profit basis.
Single person
means a person who lives alone or intends to live alone, who is not an elderly person, a person with disabilities, a displaced person, or the remaining member of a tenant family.
Supportive service plan.
See § 945.205.
Supportive services
means services available to persons residing in a development, requested by disabled families and for which there is a need, and may include, but are not limited to, meal services, health-related services, mental health services, services for nonmedical counseling, meals, transportation, personal care, bathing, toileting, housekeeping, chore assistance, safety, group and socialization activities, assistance with medications (in accordance with any applicable State laws), case management, personal emergency response, and other appropriate services.
[59 FR 17662, Apr. 13, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 5214, Feb. 9, 1996]

# Subpart B—Application and Approval Procedures
§ 945.201
Approval to designate housing.
(a)
Designated housing for elderly families.
To designate a project for occupancy by elderly families, a PHA must have a HUD-approved allocation plan that meets the requirements of § 945.203.
(b)
Designated housing for disabled families.
To designate a project for occupancy by disabled families, a PHA must have a HUD-approved allocation plan that meets the requirements of § 945.203, and a HUD-approved supportive service plan that meets the requirements of § 945.205.
(c)
Designated housing for elderly families and disabled families.
(1) A PHA that provides or intends to provide a mixed population project (a project for both elderly families
and
disabled families) is not required to meet the requirements of this part. The PHA is required to meet the requirements of 24 CFR part 960, subpart D.
(2) A PHA that intends to provide designated housing for elderly families or for disabled families must identify any existing or planned mixed population projects, reserved under 24 CFR part 960, subpart B, as additional housing resources, in its allocation plan, in accordance with § 945.203(c)(6).
§ 945.203
Allocation plan.
(a)
Applicable terminology.
(1) As used in this section, the terms “initial allocation plan” refers to the PHA's first submission of an allocation plan, and “updated allocation plan” refers to the biennial update (once every two years) of this plan, which is described in paragraph (f) of this section.
(2) As provided in § 945.105, the term “project” includes the plural (“projects”) and includes a portion of a project.
(b)
Consultation in plan development.
These consultation requirements apply to the development of an initial allocation plan as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, or any update of the allocation plan as provided in paragraph (f) of this section.
(1) In preparing the draft plan, the PHA shall consult with:
(i) The State or unit of general local government where the project is located;
(ii) Public and private service providers;
(iii) Representative advocacy groups for each of these family types: disabled families, elderly families, and families with children, where such advocacy groups exist;
(iv) Representatives of the residents of the PHA's projects proposed for designation, including representatives from resident councils or resident management corporations where they exist; and
(v) Other parties that the PHA determines would be interested in the plan, or other parties that have contacted the PHA and expressed an interest in the plan.
(2) Following the completion of the draft plan, the PHA shall:
(i) Issue public notices regarding its intention to designate housing and the availability of the draft plan for review;
(ii) Contact directly those individuals, agencies and other interested parties specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and advise of the availability of the draft plan for review;
(iii) Allow not less than 30 days for public comment on the draft allocation plan;
(iv) Make free copies of the draft plan available upon request, and in accessible format, when appropriate;
(v) Conduct at least one public meeting on the draft allocation plan;
(vi) Give fair consideration to all comments received; and
(vii) Retain any records of public meetings held on the allocation plan (or updated plan) and any written comments received on the plan for a period of five years commencing from the date of submission of the allocation plan to HUD. These records must be available for review by HUD.
(c)
Contents of initial plan.
The initial allocation plan shall contain, at a minimum, the information set forth in this paragraph (c).
(1)
Identification of the project to be designated and type of designation to be made.
The PHA must:
(i) Identify the type of designation to be made (i.e., housing for disabled families or housing for elderly families);
(ii) Identify the building(s), floor(s), or unit(s) to be designated and their location, or if specific units are not designated, the number to be designated; and
(iii) State the reasons the building(s), floor(s), or unit(s) were selected for designation.
(2)
Identification of groups and persons consulted and comments submitted.
The PHA must:
(i) Identify the groups and persons with whom the PHA has consulted in the development of the allocation plan;
(ii) Include a summary of comments received on the plan from the groups and persons consulted; and
(iii) Describe how the plan addresses these comments.
(3)
Profile of proposed designated project in pre-designation state.
This component of the plan must include, for the projects, buildings, or portions of buildings to be designated:
(i) The total number of families currently occupying the project, and
(A) The number of families who are members of the group for whom the project is to be designated, and
(B) The number of families who are not members of the group for whom the project is to be designated;
(ii) An estimate of the total number of elderly families and disabled families who are potential tenants of the project (i.e., as the project now exists), based on information provided by:
(A) The waiting list from which vacancies in the project are filled; and
(B) A local housing needs survey, if available, such as the CHAS, for the jurisdiction within which the area served by the PHA is located;
(iii) An estimate of the number of potential tenants who will need accessible units based on information provided by:
(A) The needs assessment prepared in accordance with 24 CFR 8.25, and
(B) A housing needs survey, if available, such as the CHAS or HUD-prescribed successor survey;
(iv) The number of units in the project that became vacant and available for occupancy during the year preceding the date of submission of the allocation plan to HUD;
(v) The average length of vacancy for dwelling units in the project for the year preceding the date of submission of the allocation plan to HUD;
(vi) An estimate of the number of units in the project that the PHA expects to become vacant and available for occupancy during the two-year period following the date of submission of the allocation plan to HUD (i.e., if the project were not to be designated);
(vii) An estimate of the average length of time elderly families and non-elderly persons with disabilities currently have to wait for a dwelling unit.
(4)
Projected profile of project in designated state.
This component of the plan must:
(i) Identify the source of the families for the designated project (e.g., current residents of the project, families currently on the waiting list, residents of other projects, and potential tenants based on information from the local housing needs survey);
(ii) For projects proposed to be designated for occupancy by elderly families an estimate of the number of:
(A) Units in the project that are anticipated to become vacant and available for occupancy during the two-year period following the date of submission of the allocation plan to HUD;
(B) Near-elderly families who may be needed to fill units in the designated project for elderly families, as provided in § 945.303(c);
(iii) Describe any impact the designation may have on the average length of time applicants in the group for which the project is designated and other applicants will have to wait for a dwelling unit.
(5)
PHA occupancy policies and procedures.
This component of the plan must describe any changes the PHA intends to make in its admission policies to accommodate the designation, including:
(i) How the waiting list will be maintained;
(ii) How dwelling units will be assigned; and
(iii) How records will be maintained to document the effect on all families who would have resided in the designated project if it had not been designated.
(6)
Strategy for addressing the current and future housing needs of the families in the PHA's jurisdiction.
The PHA must:
(i) Identify the housing resources currently owned or controlled by the PHA, including any mixed population projects, in existence, as provided in 24 CFR part 960, subpart D, that will be available to these families;
(ii) Describe the steps to be taken by the PHA to respond to any need for accessible units that will no longer be available for applicants who need them. The PHA has a continuing obligation under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794) to provide accessible dwellings even if the project designation removes accessible dwellings from the inventory of possible dwellings for non-elderly persons with disabilities;
(iii) If a project is being designated for elderly families, describe the steps the PHA will take to facilitate access to supportive services by non-elderly disabled families. The services should be equivalent to those available in the designated project and requested by non-elderly disabled families. If the PHA funds supportive services for the designated project for elderly families, the PHA must provide the same level of services, upon the request of non-elderly disabled families.
(iv) If a project is being designated for elderly families, identify the additional housing resources that the PHA determines will be sufficient to provide assistance to not less than the number of non-elderly disabled families that would have been housed by the PHA if occupancy in units in the designated project were not restricted to elderly families (one-for-one replacement is not required). Among these resources may be:
(A) Normal turnover in existing projects;
(B) Existing housing stock that previously was not available to or considered for non-elderly disabled families. Examples are dwellings in general occupancy (family) projects that are reconfigured to meet the dwelling size needs of the non-elderly disabled families, or were previously occupied by elderly families who will relocate to the designated project for elderly families, or were previously vacant because there had not been a demand for dwellings of that size in that location;
(C) Housing for which the PHA has received preliminary notification that it will obtain; and
(D) Housing for which the PHA plans to apply during the period covered by the allocation plan, and which it has a reasonable expectation of obtaining.
(v) Where a project is being designated for elderly families, explain how the PHA plans to secure the required additional housing resources. In the case of housing for which the PHA plans to apply, the PHA must provide sufficient information about the housing resource and its application to establish that the PHA can reasonably expect to obtain the housing.
(vi) Describe incentives, if any, that the PHA intends to offer to:
(A) Families who are members of the group for whom a project was designated to achieve voluntary transfers
to
the designated project; and
(B) Families who are not members of the group for whom a project was designated to achieve voluntary transfers
from
the project proposed to be designated;
(d)
Criteria for allocation plan approval.
HUD shall approve an initial allocation plan, or updated allocation plan, if HUD determines that:
(1) The information contained in the plan is complete and accurate (a plan that is incomplete, i.e., missing required statements or items, will be disapproved), and the projections are reasonable;
(2) Implementation of the plan will not result in a substantial increase in the vacancy rates in the designated project;
(3) Implementation of the plan will not result in a substantial increase in delaying or denying housing assistance to families on the PHA's waiting list because of designating projects;
(4) The plan for securing sufficient additional housing resources for non-elderly disabled persons can reasonably be achieved; and
(5) The plan conforms to the requirements of this part.
(e)
Allocation plan approval or disapproval
—(1)
Written notification.
HUD shall notify each PHA, in writing, of approval or disapproval of the initial or updated allocation plan.
(2)
Timing of notification.
An allocation plan shall be considered to be approved by HUD if HUD fails to provide the PHA with notification of approval or disapproval of the plan, as required by paragraph (e)(1) of this section, within:
(i) 90 days after the date of submission of an allocation plan that contains comments, as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section; or
(ii) 45 days after the date of submission of all other plans, including
(A) Initial plans for which no comments were received;
(B) Updated plans, as provided in paragraph (f) of this section; and
(C) Revised initial plans or revised updated plans, as provided in paragraph (e)(4) of this section.
(3)
Approval limited solely to approval of designated housing.
HUD's approval of an initial plan or updated allocation plan under this section may not be construed to constitute approval of any request for assistance for major reconstruction of obsolete projects, assistance for development or acquisition of public housing, or assistance under 24 CFR part 890 (supportive housing for persons with disabilities).
(4)
Resubmission following disapproval.
If HUD disapproves an initial allocation plan, a PHA shall have a period of not less than 45 days or more than 90 days following notification of disapproval as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, to submit amendments to the plan, or to submit a revised plan.
(f)
Biennial update of plan
—(1)
General.
Each PHA that owns or operates a public housing project that is designated for occupancy under this part shall update its allocation plan not less than once every two years, from the date of HUD approval of the initial allocation plan. A PHA that wishes to amend or revise its plan later than 90 days after HUD disapproval must begin the hearing and consultation process again.
(2)
Failure to submit updated plan.
If the PHA fails to submit the updated plan as required by this paragraph (f), the Secretary may revoke the designation in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (f)(4)(ii) of this section.
(3)
Contents of updated plan.
The updated allocation plan shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:
(i) The most recent update of the allocation plan data, and projections for the next two years;
(ii) An assessment of the accuracy of the projections contained in previous plans and in the updated allocation plan;
(iii) The number of times a vacancy was filled in accordance with § 945.303(c);
(iv) A discussion of the impact of the designation on the designated project and the other public housing projects operated by the PHA, using the data obtained from the system developed in § 945.203(c), including
(A) The number of times there was a substantial increase in delaying housing assistance to families on the PHA's waiting list because projects were designated; and
(B) The number of times there was a substantial increase in denying housing assistance to families on the PHA's waiting list because projects were designated;
(v) A plan for adjusting the allocation of designated units, if necessary.
(4)
Criteria for approval of updated plan.
(i) HUD shall approve an updated allocation plan based on HUD's review and assessment of the updated plan, using the criteria in (d) of this section. If HUD considers it appropriate, the review and assessment shall include any on-site review and monitoring of PHA performance in the administration of its designated housing and in the allocation of the PHA's housing resources. Notification of approval or disapproval of the updated allocation plan shall be provided in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section;
(ii) If a PHA's updated plan is not approved, HUD may require PHAs to change the designation of existing or planned projects to other categories, such as general occupancy or mixed population projects.
(5)
Notification of approval or disapproval of updated plan.
HUD shall notify each PHA submitting an updated plan of approval or disapproval of the updated plan, in accordance with the form of notification and within the time periods required by paragraph (e) of this section.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0192)
§ 945.205
Designated housing for disabled families.
(a)
General.
(1) In general, HUD will approve designated projects for disabled families only if there is a clear demonstration that there is both a need and a demand by disabled families for such designation. In the absence of such demonstrated need and demand, PHAs should provide for the housing needs of disabled families in the most integrated setting possible.
(2) To designate a project for disabled families, a PHA must submit the allocation plan required by § 945.203 and the supportive service plan described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) In its allocation plan,
(i) The PHA may not designate a project for persons with a specific disability;
(ii) The designated project does not have to be made up of contiguous units. PHAs are encouraged to place the units in the project, whether contiguous or not, in the most integrated setting possible.
(4) The consultation process for the allocation plan provided in § 945.203(b) and consultation process for the supportive service plan provided in this section may occur concurrently.
(5) If the PHA conducts surveys to determine the need or demand for a designated project for disabled families or for supportive services in such project, the PHA must protect the confidentiality of the survey responses.
(b)
Supportive Service Plan.
The plan shall describe how the PHA will provide or arrange for the provision of the appropriate supportive services requested by the disabled families who will occupy the designated housing and who have expressed a need for these services.
(1)
Contents of plan.
The supportive service plan, at a minimum, must:
(i) Identify the number of disabled families who need the supportive services and who have expressed an interest in receiving them;
(ii) Describe the types of supportive services that will be provided, and, if known, the length of time the supportive services will be available;
(iii) Identify each service provider to be utilized, and describe the experience of the service provider in delivering supportive services;
(iv) Describe how the supportive services will be provided to the disabled families that the designated housing is expected to serve (how the services will be provided depends upon the type of service offered; e.g., if the package includes transportation assistance, how transportation assistance will be provided to disabled families);
(v) Identify all sources of funding upon which the PHA is relying to deliver supportive services to residents of the designated housing for disabled families, or the supportive service resources to be provided in lieu of funding;
(vi) Submit evidence of a specific contractual commitment or commitments provided to the PHA by the sources identified in paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section to make funds available for supportive services, or the delivery of supportive services available to the PHA for at least two calendar years;
(vii) Identify any public and private service providers, advocates for the interests of designated housing families, and other interested parties with whom the PHA consulted in the development of this supportive service plan, and summarize the comments and recommendations made by these parties. (These comments must be maintained for a period of five years, and be available for review by HUD as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(vii) of this section.);
(viii) If applicable, address the need for residential supervision of disabled families (on-site supervision within the designated housing) and how this supervision is to be provided;
(ix) Include any other information that the PHA determines would assist HUD in assessing the suitability of the PHA's supportive service plan; and
(x) Include any additional information that HUD may request, and which is appropriate to a determination of the suitability of the supportive service plan.
(2)
Public review and comment on the supportive service plan.
In preparing the initial supportive service plan, or any update of the supportive service plan, the PHA shall:
(i) Issue public notices regarding its intention to provide supportive services to designated housing for disabled families and the availability of the draft supportive service plan;
(ii) Send notices directly to interested individuals and agencies that have contacted the PHA and have expressed an interest in the supportive service plan, and to parties specified in paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section;
(iii) Allow not less than 30 days for public comment on the supportive service plan;
(iv) Make free copies of the draft plan available upon request, and in accessible format, when appropriate;
(v) Conduct at least one public meeting regarding the supportive service plan;
(vi) Give fair consideration to all comments received; and
(vii) Retain any records of the public meetings held on the supportive service plan, and any written comments received on the supportive service plan for a period of five years, from the date of submission of the supportive service plan. These records must be available for review by HUD.
(c)
Approval.
HUD shall approve designated housing for disabled families if the allocation plan meets the requirements of § 945.203, including demonstrating both a need and a demand for designated housing for disabled families, and if HUD determines on the basis of the information provided in the supportive service plan that:
(1) There is a sufficient number of persons with disabilities who have expressed an interest in occupying a designated project for disabled families, and who have expressed a need and demand for the supportive services that will be provided;
(2) The supportive services are adequately designed to meet the needs of the disabled families who have indicated a desire for them;
(3) The service provider has current or past experience administering an effective supportive service delivery program for persons with disabilities;
(4) If residential supervision is required, a written commitment to provide this supervision in the designated housing.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0192)

# Subpart C—Operating Designated Housing
§ 945.301
General requirements.
The application procedures and operation of designated projects shall be in conformity with the regulations of this part, and the regulations applicable to PHAs in 24 CFR Chapter IX, including 24 CFR parts 913, 960 and 966, and, in particular, the nondiscrimination requirements of 24 CFR 960.211(b)(3), that include but are not limited to section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3619), title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d), section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1701u), the Age Discrimination Act (42 U.S.C. 6101-6107), Executive Order 11246 (3 CFR 1964-1965 Comp., p. 339), Executive Order 11063, as amended by Executive Order 12259 (3 CFR 1958-1963 Comp., p. 652 and 3 CFR 1980 Comp., p. 307), the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101-12213) (to the extent the Americans with Disabilities Act is applicable) and the implementing regulations of these statutes and authorities; and other applicable Federal, State, and local laws prohibiting discrimination and promoting equal opportunity.
§ 945.303
Requirements governing occupancy in designated housing.
(a)
Priority for occupancy.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, in determining priority for admission to designated housing, the PHA shall make units in the designated housing available only to designated families.
(b)
Compliance with preference regulations.
Among the designated families, the PHA shall give preference in accordance with the preferences in 24 CFR part 960, subpart B.
(c)
Eligibility of other families for housing designated for elderly families
—(1)
Insufficient elderly families.
If there are an insufficient number of elderly families for the units in a project designated for elderly families, the PHA may make dwelling units available to near-elderly families, who qualify for preferences under 24 CFR part 960, subpart B. The election to make dwelling units available to near-elderly families if there are an insufficient number of elderly families should be explained in the PHA's allocation plan.
(2)
Insufficient elderly families and near-elderly families.
If there are an insufficient number of elderly families and near-elderly families for the units in a project designated for elderly families, the PHA shall make available to all other families any dwelling unit that is:
(i) Ready for re-rental and for a new lease to take effect; and
(ii) Vacant for more than 60 consecutive days.
(d)
Tenant choice of housing.
(1) Subject to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the decision of any disabled family or elderly family not to occupy or accept occupancy in designated housing shall not have an adverse affect on:
(i) The family's admission to or continued occupancy in public housing; or
(ii) The family's position on or placement on a public housing waiting list.
(2) The protection provided by paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall not
apply to any family who refuses to occupy or accept occupancy in designated housing because of the race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin of the occupants of the designated housing or the surrounding area.
(3) The protection provided by paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall apply to an elderly family or disabled family that declines to accept occupancy, respectively, in a designated project for elderly families or for disabled families, and requests occupancy in a general occupancy project or in a mixed population project.
(e)
Appropriateness of dwelling unit to family size.
This part may not be construed to require a PHA to offer a dwelling in a designated project to any family who is not of appropriate family size for the dwelling unit. The temporary absence of a child from the home due to placement in foster care is not considered in determining family composition and family size.
(f)
Prohibition of evictions.
Any tenant who is lawfully residing in a dwelling unit in a public housing project may not be evicted or otherwise required to vacate the unit because of the designation of the project, or because of any action taken by HUD or the PHA in accordance with this part.
(g)
Prohibition of coercion to accept supportive services.
As with other HUD-assisted housing, no disabled family or elderly family residing in designated housing may be required to accept supportive services made available by the PHA under this part.
(h)
Availability of grievance procedures in 24 CFR part 966.
The grievance procedures in 24 CFR part 966, subpart B, which applies to public housing tenants, is applicable to this part.
Pt. 960

# PART 960—ADMISSION TO, AND OCCUPANCY OF, PUBLIC HOUSING

# Subpart A—Applicability, Definitions, Equal Opportunity Requirements
Sec.
960.101
Applicability.
960.102
Definitions.
960.103
Equal opportunity requirements and protection for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.

# Subpart B—Admission
960.200
Purpose.
960.201
Eligibility.
960.202
Tenant selection policies.
960.203
Standards for PHA tenant selection criteria.
960.204
Denial of admission for criminal activity or drug abuse by household members.
960.205
Drug use by applicants: Obtaining information from drug treatment facility.
960.206
Waiting list: Local preferences in admission to public housing program.
960.208
Notification to applicants.

# Subpart C—Rent and Reexamination
960.253
Choice of rent.
960.255
Self-sufficiency incentives—Disallowance of increase in annual income.
960.257
Family income and composition: Annual and interim reexaminations.
960.259
Family information and verification.

# Subpart D—Preference for Elderly Families and Disabled Families in Mixed Population Projects
960.401
Purpose.
960.403
Applicability.
960.407
Selection preference for mixed population developments.

# Subpart E—Occupancy by Over-Income Families or Police Officers
960.503
Occupancy by over-income families.
960.505
Occupancy by police officers to provide security for public housing residents.
960.507
Families exceeding the income limit.
960.509
Lease requirements for non-public housing over-income families.

# Subpart F—When Resident Must Perform Community Service Activities or Self-Sufficiency Work Activities
960.600
Implementation.
960.601
Definitions.
960.603
General requirements.
960.605
How PHA administers service requirements.
960.607
Assuring resident compliance.
960.609
Prohibition against replacement of PHA employees.

# Subpart G—Pet Ownership in Public Housing
960.701
Purpose.
960.703
Applicability.
960.705
Animals that assist, support, or provide service to persons with disabilities.
960.707
Pet ownership.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1437a, 1437c, 1437d, 1437n, 1437z-3, and 3535(d).

# Source:
40 FR 33446, Aug. 8, 1975, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 49 FR 6714, Feb. 23, 1984.

# Subpart A—Applicability, Definitions, Equal Opportunity Requirements

# Source:
65 FR 16724, Mar. 29, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 960.101
Applicability.
This part is applicable to public housing.
§ 960.102
Definitions.
(a) Definitions found elsewhere:
(1)
General definitions.
The following terms are defined in 24 CFR part 5, subpart A: 1937 Act, drug, drug-related criminal activity, elderly person, federally assisted housing, guest, household, HUD, MSA, premises, public housing, public housing agency (PHA), Section 8, violent criminal activity.
(2)
Definitions under the 1937 Act.
The following terms are defined in 24 CFR part 5, subpart D: annual contributions contract (ACC), applicant, elderly family, family, person with disabilities.
(3)
Definitions and explanations concerning income and rent.
The following terms are defined or explained in 24 CFR part 5, subpart F (§ 5.603): Annual income, economic self-sufficiency program, extremely low-income family, low-income family, tenant rent, total tenant payment, utility allowance.
(b)
Additional definitions.
In addition to the definitions in paragraph (a), the following definitions and cross-references apply:
Alternative non-public housing rent.
A monthly rent equal to the greater of—
(i) The applicable fair market rent, as defined in 24 CFR part 888, subpart A, for the unit; or
(ii) The amount of the monthly subsidy provided for the unit, which will be determined by adding the per unit assistance provided to a public housing property as calculated through the applicable formulas for the Public Housing Capital Fund and Public Housing Operating Fund.
(A) For the Public Housing Capital Fund, the amount of Capital Funds provided to the unit will be calculated as the per unit Capital Fund assistance provided to a PHA for the development in which the family resides for the most recent funding year for which Capital Funds have been allocated;
(B) For the Public Housing Operating Fund, the amount of Operating Funds provided to the unit will be calculated as the per unit amount provided to the public housing project where the unit is located for the most recent funding year for which a final funding obligation determination has been made;
(C) HUD will publish such funding amounts no later than December 31 each year.
Ceiling rent.
See § 960.253(d).
Covered housing provider.
For HUD's public housing program, “covered housing provider,” as such term is in used HUD's regulations at 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking), is the PHA.
Covered person.
For purposes of this part, covered person means a tenant, any member of the tenant's household, a guest or another person under the tenant's control.
Designated housing.
See part 945 of this chapter.
Disabled families.
See § 5.403 of this title.
Eligible families.
Low income families who are eligible for admission to the public housing program.
Flat rent.
See § 960.253(b).
Income-based rent.
See § 960.253(c).
Mixed population development.
A public housing development, or portion of a development, that was reserved for elderly and disabled families at its inception (and has retained that character). If the development was not so reserved at its inception, the PHA has obtained HUD approval to give preference in tenant selection for all units in the development (or portion of development) to elderly families and disabled families. These developments were formerly known as elderly projects.
Non-public housing over-income family.
A family whose income exceeds the over-income limit for 24 consecutive months and is paying the alternative non-public housing rent. See subpart E of this part.
Over-income family.
A family whose income exceeds the over-income limit. See subpart E of this part.
Over-income limit.
The over-income limit is determined by multiplying the applicable income limit for a very low-income family, as defined in § 5.603(b) of this title, by a factor of 2.4. See § 960.507(b).
PHA plan.
See part 903 of this chapter.
Residency preference.
A preference for admission of persons who reside in a specified geographic area.
Tenant-based.
See § 982.1(b) of this chapter.
[65 FR 16724, Mar. 29, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 28799, May 24, 2001; 81 FR 12372, Mar. 8, 2016; 81 FR 80815, Nov. 16, 2016; 88 FR 9669, Feb. 14, 2023]
§ 960.103
Equal opportunity requirements and protection for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
(a)
Applicable requirements.
The PHA must administer its public housing program in accordance with all applicable equal opportunity requirements imposed by contract or federal law, including the authorities cited in § 5.105(a) of this title.
(b)
PHA duty to affirmatively further fair housing.
The PHA must affirmatively further fair housing in the administration of its public housing program.
(c)
Equal opportunity certification.
The PHA must submit signed equal opportunity certifications to HUD in accordance with § 903.7(o) of this title, including certification that the PHA will affirmatively further fair housing.
(d)
Protection for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
The PHA must apply the requirements in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking).
[65 FR 16724, Mar. 29, 2000, as amended at 73 FR 72344, Nov. 28, 2008; 75 FR 66262, Oct. 27, 2010; 81 FR 80815, Nov. 16, 2016]

# Subpart B—Admission

# Source:
66 FR 28799, May 24, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 960.200
Purpose.
(a) This subpart states HUD eligibility and selection requirements for admission to public housing.
(b) See also related HUD regulations in this title concerning these subjects:
(1) 1937 Act definitions: part 5, subpart D;
(2) Restrictions on assistance to noncitizens: part 5, subpart E;
(3) Family income and family payment: part 5, subpart F;
(4) Public housing agency plans: part 903;
(5) Rent and reexamination: part 960, subpart C;
(6) Mixed population developments: part 960, subpart D;
(7) Occupancy by over-income families or police officers: part 960, subpart E.
(8) Protection for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking).
[66 FR 28799, May 24, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 72344, Nov. 28, 2008; 75 FR 66262, Oct. 27, 2010; 81 FR 80815, Nov. 16, 2016]
§ 960.201
Eligibility.
(a)
Who is eligible?
(1)
Basic eligibility.
An applicant must meet all eligibility requirements in order to receive housing assistance. At a minimum, the applicant must be a family, as defined in § 5.403 of this title, must be income-eligible, as described in this section, and must meet the net asset and property ownership restriction requirements in § 5.618 of this title. Such eligible applicants include single persons.
(2)
Low income limit.
No family other than a low income family is eligible for admission to a PHA's public housing program.
(b)
Income used for eligibility and targeting.
Family annual income (see § 5.609) is used both for determination of income eligibility under paragraph (a) and for PHA income targeting under § 960.202
(c)
Reporting.
The PHA must comply with HUD-prescribed reporting requirements that will permit HUD to maintain the data, as determined by HUD, necessary to monitor compliance with income eligibility and targeting requirement.
[66 FR 28799, May 24, 2001, as amended at 88 FR 9670, Feb. 14, 2023]
§ 960.202
Tenant selection policies.
(a)
Selection policies, generally.
(1) The PHA shall establish and adopt written policies for admission of tenants.
(2) These policies shall provide for and include the following:
(i) Targeting admissions to extremely low income families as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii) Deconcentration of poverty and income-mixing in accordance with the PHA Plan regulations (see 24 CFR part 903).
(iii) Precluding admission of applicants whose habits and practices reasonably may be expected to have a detrimental effect on the residents or the project environment;
(iv) Objective and reasonable policies for selection by the PHA among otherwise eligible applicants, including requirements for applications and waiting lists (see 24 CFR 1.4), and for verification and documentation of information relevant to acceptance or rejection of an applicant, including documentation and verification of citizenship and eligible immigration status under 24 CFR part 5; and
(v) Policies of participant transfer between units, developments, and programs. For example, a PHA could adopt a criterion for voluntary transfer that the tenant had met all obligations under the current program, including payment of charges to the PHA.
(b)
Targeting admissions to extremely low income families
—(1)
Targeting requirement.
(i) Not less than 40 percent of the families admitted to a PHA's public housing program during the PHA fiscal year from the PHA waiting list shall be extremely low income families. This is called the “basic targeting requirement.”
(ii) To the extent provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, admission of extremely low income families to the PHA's Section 8 voucher program during the same PHA fiscal year is credited against the basic targeting requirement.
(iii) A PHA must comply with both the targeting requirement found in this part and the deconcentration requirements found in part 903 of this chapter.
(2)
Credit for admissions to PHA voucher program.
(i) If admissions of extremely low income families to the PHA's voucher program during a PHA fiscal year exceeds the 75 percent minimum targeting requirement for the PHA's voucher program (see 24 CFR 982.201(b)(2)), such excess shall be credited (subject to the limitations in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section) against the PHA's basic targeting requirement for the same fiscal year.
(ii) The fiscal year credit for voucher program admissions that exceed the minimum voucher program targeting requirement shall not exceed the lower of:
(A) Ten percent of public housing waiting list admissions during the PHA fiscal year;
(B) Ten percent of waiting list admission to the PHA's Section 8 tenant-based assistance program during the PHA fiscal year; or
(C) The number of qualifying low income families who commence occupancy during the fiscal year of PHA public housing units located in census tracts with a poverty rate of 30 percent or more. For this purpose, qualifying low income family means a low income family other than an extremely low income family.
(c)
Priority for tenant-based and project-based voucher families displaced due to HQS non-compliance.
The PHA must adopt a preference for tenant-based and project-based families displaced due to HQS noncompliance in accordance with § 982.404(e)(2) and § 983.208(d)(6)(ii).
(d)
Adoption and availability of tenant selection policies.
These selection policies shall:
(1) Be duly adopted and implemented;
(2) Be publicized by posting copies thereof in each office where applications are received and by furnishing copies to applicants or tenants upon request, free or at their expense, at the discretion of the PHA; and
(3) Be consistent with the fair housing and equal opportunity provisions of § 5.105 of this title; and
(4) Be submitted to the HUD field office upon request from that office.
[66 FR 28799, May 24, 2001, as amended at 89 FR 38293, May 7, 2024]
§ 960.203
Standards for PHA tenant selection criteria.
(a) The tenant selection criteria to be established and information to be considered shall be reasonably related to individual attributes and behavior of an applicant and shall not be related to those which may be imputed to a particular group or category of persons of which an applicant may be a member. The PHA may use local preferences, as provided in § 960.206.
(b) Under the Public Housing Assessment System (PHAS), PHAs that have adopted policies, implemented procedures and can document that they successfully screen out and deny admission to certain applicants with unfavorable criminal histories receive points. (See 24 CFR 902.43(a)(5).) This policy takes into account the importance of screening to public housing communities and program integrity, and the demand for assisted housing by families who will adhere to lease responsibilities.
(c) In selection of families for admission to its public housing program, or to occupy a public housing development or unit, the PHA is responsible for screening family behavior and suitability for tenancy. The PHA may consider all relevant information, which may include, but is not limited to:
(1) An applicant's past performance in meeting financial obligations, especially rent;
(2) A record of disturbance of neighbors, destruction of property, or living or housekeeping habits at prior residences which may adversely affect the health, safety or welfare of other tenants; and
(3) A history of criminal activity involving crimes of physical violence to persons or property and other criminal acts which would adversely affect the health, safety or welfare of other tenants. (See § 960.204.) With respect to criminal activity described in § 960.204:
(i) The PHA may require an applicant to exclude a household member in order to be admitted to the housing program where that household member has participated in or been culpable for actions described in § 960.204 that warrants denial.
(ii) The PHA may, where a statute requires that the PHA prohibit admission for a prescribed period of time after some disqualifying behavior or event, choose to continue that prohibition for a longer period of time.
(4) PHA tenant selection criteria are subject to 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking). In cases of requests for emergency transfers under VAWA, with the written consent of the victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, the receiving PHA may accept and use the prior covered housing provider's determination of eligibility and tenant screening and all related verification information, including form HUD 50058 (Family Report).
(d) In the event of the receipt of unfavorable information with respect to an applicant, consideration shall be given to the time, nature, and extent of the applicant's conduct (including the seriousness of the offense).
(1) In a manner consistent with the PHA's policies, procedures and practices referenced in paragraph (b) of this section, consideration may be given to factors which might indicate a reasonable probability of favorable future conduct. For example:
(i) Evidence of rehabilitation; and
(ii) Evidence of the applicant family's participation in or willingness to participate in social service or other appropriate counseling service programs and the availability of such programs;
(2)
Consideration of rehabilitation.
(i) In determining whether to deny admission for illegal drug use or a pattern of illegal drug use by a household member who is no longer engaging in such use, or for abuse or a pattern of abuse of alcohol by a household member who is no longer engaging in such abuse, the PHA may consider whether such household member is participating in or has successfully completed a supervised
drug or alcohol rehabilitation program, or has otherwise been rehabilitated successfully (42 U.S.C. 13661). For this purpose, the PHA may require the applicant to submit evidence of the household member's current participation in, or successful completion of, a supervised drug or alcohol rehabilitation program or evidence of otherwise having been rehabilitated successfully.
(ii) If rehabilitation is not an element of the eligibility determination (see § 960.204(a)(1)), the PHA may choose not to consider whether the person has been rehabilitated.
[66 FR 28799, May 24, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 72344, Nov. 28, 2008; 75 FR 66262, Oct. 27, 2010; 81 FR 80815, Nov. 16, 2016]
§ 960.204
Denial of admission for criminal activity or drug abuse by household members.
(a)
Required denial of admission
—(1)
Persons evicted for drug-related criminal activity.
The PHA standards must prohibit admission of an applicant to the PHA's public housing program for three years from the date of the eviction if any household member has been evicted from federally assisted housing for drug-related criminal activity. However, the PHA may admit the household if the PHA determines:
(i) The evicted household member who engaged in drug-related criminal activity has successfully completed a supervised drug rehabilitation program approved by the PHA; or
(ii) The circumstances leading to the eviction no longer exist (for example, the criminal household member has died or is imprisoned).
(2)
Persons engaging in illegal use of a drug.
The PHA must establish standards that prohibit admission of a household to the PHA's public housing program if:
(i) The PHA determines that any household member is currently engaging in illegal use of a drug (For purposes of this section, a household member is “currently engaged in” the criminal activity if the person has engaged in the behavior recently enough to justify a reasonable belief that the behavior is current); or
(ii) The PHA determines that it has reasonable cause to believe that a household member's illegal use or pattern of illegal use of a drug may threaten the health, safety, or right to peaceful enjoyment of the premises by other residents.
(3)
Persons convicted of methamphetamine production.
The PHA must establish standards that permanently prohibit admission to the PHA's public housing program if any household member has ever been convicted of drug-related criminal activity for manufacture or production of methamphetamine on the premises of federally assisted housing.
(4)
Persons subject to sex offender registration requirement.
The PHA must establish standards that prohibit admission to the PHA's public housing program if any member of the household is subject to a lifetime registration requirement under a State sex offender registration program. In the screening of applicants, the PHA must perform necessary criminal history background checks in the State where the housing is located and in other States where household members are known to have resided. (See part 5, subpart J of this title for provisions concerning access to sex offender registration records.)
(b)
Persons that abuse or show a pattern of abuse of alcohol.
The PHA must establish standards that prohibit admission to the PHA's public housing program if the PHA determines that it has reasonable cause to believe that a household member's abuse or pattern of abuse of alcohol may threaten the health, safety, or right to peaceful enjoyment of the premises by other residents.
(c)
Use of criminal records.
Before a PHA denies admission to the PHAs public housing program on the basis of a criminal record, the PHA must notify the household of the proposed action to be based on the information and must provide the subject of the record and the applicant with a copy of the criminal record and an opportunity to dispute the accuracy and relevance of that record. (See part 5, subpart J of this title for provisions concerning access to criminal records.)
(d)
Cost of obtaining criminal record.
The PHA may not pass along to the applicant the costs of a criminal records check.
§ 960.205
Drug use by applicants: Obtaining information from drug treatment facility.
(a)
Purpose.
This section addresses a PHA's authority to request and obtain information from drug abuse treatment facilities concerning applicants. This section does not apply to information requested or obtained from drug abuse treatment facilities other than under the authority of section 6(t).
(b)
Additional terms
used in this section are as follows:
(1)
Currently engaging in illegal use of a drug.
Illegal use of a drug occurred recently enough to justify a reasonable belief that there is continuing illegal drug use by a household member.
(2)
Drug abuse treatment facility.
An entity:
(i) That holds itself out as providing, and provides, diagnosis, treatment, or referral for treatment with respect to the illegal drug use; and
(ii) That is either an identified unit within a general care facility; or an entity other than a general medical care facility.
(c)
Authorization by household member for PHA to receive information from a drug abuse treatment facility.
(1) The PHA may require each applicant to submit for all household members who are at least 18 years of age, and for each family head or spouse regardless of age, one or more consent forms signed by such household member that:
(i) Requests any drug abuse treatment facility to inform the PHA only whether the drug abuse treatment facility has reasonable cause to believe that the household member is currently engaging in illegal drug use;
(ii) Complies with the form of written consent required by 42 CFR 2.31; and
(iii) Authorizes the PHA to receive such information from the drug abuse treatment facility, and to utilize such information in determining whether to prohibit admission of the household member to the PHA's public housing program in accordance with § 960.203. (See the Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C. 290dd-2, and implementing regulations at 42 CFR part 2, with respect to responsibilities of the drug abuse treatment facility.)
(2) The consent form submitted for a proposed household member must expire automatically after the PHA has made a final decision to either approve or deny the admission of such person.
(d)
PHA request for information from drug use treatment facility.
(1) The PHA may request that a drug abuse treatment facility disclose whether the drug abuse treatment facility has reasonable cause to believe that the proposed household member is currently engaging in the illegal use of a drug (as defined in § 5.100 of this title).
(2) The PHA's request to the drug abuse treatment facility must include a copy of the consent form signed by the proposed household member.
(3) A drug abuse treatment facility is not liable for damages based on any information required to be disclosed under this section if such disclosure is consistent with section 543 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd-2).
(4) The PHA is not obligated to request information from a drug treatment facility under this section, and is not liable for damages for failing to request or receive such information.
(5) A drug abuse treatment facility may charge the PHA a reasonable fee for information provided under this section. The PHA may not pass along to the applicant or tenant the costs of obtaining this information.
(e)
Prohibition of discriminatory treatment of applicants.
(1) A PHA may request information from a drug abuse treatment facility under paragraph (d) of this section only if the PHA has adopted and has consistently implemented either of the following policies, obtaining a signed consent form from the proposed household members:
(i)
Policy A—Request for all families.
Under Policy A, the PHA must submit a request for information to a drug abuse treatment facility in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section before admitting any family to the PHA's public housing program. For each such family, the request must be submitted for each proposed household member described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(ii)
Policy B—Request for certain household members.
Under Policy B, the PHA must submit a request to a drug
abuse treatment facility only with respect to each proposed household member:
(A) Whose criminal record indicates prior arrest or conviction for any criminal activity that may be a basis for denial of admission under § 960.205; or
(B) Whose prior tenancy records indicate that the proposed household member:
(1) Engaged in the destruction of property;
(2) Engaged in violent activity against another person; or
(3) Interfered with the right of peaceful enjoyment of the premises of other residents.
(4) The policy adopted by the PHA must be included in the PHA administrative plan and the PHA plan.
(f)
Records management and confidentiality.
Each PHA that receives information from a drug abuse treatment facility under this section must establish and implement a system of records management that ensures that any information which the PHA receives from the drug abuse treatment facility about a person:
(1) Is maintained confidentially in accordance with section 543 of the Public Health Service Act (12 U.S.C. 290dd-2);
(2) Is not misused or improperly disseminated; and
(3) Is destroyed, as applicable:
(i) Not later than 5 business days after the PHA makes a final decision to admit the person as a household member under the PHA's public housing program; or
(ii) If the PHA denies the admission of such person as a household member, in a timely manner after the date on which the statute of limitations for the commencement of a civil action based upon that denial of admissions has expired without the filing of a civil action or until final disposition of any such litigation.
§ 960.206
Waiting list: Local preferences in admission to public housing program.
(a)
Establishment of PHA local preferences.
(1) The PHA may adopt a system of local preferences for selection of families admitted to the PHA's public housing program. The PHA system of selection preferences must be based on local housing needs and priorities as determined by the PHA. In determining such needs and priorities, the PHA shall use generally accepted data sources. Such sources include public comment on the PHA plan (as received pursuant to § 903.17 of this chapter), and on the consolidated plan for the relevant jurisdiction (as received pursuant to part 91 of this title).
(2) The PHA may limit the number of applicants that qualify for any local preference.
(3) PHA adoption and implementation of local preferences is subject to HUD requirements concerning income-targeting (§ 960.202(b)), deconcentration and income-mixing (§ 903.7), and selection preferences for developments designated exclusively for elderly or disabled families or for mixed population developments (§ 960.407).
(4) The PHA must inform all applicants about available preferences and must give applicants an opportunity to show that they qualify for available preferences.
(b)
Particular local preferences
—(1)
Residency requirements or preferences.
(i) Residency requirements are prohibited. Although a PHA is not prohibited from adopting a residency preference, the PHA may only adopt or implement residency preferences in accordance with non-discrimination and equal opportunity requirements listed at § 5.105(a) of this title.
(ii) A residency preference is a preference for admission of persons who reside in a specified geographic area (“residency preference area”). A county or municipality may be used as a residency preference area. An area smaller than a county or municipality may not be used as a residency preference area.
(iii) Any PHA residency preferences must be included in the statement of PHA policies that govern eligibility, selection and admission to the program, which is included in the PHA annual plan (or supporting documents) pursuant to part 903 of this chapter. Such policies must specify that use of a residency preference will not have the purpose or effect of delaying or otherwise denying admission to the
program based on the race, color, ethnic origin, gender, religion, disability, or age of any member of an applicant family.
(iv) A residency preference must not be based on how long an applicant has resided or worked in a residency preference area.
(v) Applicants who are working or who have been notified that they are hired to work in a residency preference area must be treated as residents of the residency preference area. The PHA may treat graduates of, or active participants in, education and training programs in a residency preference area as residents of the residency preference area if the education or training program is designed to prepare individuals for the job market.
(2)
Preference for working families.
The PHA may adopt a preference for admission of working families (families where the head, spouse, or sole member, is employed). However, an applicant must be given the benefit of the working family preference if the head and spouse, or sole member is age 62 or older, or is a person with disabilities.
(3)
Preference for person with disabilities.
The PHA may adopt a preference for admission of families that include a person with disabilities. However, the PHA may not adopt a preference for persons with a specific disability.
(4)
Preference for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
The PHA should consider whether to adopt a local preference for admission of families that include victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
(5)
Preference for single persons who are elderly, displaced, homeless or a person with disabilities.
The PHA may adopt a preference for admission of single persons who are age 62 or older, displaced, homeless, or persons with disabilities over other single persons.
(6)
Preference for non-public housing over-income families.
The PHA may adopt a preference for admission of non-public housing over-income families paying the alternative non-public housing rent and are on a NPHOI lease who become an income-eligible low-income family as defined in § 5.603(b) of this title and are eligible for admission to the public housing program.
(c)
Selection for particular unit.
In selecting a family to occupy a particular unit, the PHA may match characteristics of the family with the type of unit available, for example, number of bedrooms. In selection of families to occupy units with special accessibility features for persons with disabilities, the PHA must first offer such units to families which include persons with disabilities who require such accessibility features (see §§ 8.27 and 100.202 of this title).
(d)
Housing assistance limitation for single persons.
A single person who is not an elderly or displaced person, or a person with disabilities, or the remaining member of a resident family may not be provided a housing unit with two or more bedrooms.
(e)
Selection method.
(1) The PHA must use the following to select among applicants on the waiting list with the same priority for admission:
(i) Date and time of application; or
(ii) A drawing or other random choice technique.
(2) The method for selecting applicants must leave a clear audit trail that can be used to verify that each applicant has been selected in accordance with the method specified in the PHA plan.
[66 FR 28799, May 24, 2001, as amended at 81 FR 80815, Nov. 16, 2016; 88 FR 9670, Feb. 14, 2023]
§ 960.208
Notification to applicants.
(a) The PHA must promptly notify any applicant determined to be ineligible for admission to a project of the basis for such determination, and must provide the applicant upon request, within a reasonable time after the determination is made, with an opportunity for an informal hearing on such determination.
(b) When a determination has been made that an applicant is eligible and satisfies all requirements for admission, including the tenant selection criteria, the applicant must be notified of the approximate date of occupancy insofar as that date can be reasonably determined.

# Subpart C—Rent and Reexamination

# Source:
65 FR 16726, Mar. 29, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 960.253
Choice of rent.
(a)
Rent options
—(1)
Annual choice by family.
Once a year, the PHA must give each family the opportunity to choose between the two methods for determining the amount of tenant rent payable monthly by the family. The family may choose to pay as tenant rent either a flat rent as determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, or an income-based rent as determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. Except for financial hardship cases as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the family may not be offered this choice more than once a year.
(2)
Relation to minimum rent.
Regardless of whether the family chooses to pay a flat rent or income-based rent, the family must pay at least the minimum rent as determined in accordance with § 5.630 of this title.
(3)
Relation to non-public housing over-income families.
Non-public housing over-income families must pay the alternative non-public housing rent, as applicable, as determined in accordance with § 960.102.
(b)
Flat rent
. The flat rent is determined annually, based on the market rental value of the unit as determined by this paragraph (b).
(1) The PHA must establish a flat rent for each public housing unit that is no less than 80 percent of the applicable Fair Market Rent (FMR) as determined under 24 CFR part 888, subpart A; or
(2) HUD may permit a flat rent of no less than 80 percent of an applicable small area FMR (SAFMR) or unadjusted rent, if applicable, as determined by HUD, or any successor determination, that more accurately reflects local market conditions and is based on an applicable market area that is geographically smaller than the applicable market area used in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If HUD has not determined an applicable SAFMR or unadjusted rent, the PHA must rely on the applicable FMR under paragraph (b)(1) or may apply for an exception flat rent under paragraph (b)(3).
(3) The PHA may request, and HUD may approve, on a case-by-case basis, a flat rent that is lower than the amounts in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, subject to the following requirements:
(i) The PHA must submit a market analysis of the applicable market.
(ii) The PHA must demonstrate, based on the market analysis, that the proposed flat rent is a reasonable rent in comparison to rent for other comparable unassisted units, based on the location, quality, size, unit type, and age of the public housing unit and any amenities, housing services, maintenance, and utilities to be provided by the PHA in accordance with the lease.
(iii) All requests for exception flat rents under this paragraph (b)(3) must be submitted to HUD.
(4) For units where utilities are tenant-paid, the PHA must adjust the flat rent downward by the amount of a utility allowance for which the family might otherwise be eligible under 24 CFR part 965, subpart E.
(5) The PHA must revise, if necessary, the flat rent amount for a unit no later than 90 days after HUD issues new FMRs.
(6) If a new flat rent would cause a family's rent to increase by more than 35 percent, the family's rent increase must be phased in at 35 percent annually until such time that the family chooses to pay the income-based rent or the family is paying the flat rent established pursuant to this paragraph.
(c)
Income-based rent.
(1) An income-based rent is a tenant rent that is based on the family's income and the PHA's policies for determination of such rents.
(2) The PHA rent policies may specify that the PHA will use percentage of family income or some other reasonable system to determine income-based rents. The PHA rent policies may provide for depositing a portion of tenant rent in an escrow or savings account, for imposing a ceiling on tenant rents, for adoption of permissive income deductions (see § 5.611(b) of this title), or for another reasonable system to determining the amount of income-based tenant rent.
(3) The income-based tenant rent must not exceed the total tenant payment (§ 5.628 of this title) for the family minus any applicable utility allowance for tenant-paid utilities. If the utility allowance exceeds the total tenant payment, the PHA shall pay such excess amount (the utility reimbursement) either to the family or directly to the utility supplier to pay the utility bill on behalf of the family.
(4) The PHA may elect to establish policies regarding the frequency of utility reimbursement payments for payments made to the family.
(i) The PHA will have the option of making utility reimbursement payments not less than once per calendar-year quarter, for reimbursements totaling $45 or less per quarter. In the event a family leaves the program in advance of its next quarterly reimbursement, the PHA must reimburse the family for a prorated share of the applicable reimbursement. PHAs exercising this option must have a hardship policy in place for tenants.
(ii) If the PHA elects to pay the utility supplier, the PHA must notify the family of the amount of utility reimbursement paid to the utility supplier.
(d)
Ceiling rent.
A PHA using ceiling rents authorized and established before October 1, 1999, may continue to use ceiling rents, provided such ceiling rents are set at the level required for flat rents under this section. PHAs must follow the requirements for calculating and adjusting flat rents in paragraph (b) of this section when calculating and adjusting ceiling rents.
(e)
Information for families.
For the family to make an informed choice about its rent options, the PHA must provide sufficient information for an informed choice. Such information must include at least the following written information:
(1) The PHA's policies on switching type of rent in circumstances of financial hardship, and
(2) The dollar amounts of tenant rent for the family under each option, following the procedures in paragraph (f) of this section.
(f)
Choice between flat and income-based rents.
Families must be offered the choice between a flat rental amount and a previously calculated income-based rent according to the following:
(1) For a family that chooses the flat rent option, the PHA must conduct a reexamination of family income and composition at least once every three years, except for families a PHA determines exceed the over-income limit described in § 960.507(b). Once a PHA determines that a family has an income exceeding the over-income limit, the PHA must follow the income examination and notification requirements under § 960.507(c).
(2) At initial occupancy, or in any year in which a participating family is paying the income-based rent, the PHA must:
(i) Conduct a full examination of family income and composition, following the provisions in § 960.257;
(ii) Inform the family of the flat rental amount and the income-based rental amount determined by the examination of family income and composition;
(iii) Inform the family of the PHA's policies on switching rent types in circumstances of financial hardship; and
(iv) Apply the family's rent decision at the next lease renewal.
(3) In any year in which a family chooses the flat rent option but the PHA chooses not to conduct a full examination of family income and composition for the annual rent option under the authority of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the PHA must:
(i) Use income information from the examination of family income and composition from the first annual rent option;
(ii) Inform the family of the updated flat rental amount and the rental amount determined by the most recent examination of family income and composition;
(iii) Inform the family of the PHA's policies on switching rent types in circumstances of financial hardship; and
(iv) Apply the family's rent decision at the next lease renewal.
(g)
Switch from flat rent to income-based rent because of hardship.
(1) A family that is paying a flat rent may at any time request a switch to payment of income-based rent (before the next annual option to select the type of rent) if the family is unable to pay flat
rent because of financial hardship. The PHA must adopt written policies for determining when payment of flat rent is a financial hardship for the family.
(2) If the PHA determines that the family is unable to pay the flat rent because of financial hardship, the PHA must immediately allow the requested switch to income-based rent. The PHA shall make the determination within a reasonable time after the family request.
(3) The PHA policies for determining when payment of flat rent is a financial hardship must provide that financial hardship include the following situations:
(i) The family has experienced a decrease in income because of changed circumstances, including loss or reduction of employment, death in the family, or reduction in or loss of earnings or other assistance;
(ii) The family has experienced an increase in expenses, because of changed circumstances, for medical costs, child care, transportation, education, or similar items; and
(iii) Such other situations determined by the PHA to be appropriate.
[65 FR 16726, Mar. 29, 2000, as amended at 80 FR 53712, Sept. 8, 2015; 81 FR 12372, Mar. 8, 2016; 88 FR 9670, Feb. 14, 2023]
§ 960.255
Self-sufficiency incentives—Disallowance of increase in annual income.
(a)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply for purposes of this section.
Baseline income.
The annual income immediately prior to implementation of the disallowance described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section of a person who is a member of a qualified family.
Disallowance.
Exclusion from annual income.
Previously unemployed
includes a person who has earned, in the twelve months previous to employment, no more than would be received for 10 hours of work per week for 50 weeks at the established minimum wage.
Qualified family.
A family residing in public housing:
(i) Whose annual income increases as a result of employment of a family member who was unemployed for one or more years previous to employment;
(ii) Whose annual income increases as a result of increased earnings by a family member during participation in any economic self-sufficiency or other job training program; or
(iii) Whose annual income increases, as a result of new employment or increased earnings of a family member, during or within six months after receiving assistance, benefits or services under any state program for temporary assistance for needy families funded under Part A of Title IV of the Social Security Act, as determined by the PHA in consultation with the local agencies administering temporary assistance for needy families (TANF) and Welfare-to-Work (WTW) programs. The TANF program is not limited to monthly income maintenance, but also includes such benefits and services as one-time payments, wage subsidies and transportation assistance—provided that the total amount over a six-month period is at least $500.
(b)
Disallowance of earned income
—(1)
Initial 12-month exclusion.
During the 12-month period beginning on the date on which a member of a qualified family is first employed or the family first experiences an increase in annual income attributable to employment, the PHA must exclude from the annual income (as defined in § 5.609 of this title) of a qualified family any increase in the income of the family member as a result of employment over the baseline income of that family member.
(2)
Phase-in of rent increase.
Upon the expiration of the 12-month period defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and for the subsequent 12-month period, the PHA must exclude from the annual income of a qualified family at least 50 percent of any increase in income of such family member as a result of employment over the family member's baseline income.
(3)
Maximum 2-year disallowance.
The disallowance of increased income of an individual family member as provided in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section is limited to a lifetime 24-month period. It applies for a maximum of 12 months for disallowance under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and a maximum of 12 months for disallowance under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, during the 24-month period starting
from the initial exclusion under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(4) Effect of changes on currently participating families. Families eligible for and participating in the disallowance of earned income under this section prior to May 9, 2016 will continue to be governed by this section in effect as it existed immediately prior to that date.
(c)
Inapplicability to admission.
The disallowance of increases in income as a result of employment under this section does not apply for purposes of admission to the program (including the determination of income eligibility and income targeting).
(d)
Individual Savings Accounts.
As an alternative to the disallowance of increases in income as a result of employment described in paragraph (b) of this section, a PHA may choose to provide for individual savings accounts for public housing residents who pay an income-based rent, in accordance with a written policy, which must include the following provisions:
(1) The PHA must advise the family that the savings account option is available;
(2) At the option of the family, the PHA must deposit in the savings account the total amount that would have been included in tenant rent payable to the PHA as a result of increased income that is disallowed in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section;
(3) Amounts deposited in a savings account may be withdrawn only for the purpose of:
(i) Purchasing a home;
(ii) Paying education costs of family members;
(iii) Moving out of public or assisted housing; or
(iv) Paying any other expense authorized by the PHA for the purpose of promoting the economic self-sufficiency of residents of public housing;
(4) The PHA must maintain the account in an interest bearing investment and must credit the family with the net interest income, and the PHA may not charge a fee for maintaining the account;
(5) At least annually the PHA must provide the family with a report on the status of the account; and
(6) If the family moves out of public housing, the PHA shall pay the tenant any balance in the account, minus any amounts owed to the PHA.
(e)
Limitation.
This section applies to a family that is:
(1) Receiving the disallowance of earned income under this section on December 31, 2023 or
(2) Eligible to receive the Jobs Plus program rent incentive pursuant to the Jobs Plus FY2023 notice of funding opportunity (NOFO) or earlier appropriations and distributed through prior Jobs Plus NOFOs.
(f)
Sunset.
This section will lapse on January 1, 2030.
[65 FR 16726, Mar. 29, 2000, as amended at 81 FR 12373, Mar. 8, 2016; 88 FR 9670, Feb. 14, 2023]
§ 960.257
Family income and composition: Annual and interim reexaminations.
(a)
When PHA is required to conduct reexamination.
(1) For families who pay an income-based rent, the PHA must conduct a reexamination of family income and composition at least annually and must make appropriate adjustments in the rent after consultation with the family and upon verification of the information.
(2) For families who choose flat rents, the PHA must conduct a reexamination of family composition at least annually, and must conduct a reexamination of family income at least once every three years in accordance with the procedures in § 960.253(f).
(3) For all families who include nonexempt individuals, as defined in § 960.601, the PHA must determine compliance once each twelve months with community service and self-sufficiency requirements in subpart F of this part.
(4) The PHA may use the results of these reexaminations to require the family to move to an appropriate size unit.
(5) For all non-public housing over-income families, the PHA may not conduct an annual reexamination of family income.
(b)
Interim reexaminations.
(1) A family may request an interim reexamination of family income or composition because of any changes since the last determination. The PHA must conduct
any interim reexamination within a reasonable period of time after the family request or when the PHA becomes aware of an increase in family adjusted income under paragraph (3) of this section. What qualifies as a “reasonable time” may vary based on the amount of time it takes to verify information, but generally should not be longer than 30 days after changes in income are reported.
(2) The PHA may decline to conduct an interim reexamination of family income if the PHA estimates the family's adjusted income will decrease by an amount that is less than ten percent of the family's annual adjusted income (or a lower amount established by HUD by notice), or a lower threshold established by the PHA.
(3) The PHA must conduct an interim reexamination of family income when the PHA becomes aware that the family's adjusted income (as defined in § 5.611 of this title) has changed by an amount that the PHA estimates will result in an increase of ten percent or more in annual adjusted income or such other amount established by HUD through notice, except:
(i) The PHA may not consider any increase in the earned income of the family when estimating or calculating whether the family's adjusted income has increased, except that, based on the PHA's established written policy, the PHA may consider increases in earned income if the PHA has processed an interim reexamination for a decrease in the family's income under paragraph (b)(1) of this section within the same annual or biennial reexamination cycle; and
(ii) The PHA may choose not to conduct an interim reexamination in the last three months of a family's certification period, in accordance with the PHA's established written policy.
(4) For over-income families in the period of up to six months before their tenancy termination pursuant to § 960.507(d)(2), the PHA must conduct an interim reexamination of family income as otherwise required under this paragraph. However, the resulting income determination will not make the family eligible to remain in the public housing program beyond the period before termination as defined by PHA policy.
(5) The PHA must adopt policies consistent with this section prescribing when and under what conditions the family must report a change in family income or composition.
(6)
Effective date of rent changes.
(i) If the family has reported a change in family income or composition in a timely manner according to the PHA's policies, the PHA must provide the family with 30 days advance notice of any rent increases, and such rent increases will be effective the first day of the month beginning after the end of that 30-day period. Rent decreases will be effective on the first day of the first month after the date of the actual change leading to the interim reexamination of family income.
(ii) If the family has failed to report a change in family income or composition in a timely manner according to the PHA's policies, PHAs must implement any resulting rent increases retroactively to the first of the month following the date of the change leading to the interim reexamination of family income. Any resulting rent decrease must be implemented no later than the first rent period following completion of the reexamination. However, a PHA may apply rent decreases retroactively at the discretion of the PHA, in accordance with the conditions established by the PHA in written policy and subject to paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section.
(iii) A retroactive rent decrease may not be applied by the PHA prior to the later of the first of the month following:
(A) The date of the change leading to the interim reexamination of family income; or
(B) The effective date of the family's most recent previous interim or annual reexamination (or initial examination if that was the family's last examination).
(c)
Streamlined income determination
—(1)
General.
A PHA may elect to apply a streamlined income determination to families receiving fixed income, as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(2)
Definition of “fixed income”.
For purposes of this section, “fixed income” means periodic payments at reasonably predictable levels from one or more of the following sources:
(i) Social Security, Supplemental Security Income, Supplemental Disability Insurance.
(ii) Federal, state, local, or private pension plans.
(iii) Annuities or other retirement benefit programs, insurance policies, disability or death benefits, or other similar types of periodic receipts.
(iv) Any other source of income subject to adjustment by a verifiable COLA or current rate of interest.
(3)
Method of streamlined income determination.
A PHA using the streamlined income determination must adjust a family's income according to the percentage of a family's unadjusted income that is from fixed income.
(i) When 90 percent or more of a family's unadjusted income consists of fixed income, PHAs using streamlined income determinations must apply a COLA or COLAs to the family's sources of fixed income, provided that the family certifies both that 90 percent or more of their unadjusted income is fixed income and that their sources of fixed income have not changed from the previous year. For non-fixed income, the PHA is not required to make adjustments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(ii) When less than 90 percent of a family's unadjusted income consists of fixed income, PHAs using streamlined income determinations must apply a COLA to each of the family's sources of fixed income individually. The PHA must determine all other income pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(4)
COLA rate applied by PHAs.
PHAs using streamlined income determinations must adjust a family's fixed income using a COLA or current interest rate that applies to each specific source of fixed income and is available from a public source or through tenant-provided, third-party-generated documentation. If no public verification or tenant-provided documentation is available, then the owner must obtain third-party verification of the income amounts in order to calculate the change in income for the source.
(5)
Triennial verification.
For any income determined pursuant to a streamlined income determination, a PHA must obtain third-party verification of all income amounts every 3 years.
(d)
PHA reexamination policies.
The PHA must adopt admission and continued occupancy policies concerning conduct of annual and interim reexaminations in accordance with this section, and shall conduct reexaminations in accordance with such policies. The PHA reexamination policies must be in accordance with the PHA plan.
(e) Reviews of family income under this section are subject to the provisions in section 904 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act of 1988, as amended (42 U.S.C. 3544).
(f)
De minimis errors.
The PHA will not be considered out of compliance with the requirements in this section solely due to de minimis errors in calculating family income but is still obligated to correct errors once the PHA becomes aware of the errors. A de minimis error is an error where the PHA determination of family income varies from the correct income determination by no more than $30 per month in monthly adjusted income ($360 in annual adjusted income).
(i) The PHA must take any corrective action necessary to credit or repay a family if the family has been overcharged for their rent as a result of an error (including a de minimis error) in the income determination. Families will not be required to repay the PHA in instances where the PHA has miscalculated income resulting in a family being undercharged for rent or family share.
(ii) HUD may revise the amount of de minimis error in this paragraph (f) through a rulemaking published in the
Federal Register
for public comment.
[65 FR 16726, Mar. 29, 2000, as amended at 81 FR 12373, Mar. 8, 2016; 82 FR 58340, Dec. 12, 2017; 85 FR 27139, May 7, 2020; 88 FR 9670, Feb. 14, 2023; 88 FR 9670, Feb. 14, 2023]
§ 960.259
Family information and verification.
(a)
Family obligation to supply information.
(1) The family must supply any information that the PHA or HUD determines is necessary in administration of the public housing program, including submission of required evidence of citizenship or eligible immigration status (as provided by part 5, subpart E of this title). “Information” includes any requested certification, release or other documentation.
(2) The family must supply any information requested by the PHA or HUD for use in a regularly scheduled reexamination or an interim reexamination of family income and composition in accordance with HUD requirements.
(3) For requirements concerning the following, see part 5, subpart B of this title:
(i) Family verification and disclosure of social security numbers;
(ii) Family execution and submission of consent forms for obtaining wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies (SWICAs).
(4) Any information supplied by the family must be true and complete.
(b)
Family release and consent.
(1) As a condition of admission to or continued assistance under the program, the PHA shall require the family head, and such other family members as the PHA designates, to execute a consent form (including any release and consent as required under § 5.230 of this title) authorizing any depository or private source of income, or any Federal, State or local agency, to furnish or release to the PHA or HUD such information as the PHA or HUD determines to be necessary.
(2) The use or disclosure of information obtained from a family or from another source pursuant to this release and consent shall be limited to purposes directly connected with administration of the program.
(c)
PHA responsibility for reexamination and verification.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the PHA must obtain and document in the family file third-party verification of the following factors, or must document in the file why third-party verification was not available:
(i) Reported family annual income;
(ii) The value of assets;
(iii) Expenses related to deductions from annual income; and
(iv) Other factors that affect the determination of adjusted income or income-based rent.
(2) For a family with net family assets (as the term is defined in § 5.603 of this title) equal to or less than $50,000, which amount will be adjusted annually by HUD in accordance with the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, a PHA may accept, for purposes of recertification of income, a family's declaration under § 5.618(b) of this title, except that the PHA must obtain third-party verification of all family assets every 3 years.
[65 FR 16726, Mar. 29, 2000, as amended at 81 FR 12373, Mar. 8, 2016; 88 FR 9671, Feb. 14, 2023]

# Subpart D—Preference for Elderly Families and Disabled Families in Mixed Population Projects

# Source:
59 FR 17667, Apr. 13, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 960.401
Purpose.
This subpart establishes a preference for elderly families and disabled families for admission to mixed population public housing projects, as defined in § 960.405.
§ 960.403
Applicability.
(a) This subpart applies to all dwelling units in mixed population projects (as defined in § 960.405), or portions of mixed population projects, assisted under the U.S. Housing Act of 1937. These projects formerly were known as elderly projects.
(b) This subpart does not apply to section 23 and section 10(c) leased housing projects or the section 23 Housing Assistance Payments Program where the owners enter into leases directly with the tenants, or to the Section 8 Housing Assistance Payments Program, the Low-Rent Housing Homeownership Opportunities Program (Turnkey III), the Mutual Help Homeownership Opportunities Program, or
to Indian Housing Authorities. (For applicability to Indian Housing Authorities, see part 905 of this chapter.) Additionally, this subpart is not applicable to projects designated for elderly families or designated for disabled families in accordance with 24 CFR part 945.
§ 960.407
Selection preference for mixed population developments.
(a) The PHA must give preference to elderly families and disabled families equally in determining priority for admission to mixed population developments. The PHA may not establish a limit on the number of elderly families or disabled families who may be accepted for occupancy in a mixed population development.
(b) In selecting elderly families and disabled families to occupy units in mixed population developments, the PHA must first offer units that have special accessibility features for persons with disabilities to families who include persons with disabilities who require the accessibility features of such units (see §§ 8.27 and 100.202 of this title).
[65 FR 16729, Mar. 29, 2000]

# Subpart E—Occupancy by Over-Income Families or Police Officers

# Source:
65 FR 16729, Mar. 29, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 960.503
Occupancy by over-income families.
A PHA that owns or operates fewer than two hundred fifty (250) public housing units, may lease a unit in a public housing development to an over-income family (a family whose annual income exceeds the limit for a low income family at the time of initial occupancy), in accordance with its PHA annual plan (or supporting documents), if all the following conditions are satisfied:
(a) There are no eligible low income families on the PHA waiting list or applying for public housing assistance when the unit is leased to an over-income family;
(b) The PHA has publicized availability of the unit for rental to eligible low income families, including publishing public notice of such availability in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction at least thirty days before offering the unit to an over-income family;
(c) The over-income family rents the unit on a month-to-month basis for a rent that is not less than the PHA's cost to operate the unit;
(d) The lease to the over-income family provides that the family agrees to vacate the unit when needed for rental to an eligible family; and
(e) The PHA gives the over-income family at least thirty days notice to vacate the unit when the unit is needed for rental to an eligible family.
§ 960.505
Occupancy by police officers to provide security for public housing residents.
(a)
Police officer.
For purpose of this subpart E, “police officer” means a person determined by the PHA to be, during the period of residence of that person in public housing, employed on a full-time basis as a duly licensed professional police officer by a Federal, State or local government or by any agency of these governments. An officer of an accredited police force of a housing agency may qualify.
(b)
Occupancy in public housing.
For the purpose of increasing security for residents of a public housing development, the PHA may allow police officers who would not otherwise be eligible for occupancy in public housing, to reside in a public housing dwelling unit. The PHA must include in the PHA annual plan or supporting documents the number and location of the units to be occupied by police officers, and the terms and conditions of their tenancies; and a statement that such occupancy is needed to increase security for public housing residents.
§ 960.507
Families exceeding the income limit.
(a)
In general.
Families participating in the public housing program must not have incomes that exceed the over-income limit, as determined by paragraph (b) of this section, for more than 24 consecutive months.
(1) This provision applies to all families in the public housing program, including FSS families and all families receiving EID.
(i) Mixed families (as defined in § 5.504 of this title) who are non-public housing over-income families pay the alternative non-public housing rent (as defined in § 960.102), as applicable.
(ii) All non-public housing over-income families are precluded from participating in a public housing resident council.
(iii) Furthermore, non-public housing over-income families cannot participate in programs that are only for public housing or low-income families.
(iv) PHAs cannot provide any Federal assistance, including a utility allowance, to non-public housing over-income families.
(2) PHAs must implement the requirements of this section by amending all applicable admission and continued occupancy policies according to the provisions in 24 CFR part 903. All PHAs must have effective over-income policies, consistent with the requirements of this section, no later than June 14, 2023.
(b)
Determination of over-income limit.
The over-income limit is determined by multiplying the applicable income limit for a very low-income family as defined in § 5.603(b) of this title, by a factor of 2.4.
(c)
Notifying over-income families.
(1) If the PHA determines the family has exceeded the over-income limit pursuant to an income examination, the PHA must provide written notice to the family of the over-income determination no later than 30 days after the income examination. The notice must state that the family has exceeded the over-income limit and continuing to exceed the over-income limit for a total of 24 consecutive months will result in the PHA following its continued occupancy policy for over-income families in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. Pursuant to 24 CFR part 966, subpart B, the PHA must afford the family an opportunity for a hearing if the family disputes within a reasonable time the PHA's determination that the family has exceeded the over-income limit.
(2) The PHA must conduct an income examination 12 months after the initial over-income determination described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, unless the PHA determined the family's income fell below the over-income limit since the initial over-income determination. If the PHA determines the family has exceeded the over-income limit for 12 consecutive months, the PHA must provide written notification of this 12-month over-income determination no later than 30 days after the income examination that led to the 12-month over-income determination. The notice must state that the family has exceeded the over-income limit for 12 consecutive months and continuing to exceed the over-income limit for a total of 24 consecutive months will result in the PHA following its continued occupancy policy for over-income families in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. Additionally, if applicable under PHA policy, the notice must include an estimate (based on current data) of the alternative non-public housing rent for the family's unit. Pursuant to 24 CFR part 966, subpart B, the PHA must afford the family an opportunity for a hearing if the family disputes within a reasonable time the PHA's determination that the family has exceeded the over-income limit.
(3) The PHA must conduct an income examination 24 months after the initial over-income determination described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, unless the PHA determined the family's income fell below the over-income limit since the second over-income determination. If the PHA determines the family has exceeded the over-income limit for 24 consecutive months, then the PHA must provide written notification of this 24-month over-income determination no later than 30 days after the income examination that led to the 24-month over-income determination. The notice must state:
(i) That the family has exceeded the over-income limit for 24 consecutive months.
(ii) That the PHA must either terminate the family's tenancy or charge the family the alternative non-public housing rent, in accordance with it continued occupancy policy for over-income
families in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(A) If the PHA determines that under its policy the family's tenancy must be terminated in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section, then the notice must inform the family of this determination and state the period of time before tenancy termination.
(B) If the PHA determines that under its policy the family must be charged the alternative non-public housing rent in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section, then the notice must inform the family of this determination and state that the family be charged the alternative non-public housing rent in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section. The PHA must also present the family with a new lease, in accordance with the requirements at § 960.509, and inform the family that the lease must be executed no later than 60 days of the date of the notice or at the next lease renewal, whichever is sooner.
(iii) Pursuant to 24 CFR part 966, subpart B, the PHA must afford the family an opportunity for a hearing if the family disputes within a reasonable time the PHA's determination that the family has exceeded the over-income limit.
(4) If, at any time during the consecutive 24-month period following the initial over-income determination described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a PHA determines that the family's income is below the over-income limit, the family is entitled to a new 24 consecutive month period of being over-income and new notices under paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(3) of this section if the PHA later determines that the family income exceeds the over-income limit.
(d)
End of the 24 consecutive month grace period.
Once a family has exceeded the over-income limit for 24 consecutive months, the PHA must, as detailed in its admissions and continued occupancy policies—
(1) Require the family to execute a new lease consistent with § 960.509 and charge the family the alternative non-public housing rent, as defined in § 960.102, no later than 60-days after the notice is provided pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section or at the next lease renewal, whichever is sooner; or
(2) Terminate the tenancy of the family no more than 6 months after the notification under paragraph (c)(3) of this section as determined by the PHA's continued occupancy policy. PHAs must continue to charge these families the family's choice of income-based, flat rent, or prorated rent for mixed families during the period before termination. The PHA must give appropriate notice of lease tenancy termination (notice to vacate) in accordance with State and local laws.
(e)
Status of families.
An over-income family will continue to be a public housing program participant until their tenancy is terminated by the PHA in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section or the family executes a new non-public housing lease in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(f)
Reporting.
Each PHA must submit a report annually to HUD that specifies, as of the end of the year, the number of families residing in public housing with incomes exceeding the over-income limit and the number of families on the waiting lists for admission to public housing projects and provide any other information regarding over-income families requested by HUD. These reports must also be publicly available.
[88 FR 9671, Feb. 14, 2023]
§ 960.509
Lease requirements for non-public housing over-income families.
(a)
In general.
If a family, when permitted by written PHA's continued occupancy policy, elects to remain in a public housing unit paying the alternative non-public housing rent, the PHA and each non-public housing over-income (NPHOI) family (referred to as the “tenant” in this section) must enter into a lease. The tenant and the PHA must execute the lease, as presented by the PHA pursuant to § 960.507(c)(3)(ii)(B) no later than 60 days after the notice provided pursuant to § 960.507(c)(3) or at the next lease renewal, whichever is sooner. If the tenant does not execute the lease within this time period, the PHA must terminate the tenancy of the tenant no more
than 6 months after the notification under § 960.507(c)(3) in accordance with 960.507(d)(2). Notwithstanding, a PHA may permit, in accordance with its policies, an over-income family to execute the lease beyond this time period, but before termination of the tenancy, if the over-income family pays the PHA the total difference between the alternative non-public housing rent and their public housing rent dating back to the point in time that the over-income family was required to execute the lease.
(b)
Lease provisions.
The non-public housing over-income lease must contain at a minimum the following provisions.
(1)
Parties, dwelling unit, and term.
The lease must state:
(i) The name of the PHA and names of the tenants.
(ii) The unit rented (address, apartment number, and any other information needed to identify the dwelling unit).
(iii) The term of the lease (lease term and renewal in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section).
(iv) A statement of the utilities, services, and equipment to be supplied by the PHA without additional cost, and the utilities and appliances to be paid for by the tenant.
(v) The composition of the household as approved by the PHA (family members, foster children and adults, and any PHA-approved live-in aides). The family must promptly inform the PHA of the birth, adoption, or court-awarded custody of a child. The family must request PHA approval to add any other family member as an occupant of the unit.
(2)
Lease term and renewal.
(i) The lease must have a term as determined by the PHA and included in PHA policy.
(ii) At any time, the PHA may terminate the tenancy in accordance with paragraph (b)(11) of this section.
(3)
Payments due under the lease.
(i)
Tenant rent.
(A) The tenant must pay the amount of the monthly tenant rent determined by the PHA in accordance with § 960.507(e)(1).
(B) The lease must specify the initial amount of the tenant rent at the beginning of the initial lease term. The PHA must comply with State or local law in giving the tenant written notice stating any change in the amount of tenant rent.
(ii)
PHA charges.
The lease must provide for charges to the tenant for repair beyond normal wear and tear and for consumption of excess utilities. The lease must state the basis for the determination of such charges (
e.g.,
by a posted schedule of charges for repair, amounts charged for excess utility consumption, etc.). The imposition of charges for consumption of excess utilities is permissible only if such charges are determined by an individual check meter servicing the leased unit or result from the use of major tenant-supplied appliances.
(iii)
Late payment penalties.
The lease may provide for penalties for late payment of rent.
(iv)
When charges are due.
The lease must provide that charges assessed under paragraphs (b)(3)(ii) and (b)(3)(iii) of this section are due in accordance with PHA policy.
(v)
Security deposits.
The lease must provide that any previously paid security deposit will be applied to the tenancy upon signing a new lease. The lease must also inform the tenant of the circumstances under which a security deposit will be returned to the tenant or when the tenant will be charged for damage to the unit, consistent with State and local security deposit laws.
(4)
Tenant's right to use and occupancy.
The lease must provide that the tenant has the right to exclusive use and occupancy of the leased unit by the members of the household authorized to reside in the unit in accordance with the lease, as well as their guests. The term
guest
is defined in § 5.100 of this title.
(5)
The PHA's obligations.
The PHA's obligations under the lease must include the following:
(i) To maintain the dwelling unit and the project in decent, safe, and sanitary condition.
(ii) To comply with requirements of applicable State and local building codes, housing codes, and HUD regulations materially affecting health and safety.
(iii) To make necessary repairs to the dwelling unit.
(iv) To keep project buildings, facilities, and common areas, not otherwise assigned to the tenant for maintenance and upkeep, in a clean and safe condition.
(v) To maintain in good and safe working order and condition electrical, plumbing, sanitary, heating, ventilating, and other facilities, and appliances, including elevators, supplied, or required to be supplied by the PHA.
(vi) To provide and maintain appropriate receptacles and facilities (except containers for the exclusive use of an individual tenant family) for the deposit of ashes, garbage, rubbish, and other waste removed from the dwelling unit by the tenant in accordance with paragraph (b)(6)(vii) of this section.
(vii) To supply running water, including an adequate source of potable water, and reasonable amounts of hot water and reasonable amounts of heat at appropriate times of the year (according to local custom and usage), except where the building that includes the dwelling unit is not required by law to be equipped for that purpose, or where heat or hot water is generated by an installation within the exclusive control of the tenant and supplied by a direct utility connection.
(viii) To notify the tenant of the specific grounds for any proposed adverse action by the PHA as required by State and local law.
(ix) To comply with Federal, State, and local nondiscrimination and fair housing requirements, including Federal accessibility requirements and providing reasonable accommodations for persons with disabilities.
(x) To establish necessary and reasonable policies for the benefit and well-being of the housing project and the tenants, post the policies in the project office, and incorporate the regulations by reference in the lease.
(6)
Tenant's obligations.
The lease must, at a minimum and consistent with State and local law, provide that the tenant must:
(i) Not assign the lease or sublease the dwelling unit.
(ii) Not provide accommodations for boarders or lodgers.
(iii) Use the dwelling unit solely as a private dwelling for the tenant and the tenant's household as identified in the lease, and not use or permit its use for any other purpose.
(iv) Abide by necessary and reasonable policies established by the PHA for the benefit and well-being of the housing project and the tenants, which must be posted in the project office and incorporated by reference in the lease.
(v) Comply with all applicable State and local building and housing codes materially affecting health and safety.
(vi) Keep the dwelling unit and such other areas as may be assigned to the tenant for the tenant's exclusive use in a clean and safe condition.
(vii) Dispose of all waste from the dwelling unit in a sanitary and safe manner.
(viii) Use in a reasonable manner all electrical, plumbing, sanitary, heating, ventilating, air-conditioning and other facilities, including elevators.
(ix) Refrain from, and cause members of the household and guests to refrain from destroying, defacing, damaging, or removing any part of the dwelling unit or housing project.
(x) Pay reasonable charges (other than for wear and tear) for the repair of damages to the dwelling unit, or to the housing project (including damages to buildings, facilities, or common areas) caused by the tenant, a member of the household or a guest.
(xi) Act, and cause household members and guests to act, in a manner which will not disturb other residents' peaceful enjoyment of their accommodations and will be conducive to maintaining the project in a decent, safe, and sanitary condition.
(xii) Assure that no tenant, member of the tenant's household, guest, or any other person under the tenant's control engages in:
(A)
Criminal activity.
(
1
) Any criminal activity that threatens the health, safety or right to peaceful enjoyment of the premises by other residents.
(
2
) Any drug-related criminal activity on or off the premises; or
(B)
Civil activity.
For non-public housing over-income units that are not within mixed-finance projects, any smoking of prohibited tobacco products in the tenant's unit as well as restricted areas, as defined by § 965.653(a) of this chapter, or in other outdoor
areas that the PHA has designated as smoke-free.
(xiii) To assure that no member of the household engages in an abuse or pattern of abuse of alcohol that affects the health, safety, or right to peaceful enjoyment of the premises by other residents.
(7)
Tenant maintenance.
The lease may provide that the tenant must perform seasonal maintenance or other maintenance tasks, where performance of such tasks by tenants of dwellings units of a similar design and construction is customary, as long as such provisions are not for the purpose of evading the obligations of the PHA. In cases where a PHA adopts such lease provisions, the PHA must exempt tenants who are unable to perform such tasks because of age or disability.
(8)
Defects hazardous to life, health, or safety.
The lease must set forth the rights and obligations of the tenant and the PHA if to the dwelling unit is damaged to the extent that conditions are created which are hazardous to life, health, or safety of the occupants. The lease must provide that:
(i) The tenant must immediately notify project management of the damage.
(ii) The PHA must repair the unit within a reasonable time. The PHA must charge the tenant the reasonable cost of the repairs if the damage was caused by the tenant, the tenant's household, or the tenant's guests.
(iii) The PHA must offer standard alternative accommodations, if available, where necessary repairs cannot be made within a reasonable time, subject to paragraph (b)(5)(ix) of this section; and
(iv) The lease must allow for abatement of rent in proportion to the seriousness of the damage and loss in value as a dwelling if repairs are not made in accordance with paragraph (b)(8)(ii) of this section or alternative accommodations not provided in accordance with paragraph (b)(8)(iii) of this section, except that no abatement of rent may occur if the tenant rejects the alternative accommodation or if the damage was caused by the tenant, tenant's household or guests.
(9)
Entry of dwelling unit during tenancy.
The lease must set forth the circumstances under which the PHA may enter the dwelling unit during the tenant's possession and must include the following requirements:
(i) The PHA is, upon reasonable advance notification to the tenant, permitted to enter the dwelling unit during reasonable hours for the purpose of performing routine inspections and maintenance, for making improvement or repairs, or to show the dwelling unit for re-leasing. A written statement specifying the purpose of the PHA entry delivered to the dwelling unit at least two days before such entry is reasonable advance notification.
(ii) The PHA may enter the dwelling unit at any time without advance notification when there is reasonable cause to believe that an emergency exists; and
(iii) If the tenant and all adult members of the household are absent from the dwelling unit at the time of entry, the PHA must leave in the dwelling unit a written statement specifying the date, time, and purpose of entry prior to leaving the dwelling unit.
(10)
Notice procedures.
The lease must provide procedures, in accordance with State and local laws, the PHA and tenant must follow when giving notices, which must include:
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(9) of this section, notice to a tenant must be provided in a form to allow meaningful access for persons who are limited English proficient and, in a form, to ensure effective communication with individuals with disabilities; and
(ii) Notice to the PHA can be in writing, hand delivered, or sent by prepaid first-class mail to PHA address provided in the lease, orally, or submitted electronically through a communications system established by the PHA for that purpose.
(11)
Termination of tenancy and eviction.
(i)
Procedures.
The lease must state the procedures to be followed by the PHA and the tenant to terminate the tenancy.
(ii)
Grounds for termination of tenancy.
The PHA must terminate the tenancy for good cause, which includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(A) Criminal activity or alcohol abuse as provided in paragraph (b)(11)(iv) of this section.
(B) Failure to accept the PHA's offer of a lease revision to an existing lease: with written notice of the offer of the revision at least 60 calendar days before the lease revision is scheduled to take effect; and with the offer specifying a reasonable time limit within that period for acceptance by the family.
(iii)
Lease termination notice.
The PHA must give notice of lease termination in accordance with State and local laws.
(iv)
PHA termination of tenancy for criminal activity or alcohol abuse.
(A)
Evicting drug criminals.
(
1
)
Methamphetamine conviction.
The PHA must immediately terminate the tenancy if the PHA determines that any member of the household has been convicted of drug-related criminal activity for manufacture or production of methamphetamine on the premises of Federally assisted housing.
(
2
)
Drug crime on or off the premises.
The lease must provide that drug-related criminal activity engaged in on or off the premises by any tenant, member of the tenant's household or guest, and any such activity engaged in on the premises by any other person under the tenant's control, is grounds for the PHA to terminate tenancy. In addition, the lease must provide that a PHA may evict a family when the PHA determines that a household member is illegally using a drug or when the PHA determines that a pattern of illegal use of a drug interferes with the health, safety, or right to peaceful enjoyment of the premises by other residents.
(B)
Evicting other criminals.
(
1
)
Threat to other residents.
The lease must provide that any criminal activity by a covered person that threatens the health, safety, or right to peaceful enjoyment of the premises by other residents (including PHA management staff residing on the premises) or threatens the health, safety, or right to peaceful enjoyment of their residences by persons residing in the immediate vicinity of the premises is grounds for termination of tenancy.
(
2
)
Fugitive felon or parole violator.
The PHA may terminate the tenancy if a tenant is fleeing to avoid prosecution, or custody or confinement after conviction, for a crime, or attempt to commit a crime, that is a felony under the laws of the place from which the individual flees, or that, in the case of the State of New Jersey, is a high misdemeanor; or violating a condition of probation or parole imposed under Federal or State law.
(C)
Eviction for criminal activity.
(
1
)
Evidence.
The PHA may evict the tenant by judicial action for criminal activity in accordance with this section if the PHA determines that the covered person has engaged in the criminal activity, regardless of whether the covered person has been arrested or convicted for such activity and without satisfying the standard of proof used for a criminal conviction.
(
2
)
Notice to Post Office.
When a PHA evicts an individual or family for criminal activity, the PHA must notify the local post office serving the dwelling unit that the individual or family is no longer residing in the unit.
(D)
Use of criminal record.
If the PHA seeks to terminate the tenancy for criminal activity as shown by a criminal record, the PHA must notify the household of the proposed action to be based on the information and must provide the subject of the record and the tenant with a copy of the criminal record before a PHA grievance hearing, as applicable, or court trial concerning the termination of tenancy or eviction. The tenant must be given an opportunity to dispute the accuracy and relevance of that record in the grievance hearing or court trial.
(E)
Cost of obtaining criminal record.
The PHA may not pass along to the tenant the costs of a criminal records check.
(F)
Evicting alcohol abusers.
The PHA must establish standards that allow termination of tenancy if the PHA determines that a household member has:
(
1
) Engaged in abuse or pattern of abuse of alcohol that threatens the health, safety, or right to peaceful enjoyment of the premises by other residents; or
(
2
) Furnished false or misleading information concerning illegal drug use, alcohol abuse, or rehabilitation of illegal drug users or alcohol abusers.
(G)
PHA action, generally.
(
1
)
Consideration of circumstances.
In a manner consistent with policies, procedures and practices, the PHA may consider all circumstances relevant to a particular case such as the nature and severity of the offending action, the extent of participation by the leaseholder in the offending action, the effects that the eviction would have on family members not involved in the offending activity, the extent to which the leaseholder has taken steps to prevent or mitigate the offending action, the amount of time that has passed since the criminal conduct occurred, whether the crime or conviction was related to a disability, and whether the individual has engaged in rehabilitative or community services.
(
2
)
Exclusion of culpable household member.
The PHA may require a tenant to exclude a household member to continue to reside in the dwelling unit, where that household member has participated in or been culpable for action or failure to act that warrants termination.
(
3
)
Consideration of rehabilitation.
In determining whether to terminate tenancy for illegal drug use or a pattern of illegal drug use by a household member who is no longer engaging in such use, or for abuse or a pattern of abuse of alcohol by a household member who is no longer engaging in such abuse, the PHA may consider whether such household member is participating in or has successfully completed a supervised drug or alcohol rehabilitation program or has otherwise been rehabilitated successfully (42 U.S.C. 13662). For this purpose, the PHA may require the tenant to submit evidence of the household member's current participation in, or successful completion of, a supervised drug or alcohol rehabilitation program or evidence of otherwise having been rehabilitated successfully.
(
4
)
Nondiscrimination limitation.
The PHA's eviction actions must be consistent with fair housing and equal opportunity provisions of § 5.105 of this title.
(12)
No automatic lease renewal.
Upon expiration of the lease term, the lease shall not automatically renew.
(13)
Grievance procedures.
The lease may include hearing or grievance procedures and may explain when the procedures are available to the family.
(14)
Provision for modifications.
The lease may be modified at any time by written agreement of the tenant and the PHA. The lease must provide that modification of the lease must be evidenced by a written rider or amendment to the lease, executed by both parties, except as permitted under § 966.5 of this chapter, which allows modifications of the lease by posting of policies, rules and regulations.
(15)
Signature clause.
The lease must provide a signature clause attesting that the lease has been executed by the parties.
[88 FR 9671, Feb. 14, 2023; 88 FR 12560, Feb. 28, 2023]

# Subpart F—When Resident Must Perform Community Service Activities or Self-Sufficiency Work Activities

# Source:
65 FR 16729, Mar. 29, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 960.600
Implementation.
PHAs and residents must comply with the requirements of this subpart beginning with PHA fiscal years that commence on or after October 1, 2000. Unless otherwise provided by § 903.11 of this chapter, Annual Plans submitted for those fiscal years are required to contain information regarding the PHA's compliance with the community service requirement, as described in § 903.7 of this chapter. Non-public housing over-income families are not required to comply with the requirements of this subpart.
[88 FR 9675, Feb. 14, 2023]
§ 960.601
Definitions.
(a)
Definitions found elsewhere
—(1)
General definitions.
The following terms are defined in part 5, subpart A of this title:
public housing, public housing agency
(PHA).
(2)
Definitions concerning income and rent.
The following terms are defined in part 5, subpart F of this title:
economic self-sufficiency program, work activities.
(b)
Other definitions.
In addition to the definitions in paragraph (a) of this
section, the following definitions apply:
Community service.
The performance of voluntary work or duties that are a public benefit, and that serve to improve the quality of life, enhance resident self-sufficiency, or increase resident self-responsibility in the community. Community service is not employment and may not include political activities.
Exempt individual.
An adult who:
(1) Is 62 years or older;
(2)(i) Is a blind or disabled individual, as defined under Section 216(i)(1) or Section 1614 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 416(i)(1); 1382c), and who certifies that because of this disability she or he is unable to comply with the service provisions of this subpart, or
(ii) Is a primary caretaker of such individual;
(3) Is engaged in work activities;
(4) Meets the requirements for being exempted from having to engage in a work activity under the State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
) or under any other welfare program of the State in which the PHA is located, including a State-administered welfare-to-work program;
(5) Is a member of a family receiving assistance, benefits or services under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
) or under any other welfare program of the State in which the PHA is located, including a State-administered welfare-to-work program, and has not been found by the State or other administering entity to be in noncompliance with such a program; or
(6) is a member of a non-public housing over-income family.
Service requirement.
The obligation of each adult resident, other than an exempt individual, to perform community service or participate in an economic-self sufficiency program required in accordance with § 960.603.
[65 FR 16729, Mar. 29, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 9675, Feb. 14, 2023]
§ 960.603
General requirements.
(a)
Service requirement.
Except for any family member who is an exempt individual, each adult resident of public housing must:
(1) Contribute 8 hours per month of community service (not including political activities); or
(2) Participate in an economic self-sufficiency program for 8 hours per month; or
(3) Perform 8 hours per month of combined activities as described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section.
(b)
Family violation of service requirement.
The lease shall specify that it shall be renewed automatically for all purposes, unless the family fails to comply with the service requirement. Violation of the service requirement is grounds for nonrenewal of the lease at the end of the twelve month lease term, but not for termination of tenancy during the course of the twelve month lease term (see § 966.4(l)(2)(i) of this chapter).
§ 960.605
How PHA administers service requirements.
(a)
PHA policy.
Each PHA must develop a local policy for administration of the community service and economic self-sufficiency requirements for public housing residents.
(b)
Administration of qualifying community service or self-sufficiency activities for residents.
The PHA may administer qualifying community service or economic self-sufficiency activities directly, or may make such activities available through a contractor, or through partnerships with qualified organizations, including resident organizations, and community agencies or institutions.
(c)
PHA responsibilities.
(1) The PHA policy must describe how the PHA determines which family members are subject to or exempt from the service requirement, and the process for determining any changes to exempt or non-exempt status of family members.
(2) The PHA must give the family a written description of the service requirement, and of the process for claiming status as an exempt person and for PHA verification of such status. The PHA must also notify the family of its determination identifying the family members who are subject to the service requirement, and the family members who are exempt persons. The PHA must also notify the family that
it will be validating a sample of self-certifications of completion of the service requirement accepted by the PHA under § 960.607(a)(1)(ii).
(3) The PHA must review family compliance with service requirements and must verify such compliance annually at least 30 days before the end of the 12-month lease term. If qualifying activities are administered by an organization other than the PHA, the PHA may obtain verification of family compliance from such third parties or may accept a signed certification from the family member that he or she has performed such qualifying activities.
(4) The PHA must retain reasonable documentation of service requirement performance or exemption in a participant family's files.
(5) The PHA must comply with non-discrimination and equal opportunity requirements listed at § 5.105(a) of this title and affirmatively further fair housing in all their activities in accordance with the AFFH Certification as described in § 903.7(o) of this chapter.
[65 FR 16729, Mar. 29, 2000, as amended at 81 FR 12373, Mar. 8, 2016]
§ 960.607
Assuring resident compliance.
(a)
Acceptable documentation demonstrating compliance.
(1) If qualifying activities are administered by an organization other than the PHA, a family member who is required to fulfill a service requirement must provide one of the following:
(i) A signed certification to the PHA by such other organization that the family member has performed such qualifying activities; or
(ii) A signed self-certification to the PHA by the family member that he or she has performed such qualifying activities.
(2) The signed self-certification must include the following:
(i) A statement that the tenant contributed at least 8 hours per month of community service not including political activities within the community in which the adult resides; or participated in an economic self-sufficiency program (as that term is defined in 24 CFR 5.603(b)) for at least 8 hours per month;
(ii) The name, address, and a contact person at the community service provider; or the name, address, and contact person for the economic self-sufficiency program;
(iii) The date(s) during which the tenant completed the community service activity, or participated in the economic self-sufficiency program;
(iv) A description of the activity completed; and
(v) A certification that the tenant's statement is true.
(3) If a PHA accepts self-certifications under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the PHA must validate a sample of such self-certifications using third-party certification described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.
(b)
PHA notice of noncompliance.
(1) If the PHA determines that there is a family member who is required to fulfill a service requirement, but who has violated this family obligation (noncompliant resident), the PHA must notify the tenant of this determination.
(2) The PHA notice to the tenant must:
(i) Briefly describe the noncompliance;
(ii) State that the PHA will not renew the lease at the end of the twelve month lease term unless:
(A) The tenant, and any other noncompliant resident, enter into a written agreement with the PHA, in the form and manner required by the PHA, to cure such noncompliance, and in fact cure such noncompliance in accordance with such agreement; or
(B) The family provides written assurance satisfactory to the PHA that the tenant or other noncompliant resident no longer resides in the unit.
(iii) State that the tenant may request a grievance hearing on the PHA determination, in accordance with part 966, subpart B of this chapter, and that the tenant may exercise any available judicial remedy to seek timely redress for the PHA's nonrenewal of the lease because of such determination.
(c)
Tenant agreement to comply with service requirement.
If the tenant or another family member has violated the service requirement, the PHA may not renew the lease upon expiration of the term unless:
(1) The tenant, and any other noncompliant resident, enter into a written agreement with the PHA, in the form and manner required by the PHA, to cure such noncompliance by completing the additional hours of community service or economic self-sufficiency activity needed to make up the total number of hours required over the twelve-month term of the new lease, and
(2) All other members of the family who are subject to the service requirement are currently complying with the service requirement or are no longer residing in the unit.
[65 FR 16729, Mar. 29, 2000, as amended at 81 FR 12374, Mar. 8, 2016]
§ 960.609
Prohibition against replacement of PHA employees.
In implementing the service requirement under this subpart, the PHA may not substitute community service or self-sufficiency activities performed by residents for work ordinarily performed by PHA employees, or replace a job at any location where residents perform activities to satisfy the service requirement.

# Subpart G—Pet Ownership in Public Housing

# Source:
65 FR 42522, July 10, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 960.701
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is, in accordance with section 31 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437z-3), to permit pet ownership by residents of public housing, subject to compliance with reasonable requirements established by the public housing agency (PHA) for pet ownership.
§ 960.703
Applicability.
This subpart applies to public housing as that term is defined in section 3(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)), except that such term does not include public housing developments for the elderly or persons with disabilities. Regulations that apply to pet ownership in such developments are located in part 5, subpart C, of this title.
§ 960.705
Animals that assist, support, or provide service to persons with disabilities.
(a) This subpart G does not apply to animals that assist, support or provide service to persons with disabilities. PHAs may not apply or enforce any policies established under this subpart against animals that are necessary as a reasonable accommodation to assist, support or provide service to persons with disabilities. This exclusion applies to such animals that reside in public housing, as that term is used in § 960.703, and such animals that visit these developments.
(b) Nothing in this subpart G:
(1) Limits or impairs the rights of persons with disabilities;
(2) Authorizes PHAs to limit or impair the rights of persons with disabilities; or
(3) Affects any authority that PHAs may have to regulate service animals that assist, support or provide service to persons with disabilities, under Federal, State, or local law.
§ 960.707
Pet ownership.
(a)
Ownership Conditions.
A resident of a dwelling unit in public housing, as that term is used in § 960.703, may own one or more common household pets or have one or more common household pets present in the dwelling unit of such resident, subject to the reasonable requirements of the PHA, if the resident maintains each pet:
(1) Responsibly;
(2) In accordance with applicable State and local public health, animal control, and animal anti-cruelty laws and regulations; and
(3) In accordance with the policies established in the PHA Annual Plan for the agency as provided in part 903 of this chapter.
(b)
Reasonable requirements.
Reasonable requirements may include but are not limited to:
(1) Requiring payment of a non-refundable nominal fee to cover the reasonable operating costs to the development relating to the presence of pets, a refundable pet deposit to cover additional costs attributable to the pet and not otherwise covered, or both;
(2) Limitations on the number of animals in a unit, based on unit size;
(3) Prohibitions on types of animals that the PHA classifies as dangerous, provided that such classifications are consistent with applicable State and local law, and prohibitions on individual animals, based on certain factors, including the size and weight of animals;
(4) Restrictions or prohibitions based on size and type of building or project, or other relevant conditions;
(5) Registration of the pet with the PHA; and
(6) Requiring pet owners to have their pets spayed or neutered.
(c)
Restriction.
A PHA may not require pet owners to have any pet's vocal chords removed.
(d)
Pet deposit.
A PHA that requires a resident to pay a pet deposit must place the deposit in an account of the type required under applicable State or local law for pet deposits or, if State or local law has no requirements regarding pet deposits, for rental security deposits, if applicable. The PHA shall comply with such applicable law as to retention of the deposit, interest, and return of the deposit or portion thereof to the resident, and any other applicable requirements.
(e)
PHA Plan.
Unless otherwise provided by § 903.11 of this chapter, Annual Plans are required to contain information regarding the PHA's pet policies, as described in § 903.7(n) of this chapter, beginning with PHA fiscal years that commence on or after January 1, 2001.
Pt. 963

# PART 963—PUBLIC HOUSING—CONTRACTING WITH RESIDENT-OWNED BUSINESSES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
963.1
Purpose.
963.3
Applicability.
963.5
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Contracting with Resident-Owned Businesses
963.10
Eligible resident-owned businesses.
963.12
Alternative procurement process.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1437 and 3535(d).

# Source:
57 FR 20189, May 11, 1992, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 963.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to enhance the economic opportunities of public housing residents by providing public housing agencies with a method of soliciting and contracting with eligible and qualifed resident-owned businesses (as defined in this part) for public housing services, supplies, or construction. The contract award method provided by this part is based on the established procurement procedures set forth in 24 CFR 85.36 (as revised April 1, 2013), with solicitation as provided by these procedures limited to resident-owned businesses. The contract award method provided by this part is not a requirement. It is an alternative procurement method available to public housing agencies, subject to the conditions set forth in this part, and subject to permissibility under State and local laws.
[57 FR 20189, May 11, 1992, as amended at 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 963.3
Applicability.
The policies and procedures contained in this part apply to public housing developments that are owned by public housing agencies (PHAs) and that are covered by Annual Contributions Contracts (ACC) with the Department. Public housing contracts eligible to be awarded under the alternative procurement process provided by this part are limited to individual contracts that do not exceed $1,000,000. Resident-owned businesses eligible to participate in the alternative procurement process are limited to those that meet the eligibility requirements of § 963.10. The policies and procedures contained in this part are consistent with the objectives of section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1701u), and similar Federal requirements imposed on public housing programs. (See 24 CFR 941.208(a) and 24 CFR 968.110(a)).
[57 FR 20189, May 11, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 33895, June 30, 1994]
§ 963.5
Definitions.
The terms
HUD
and
Public housing agency (PHA)
are defined in 24 CFR part 5.
Act.
The U.S. Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437).
Alternative procurement process.
The alternative method of public housing contract award available to public housing agencies and eligible resident-owned businesses under the conditions set forth in this part.
Annual Contributions Contract (ACC).
See definition in 24 CFR 968.105.
Certification.
A written assertion based on supporting evidence, which shall be kept available for inspection by the Secretary, the Inspector General, and the public, which assertion shall be deemed to be accurate for purposes of this part, unless the Secretary determines otherwise after inspecting the evidence and providing due notice and opportunity for comment.
Contract
or
public housing contract.
Any contract awarded by a PHA for services, supplies, or construction necessary for the development, operation, modernization, or maintenance of public housing.
Management officials.
The individuals who possess the power to make the day-to-day, as well as major, decisions on matters of management, policy, and operations of the resident-owned business.
Principal.
An owner, partner, director, or management official of the resident-owned business with the power and authority to represent the business and to execute contract, leases, agreements, and other documents on behalf of the business.
Public housing
or
public housing development.
Any public housing development which is owned by a Public Housing Agency (PHA) and is receiving funds under an Annual Contribution Contract (ACC).
Public housing resident.
Any individual who resides in public housing as a signatory on a public housing lease, or as a member of the family of the individual(s) who is the signatory on the public housing lease.
Resident-owned business.
Any business concern which is owned and controlled by public housing residents. (The term “resident-owned business” includes sole proprietorships.) For purposes of this part, “owned and controlled” means a business:
(1) Which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more public housing residents; and
(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more such individuals.
All securities which constitute ownership or control of a corporation for purposes of establishing the business as a resident-owned business shall be held directly by the public housing residents. No securities held in trust, or by any guardian for a minor, shall be considered as held by the public housing resident in determining the ownership or control of a corporation.
[57 FR 20189, May 11, 1992, as amended at 61 FR 5215, Feb. 9, 1996]

# Subpart B—Contracting With Resident-Owned Businesses
§ 963.10
Eligible resident-owned businesses.
To be eligible for the alternative procurement process provided by this part, a business must meet the following requirements, and must submit evidence to the PHA, in the form described below, or as the PHA may require, that shows how each requirement has been met.
(a)
Legally formed business.
The business shall submit certified copies of any State, county, or municipal licenses that may be required of the business to engage in the type of business activity for which it was formed. Where applicable (as for example, in the case of corporations), the business also shall submit a certified copy of its corporate charter or other organizational document that verifies that the business was properly formed in accordance with State law.
(b)
Resident-owned business.
The business shall submit a certification that it is a resident-owned business as defined by this part. The business shall disclose to the PHA all owners of the business, and each owner's percentage of ownership interest in the business. The business also shall disclose all individuals who possess the power to make
the day-to-day, as well as major, decisions on matters of management, policy, and operations (management officials). The business shall identify all owners and management officials who are not public housing residents, and shall disclose any relationship that these owners and officials may have to a business (resident- or non-resident-owned) engaged in the type of business activity with which the resident-owned business is engaged. For purposes of this part, “relationship” means employment by, or having an ownership interest in, a business. The business also shall submit such evidence as the PHA may require to verify that the owner or owners identified as public housing residents reside within public housing of the PHA.
(c)
Responsibility to complete contract.
The business shall submit evidence sufficient to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the PHA that the business has the ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions of the proposed contract. Consideration will be given to various factors, including but not limited to those identified in 24 CFR 85.36(b)(8) (as revised April 1, 2013) and also to such matters as proof of completion of courses in business administration or financial management, and proof of job training or apprenticeship in the particular trade, business, profession, or occupation.
(d)
Limitation on alternative procurement contract awards.
The business shall submit a certification as to the number of contracts awarded, and the dollar amount of each contract award received, under the alternative procurement process provided by this part. A resident-owned business is not eligible to participate in the alternative procurement process provided by this part if the resident-owned business has received under this process one or more contracts with a total combined dollar value of $1,000,000.
[57 FR 20189, May 11, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 33895, June 30, 1994; 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 963.12
Alternative procurement process.
(a)
Method of procurement.
In contracting with resident-owned businesses, the PHA shall follow the applicable method of procurement as set forth in 24 CFR 85.36(d) (as revised April 1, 2013), with solicitation limited to resident-owned businesses. Additionally, the PHA shall ensure that the method of procurement conforms to the procurement standards set forth in 24 CFR 85.36(b) (as revised April 1, 2013).
(b)
Contract awards.
Contracts awarded under this part shall be made only to resident-owned businesses that meet the requirements of § 963.10, and that comply with such other requirements as may be required of a contractor under the particular procurement and the Department's regulations. An award shall not be made to the resident-owned business if the contract award exceeds the independent cost estimate required by 24 CFR 85.36(f) (as revised April 1, 2013), and the price normally paid for comparable supplies, services, or construction in the project area.
(c)
Contract requirements.
Any contract entered into between a PHA and a resident-owned business under this part shall comply with: the contract provisions of 24 CFR 85.36(i) (as revised April 1, 2013); the provisions of 24 CFR 85.36(h) (as revised April 1, 2013) or 24 CFR 905.316(d) governing bonding requirements, where applicable; and such other contract terms that may be applicable to the particular procurement under the Department's regulations. In addition to the recordkeeping requirements imposed by 24 CFR 85.36(i) (as revised April 1, 2013), the PHA also shall maintain records sufficient to detail the significant history of the procurement made under this part. These records will include, but are not necessarily limited to the following: The independent cost estimate and comparable price analysis as required by paragraph (b) of this section; the basis for contractor selection, including documentation concerning the eligibility of the selected resident-owned business under § 963.10; and the basis for determining the reasonableness of the proposed contract price.
[57 FR 20189, May 11, 1992, as amended at 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015]
Pt. 964

# PART 964—TENANT PARTICIPATION AND TENANT OPPORTUNITIES IN PUBLIC HOUSING

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
964.1
Purpose.
964.3
Applicability and scope.
964.7
Definitions.
964.11
HUD policy on tenant participation.
964.12
HUD policy on the Tenant Opportunities Program (TOP).
964.14
HUD policy on partnerships.
964.15
HUD policy on resident management.
964.16
HUD role in activities under this part.
964.18
HA role in activities under subparts B
C.
964.24
HUD policy on FIC Program.
964.30
Other Program requirements.

# Subpart B—Tenant Participation
964.100
Role of resident council.
964.105
Role of the jurisdiction-wide resident council.
964.115
Resident council requirements.
964.117
Resident council partnerships.
964.120
Resident management corporation requirements.
964.125
Eligibility for resident council membership.
964.130
Election procedures and standards.
964.135
Resident involvement in HA management operations.
964.140
Resident training.
964.145
Conflict of interest.
964.150
Funding tenant participation.

# Subpart C—Tenant Opportunities Program
964.200
General.
964.205
Eligibility.
964.210
Notice of funding availability.
964.215
Grant agreement.
964.220
Technical assistance.
964.225
Resident management requirements.
964.230
Audit and administrative requirements.

# Subpart D—Family Investment Centers (FIC) Program
964.300
General.
964.305
Eligibility.
964.308
Supportive services requirements.
964.310
Audit/compliance requirements.
964.315
HAs role in activities under this part.
964.320
HUD Policy on training, employment, contracting and subcontracting of public housing residents.
964.325
Notice of funding availability.
964.330
Grant set-aside assistance.
964.335
Grant agreement.
964.340
Resident compensation.
964.345
Treatment of income.
964.350
Administrative requirements.

# Subpart E—Resident Board Members
964.400
Purpose.
964.405
Applicability.
964.410
Additional definitions.
964.415
Resident board members.
964.420
Resident board member may be elected.
964.425
Small public housing agencies.
964.430
Nondiscrimination.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1437d, 1437g, 1437r, 3535(d).

# Source:
59 FR 43636, Aug. 24, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 964.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to recognize the importance of resident involvement in creating a positive living environment and in actively participating in the overall mission of public housing.
§ 964.3
Applicability and scope.
(a) The policies and procedures contained in this part apply to any PHA that has a Public Housing Annual Contributions Contract (ACC) with HUD. This part, except for subpart E, does not apply to PHAs with housing assistance payments contracts with HUD under section 8 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937.
(b) Subpart B of this part contains HUD policies, procedures, and requirements for the participation of residents in public housing operations. These policies, procedures, and requirements apply to all residents participating under this part.
(c)(1) Subpart C of this part contains HUD policies, procedures, and requirements for residents participating in the Tenant Opportunities Program (TOP) (replaces the Resident Management Program under Section 20 of the United States Housing Act of 1937). Resident management in public housing is viable and remains an option under TOP.
(2) Subpart C of this part is not intended to negate any pre-existing arrangements for resident management in public housing between a PHA and a resident management corporation. On or after September 23, 1994, any new,
renewed or renegotiated contracts must meet the requirements of this part, the ACC and all applicable laws and regulations.
(d) Subpart D of this part includes requirements for the Family Investment Centers (FIC) Program which was established by Section 22 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437t) to provide families living in public housing and Indian housing with better access to educational and employment opportunities.
(e) Subpart E of this part implements section 2(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437), which provides for resident membership on the board of directors or similar governing body of a PHA. Subpart E applies to any public housing agency that has a public housing annual contributions contract with HUD or administers tenant-based rental under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).
(f) The term “resident,” as used throughout this part, is interchangeable with the term “tenant,” to reflect the fact that local resident organizations have differing preferences for the terms. Terms such as “resident council” and “tenant council” and “resident management” and “tenant management” are interchangeable. Hereafter, for ease of discussion, the rule will use the terms resident, resident council and resident management corporation, as appropriate.
[57 FR 43636, Aug. 24, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 56879, Oct. 21, 1999]
§ 964.7
Definitions.
Annual Contributions Contract (ACC).
A contract (in the form prescribed by HUD) under which HUD agrees to provide financial assistance, and the HA agrees to comply with HUD requirements for the development and operation of the public housing project.
Eligible residents for FIC.
A participating resident of a participating HA. If the HA is combining FIC with the Family Self-Sufficiency (FSS) program, the term also means Public Housing FSS and Section 8 families participating in the FSS program. Although Section 8 FSS families are eligible residents for FIC, they do not qualify for income exclusions that are provided for public housing residents participating in employment and supportive service programs.
Family Investment Centers (FIC).
A facility on or near public housing which provides families living in public housing with better access to educational and employment opportunities to achieve self-sufficiency and independence.
FIC service coordinator.
Any person who is responsible for:
(1) Determining the eligibility and assessing needs of families to be served by the FIC;
(2) Assessing training and service needs of eligible residents;
(3) Working with service providers to coordinate the provision of services on a HA-wide or less than HA-wide basis, and to tailor the services to the needs and characteristics of eligible residents;
(4) Mobilizing public and private resources to ensure that the supportive services identified can be funded over the five-year period, at least, following the initial receipt of funding.
(5) Monitoring and evaluating the delivery, impact, and effectiveness of any supportive service funded with capital or operating assistance under the FIC program;
(6) Coordinating the development and implementation of the FIC program with other self-sufficiency programs, and other education and employment programs; and
(7) Performing other duties and functions that are appropriate for providing eligible residents with better access to educational and employment opportunities.
HA
means the same as
Public Housing Agency (PHA).
Management.
All activities for which the HA is responsible to HUD under the ACC, within the definition of “operation” under the Act and the ACC, including the development of resident programs and services.
Management contract.
A written agreement between a resident management corporation and a HA, as provided by subpart C.
Public Housing Agency (PHA)
is defined in 24 CFR part 5.
Public housing development (Development).
The term “development” has the
same meaning as that provided for “low-income housing project” as that term is defined Section 3(b)(1) of the Act.
Resident management.
The performance of one or more management activities for one or more projects by a resident management corporation under a management contract with the HA.
Resident management corporation.
An entity that proposes to enter into, or enters into, a contract to manage one or more management activities of a HA.
Resident-owned business.
Any business concern which is owned and controlled by public housing residents. (The term “resident-owned business” includes sole proprietorships.) For purposes of this part, “owned and controlled” means a business:
(1) Which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more public housing residents; and
(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more such individuals.
Supportive services for FIC.
New or significantly expanded services that are essential to providing families living with children in public housing with better access to educational and employment opportunities to achieve self-sufficiency and independence.
Tenant Opportunities Program (TOP).
The TOP program is designed to prepare residents to experience the dignity of meaningful work, to own and operate resident businesses, to move toward financial independence, and to enable them to choose where they want to live and engage in meaningful participation in the management of housing developments in which they live. Financial assistance in the form of technical assistance grants is available to RCs/RMCs to prepare to manage activities in their public housing developments.
Vacant unit under FIC.
A dwelling unit that is not under an effective lease to an eligible family. An effective lease is a lease under which an eligible family has a right to possession of the unit and is being charged rent, even if the amount of any utility allowance equals or exceeds the amount of a total resident payment that is based on income and, as a result, the amount paid by the family to the HA is zero.
[59 FR 43636, Aug. 24, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 5215, Feb. 9, 1996]
§ 964.11
HUD policy on tenant participation.
HUD promotes resident participation and the active involvement of residents in all aspects of a HA's overall mission and operation. Residents have a right to organize and elect a resident council to represent their interests. As long as proper procedures are followed, the HA shall recognize the duly elected resident council to participate fully through a working relationship with the HA. HUD encourages HAs and residents to work together to determine the most appropriate ways to foster constructive relationships, particularly through duly-elected resident councils.
§ 964.12
HUD policy on the Tenant Opportunities Program (TOP).
HUD promotes TOP programs to support activities that enable residents to improve the quality of life and resident satisfaction, and obtain other social and economic benefits for residents and their families. Tenant opportunity programs are proven to be effective in facilitating economic uplift, as well as in improving the overall conditions of the public housing communities.
§ 964.14
HUD policy on partnerships.
HUD promotes partnerships between residents and HAs which are an essential component to building, strengthening and improving public housing. Strong partnerships are critical for creating positive changes in lifestyles thus improving the quality of life for public housing residents, and the surrounding community.
§ 964.15
HUD policy on resident management.
It is HUD's policy to encourage resident management. HUD encourages HAs, resident councils and resident management corporations to explore the various functions involved in management to identify appropriate opportunities for contracting with a resident management corporation. Potential benefits of resident-managed entities
include improved quality of life, experiencing the dignity of meaningful work, enabling residents to choose where they want to live, and meaningful participation in the management of the housing development.
§ 964.16
HUD role in activities under this part.
(a)
General.
Subject to the requirements of this part and other requirements imposed on HAs by the ACC, statute or regulation, the form and extent of resident participation including resident management are local decisions to be made jointly by resident councils/resident management corporations and their HAs. HUD will promote tenant participation and tenant opportunities programs, and will provide additional guidance, as necessary and appropriate. In addition, HUD will endeavor to provide technical assistance in connection with these initiatives.
(b)
Monitoring.
HUD shall ensure that the requirements under this part are operating efficiently and effectively.
§ 964.18
HA role in activities under subparts B
C.
(a)
HAs with 250 units or more.
(1) A HA shall officially recognize a duly elected resident council as the sole representative of the residents it purports to represent, and support its tenant participation activities.
(2) When requested by residents, a HA shall provide appropriate guidance to residents to assist them in establishing and maintaining a resident council.
(3) A HA may consult with residents, or resident councils (if they exist), to determine the extent to which residents desire to participate in activities involving their community, including the management of specific functions of a public housing development that may be mutually agreeable to the HA and the resident council/resident management corporation.
(4) A HA shall provide the residents or any resident council with current information concerning the HA's policies on tenant participation in management.
(5) If requested, a HA should provide a duly recognized resident council office space and meeting facilities, free of charge, preferably within the development it represents. If there is no community or rental space available, a request to approve a vacant unit for this non-dwelling use will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
(6) If requested, a HA shall negotiate with the duly elected resident council on all uses of community space for meetings, recreation and social services and other resident participation activities pursuant to HUD guidelines. Such agreements shall be put into a written document to be signed by the HA and the resident council. If a HA fails to negotiate with a resident council in good faith or, after negotiations, refuses to permit such usage of community space, the resident council may file an informal appeal with HUD, setting out the circumstances and providing copies of relevant materials evidencing the resident council's efforts to negotiate a written agreement. HUD shall require the HA to respond with a report stating the HA's reasons for rejecting the request or for refusing to negotiate. HUD shall require the parties (with or without direct HUD participation) to undertake or to resume negotiations on an agreement. If no resolution is achieved within 90 days from the date HUD required the parties to undertake or resume such negotiations, HUD shall serve notice on both parties that administrative remedies have been exhausted (except that, pursuant to mutual agreement of the parties, the time for negotiations may be extended by no more than an additional 30 days).
(7) In no event shall HUD or a HA recognize a competing resident council once a duly elected resident council has been established. Any funding of resident activities and resident input into decisions concerning public housing operations shall be made only through the officially recognized resident council.
(8) The HA shall ensure open communication and frequent meetings between HA management and resident councils and shall encourage the formation of joint HA management-resident committees to work on issues and planning.
(9) The resident council shall hold frequent meetings with the residents to ensure that residents have input, and
are aware and actively involved in HA management-resident council decisions and activities.
(10) The HA and resident council shall put in writing in the form of a Memorandum of Understanding the elements of their partnership agreement and it shall be updated at least once every three (3) years.
(11) The HA, in collaboration with the resident councils, shall assume the lead role for assuring maximum opportunities for skills training for public housing residents. To the extent possible, the training resources should be local to ensure maximum benefit and on-going access.
(b)
HAs with fewer than 250 units.
(1) HAs with fewer than 250 units of public housing have the option of participating in programs under this part.
(2) HAs shall not deny residents the opportunity to organize. If the residents decide to organize and form a resident council, the HA shall comply with the following:
(i) A HA shall officially recognize a duly elected resident council as the sole representative of the residents it purports to represent, and support its tenant participation activities.
(ii) When requested by residents, a HA shall provide appropriate guidance to residents to assist them in establishing and maintaining a resident council.
(iii) A HA shall provide the residents or any resident council with current information concerning the HA's policies on tenant participation in management.
(iv) In no event shall HUD or a HA officially recognize a competing resident council once a duly elected resident council has been established. If a duly elected resident council has been formed, any input into changes concerning public housing operations shall be made only through the officially recognized resident council.
§ 964.24
HUD policy on FIC Program.
HUD promotes Family Investment Centers which provide better access to educational and employment opportunities for residents living in public housing. HUD encourages resident involvement in the FIC Program and promotes resident-HA partnerships to achieve mutual goals.
§ 964.30
Other Program requirements.
In addition to the requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 5, the following Federal requirements apply to this program:
(a)
Affirmative Outreach.
(1) The Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Program requirements of 24 CFR part 200, subpart M and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 108; and
(2) The fair housing advertising and poster guidelines at 24 CFR parts 109 and 110.
(b) Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12131) and implementing regulations at 28 CFR part 35.
[61 FR 5216, Feb. 9, 1996]

# Subpart B—Tenant Participation
§ 964.100
Role of resident council.
The role of a resident council is to improve the quality of life and resident satisfaction and participate in self-help initiatives to enable residents to create a positive living environment for families living in public housing. Resident councils may actively participate through a working partnership with the HA to advise and assist in all aspects of public housing operations.
§ 964.105
Role of the jurisdiction-wide resident council.
(a)
Jurisdiction-wide resident council.
Resident councils may come together to form an organization which can represent the interest of residents residing in units under a HA's jurisdiction. This can be accomplished by the presidents of duly elected resident councils forming an organization, by resident councils electing a representative to the organization, or through jurisdiction-wide elections. If duly elected resident councils form such an organization, the HA shall recognize it as the voice of authority-wide residents for input into housing authority policy making.
(b)
Function.
The jurisdiction-wide council may advise the Board of Commissioners and executive director in all areas of HA operations, including but
not limited to occupancy, general management, maintenance, security, resident training, resident employment, social services and modernization priorities.
(c)
Cooperation with other groups.
There shall be regularly scheduled meetings between the HA and the local duly elected resident council, and the jurisdiction-wide resident council to discuss problems, plan activities and review progress.
§ 964.115
Resident council requirements.
A resident council shall consist of persons residing in public housing and must meet each of the following requirements in order to receive official recognition from the HA/HUD, and be eligible to receive funds for resident council activities, and stipends for officers for their related costs for volunteer work in public housing:
(a) It may represent residents residing:
(1) In scattered site buildings;
(2) In areas of contiguous row houses; or
(3) In one or more contiguous buildings;
(4) In a development; or
(5) In a combination of these buildings or developments;
(b) It must adopt written procedures such as by-laws, or a constitution which provides for the election of residents to the governing board by the voting membership of the residents residing in public housing, described in paragraph (b) of this section, on a regular basis but at least once every three (3) years. The written procedures must provide for the recall of the resident board by the voting membership. These provisions shall allow for a petition or other expression of the voting membership's desire for a recall election, and set the number of percentage of voting membership (“threshold”) who must be in agreement in order to hold a recall election. This threshold shall not be less than 10 percent of the voting membership.
(c) It must have a democratically elected governing board that is elected by the voting membership. At a minimum, the governing board should consist of five (5) elected board members.
The voting membership must consist of heads of households (any age) and other residents at least 18 years of age or older and whose name appears on a lease for the unit in the public housing that the resident council represents.
§ 964.117
Resident council partnerships.
A resident council may form partnerships with outside organizations, provided that such relationships are complementary to the resident council in its duty to represent the residents, and provided that such outside organizations do not become the governing entity of the resident council.
§ 964.120
Resident management corporation requirements.
A resident management corporation must consist of residents residing in public housing and have each of the following characteristics in order to receive official recognition by the HA and HUD:
(a) It shall be a non-profit organization that is validly incorporated under the laws of the State in which it is located;
(b) It may be established by more than one resident council, so long as each such council:
(1) Approves the establishment of the corporation; and
(2) Has representation on the Board of Directors of the corporation;
(c) It shall have an elected Board of Directors, and elections must be held at least once every three (3) years;
(d) Its by-laws shall require the Board of Directors to include resident representatives of each resident council involved in establishing the corporation; include qualifications to run for office, frequency of elections, procedures for recall, and term limits if desired.
(e) Its voting members shall be heads of households (any age) and other residents at least 18 years of age and whose name appears on the lease of a unit in the public housing represented by the resident management corporation;
(f) Where a resident council already exists for the development, or a portion of the development, the resident management corporation shall be approved
by the resident council board and a majority of the residents. If there is no resident council, a majority of the residents of the public housing development it will represent must approve the establishment of such a corporation for the purposes of managing the project; and
(g) It may serve as both the resident management corporation and the resident council, so long as the corporation meets the requirements of this part for a resident council.
§ 964.125
Eligibility for resident council membership.
(a) Any member of a public housing household, not including members of a non-public housing over-income family as defined in § 960.102 of this chapter, whose name is on the lease of a unit in the public housing development and meets the requirements of the by-laws is eligible to be a member of a resident council. The resident council may establish additional criteria that are non-discriminatory and do not infringe on rights of other residents in the development. Such criteria must be stated in the by-laws or constitution as appropriate.
(b) The right to vote for resident council board shall be limited to designated heads of households (any age) and other members of the household who are 18 years or older whose name appears on the lease of a unit in the public housing development represented by the resident council.
(c) Any qualified voting member of a resident council who meets the requirements described in the by-laws and is in compliance with the lease may seek office and serve on the resident council governing board.
[59 FR 43636, Aug. 24, 1994, as amended at 88 FR 9675, Feb. 14, 2023]
§ 964.130
Election procedures and standards.
At a minimum, a resident council may use local election boards/commissions. The resident council shall use an independent third-party to oversee elections and recall procedures.
(a) Resident councils shall adhere to the following minimum standards regarding election procedures:
(1) All procedures must assure fair and frequent elections of resident council members—at least once every three years for each member.
(2) Staggered terms for resident council governing board members and term limits shall be discretionary with the resident council.
(3) Each resident council shall adopt and issue election and recall procedures in their by-laws.
(4) The election procedures shall include qualifications to run for office, frequency of elections, procedures for recall, and term limits if desired.
(5) All voting members of the resident community must be given sufficient notice (at least 30 days) for nomination and election. The notice should include a description of election procedures, eligibility requirements, and dates of nominations and elections.
(b) If a resident council fails to satisfy HUD minimum standards for fair and frequent elections, or fails to follow its own election procedures as adopted, HUD shall require the HA to withdraw recognition of the resident council and to withhold resident services funds as well as funds provided in conjunction with services rendered for resident participation in public housing.
(c) HAs shall monitor the resident council election process and shall establish a procedure to appeal any adverse decision relating to failure to satisfy HUD minimum standards. Such appeal shall be submitted to a jointly selected third-party arbitrator at the local level. If costs are incurred by using a third-party arbitrator, then such costs should be paid from the HAs resident services funds pursuant to § 964.150.
§ 964.135
Resident involvement in HA management operations.
Residents shall be involved and participate in the overall policy development and direction of Public Housing operations.
(a) Resident management corporations (RMCs) may contract with HAs to perform one or more management functions provided the resident entity has received sufficient training and/or has staff with the necessary expertise to perform the management functions
and provided the RMC meets bonding and licensing requirements.
(b) Residents shall be actively involved in a HA's decision-making process and give advice on matters such as modernization, security, maintenance, resident screening and selection, and recreation.
(c) While a HA has responsibility for management operations, it shall ensure strong resident participation in all issues and facets of its operations through the duly elected resident councils at public housing developments, and with jurisdiction-wide resident councils.
(d) A HA shall work in partnership with the duly elected resident councils.
(e) HAs, upon request from the duly elected resident council, shall ensure that the duly elected resident council officers as defined in subpart B of this part, and other residents in the development are fully trained and involved in developing and implementing Federal programs including but not limited to Comprehensive Improvement Assistance Program (CIAP), Comprehensive Grant Program, Urban Revitalization Demonstration, Drug Elimination, and FIC.
(f) HAs shall involve resident council officers and other interested residents at the development through education and direct participation in all phases of the budgetary process.
(g) Resident council officers shall be encouraged to become involved in the resident screening and selection process for prospective residents at the development. Those selected to perform resident screening and selection functions must be trained by the HA in resident screening and selection and must sign a legal document committing to confidentiality.
§ 964.140
Resident training.
(a)
Resident training opportunities.
HUD encourages a partnership between the residents, the HA and HUD, as well as with the public and non-profit sectors to provide training opportunities for public housing residents. The categories in which training could occur include, but are not limited to:
(1) Community organization and leadership training;
(2) Organizational development training for Resident Management Corporations and duly elected Resident Councils;
(3) Public housing policies, programs, rights and responsibilities training; and
(4) Business entrepreneurial training, planning and job skills.
(b)
Local training resources.
HUD encourages the use of local training resources to ensure the ongoing accessibility and availability of persons to provide training and technical assistance. Possible training resources may include:
(1) Resident organizations;
(2) Housing authorities;
(3) Local community colleges, vocational schools; and
(4) HUD and other Federal agencies and other local public, private and non-profit organizations.
§ 964.145
Conflict of interest.
Resident council officers can not serve as contractors or employees if they are in policy making or supervisory positions at the HA.
§ 964.150
Funding tenant participation.
(a)
Funding duly elected resident councils and jurisdiction wide resident councils.
(1) The HA shall provide funds it receives for this purpose to the duly elected resident council at each development and/or those jurisdiction-wide councils eligible to receive the resident portion of the tenant services account to use for resident participation activities. This shall be an addition to the Performance Funding System (PFS), as provided by 24 CFR part 990, to permit HAs to fund $25 per unit per year for units represented by duly elected resident councils for resident services, subject to the availability of appropriations. Of this amount, $15 per unit per year would be provided to fund tenant participation activities under subpart B of this part for duly elected resident councils and/or jurisdiction-wide councils and $10 per unit per year would be used by the HA to pay for costs incurred in carrying out tenant participation activities under subpart B of this part, including the expenses for
conducting elections, recalls or arbitration required under § 964.130 in subpart B. This will guarantee the resources necessary to create a bona fide partnership among the duly elected resident councils, the HA and HUD. Where both local and jurisdiction-wide councils exist, the distribution will be agreed upon by the HA and the respective councils.
(2) If funds are available through appropriations, the HA must provide tenant services funding to the duly elected resident councils regardless of the HA's financial status. The resident council funds shall not be impacted or restricted by the HA financial status and all said funds must be used for the purpose set forth in subparts B and C of this part.
(3) The HA and the duly elected resident council at each development and/or those jurisdiction-wide councils shall collaborate on how the funds will be distributed for tenant participation activities. If disputes regarding funding decisions arise between the parties, the matter shall be referred to the Field Office for intervention. HUD Field Office shall require the parties to undertake further negotiations to resolve the dispute. If no resolution is achieved within 90 days from the date of the Field Office intervention, the Field Office shall refer the matter to HUD Headquarters for final resolution.
(b)
Stipends.
(1) HUD encourages HAs to provide stipends to resident council officers who serve as volunteers in their public housing developments. The amount of the stipend, up to $200 per month/per officer, shall be decided locally by the resident council and the HA. Subject to appropriations, the stipends will be funded from the resident council's portion of the operating subsidy funding for resident council expenses ($15.00 per unit per year).
(2) Pursuant to § 913.106, stipends are not to be construed as salaries and should not be included as income for calculation of rents, and are not subject to conflict of interest requirements.
(3) Funding provided by a HA to a duly elected resident council may be made only under a written agreement between the HA and a resident council, which includes a resident council budget and assurance that all resident council expenditures will not contravene provisions of law and will promote serviceability, efficiency, economy and stability in the operation of the local development. The agreement must require the local resident council to account to the HA for the use of the funds and permit the HA to inspect and audit the resident council's financial records related to the agreement.

# Subpart C—Tenant Opportunities Program
§ 964.200
General.
(a) The Tenant Opportunities Program (TOP) provides technical assistance for various activities, including but not limited to resident management, for resident councils/resident management corporations as authorized by Section 20 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937. The TOP provides opportunities for resident organizations to improve living conditions and resident satisfaction in public housing communities.
(b) This subpart establishes the policies, procedures and requirements for participating in the TOP with respect to applications for funding for programs identified in this subpart.
(c) This subpart contains the policies, procedures and requirements for the resident management program as authorized by section 20 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937.
§ 964.205
Eligibility.
(a)
Resident councils/resident management corporations.
Any eligible resident council/resident management corporation as defined in subpart B of this part is eligible to participate in a program administered under this subpart.
(b)
Activities.
Activities to be funded and carried out by an eligible resident council or resident management corporation, as defined in subpart B of this part, must improve the living conditions and public housing operations and may include any combination of, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
Resident capacity building.
(i) Training Board members in community organizing, Board development, and leadership training;
(ii) Determining the feasibility of resident management enablement for a specific project or projects; and
(iii) Assisting in the actual creation of an RMC, such as consulting and legal assistance to incorporate, preparing by-laws and drafting a corporate charter.
(2)
Resident management.
(i) Training residents, as potential employees of an RMC, in skills directly related to the operation, management, maintenance and financial systems of a project;
(ii) Training of residents with respect to fair housing requirements; and
(iii) Gaining assistance in negotiating management contracts, and designing a long-range planning system.
(3)
Resident management business development.
(i) Training related to resident-owned business development and technical assistance for job training and placement in RMC developments;
(ii) Technical assistance and training in resident managed business development through:
(A) Feasibility and market studies;
(B) Development of business plans;
(C) Outreach activities; and
(D) Innovative financing methods including revolving loan funds; and
(iii) Legal advice in establishing a resident managed business entity.
(4)
Social support needs (such as self-sufficiency and youth initiatives).
(i) Feasibility studies to determine training and social services needs;
(ii) Training in management-related trade skills, computer skills, etc;
(iii) Management-related employment training and counseling;
(iv) Coordination of support services;
(v) Training for programs such as child care, early childhood development, parent involvement, volunteer services, parenting skills, before and after school programs;
(vi) Training programs on health, nutrition and safety;
(vii) Workshops for youth services, child abuse and neglect prevention, tutorial services, in partnership with community-based organizations such as local Boys and Girls Clubs, YMCA/YWCA, Boy/Girl Scouts, Campfire and Big Brother/Big Sisters, etc. Other HUD programs such as the Youth Sports Program and the Public Housing Drug Elimination Programs also provide funding in these areas;
(viii) Training in the development of strategies to successfully implement a youth program. For example, assessing the needs and problems of the youth, improving youth initiatives that are currently active, and training youth, housing authority staff, resident management corporations and resident councils on youth initiatives and program activities; and
(5)
Homeownership Opportunity.
Determining feasibility for homeownership by residents, including assessing the feasibility of other housing (including HUD owned or held single or multi-family) affordable for purchase by residents.
(6)
General.
(i) Required training on HUD regulations and policies governing the operation of low-income public housing including contracting/procurement regulations, financial management, capacity building to develop the necessary skills to assume management responsibilities at the project and property management;
(ii) Purchasing hardware, i.e., computers and software, office furnishings and supplies, in connection with business development. Every effort must be made to acquire donated or discounted hardware;
(iii) Training in accessing other funding sources; and
(iv) Hiring trainers or other experts (RCs/RMCs must ensure that this training is provided by a qualified housing management specialist, a community organizer, the HA, or other sources knowledgeable about the program).
§ 964.210
Notice of funding availability.
A Notice of Funding Availability shall be published periodically in the
Federal Register
containing the amounts of funds available, funding criteria, where to obtain and submit applications, and the deadline for submissions.
§ 964.215
Grant agreement.
(a)
General.
HUD shall enter into a grant agreement with the recipient of a
technical assistance grant which defines the legal framework for the relationship between HUD and a resident council or resident management corporation for the proposed funding.
(b)
Term of grant agreement.
A grant shall be for a term of three to five years (3-5 years), and renewable at the expiration of the term.
§ 964.220
Technical assistance.
(a)
Financial assistance.
HUD will provide financial assistance, to the extent available, to resident councils or resident management corporations for technical assistance and training to further the activities under this subpart.
(b)
Requirements for a management specialist.
If a resident council or resident management corporation seeks to manage a development, it must select, in consultation with the HA, a qualified housing management specialist to assist in determining the feasibility of, and to help establish, a resident management corporation and to provide training and other duties in connection with the daily operations of the project.
§ 964.225
Resident management requirements.
The following requirements apply when a HA and its residents are interested in providing for resident performance of several management functions in one or more projects.
(a)
Resident management corporation responsibilities.
Resident councils interested in contracting with a HA must establish a resident management corporation that meets the requirements for such a corporation, as specified in subpart B. The RMC and its employees must demonstrate their ability and skill to perform in the particular areas of management pursuant to the management contract.
(b)
HA responsibilities.
HAs shall give full and serious consideration to resident management corporations seeking to enter into a management contract with the HA. A HA shall enter into good-faith negotiations with a corporation seeking to contract to provide management services.
(c)
Duty to bargain in good faith.
If a HA refuses to negotiate with a resident management corporation in good faith or, after negotiations, refuses to enter into a contract, the corporation may file an informal appeal with HUD, setting out the circumstances and providing copies of relevant materials evidencing the corporation's efforts to negotiate a contract. HUD shall require the HA to respond with a report stating the HA's reasons for rejecting the corporation's contract offer or for refusing to negotiate. Thereafter, HUD shall require the parties (with or without direct HUD participation) to undertake or to resume negotiations on a contract providing for resident management, and shall take such other actions as are necessary to resolve the conflicts between the parties. If no resolution is achieved within 90 days from the date HUD required the parties to undertake or resume such negotiations, HUD shall serve notice on both parties that administrative remedies have been exhausted (except that, pursuant to mutual agreement of the parties, the time for negotiations may be extended by no more than an additional 30 days).
(d)
Management contract.
A management contract between the HA and a resident management corporation is required for property management. The HA and the resident management corporation may agree to the performance by the corporation of any or all management functions for which the HA is responsible to HUD under the ACC and any other functions not inconsistent with the ACC and applicable state and local laws, regulations and licensing requirements.
(e)
Procurement requirements.
The management contract shall be treated as a contracting out of services, and must be subject to any provision of a collective bargaining agreement regarding the contracting out of services to which the HA is subject. Provisions on competitive bidding and requirements of prior written HUD approval of contracts contained in the ACC do not apply to the decision of a HA to contract with a RMC.
(f)
Rights of families; operation of project.
If a resident management corporation is approved by the tenant organization representing one or more buildings or an area of row houses that
are part of a public housing project for purposes of part 941 of this chapter, the resident management program may not, as determined by the HA, interfere with the rights of other residents of such project or harm the efficient operation of such project.
(g)
Comprehensive improvement assistance with RMCs.
(1) The HA may enter into a contract with the RMC to provide comprehensive improvement assistance under part 968 of this chapter to modernize a project managed by the RMC.
(2) The HA shall not retain, for any administrative or other reason, any portion of the comprehensive improvement assistance provided, unless the PHA and the RMC provide otherwise by contract.
(3) In assessing the modernization needs of its projects under 24 CFR part 968, or other grant mechanisms established by the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987, the HAs must consult with the tenant management corporation regarding any project managed by the corporation, in order to determine the modernization needs and preferences of resident-managed projects. Evidence of this required consultation must be included with a HA's initial submission to HUD.
(h)
Direct provision of operating and capital assistance to RMC
—(1)
Direct provision of assistance to RMC.
The ACC shall provide for the direct provision of operating and capital assistance by HUD to an RMC if:
(i) The RMC petitions HUD for the release of funds;
(ii) The contract provides for the RMC to assume the primary management responsibilities of the PHA;
(iii) The RMC has been designated as at least a “standard performer” under the Public Housing Assessment System (PHAS) (see 24 CFR part 902); and
(iv) The RMC is not in violation of any financial, accounting, procurement, civil rights, fair housing or other program requirements that HUD determines call into question the capability of the RMC to effectively discharge its responsibilities under the contract.
(2)
Use of assistance.
Any direct capital or operating assistance provided to the RMC must be used for purposes of performing eligible activities with respect to public housing as may be provided under the contract.
(3)
Responsibilities of PHA.
If HUD provides direct funding to a RMC under paragraph (h)(1) of this section, the PHA is not responsible for the actions of the RMC.
(i)
Prohibited activities.
A HA may not contract for assumption by the resident management corporation of the HA's underlying responsibilities to HUD under the ACC.
(j)
Bonding, insurance, and licensing
—(1)
Bonding and insurance.
Before assuming any management responsibility under its contract, the RMC must provide fidelity bonding and insurance, or equivalent protection that is adequate (as determined by HUD and the PHA) to protect HUD and the PHA against loss, theft, embezzlement, or fraudulent acts on the part of the RMC or its employees.
(2)
Licensing and other local requirements.
An RMC must be in compliance with any local licensing, or other local requirement, governing the qualifications or operations of a property manager.
(k)
Waiver of HUD requirements.
Upon the joint request of a resident management corporation and the HA, HUD may waive any requirement that HUD has established and that is not required by law, if HUD determines, after consultation with the resident management corporation and the HA, that the requirement unnecessarily increases the costs to the project or restricts the income of the project; and that the waiver would be consistent with the management contract and any applicable collective bargaining agreement. Any waiver granted to a resident management corporation under this section will apply as well to the HA to the extent the waiver affects the HA's remaining responsibilities relating to the resident management corporation's project.
(l)
Monitoring of RMC performance.
The HA must review periodically (but not less than annually) the management corporation's performance to ensure that it complies with all applicable requirements and meets agreed-upon standards of performance. (The method of review and criteria used to
judge performance should be specified in the management contract.)
[59 FR 43636, Aug. 24, 1994, as amended at 65 FR 42515, July 10, 2000]
§ 964.230
Audit and administrative requirements.
(a)
TOP grant recipients.
The HUD Inspector General, the Comptroller General of the United States, or any duly authorized representative shall have access to all records required to be retained by this subpart or by any agreement with HUD for the purpose of audit or other examinations.
(1) Grant recipients must comply with the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, as applicable.
(2) A final audit shall be required of the financial statements made pursuant to this subpart by a Certified Public Accountant (CPA), in accordance with generally accepted government audit standards. A written report of the audit must be forwarded to HUD within 60 days of issuance.
(b)
Resident management corporations.
Resident management corporations who have entered into a contract with a HA with respect to management of a development(s) must comply with the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, as applicable. Resident management corporations managing a development(s) must be audited annually by a licensed certified public accountant, designated by the corporation, in accordance with generally accepted government audit standards. A written report of each audit must be forwarded to HUD and the HA within 30 days of issuance. These requirements are in addition to any other Federal law or other requirement that would apply to the availability and audit of books and records of resident management corporations under this part.
[59 FR 43636, Aug. 24, 1994, as amended at 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015]

# Subpart D—Family Investment Centers (FIC) Program
§ 964.300
General.
The Family Investment Centers Program provides families living in public housing with better access to educational and employment opportunities by:
(a) Developing facilities in or near public housing for training and support services;
(b) Mobilizing public and private resources to expand and improve the delivery of such services;
(c) Providing funding for such essential training and support services that cannot otherwise be funded; and
(d) Improving the capacity of management to assess the training and service needs of families, coordinate the provision of training and services that meet such needs, and ensure the long-term provision of such training and services. FIC provides funding to HAs to access educational, housing, or other social service programs to assist public housing residents toward self-sufficiency.
§ 964.305
Eligibility.
(a)
Public Housing Authorities.
HAs may apply to establish one or more FICs for more than one public housing development.
(b)
FIC Activities.
Activities that may be funded and carried out by eligible HAs, as defined in § 964.305(a) and § 964.310(a) may include:
(1) The renovation, conversion, or combination of vacant dwelling units in a HA development to create common areas to accommodate the provision of supportive services;
(2) The renovation of existing common areas in a HA development to accommodate the provision of supportive services;
(3) The acquisition, construction or renovation of facilities located near the premises of one or more HA developments to accommodate the provision of supportive services;
(4) The provision of not more than 15 percent of the total cost of supportive services (which may be provided directly to eligible residents by the HA or by contract or lease through other appropriate agencies or providers), but only if the HA demonstrates that:
(i) The supportive services are appropriate to improve the access of eligible residents to employment and educational opportunities; and
(ii) The HA has made diligent efforts to use or obtain other available resources to fund or provide such services; and
(5) The employment of service coordinators.
(c)
Follow up.
A HA must demonstrate a firm commitment of assistance from one or more sources ensuring that supportive services will be provided for not less than one year following the completion of activities.
(d)
Environmental Review.
Any environmental impact regarding eligible activities will be addressed through an environmental review of that activity as required by 24 CFR part 50, including the applicable related laws and authorities under § 50.4, to be completed by HUD, to ensure that any environmental impact will be addressed before assistance is provided to the HA. Grantees will be expected to adhere to all assurances applicable to environmental concerns.
§ 964.308
Supportive services requirements.
HAs shall provide new or significantly expanded services essential to providing families in public housing with better access to educational and employment opportunities to achieve self-sufficiency and independence. HAs applying for funds to provide supportive services must demonstrate that the services will be provided at a higher level than currently provided. Supportive services may include:
(a) Child care, of a type that provides sufficient hours of operation and serves appropriate ages as needed to facilitate parental access to education and job opportunities;
(b) Employment training and counseling (e.g., job training, preparation and counseling, job development and placement, and follow-up assistance after job placement);
(c) Computer skills training;
(d) Education (e.g., remedial education, literacy training, completion of secondary or post-secondary education, and assistance in the attainment of certificates of high school equivalency);
(e) Business entrepreneurial training and counseling;
(f) Transportation, as necessary to enable any participating family member to receive available services or to commute to his or her place of employment;
(g) Personal welfare (e.g., substance/alcohol abuse treatment and counseling, self-development counseling, etc.);
(h) Supportive Health Care Services (e.g., outreach and referral services); and
(i) Any other services and resources, including case management, that are determined to be appropriate in assisting eligible residents.
§ 964.310
Audit/compliance requirements.
HAs cannot have serious unaddressed, outstanding Inspector General audit findings or fair housing and equal opportunity monitoring review findings or Field Office management review findings. In addition, the HA must be in compliance with civil rights laws and equal opportunity requirements. A HA will be considered to be in compliance if:
(a) As a result of formal administrative proceedings, there are no outstanding findings of noncompliance with civil rights laws unless the HA is operating in compliance with a HUD-approved compliance agreement designed to correct the area(s) of noncompliance;
(b) There is no adjudication of a civil rights violation in a civil action brought against it by a private individual, unless the HA demonstrates that it is operating in compliance with a court order, or implementing a HUD-approved resident selection and assignment plan or compliance agreement, designed to correct the area(s) of noncompliance;
(c) There is no deferral of Federal funding based upon civil rights violations;
(d) HUD has not deferred application processing by HUD under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Attorney General's Guidelines (28 CFR 50.3) and HUD's Title VI regulations (24 CFR 1.8) and procedures (HUD Handbook 8040.1) [HAs only] or under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and
HUD regulations (24 CFR 8.57) [HAs and IHAs];
(e) There is no pending civil rights suit brought against the HA by the Department of Justice; and
(f) There is no unresolved charge of discrimination against the HA issued by the Secretary under Section 810(g) of the Fair Housing Act, as implemented by 24 CFR 103.400.
§ 964.315
HAs role in activities under this part.
The HAs shall develop a process that assures that RC/RMC representatives and residents are fully briefed and have an opportunity to comment on the proposed content of the HA's application for funding. The HA shall give full and fair consideration to the comments and concerns of the residents. The process shall include:
(a) Informing residents of the selected developments regarding the preparation of the application, and providing for residents to assist in the development of the application.
(b) Once a draft application has been prepared, the HA shall make a copy available for reading in the management office; provide copies of the draft to any resident organization representing the residents of the development(s) involved; and provide adequate opportunity for comment by the residents of the development and their representative organizations prior to making the application final.
(c) After HUD approval of a grant, notify the duly elected resident organization and if none exists, notify the residents of the development of the approval of the grant; provide notification of the availability of the HUD-approved implementation schedule in the management office for reading; and develop a system to facilitate a regular resident role in all aspects of program implementation.
§ 964.320
HUD Policy on training, employment, contracting and subcontracting of public housing residents.
In accordance with Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 75, PHAs, their contractors and subcontractors shall make best efforts, consistent with existing Federal, State, and local laws and regulations, to give low and very low-income persons the training and employment opportunities generated by Section 3 covered assistance (as this term is defined in 24 CFR 75.3) and to give Section 3 business concerns the contracting opportunities generated by Section 3 covered assistance.
[85 FR 61568, Sept. 29, 2020]
§ 964.325
Notice of funding availability.
A Notice of Funding Availability will be published periodically in the
Federal Register
containing the amounts of funds available, funding criteria, where to obtain and submit applications, the deadline for the submissions, and further explanation of the selection criteria.
§ 964.330
Grant set-aside assistance.
The Department may make available five percent (5%) of any amounts available in each fiscal year (subsequent to the first funding cycle) available to eligible HAs to supplement grants previously awarded under this program. These supplemental grants would be awarded if the HA demonstrates that the funds cannot otherwise be obtained and are needed to maintain adequate levels of services to residents.
§ 964.335
Grant agreement.
(a)
General.
HUD will enter into a grant agreement with the recipients of a Family Investment Centers grant which defines the legal framework for the relationship between HUD and a HA.
(b)
Term of grant agreement.
A grant will be for a term of three to five years depending upon the tasks undertaken, as defined under this subpart.
§ 964.340
Resident compensation.
Residents employed to provide services or renovation or conversion work funded under this program shall be paid at a rate not less than the highest of:
(a) The minimum wage that would be applicable to the employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (FLSA), if section 6(a)(1) of the FLSA
applied to the resident and if the resident were not exempt under section 13 of the FLSA;
(b) The State or local minimum wage for the most nearly comparable covered employment; or
(c) The prevailing rate of pay for persons employed in similar public occupations by the same employer.
§ 964.345
Treatment of income.
Program participation shall begin on the first day the resident enters training or begins to receive services. Furthermore, the earnings of and benefits to any HA resident resulting from participation in the FIC program shall not be considered as income in computing the resident's total annual income that is used to determine the resident rental payment during:
(a) The period that the resident participates in the program; and
(b) The period that begins with the commencement of employment of the resident in the first job acquired by the resident after completion of the program that is not funded by assistance under the 1937 Act, and ends on the earlier of:
(1) The date the resident ceases to continue employment without good cause; or
(2) The expiration of the 18-month period beginning on the date of commencement of employment in the first job not funded by assistance under this program. (See § 913.106, Annual Income.) This provision does not apply to residents participating in the Family Self-Sufficiency Program who are utilizing the escrow account.
§ 964.350
Administrative requirements.
The HUD Inspector General, the Comptroller General of the United States, or any duly authorized representative shall have access to all records required to be retained by this subpart or by any agreements with HUD for the purpose of audit or other examinations.
(a) Each HA receiving a grant shall submit to HUD an annual progress report, participant evaluation and assessment data and other information, as needed, regarding the effectiveness of FIC in achieving self-sufficiency.
(b) The policies, guidelines, and requirements of 2 CFR part 200 are applicable with respect to the acceptance and use of assistance by private nonprofit organizations.
[59 FR 43636, Aug. 24, 1994, as amended at 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015]

# Subpart E—Resident Board Members

# Source:
64 FR 56879, Oct. 21, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 964.400
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to implement section 2(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437).
§ 964.405
Applicability.
(a)
General.
Except as described in paragraph (b) of this section, this subpart applies to any public housing agency that has a public housing annual contributions contract with HUD or administers tenant-based rental assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).
(b)
Exceptions.
The requirements of this subpart do not apply to a public housing agency that is:
(1) Located in a State that requires the members of a governing board to be salaried and to serve on a full-time basis; or
(2) Not governed by a governing board.
§ 964.410
Additional definitions.
The following additional definitions apply to this subpart only:
Directly assisted.
Directly assisted means a public housing resident or a recipient of housing assistance in the tenant-based section 8 program. Direct assistance does not include any State financed housing assistance or Section 8 project-based assistance.
Eligible resident.
An eligible resident is a person:
(1) Who is directly assisted by a public housing agency;
(2) Whose name appears on the lease; and
(3) Is eighteen years of age or older.
Governing board.
Governing board means the board of directors or similar governing body of a public housing agency.
Resident board member.
A resident board member is a member of the governing board who is directly assisted by that public housing agency.
§ 964.415
Resident board members.
(a)
General.
Except as provided in §§ 964.405(b) and 964.425, the membership of the governing board of each public housing agency must contain not less than one eligible resident board member.
(b)
Resident board member no longer directly assisted.
(1) A resident board member who ceases to be directly assisted by the public housing agency is no longer an “eligible resident” as defined in § 964.410.
(2) Such a board member may be removed from the PHA board for that cause, where such action is permitted under State or local law.
(3) Alternatively, the board member may be allowed to complete his/her current term as a member of the governing board. However, the board member may not be re-appointed (or re-elected) to the governing board for purposes of serving as the statutorily required resident board member.
(c)
Minimum qualifications for board membership.
Any generally applicable qualifications for board membership also apply to residents, unless the application of the requirements would result in the governing board not containing at least one eligible resident as a member. Further, PHAs and localities may not establish eligibility requirements for board membership that are solely applicable to residents.
§ 964.420
Resident board member may be elected.
(a)
General.
Residents directly assisted by a public housing agency may elect a resident board member if provided for in the public housing agency plan, adopted in accordance with 24 CFR part 903.
(b)
Notice to residents.
The public housing agency must provide residents with at least 30 days advance notice for nominations and elections. The notice should include a description of the election procedures, eligibility requirements, and dates of nominations and elections. Any election procedures devised by the public housing agency must facilitate fair elections.
§ 964.425
Small public housing agencies.
(a)
General.
The requirements of this subpart do not apply to any public housing agency that:
(1) Has less than 300 public housing units (or has no public housing units):
(2) Has provided reasonable notice to the resident advisory board of the opportunity for residents to serve on the governing board;
(3) Has not been notified of the intention of any resident to participate on the governing board within a reasonable time (which shall not be less than 30 days) of the resident advisory board receiving the notice described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section; and
(4) Repeats the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section at least once every year.
(b)
Public housing agencies that only administer Section 8 assistance.
A public housing agency that has no public housing units, but administers Section 8 tenant-based assistance, is eligible for the exception described in paragraph (a) of this section, regardless of the number of Section 8 vouchers it administers.
(c)
Failure to meet requirements for exception.
A public housing agency that is otherwise eligible for the exception described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, but does not meet the three conditions described in paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(4) of this section, must comply with the requirements of this subpart.
§ 964.430
Nondiscrimination.
(a)
Membership status
—(1)
General.
A resident board member is a full member of the governing board.
(2)
Resident participation must include matters regarding Federal public housing and Section 8 tenant-based assistance.
A resident board member must be allowed to take part in decisions related to the administration, operation, and management of Federal public housing programs and Section 8 tenant-based
rental assistance programs. This rule does not extend to matters that:
(i) Exclusively relate to other types of housing assistance (such as State financed housing assistance); or
(ii) Do not involve housing assistance (as may occur where the city or county governing body also serves as the PHA board).
(3)
Public housing agency may expand scope of resident participation.
A public housing agency may choose to expand the scope of resident member involvement to matters not required under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(b)
Residence status.
A governing board may not prohibit any person from serving on the governing board because that person is a resident of a public housing project or is assisted under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).
(c)
Conflict of interest.
A governing board may not exclude any resident board member from participating in any matter before the governing board on the grounds that the resident board member's lease with the public housing agency, or the resident board member's status as a public housing resident or recipient of Section 8 tenant-based assistance, either results or may result in a conflict of interest, unless the matter is clearly applicable to the resident board member only in a personal capacity and applies uniquely to that member and not generally to residents or to a subcategory of residents.
Pt. 965

# PART 965—PHA-OWNED OR LEASED PROJECTS—GENERAL PROVISIONS

# Subpart A—Preemption of State Prevailing Wage Requirements
Sec.
965.101
Preemption of State prevailing wage requirements.

# Subpart B—Required Insurance Coverage
965.201
Purpose and applicability.
965.205
Qualified PHA-owned insurance entity.
965.215
Lead-based paint liability insurance coverage.

# Subpart C—Energy Audits and Energy Conservation Measures
965.301
Purpose and applicability.
965.302
Requirements for energy audits.
965.303
[Reserved]
965.304
Order of funding.
965.305
Funding.
965.306
Energy conservation equipment and practices.
965.307
Compliance schedule.
965.308
Energy performance contracts.

# Subpart D—Individual Metering of Utilities for Existing PHA-Owned Projects
965.401
Individually metered utilities.
965.402
Benefit/cost analysis.
965.403
Funding.
965.404
Order of conversion.
965.405
Actions affecting residents.
965.406
Benefit/cost analysis for similar projects.
965.407
Reevaluations of mastermeter systems.

# Subpart E—Resident Allowances for Utilities
965.501
Applicability.
965.502
Establishment of utility allowances by PHAs.
965.503
Categories for establishment of allowances.
965.504
Period for which allowances are established.
965.505
Standards for allowances for utilities.
965.506
Surcharges for excess consumption of PHA-furnished utilities.
965.507
Review and revision of allowances.
965.508
Individual relief.

# Subpart F—Physical Condition Standards and Physical Inspection Requirements
965.601
Physical condition standards; physical inspection requirements.

# Subpart G—Smoke-Free Public Housing
965.651
Applicability.
965.653
Smoke-free public housing.
965.655
Implementation.

# Subpart H—Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention
965.701
Lead-based paint poisoning prevention.
Subpart I[Reserved]

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1437, 1437a, 1437d, 1437g, and 3535(d). Subpart H is also issued under 42 U.S.C. 4821-4846.

# Source:
41 FR 20276, May 17, 1976, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 49 FR 6714, Feb. 23, 1984.

# Subpart A—Preemption of State Prevailing Wage Requirements
§ 965.101
Preemption of State prevailing wage requirements.
(a) A prevailing wage rate including basic hourly rate and any fringe benefits) determined under State law shall be inapplicable to a contract or PHA-performed work item for the development, maintenance, and modernization of a project whenever:
(1) The contract or work item: (i) Is otherwise subject to State law requiring the payment of wage rates determined by a State or local government or agency to be prevailing and (ii) is assisted with funds for low-income public housing under the U.S. Housing Act of 1937, as amended; and
(2) The wage rate determined under State law to be prevailing with respect to an employee in any trade or position employed in the development, maintenance, and modernization of a project exceeds whichever of the following Federal wage rates is applicable:
(i) The wage rate determined by the Secretary of Labor pursuant to the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276a
et seq.
) to be prevailing in the locality with respect to such trade;
(ii) An applicable apprentice wage rate based thereon specified in an apprenticeship program registered with the Department of Labor or a DOL-recognized State Apprenticeship Agency;
(iii) An applicable trainee wage rate based thereon specified in a DOL-certified trainee program; or
(iv) The wage rate determined by the Secretary of HUD to be prevailing in the locality with respect to such trade or position.
(v) For the purpose of ascertaining whether a wage rate determined under State law for a trade or position exceeds the Federal wage rate: (A) Where a rate determined by the Secretary of Labor or an apprentice or trainee wage rate based thereon is applicable, the total wage rate determined under State law, including fringe benefits (if any) and basic hourly rate, shall be compared to the total wage rate determined by the Secretary of Labor or apprentice or trainee wage rate; and (B) where a rate determined by the Secretary of HUD is applicable, any fringe benefits determined under State law shall be excluded from the comparison with the rate determined by the Secretary of HUD.
(b) Whenever paragraph (a)(1) of this section is applicable:
(1) Any solicitation of bids or proposals issued by the PHA and any contract executed by the PHA for development, maintenance, and modernization of the project shall include a statement that any prevailing wage rate (including basic hourly rate and any fringe benefits) determined under State law to be prevailing with respect to an employee in any trade or position employed under the contract is inapplicable to the contract and shall not be enforced against the contractor or any subcontractor with respect to employees engaged under the contract whenever either of the following occurs:
(i) Such nonfederal prevailing wage rate exceeds: (A) The applicable wage rate determined by the Secretary of Labor pursuant to the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276a
et seq.
) to be prevailing in the locality with respect to such trade; (B) an applicable apprentice wage rate based thereon specified in an apprenticeship program registered with the Department of Labor or a DOL-recognized State Apprenticeship Agency or (C) an applicable trainee wage rate based thereon specified in a DOL-certified trainee program; or
(ii) Such nonfederal prevailing wage rate, exclusive of any fringe benefits, exceeds the applicable wage rate determined by the Secretary of HUD to be prevailing in the locality with respect to such trade or position.
Failure to include this statement may constitute grounds for requiring resolicitation of the bid or proposal;
(2) The PHA itself shall not be required to pay the basic hourly rate or any fringe benefits comprising a prevailing wage rate determined under State law and described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section to any of its own employees who may be engaged in the work item for development, maintenance, and modernization of the project; and
(3) Neither the basic hourly rate nor any fringe benefits comprising a prevailing wage rate determined under State law and described in paragraph (a)(2) shall be enforced against the PHA or any of its contractors or subcontractors with respect to employees engaged in the contract or PHA-performed work item for development, maintenance, and modernization of the project.
(c) Nothing in this section shall affect the applicability of any wage rate established in a collective bargaining agreement with a PHA or its contractors or subcontractors where such wage rate equals or exceeds the applicable Federal wage rate referred to in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, nor does this section impose a ceiling on wage rates a PHA or its contractors or subcontractors may choose to pay independent of State law.
(d) The provisions of this section shall be applicable to work performed under any prime contract entered into as a result of a solicitation of bids or proposals issued on or after October 6, 1988 and to any work performed by employees of a PHA on or after October 6, 1988, but not to work or contracts administered by Indian Housing Authorities (for which, see part 905 of this chapter).
[53 FR 30217, Aug. 10, 1988, as amended at 57 FR 28358, June 24, 1992; 61 FR 8736, Mar. 5, 1996]

# Subpart B—Required Insurance Coverage

# Source:
58 FR 51957, Oct. 5, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 965.201
Purpose and applicability.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to implement policies concerning insurance coverage required under the Annual Contributions Contract (ACC) between the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and a Public Housing Agency (PHA).
(b)
Applicability.
The provisions of this subpart apply to all housing owned by PHAs, including Turnkey III housing. However, these provisions do not apply to Section 23 and Section 10(c) PHA-leased projects or to Section 8 Housing Assistance Payments Program projects.
§ 965.205
Qualified PHA-owned insurance entity.
(a)
Contractual requirements for insurance coverage.
The Annual Contributions Contract (ACC) between PHAs and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development requires that PHAs maintain specified insurance coverage for property and casualty losses that would jeopardize the financial stability of the PHAs. The insurance coverage is required to be obtained under procedures that provide “for open and competitive bidding.” The HUD Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1992 provided that a PHA could purchase insurance coverage without regard to competitive selection procedures when it purchases it from a nonprofit insurance entity owned and controlled by PHAs approved by HUD in accordance with standards established by regulation. This section specifies the standards.
(b)
Method of selecting insurance coverage.
While 2 CFR 200.319 requires that grantees solicit full and open competition for their procurements, the HUD Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1992 provides an exception to this requirement. PHAs are authorized to obtain any line of insurance from a nonprofit insurance entity that is owned and controlled by PHAs and approved by HUD in accordance with this section, without regard to competitive selection procedures. Procurement of insurance from other entities is subject to competitive selection procedures.
(c)
Approval of a nonprofit insurance entity.
Under the following conditions, HUD will approve a nonprofit self-funded insurance entity created by PHAs that limits participation to PHAs (and to nonprofit entities associated with PHAs that engage in activities or perform functions only for housing authorities or housing authority residents):
(1)
An insurance company (including a risk retention group).
(i) The insurance company is licensed or authorized to do business in the State by the State Insurance Commissioner and has submitted documentation of this approval to HUD; and
(ii) The insurance company has not been suspended from providing insurance coverage in the State or been suspended or debarred from doing business with the federal government. The insurance company is obligated to send to HUD a copy of any action taken by the authorizing official to withdraw the license or authorization.
(2)
An entity not organized as an insurance company.
(i) The entity has competent underwriting staff (hired directly or engaged by contract with a third party), as evidenced by professionals with an average of at least five years of experience in large risk (exceeding $100,000 in annual premiums) commercial underwriting or at least five years of experience in the underwriting of risks for public entity risk pools. This standard may be satisfied by submission of evidence of competent underwriting staff, including copies of resumes of underwriting staff for the entity;
(ii) The entity has efficient and qualified management (hired directly or engaged by contract with a third party), as evidenced by the report submitted to HUD in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section and by having at least one senior staff person who has a minimum of five years of experience:
(A) At the management level of Vice President of a property/casualty insurance entity;
(B) As a senior branch manager of a branch office with annual property/casualty premiums exceeding $5 million; or
(C) As a senior manager of a public entity risk pool. Documentation for this standard must include copies of resumes of key management personnel responsible for oversight and for the day-to-day operation of the entity;
(iii) The entity maintains internal controls and cost containment measures, as evidenced by an annual budget;
(iv) The entity maintains sound investments consistent with the State insurance commissioner's requirements for licensed insurance companies, or other State statutory requirements controlling investments of public entities, in the State in which the entity is organized, investing only in assets that qualify as “admitted assets”;
(v) The entity maintains adequate surplus and reserves for undischarged liabilities of all types, as evidenced by a current audited financial statement and an actuarial review conducted in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section; and
(vi) Upon application for initial approval, the entity has proper organizational documentation, as evidenced by copies of the articles of incorporation, by-laws, business plans, copies of contracts with third party administrators, and an opinion from legal counsel that establishment of the entity conforms with all legal requirements under Federal and State law. Any material changes made to these documents after initial approval must be submitted for review and approval before becoming effective.
(d)
Professional evaluations of performance.
Audits and actuarial reviews are required to be prepared and submitted annually to the HUD Office of Public and Indian Housing, for review and appropriate action, by nonprofit insurance entities that are not insurance companies approved under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. In addition, an evaluation of other management factors is required to be performed by an insurance professional every three years. For fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 1993, the initial audit, actuarial review, and insurance management review required for a nonprofit insurance entity must be submitted to HUD within 90 days after the entity's fiscal year.
(1) The annual financial statement prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (including any supplementary data required under GASB 10) is to be audited by an independent auditor (see 2 CFR part 200, subpart F), in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. The independent auditor shall express an opinion on whether the entity's financial statement is presented fairly in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A copy of this audit must be submitted to HUD.
(2) The actuarial review must be done consistent with requirements established by the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners and must be conducted by an independent property/casualty actuary who is an Associate or Fellow of a recognized professional actuarial organization, such as the Casualty Actuary Society. The report issued, a copy of which must be submitted to HUD, must include an opinion on any over or under reserving and the adequacy of the reserves maintained for the open claims and for incurred but unreported claims.
(3) A review must be conducted, a copy of which must be submitted to HUD, by an independent insurance consulting firm that has at least one person on staff who has received the professional designation of chartered property/casualty underwriter (CPCU), associate in risk management (ARM), or associate in claims (AIC), of the following:
(i) Efficiency of any Third Party Administrator;
(ii) Timeliness of the claim payments and reserving practices; and
(iii) The adequacy of reinsurance coverage.
(e)
Revocation of approval of a nonprofit insurance entity.
HUD may revoke its approval of a nonprofit insurance entity under this section when it no longer meets the requirements of this section. The nonprofit insurance entity will be notified in writing of: the proposed revocation of its approval, the reasons for the action, and the manner and time in which to request a hearing to challenge the determination. The procedure to be followed is specified in 24 CFR part 26, subpart A.
[41 FR 20276, May 17, 1976, as amended at 61 FR 7969, Feb. 29, 1996; 61 FR 50219, Sept. 24, 1996; 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 965.215
Lead-based paint liability insurance coverage.
(a)
General.
The purpose of this section is to specify what HUD deems reasonable insurance coverage with respect to the hazards associated with lead-based paint activities that the PHA undertakes, in accordance with the PHA's ACC with HUD. The insurance coverage does not relieve the PHA of its responsibility for assuring that lead-based paint activities are conducted in a responsible manner.
(b)
Insurance coverage requirements.
When the PHA undertakes lead-based paint activities, it must assure that it has reasonable insurance coverage for itself for potential personal injury liability associated with those activities. If the work is being done by PHA employees, the PHA must obtain a liability insurance policy directly to protect the PHA. If the work is being done by a contractor, the PHA must obtain, from the insurer of the contractor performing this type of work in accordance with a contract, a certificate of insurance providing evidence of such insurance and naming the PHA as an additional insured; or obtain such insurance directly. Insurance must remain in effect during the entire period of lead-based paint activity and must comply with the following requirements:
(1)
Named insured.
If purchased by the PHA, the policy shall name the PHA as insured. If purchased by an independent contractor, the policy shall name the contractor as insured and the PHA as an additional insured, in connection with performing work under the PHA's contract pertaining to lead-based paint activities. If the PHA has executed a contract with a Resident Management Corporation (RMC) to manage a building/project on behalf of the PHA, the RMC shall be an additional insured under the policy in connection with the PHA's contract related to lead-based paint activities. (The duties of the RMC are similar to those of a real estate management firm.)
(2)
Coverage limits.
The minimum limit of liability shall be $500,000 per occurrence written, with a combined single limit for bodily injury and property damage.
(3)
Deductible.
A deductible, if any, may not exceed $5,000 per occurrence.
(4)
Supplementary payments.
Payments for such supplementary costs as the costs of defending against a claim must be in addition to, and not as a reduction of, the limit of liability. However, it will be permissible for the policy to have a limit on the amount payable for defense costs. If a limit is applicable, it must not be less than $250,000 per claim prior to such costs
being deducted from the limit of liability.
(5)
Occurrence form policy.
The form used must be an “occurrence” form, or a “claims made” form that contains an extended reporting period of at least five years. (Under an occurrence form, coverage applies to any loss regardless of when the claim is made.)
(6)
Aggregate limit.
If the policy contains an aggregate limit, the minimum acceptable limit is $1,000,000.
(7)
Cancellation.
In the event of cancellation, at least 30 days' advance notice is to be given to the insured and any additional insured.
(c)
Exception to requirements.
Insurance already purchased by the PHA or contractor and enforced on the day this section is effective which provides coverage for lead-based paint activities shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this section until the expiration of the policy. This section is not applicable to architects, engineers or consultants who do not physically perform lead-based paint activities.
(d)
Insurance for the existence of lead-based paint hazards.
A PHA may also purchase special liability insurance against the existence of lead-based paint hazards, although it is not a required coverage. A PHA may purchase this coverage if, in the opinion of the PHA, the policy meets the PHA's requirements, the premium is reasonable and the policy is obtained in accordance with applicable procurement standards. (See 2 CFR part 200 and § 965.205 of this title.) If this coverage is purchased, the premium must be paid from funds available under the Performance Funding System or from reserves.
[59 FR 31930, June 21, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 50228, Sept. 15, 1999; 80 FR 75943, Dec. 7, 2015]

# Subpart C—Energy Audits and Energy Conservation Measures

# Source:
61 FR 7969, Feb. 29, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 965.301
Purpose and applicability.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart C is to implement HUD policies in support of national energy conservation goals by requiring PHAs to conduct energy audits and undertake certain cost-effective energy conservation measures.
(b)
Applicability.
The provisions of this subpart apply to all PHAs with PHA-owned housing, but they do not apply to Indian Housing Authorities. (For similar provisions applicable to Indian housing, see part 950 of this chapter.) No PHA-leased project or Section 8 Housing Assistance Payments Program project, including a PHA-owned Section 8 project, is covered by this subpart.
§ 965.302
Requirements for energy audits.
All PHAs shall complete an energy audit for each PHA-owned project under management, not less than once every five years. Standards for energy audits shall be equivalent to State standards for energy audits. Energy audits shall analyze all of the energy conservation measures, and the payback period for these measures, that are pertinent to the type of buildings and equipment operated by the PHA.
§ 965.303
[Reserved]
§ 965.304
Order of funding.
Within the funds available to a PHA, energy conservation measures should be accomplished with the shortest pay-back periods funded first. A PHA may make adjustments to this funding order because of insufficient funds to accomplish high-cost energy conservation measures (ECM) or where an ECM with a longer pay-back period can be more efficiently installed in conjunction with other planned modernization. A PHA may not install individual utility meters that measure the energy or fuel used for space heating in dwelling units that need substantial weatherization, when installation of meters would result in economic hardship for residents. In these cases, the ECMs related to weatherization shall be accomplished before the installation of individual utility meters.
§ 965.305
Funding.
(a) The cost of accomplishing cost-effective energy conservation measures, including the cost of performing energy
audits, shall be funded from operating funds of the PHA to the extent feasible. When sufficient operating funds are not available for this purpose, such costs are eligible for inclusion in a modernization program, for funding from any available development funds in the case of projects still in development, or for other available funds that HUD may designate to be used for energy conservation.
(b) If a PHA finances energy conservation measures from sources other than modernization or operating reserves, such as a loan from a utility entity or a guaranteed savings agreement with a private energy service company, HUD may agree to provide adjustments in its calculation of the PHA's operating subsidy eligibility under the PFS for the project and utility involved based on a determination that payments can be funded from the reasonably anticipated energy cost savings (See § 990.107(g) of this chapter).
§ 965.306
Energy conservation equipment and practices.
In purchasing original or, when needed, replacement equipment, PHAs shall acquire only equipment that meets or exceeds the minimum efficiency requirements established by the U.S. Department of Energy. In the operation of their facilities, PHAs shall follow operating practices directed to maximum energy conservation.
§ 965.307
Compliance schedule.
All energy conservation measures determined by energy audits to be cost effective shall be accomplished as funds are available.
§ 965.308
Energy performance contracts.
(a)
Method of procurement.
Energy performance contracting shall be conducted using one of the following methods of procurement:
(1) Competitive proposals (see 2 CFR 200.320(d)). In identifying the evaluation factors and their relative importance, as required by § 2 CFR 200.320(d) of this title, the solicitation shall state that technical factors are significantly more important than price (of the energy audit); or
(2) If the services are available only from a single source, noncompetitive proposals (see 2 CFR 200.320(f)).
(b)
HUD Review.
Solicitations for energy performance contracting shall be submitted to the HUD Field Office for review and approval prior to issuance. Energy performance contracts shall be submitted to the HUD Field Office for review and approval before award.
[61 FR 7969, Feb. 29, 1996, as amended at 80 FR 75943, Dec. 7, 2015]

# Subpart D—Individual Metering of Utilities for Existing PHA-Owned Projects

# Source:
61 FR 7970, Feb. 29, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 965.401
Individually metered utilities.
(a) All utility service shall be individually metered to residents, either through provision of retail service to the residents by the utility supplier or through the use of checkmeters, unless:
(1) Individual metering is impractical, such as in the case of a central heating system in an apartment building;
(2) Change from a mastermetering system to individual meters would not be financially justified based upon a benefit/cost analysis; or
(3) Checkmetering is not permissible under State or local law, or under the policies of the particular utility supplier or public service commission.
(b) If checkmetering is not permissible, retail service shall be considered. Where checkmetering is permissible, the type of individual metering offering the most savings to the PHA shall be selected.
§ 965.402
Benefit/cost analysis.
(a) A benefit/cost analysis shall be made to determine whether a change from a mastermetering system to individual meters will be cost effective, except as otherwise provided in § 965.405.
(b) Proposed installation of checkmeters shall be justified on the
basis that the cost of debt service (interest and amortization) of the estimated installation costs plus the operating costs of the checkmeters will be more than offset by reduction in future utilities expenditures to the PHA under the mastermeter system.
(c) Proposed conversion to retail service shall be justified on the basis of net savings to the PHA. This determination involves making a comparison between the reduction in utility expense obtained through eliminating the expense to the PHA for PHA-supplied utilities and the resultant allowance for resident-supplied utilities, based on the cost of utility service to the residents after conversion.
§ 965.403
Funding.
The cost to change mastermeter systems to individual metering of resident consumption, including the costs of benefit/cost analysis and complete installation of checkmeters, shall be funded from operating funds of the PHA to the extent feasible. When sufficient operating funds are not available for this purpose, such costs are eligible for inclusion in a modernization project or for funding from any available development funds.
§ 965.404
Order of conversion.
Conversions to individually metered utility service shall be accomplished in the following order when a PHA has projects of two or more of the designated categories, unless the PHA has a justifiable reason to do otherwise, which shall be documented in its files.
(a) In projects for which retail service is provided by the utility supplier and the PHA is paying all the individual utility bills, no benefit/cost analysis is necessary, and residents shall be billed directly after the PHA adopts revised payment schedules providing appropriate allowances for resident-supplied utilities.
(b) In projects for which checkmeters have been installed but are not being utilized as the basis for determining utility charges to the residents, no benefit/cost analysis is necessary. The checkmeters shall be used as the basis for utility charges, and residents shall be surcharged for excess utility use.
(c) Projects for which meter loops have been installed for utilization of checkmeters shall be analyzed both for the installation of checkmeters and for conversion to retail service.
(d) Low- or medium-rise family units with a mastermeter system should be analyzed for both checkmetering and conversion to retail service, because of their large potential for energy savings.
(e) Low- or medium-rise housing for the elderly should next be analyzed for both checkmetering and conversion to retail service, since the potential for energy saving is less than for family units.
(f) Electric service under mastermeters for high-rise buildings, including projects for the elderly, should be analyzed for both use of retail service and of checkmeters.
§ 965.405
Actions affecting residents.
(a) Before making any conversion to retail service, the PHA shall adopt revised payment schedules, providing appropriate allowances for the resident-supplied utilities resulting from the conversion.
(b) Before implementing any modifications to utility services arrangements with the residents or charges with respect thereto, the PHA shall make the requisite changes in resident dwelling leases in accordance with 24 CFR part 966.
(c) PHAs must work closely with resident organizations, to the extent practicable, in making plans for conversion of utility service to individual metering, explaining the national policy objectives of energy conservation, the changes in charges and rent structure that will result, and the goals of achieving an equitable structure that will be advantageous to residents who conserve energy.
(d) A transition period of at least six months shall be provided in the case of initiation of checkmeters, during which residents will be advised of the charges but during which no surcharge will be made based on the readings. This trial period will afford residents ample notice of the effects the checkmetering system will have on their individual utility charges and
also afford a test period for the adequacy of the utility allowances established.
(e) During and after the transition period, PHAs shall advise and assist residents with high utility consumption on methods for reducing their usage. This advice and assistance may include counseling, installation of new energy conserving equipment or appliances, and corrective maintenance.
§ 965.406
Benefit/cost analysis for similar projects.
PHAs with more than one project of similar design and utilities service may prepare a benefit/cost analysis for a representative project. A finding that a change in metering is not cost effective for the representative project is sufficient reason for the PHA not to perform a benefit/cost analysis on the remaining similar projects.
§ 965.407
Reevaluations of mastermeter systems.
Because of changes in the cost of utility services and the periodic changes in utility regulations, PHAs with mastermeter systems are required to reevaluate mastermeter systems without checkmeters by making benefit/cost analyses at least every 5 years. These analyses may be omitted under the conditions specified in § 965.406.

# Subpart E—Resident Allowances for Utilities

# Source:
61 FR 7971, Feb. 29, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 965.501
Applicability.
(a) This subpart E applies to public housing, including the Turnkey III Homeownership Opportunities program. This subpart E also applies to units assisted under sections 10(c) and 23 of the U. S. Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437
et seq.
) as in effect before amendment by the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (12 U.S.C. 1706e) and to which 24 CFR part 900 is not applicable. This subpart E does not apply to Indian housing projects (see 24 CFR part 950).
(b) In rental units for which utilities are furnished by the PHA but there are no checkmeters to measure the actual utilities consumption of the individual units, residents shall be subject to charges for consumption by resident-owned major appliances, or for optional functions of PHA-furnished equipment, in accordance with § 965.502(e) and 965.506(b), but no utility allowance will be established.
§ 965.502
Establishment of utility allowances by PHAs.
(a) PHAs shall establish allowances for PHA-furnished utilities for all checkmetered utilities and allowances for resident-purchased utilities for all utilities purchased directly by residents from the utilities suppliers.
(b) The PHA shall maintain a record that documents the basis on which allowances and scheduled surcharges, and revisions thereof, are established and revised. Such record shall be available for inspection by residents.
(c) The PHA shall give notice to all residents of proposed allowances, scheduled surcharges, and revisions thereof. Such notice shall be given, in the manner provided in the lease or homebuyer agreement, not less than 60 days before the proposed effective date of the allowances or scheduled surcharges or revisions; shall describe with reasonable particularity the basis for determination of the allowances, scheduled surcharges, or revisions, including a statement of the specific items of equipment and function whose utility consumption requirements were included in determining the amounts of the allowances or scheduled surcharges; shall notify residents of the place where the PHA's record maintained in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section is available for inspection; and shall provide all residents an opportunity to submit written comments during a period expiring not less than 30 days before the proposed effective date of the allowances or scheduled surcharges or revisions. Such written comments shall be retained by the PHA and shall be available for inspection by residents.
(d) Schedules of allowances and scheduled surcharges shall not be subject to approval by HUD before becoming effective, but will be reviewed in
the course of audits or reviews of PHA operations.
(e) The PHA's determinations of allowances, scheduled surcharges, and revisions thereof shall be final and valid unless found to be arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with the law.
§ 965.503
Categories for establishment of allowances.
Separate allowances shall be established for each utility and for each category of dwelling units determined by the PHA to be reasonably comparable as to factors affecting utility usage.
§ 965.504
Period for which allowances are established.
(a)
PHA-furnished utilities.
Allowances will normally be established on a quarterly basis; however, residents may be surcharged on a monthly basis. The allowances established may provide for seasonal variations.
(b)
Resident-purchased utilities.
Monthly allowances shall be established. The allowances established may provide for seasonal variations.
§ 965.505
Standards for allowances for utilities.
(a) The objective of a PHA in designing methods of establishing utility allowances for each dwelling unit category and unit size shall be to approximate a reasonable consumption of utilities by an energy-conservative household of modest circumstances consistent with the requirements of a safe, sanitary, and healthful living environment.
(b) Allowances for both PHA-furnished and resident-purchased utilities shall be designed to include such reasonable consumption for major equipment or for utility functions furnished by the PHA for all residents (e.g., heating furnace, hot water heater), for essential equipment whether or not furnished by the PHA (e.g., range and refrigerator), and for minor items of equipment (such as toasters and radios) furnished by residents.
(c) The complexity and elaborateness of the methods chosen by the PHA, in its discretion, to achieve the foregoing objective will depend upon the nature of the housing stock, data available to the PHA and the extent of the administrative resources reasonably available to the PHA to be devoted to the collection of such data, the formulation of methods of calculation, and actual calculation and monitoring of the allowances.
(d) In establishing allowances, the PHA shall take into account relevant factors affecting consumption requirements, including:
(1) The equipment and functions intended to be covered by the allowance for which the utility will be used. For instance, natural gas may be used for cooking, heating domestic water, or space heating, or any combination of the three;
(2) The climatic location of the housing projects;
(3) The size of the dwelling units and the number of occupants per dwelling unit;
(4) Type of construction and design of the housing project;
(5) The energy efficiency of PHA-supplied appliances and equipment;
(6) The utility consumption requirements of appliances and equipment whose reasonable consumption is intended to be covered by the total resident payment;
(7) The physical condition, including insulation and weatherization, of the housing project;
(8) Temperature levels intended to be maintained in the unit during the day and at night, and in cold and warm weather; and
(9) Temperature of domestic hot water.
(e) If a PHA installs air conditioning, it shall provide, to the maximum extent economically feasible, systems that give residents the option of choosing to use air conditioning in their units. The design of systems that offer each resident the option to choose air conditioning shall include retail meters or checkmeters, and residents shall pay for the energy used in its operation. For systems that offer residents the option to choose air conditioning, the PHA shall not include air conditioning in the utility allowances. For systems that offer residents the option to choose air conditioning but cannot be checkmetered, residents are to be surcharged in accordance with
§ 965.506. If an air conditioning system does not provide for resident option, residents are not to be charged, and these systems should be avoided whenever possible.
§ 965.506
Surcharges for excess consumption of PHA-furnished utilities.
(a) For dwelling units subject to allowances for PHA-furnished utilities where checkmeters have been installed, the PHA shall establish surcharges for utility consumption in excess of the allowances. Surcharges may be computed on a straight per unit of purchase basis (e.g., cents per kilowatt hour of electricity) or for stated blocks of excess consumption, and shall be based on the PHA's average utility rate. The basis for calculating such surcharges shall be described in the PHA's schedule of allowances. Changes in the dollar amounts of surcharges based directly on changes in the PHA's average utility rate shall not be subject to the advance notice requirements of this section.
(b) For dwelling units served by PHA-furnished utilities where checkmeters have not been installed, the PHA shall establish schedules of surcharges indicating additional dollar amounts residents will be required to pay by reason of estimated utility consumption attributable to resident-owned major appliances or to optional functions of PHA-furnished equipment. Such surcharge schedules shall state the resident-owned equipment (or functions of PHA-furnished equipment) for which surcharges shall be made and the amounts of such charges, which shall be based on the cost to the PHA of the utility consumption estimated to be attributable to reasonable usage of such equipment.
§ 965.507
Review and revision of allowances.
(a)
Annual review.
The PHA shall review at least annually the basis on which utility allowances have been established and, if reasonably required in order to continue adherence to the standards stated in § 965.505, shall establish revised allowances. The review shall include all changes in circumstances (including completion of modernization and/or other energy conservation measures implemented by the PHA) indicating probability of a significant change in reasonable consumption requirements and changes in utility rates.
(b)
Revision as a result of rate changes.
The PHA may revise its allowances for resident-purchased utilities between annual reviews if there is a rate change (including fuel adjustments) and shall be required to do so if such change, by itself or together with prior rate changes not adjusted for, results in a change of 10 percent or more from the rates on which such allowances were based. Adjustments to resident payments as a result of such changes shall be retroactive to the first day of the month following the month in which the last rate change taken into account in such revision became effective. Such rate changes shall not be subject to the 60 day notice requirement of § 965.502(c).
§ 965.508
Individual relief.
Requests for relief from surcharges for excess consumption of PHA-purchased utilities, or from payment of utility supplier billings in excess of the allowances for resident-purchased utilities, may be granted by the PHA on reasonable grounds, such as special needs of elderly, ill or disabled residents, or special factors affecting utility usage not within the control of the resident, as the PHA shall deem appropriate. The PHA's criteria for granting such relief, and procedures for requesting such relief, shall be adopted at the time the PHA adopts the methods and procedures for determining utility allowances. Notice of the availability of such procedures (including identification of the PHA representative with whom initial contact may be made by residents), and the PHA's criteria for granting such relief, shall be included in each notice to residents given in accordance with § 965.502(c) and in the information given to new residents upon admission.

# Subpart F—Physical Condition Standards and Physical Inspection Requirements
§ 965.601
Physical condition standards; physical inspection requirements.
Housing owned or leased by a PHA, and public housing owned by another entity approved by HUD, must be maintained in accordance with the physical condition standards in 24 CFR part 5, subpart G. For each PHA, HUD will perform an independent physical inspection of a statistically valid sample of such housing based upon the physical condition standards in 24 CFR part 5, subpart G.
[63 FR 46580, Sept. 1, 1998]

# Subpart G—Smoke-Free Public Housing

# Source:
81 FR 87444, Dec. 5, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 965.651
Applicability.
This subpart applies to public housing units, except for dwelling units in a mixed-finance project. Public housing is defined as low-income housing, and all necessary appurtenances (
e.g.,
community facilities, public housing offices, day care centers, and laundry rooms) thereto, assisted under the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 (the 1937 Act), other than assistance under section 8 of the 1937 Act.
§ 965.653
Smoke-free public housing.
(a)
In general.
PHAs must design and implement a policy prohibiting the use of prohibited tobacco products in all public housing living units and interior areas (including but not limited to hallways, rental and administrative offices, community centers, day care centers, laundry centers, and similar structures), as well as in outdoor areas within 25 feet from public housing and administrative office buildings (collectively, “restricted areas”) in which public housing is located.
(b)
Designated smoking areas.
PHAs may limit smoking to designated smoking areas on the grounds of the public housing or administrative office buildings in order to accommodate residents who smoke. These areas must be outside of any restricted areas, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section, and may include partially enclosed structures. Alternatively, PHAs may choose to create additional smoke-free areas outside the restricted areas or to make their entire grounds smoke-free.
(c)
Prohibited tobacco products.
A PHA's smoke-free policy must, at a minimum, ban the use of all prohibited tobacco products. Prohibited tobacco products are defined as:
(1) Items that involve the ignition and burning of tobacco leaves, such as (but not limited to) cigarettes, cigars, and pipes.
(2) To the extent not covered by paragraph (c)(1) of this section, waterpipes (hookahs).
§ 965.655
Implementation.
(a)
Amendments.
PHAs are required to implement the requirements of this subpart by amending each of the following:
(1) All applicable PHA plans, according to the provisions in 24 CFR part 903.
(2) Tenant leases, according to the provisions of 24 CFR 966.4.
(b)
Deadline.
All PHAs must be in full compliance, with effective policy amendments, by July 30, 2018.

# Subpart H—Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention
§ 965.701
Lead-based paint poisoning prevention.
The requirements of the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 4821-4846), the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851-4856), and implementing regulations at part 35, subparts A, B, L, and R of this title apply to this program.
[64 FR 50229, Sept. 15, 1999]
Subpart I [Reserved]
Pt. 966

# PART 966—PUBLIC HOUSING LEASE AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE

# Subpart A—Dwelling Leases, Procedures and Requirements
Sec.
966.1
Purpose and applicability.
966.2
Definitions.
966.3
Tenants' opportunity for comment.
966.4
Lease requirements.
966.5
Posting of policies, rules and regulations.
966.6
Prohibited lease provisions.
966.7
Accommodation of persons with disabilities.

# Subpart B—Grievance Procedures and Requirements
966.50
Purpose and scope.
966.51
Applicability.
966.52
Requirements.
966.53
Definitions.
966.54
Informal settlement of grievance.
966.56
Procedures governing the hearing.
966.57
Decision of the hearing officer.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1437d and 3535(d).

# Subpart A—Dwelling Leases, Procedures and Requirements

# Source:
40 FR 33402, Aug. 7, 1975, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 49 FR 6714, Feb. 23, 1984.
§ 966.1
Purpose and applicability.
(a) This part is applicable to public housing.
(b) Subpart A of this part prescribes the provisions that must be incorporated in leases for public housing dwelling units.
(c) Subpart B of this part prescribes public housing grievance hearing requirements.
[66 FR 28802, May 24, 2001]
§ 966.2
Definitions.
The following terms are defined in part 5, subpart A of this title:
1937 Act, covered person, drug, drug-related criminal activity, federally assisted housing, guest, household, HUD, other person under the tenant's control, public housing, premises, public housing agency, Section 8, violent criminal activity.
[66 FR 28802, May 24, 2001]
§ 966.3
Tenants' opportunity for comment.
Each PHA shall provide at least 30 days notice to tenants and resident organizations setting forth proposed changes in the lease form used by the PHA, and providing an opportunity to present written comments. Subject to requirements of this rule, comments submitted shall be considered by the PHA before formal adoption of any new lease form.
[56 FR 51576, Oct. 11, 1991]
§ 966.4
Lease requirements.
A lease shall be entered into between the PHA and each tenant of a dwelling unit which shall contain the provisions described hereinafter.
(a)
Parties, dwelling unit and term.
(1) The lease shall state:
(i) The names of the PHA and the tenant;
(ii) The unit rented (address, apartment number, and any other information needed to identify the dwelling unit);
(iii) The term of the lease (lease term and renewal in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section);
(iv) A statement of what utilities, services, and equipment are to be supplied by the PHA without additional cost, and what utilities and appliances are to be paid for by the tenant;
(v) The composition of the household as approved by the PHA (family members and any PHA-approved live-in aide). The family must promptly inform the PHA of the birth, adoption, or court-awarded custody of a child. The family must request PHA approval to add any other family member as an occupant of the unit;
(vi) HUD's regulations in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking) apply.
(2)
Lease term and renewal.
(i) The lease shall have a twelve month term. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the lease term must be automatically renewed for the same period.
(ii) The PHA may not renew the lease if the family has violated the requirement for resident performance of community service or participation in an
economic self-sufficiency program in accordance with part 960, subpart F of this chapter.
(iii) The lease shall convert to a month-to-month term for families determined to be over-income whose tenancy will be terminated in accordance with § 960.507(d)(2) of this chapter as of the date of the notice provided under § 960.507(c)(3) of this chapter. PHAs must charge these families, who continue to be public housing program participants, the family's choice of income-based, flat rent, or prorated rent for mixed families during the period before termination.
(iv) At any time, the PHA may terminate the tenancy in accordance with paragraph (l) of this section.
(3)
Execution and modification.
The lease must be executed by the tenant and the PHA, except for automatic renewals of a lease. The lease may modified at any time by written agreement of the tenant and the PHA.
(b)
Payments due under the lease
—(1)
Tenant rent.
(i) The tenant shall pay the amount of the monthly tenant rent determined by the PHA in accordance with HUD regulations and other requirements. The amount of the tenant rent is subject to change in accordance with HUD requirements.
(ii) The lease shall specify the initial amount of the tenant rent at the beginning of the initial lease term. The PHA shall give the tenant written notice stating any change in the amount of tenant rent, and when the change is effective.
(2)
PHA charges.
The lease shall provide for charges to the tenant for maintenance and repair beyond normal wear and tear and for consumption of excess utilities. The lease shall state the basis for the determination of such charges (e.g., by a posted schedule of charges for repair, amounts charged for utility consumption in excess of the allowance stated in the lease, etc.). The imposition of charges for consumption of excess utilities is permissible only if such charges are determined by an individual check meter servicing the leased unit or result from the use of major tenant-supplied appliances.
(3)
Late payment penalties.
At the option of the PHA, the lease may provide for payment of penalties for late payment.
(4)
When charges are due.
The lease shall provide that charges assessed under paragraph (b) (2) and (3) of this section shall not be due and collectible until two weeks after the PHA gives written notice of the charges. Such notice constitutes a notice of adverse action, and must meet the requirements governing a notice of adverse action (see § 966.4(e)(8)).
(5)
Security deposits.
At the option of the PHA, the lease may provide for security deposits which shall not exceed one month's rent or such reasonable fixed amount as may be required by the PHA. Provision may be made for gradual accumulation of the security deposit by the tenant. Subject to applicable laws, interest earned on security deposits may be refunded to the tenant on vacation of the dwelling unit or used for tenant services or activities.
(c)
Redetermination of rent and family composition.
The lease shall provide for redetermination of rent and family composition which shall include:
(1) The frequency of regular rental redetermination and the basis for interim redetermination.
(2) An agreement by the tenant to furnish such information and certifications regarding family composition and income as may be necessary for the PHA to make determinations with respect to rent, eligibility, and the appropriateness of dwelling size.
(3) An agreement by the tenant to transfer to an appropriate size dwelling unit based on family composition, upon appropriate notice by the PHA that such a dwelling unit is available.
(4) When the PHA redetermines the amount of rent (Total Tenant Payment or Tenant Rent) payable by the tenant, not including determination of the PHA's schedule of Utility Allowances for families in the PHA's Public Housing Program, or determines that the tenant must transfer to another unit based on family composition, the PHA shall notify the tenant that the tenant may ask for an explanation stating the specific grounds of the PHA determination, and that if the tenant does not agree with the determination, the tenant shall have the right to request a
hearing under the PHA grievance procedure.
(d)
Tenant's right to use and occupancy.
(1) The lease shall provide that the tenant shall have the right to exclusive use and occupancy of the leased unit by the members of the household authorized to reside in the unit in accordance with the lease, including reasonable accommodation of their guests. The term
guest
is defined in 24 CFR 5.100.
(2) With the consent of the PHA, members of the household may engage in legal profitmaking activities in the dwelling unit, where the PHA determines that such activities are incidental to primary use of the leased unit for residence by members of the household.
(3)(i) With the consent of the PHA, a foster child or a live-in aide may reside in the unit. The PHA may adopt reasonable policies concerning residence by a foster child or a live-in-aide, and defining the circumstances in which PHA consent will be given or denied. Under such policies, the factors considered by the PHA may include:
(A) Whether the addition of a new occupant may necessitate a transfer of the family to another unit, and whether such units are available.
(B) The PHA's obligation to make reasonable accommodation for handicapped persons.
(ii)
Live-in aide
means a person who resides with an elderly, disabled or handicapped person and who:
(A) Is determined to be essential to the care and well-being of the person;
(B) Is not obligated for the support of the person; and
(C) Would not be living in the unit except to provide the necessary supportive services.
(e)
The PHA's obligations.
The lease shall set forth the PHA's obligations under the lease, which shall include the following:
(1) To maintain the dwelling unit and the project in decent, safe, and sanitary condition;
(2) To comply with requirements of applicable building codes, housing codes, and HUD regulations materially affecting health and safety;
(3) To make necessary repairs to the dwelling unit;
(4) To keep project buildings, facilities, and common areas, not otherwise assigned to the tenant for maintenance and upkeep, in a clean and safe condition;
(5) To maintain in good and safe working order and condition electrical, plumbing, sanitary, heating, ventilating, and other facilities and appliances, including elevators, supplied or required to be supplied by the PHA;
(6) To provide and maintain appropriate receptacles and facilities (except containers for the exclusive use of an individual tenant family) for the deposit of ashes, garbage, rubbish, and other waste removed from the dwelling unit by the tenant in accordance with paragraph (f)(7) of this section;
(7) To supply running water and reasonable amounts of hot water and reasonable amounts of heat at appropriate times of the year (according to local custom and usage), except where the building that includes the dwelling unit is not required by law to be equipped for that purpose, or where heat or hot water is generated by an installation within the exclusive control of the tenant and supplied by a direct utility connection; and
(8)(i) To notify the tenant of the specific grounds for any proposed adverse action by the PHA. (Such adverse action includes, but is not limited to, a proposed lease termination, transfer of the tenant to another unit, or imposition of charges for maintenance and repair, or for excess consumption of utilities.)
(ii) When the PHA is required to afford the tenant the opportunity for a hearing under the PHA grievance procedure for a grievance concerning a proposed adverse action:
(A) The notice of proposed adverse action shall inform the tenant of the right to request such hearing. In the case of a lease termination, a notice of lease termination, in accordance with paragraph (l)(3) of this section, shall constitute adequate notice of proposed adverse action.
(B) In the case of a proposed adverse action other than a proposed lease termination, the PHA shall not take the proposed action until the time for the tenant to request a grievance hearing
has expired, and (if a hearing was timely requested by the tenant) the grievance process has been completed.
(9) To consider lease bifurcation, as provided in 24 CFR 5.2009, in circumstances involving domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking addressed in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking), provided that, if a PHA chooses to bifurcate a lease, no assistance will be given for an individual who does not meet public housing eligibility and 24 CFR 5.508(h)(2) applies to submission of evidence of citizenship or eligible immigration status.
(f)
Tenant's obligations.
The lease shall provide that the tenant shall be obligated:
(1) Not to assign the lease or to sublease the dwelling unit;
(2) Not to provide accommodations for boarders or lodgers;
(3) To use the dwelling unit solely as a private dwelling for the tenant and the tenant's household as identified in the lease, and not to use or permit its use for any other purpose;
(4) To abide by necessary and reasonable regulations promulgated by the PHA for the benefit and well-being of the housing project and the tenants which shall be posted in the project office and incorporated by reference in the lease;
(5) To comply with all obligations imposed upon tenants by applicable provisions of building and housing codes materially affecting health and safety;
(6) To keep the dwelling unit and such other areas as may be assigned to the tenant for the tenant's exclusive use in a clean and safe condition;
(7) To dispose of all ashes, garbage, rubbish, and other waste from the dwelling unit in a sanitary and safe manner;
(8) To use only in a reasonable manner all electrical, plumbing, sanitary, heating, ventilating, air-conditioning and other facilities and appurtenances including elevators;
(9) To refrain from, and to cause the household and guests to refrain from destroying, defacing, damaging, or removing any part of the dwelling unit or project;
(10) To pay reasonable charges (other than for wear and tear) for the repair of damages to the dwelling unit, or to the project (including damages to project buildings, facilities or common areas) caused by the tenant, a member of the household or a guest.
(11) To act, and cause household members or guests to act, in a manner which will not disturb other residents' peaceful enjoyment of their accommodations and will be conducive to maintaining the project in a decent, safe and sanitary condition;
(12)(i) To assure that no tenant, member of the tenant's household, or guest engages in:
(A)
Criminal activity.
(
1
) Any criminal activity that threatens the health, safety or right to peaceful enjoyment of the premises by other residents;
(
2
) Any drug-related criminal activity on or off the premises; or
(B)
Civil activity.
For any units covered by 24 CFR part 965, subpart G, any smoking of prohibited tobacco products in restricted areas, as defined by 24 CFR 965.653(a), or in other outdoor areas that the PHA has designated as smoke-free.
(ii) To assure that no other person under the tenant's control engages in:
(A)
Criminal activity.
(
1
) Any criminal activity that threatens the health, safety or right to peaceful enjoyment of the premises by other residents;
(
2
) Any drug-related criminal activity on the premises; or
(B)
Civil activity.
For any units covered by 24 CFR part 965, subpart G, any smoking of prohibited tobacco products in restricted areas, as defined by 24 CFR 965.653(a), or in other outdoor areas that the PHA has designated as smoke-free.
(iii) To assure that no member of the household engages in an abuse or pattern of abuse of alcohol that affects the health, safety, or right to peaceful enjoyment of the premises by other residents.
(g)
Tenant maintenance.
The lease may provide that the tenant shall perform seasonal maintenance or other maintenance tasks, as specified in the lease, where performance of such tasks
by tenants of dwellings units of a similar design and construction is customary:
Provided,
That such provision is included in the lease in good faith and not for the purpose of evading the obligations of the PHA. The PHA shall exempt tenants who are unable to perform such tasks because of age or disability.
(h)
Defects hazardous to life, health, or safety.
The lease shall set forth the rights and obligations of the tenant and the PHA if the dwelling unit is damaged to the extent that conditions are created which are hazardous to life, health, or safety of the occupants and shall provide that:
(1) The tenant shall immediately notify project management of the damage;
(2) The PHA shall be responsible for repair of the unit within a reasonable time:
Provided,
That if the damage was caused by the tenant, tenant's household or guests, the reasonable cost of the repairs shall be charged to the tenant;
(3) The PHA shall offer standard alternative accommodations, if available, where necessary repairs cannot be made within a reasonable time; and
(4) Provisions shall be made for abatement of rent in proportion to the seriousness of the damage and loss in value as a dwelling if repairs are not made in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section or alternative accommodations not provided in accordance with paragraph (h)(3) of this section, except that no abatement of rent shall occur if the tenant rejects the alternative accommodation or if the damage was caused by the tenant, tenant's household or guests.
(i)
Pre-occupancy and pre-termination inspections.
The lease shall provide that the PHA and the tenant or representative shall be obligated to inspect the dwelling unit prior to commencement of occupancy by the tenant. The PHA will furnish the tenant with a written statement of the condition of the dwelling unit, and the equipment provided with the unit. The statement shall be signed by the PHA and the tenant, and a copy of the statement shall be retained by the PHA in the tenant's folder. The PHA shall be further obligated to inspect the unit at the time the tenant vacates the unit and to furnish the tenant a statement of any charges to be made in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Provision shall be made for the tenant's participation in the latter inspection, unless the tenant vacates without notice to the PHA.
(j)
Entry of dwelling unit during tenancy.
The lease shall set forth the circumstances under which the PHA may enter the dwelling unit during the tenant's possession thereof, which shall include provision that:
(1) The PHA shall, upon reasonable advance notification to the tenant, be permitted to enter the dwelling unit during reasonable hours for the purpose of performing routine inspections and maintenance, for making improvement or repairs, or to show the dwelling unit for re-leasing. A written statement specifying the purpose of the PHA entry delivered to the dwelling unit at least two days before such entry shall be considered reasonable advance notification;
(2) The PHA may enter the dwelling unit at any time without advance notification when there is reasonable cause to believe that an emergency exists; and
(3) If the tenant and all adult members of the household are absent from the dwelling unit at the time of entry, the PHA shall leave in the dwelling unit a written statement specifying the date, time and purpose of entry prior to leaving the dwelling unit.
(k)
Notice procedures.
(1) The lease shall provide procedures to be followed by the PHA and the tenant in giving notice one to the other which shall require that:
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (j) of this section, notice to a tenant shall be in writing and delivered to the tenant or to an adult member of the tenant's household residing in the dwelling or sent by prepaid first-class mail properly addressed to the tenant; and
(ii) Notice to the PHA shall be in writing, delivered to the project office or the PHA central office or sent by prepaid first-class mail properly addressed.
(2) If the tenant is visually impaired, all notices must be in an accessible format.
(l)
Termination of tenancy and eviction
—(1)
Procedures.
The lease shall state the procedures to be followed by the PHA and by the tenant to terminate the tenancy.
(2)
Grounds for termination of tenancy.
The PHA may terminate the tenancy only for:
(i) Serious or repeated violation of material terms of the lease, such as the following:
(A) Failure to make payments due under the lease;
(B) Failure to fulfill household obligations, as described in paragraph (f) of this section;
(ii) Being over the income limit for the program, as provided in 24 CFR 960.507.
(iii) No longer meeting the restrictions on net assets and property ownership as provided in § 5.618 of this title.
(iv) Other good cause. Other good cause includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(A) Criminal activity or alcohol abuse as provided in paragraph (1)(5) of this section;
(B) Discovery after admission of facts that made the tenant ineligible;
(C) Discovery of material false statements or fraud by the tenant in connection with an application for assistance or with reexamination of income;
(D) Failure of a family member to comply with service requirement provisions of part 960, subpart F, of this chapter—as grounds only for non-renewal of the lease and termination of tenancy at the end of the twelve-month lease term; and
(E) Failure to accept the PHA's offer of a lease revision to an existing lease: that is on a form adopted by the PHA in accordance with § 966.3; with written notice of the offer of the revision at least 60 calendar days before the lease revision is scheduled to take effect; and with the offer specifying a reasonable time limit within that period for acceptance by the family.
(3)
Lease termination notice.
(i) The PHA must give written notice of lease termination of:
(A) At least 30 days in the case of failure to pay rent;
(B) A reasonable period of time considering the seriousness of the situation (but not to exceed 30 days):
(
1
) If the health or safety of other residents, PHA employees, or persons residing in the immediate vicinity of the premises is threatened; or
(
2
) If any member of the household has engaged in any drug-related criminal activity or violent criminal activity; or
(
3
) If any member of the household has been convicted of a felony;
(C) 30 days in any other case, except that if a State or local law allows a shorter notice period, such shorter period shall apply.
(ii) The notice of lease termination to the tenant shall state specific grounds for termination, and shall inform the tenant of the tenant's right to make such reply as the tenant may wish. The notice shall also inform the tenant of the right (pursuant to paragraph (m) of this section) to examine PHA documents directly relevant to the termination or eviction. When the PHA is required to afford the tenant the opportunity for a grievance hearing, the notice shall also inform the tenant of the tenant's right to request a hearing in accordance with the PHA's grievance procedure. All notices of lease termination required by paragraph (1)(3)(i)(A) of this section due to a tenant's failure to pay rent must also include the following:
(A) Instructions on how the tenant can cure the nonpayment of rent violation, including an itemized amount separated by month of alleged rent owed by the tenant, any other arrearages allowed by HUD and included in the lease separated by month, and the date by which the tenant must pay the amount of rent owed before an eviction for nonpayment of rent can be filed;
(B) Information on how the tenant can recertify their income pursuant to 24 CFR 960.257(b), request a hardship exemption pursuant to 24 CFR 5.630(b), or request to switch from flat rent to income-based rent pursuant to 24 CFR 960.253(g); and
(C) In the event of a Presidential declaration of a national emergency, such information as required by the Secretary.
(iii) A notice to vacate which is required by State or local law may be combined with, or run concurrently with, a notice of lease termination under paragraph (l)(3)(i) of this section.
(iv) When the PHA is required to afford the tenant the opportunity for a hearing under the PHA grievance procedure for a grievance concerning the lease termination (see § 966.51(a)(1)), the tenancy shall not terminate (even if any notice to vacate under State or local law has expired) until the time for the tenant to request a grievance hearing has expired, and (if a hearing was timely requested by the tenant) the grievance process has been completed.
(v) When the PHA is not required to afford the tenant the opportunity for a hearing under the PHA administrative grievance procedure for a grievance concerning the lease termination (see § 966.51(a)(2)), and the PHA has decided to exclude such grievance from the PHA grievance procedure, the notice of lease termination under paragraph (l)(3)(i) of this section shall:
(A) State that the tenant is not entitled to a grievance hearing on the termination.
(B) Specify the judicial eviction procedure to be used by the PHA for eviction of the tenant, and state that HUD has determined that this eviction procedure provides the opportunity for a hearing in court that contains the basic elements of due process as defined in HUD regulations.
(C) State whether the eviction is for a criminal activity as described in § 966.51(a)(2)(i)(A) or for a drug-related criminal activity as described in § 966.51(a)(2)(i)(B).
(4)
How tenant is evicted.
The PHA may evict the tenant from the unit either:
(i) By bringing a court action or;
(ii) By bringing an administrative action if law of the jurisdiction permits eviction by administrative action, after a due process administrative hearing, and without a court determination of the rights and liabilities of the parties. In order to evict without bringing a court action, the PHA must afford the tenant the opportunity for a pre-eviction hearing in accordance with the PHA grievance procedure.
(5)
PHA termination of tenancy for criminal activity or alcohol abuse
—(i)
Evicting drug criminals.
(A)
Methamphetamine conviction.
The PHA must immediately terminate the tenancy if the PHA determines that any member of the household has ever been convicted of drug-related criminal activity for manufacture or production of methamphetamine on the premises of federally assisted housing.
(B)
Drug crime on or off the premises.
The lease must provide that drug-related criminal activity engaged in on or off the premises by any tenant, member of the tenant's household or guest, and any such activity engaged in on the premises by any other person under the tenant's control, is grounds for the PHA to terminate tenancy. In addition, the lease must provide that a PHA may evict a family when the PHA determines that a household member is illegally using a drug or when the PHA determines that a pattern of illegal use of a drug interferes with the health, safety, or right to peaceful enjoyment of the premises by other residents.
(ii)
Evicting other criminals.
(A)
Threat to other residents.
The lease must provide that any criminal activity by a covered person that threatens the health, safety, or right to peaceful enjoyment of the premises by other residents (including PHA management staff residing on the premises) or threatens the health, safety, or right to peaceful enjoyment of their residences by persons residing in the immediate vicinity of the premises is grounds for termination of tenancy.
(B)
Fugitive felon or parole violator.
The PHA may terminate the tenancy if a tenant is fleeing to avoid prosecution, or custody or confinement after conviction, for a crime, or attempt to commit a crime, that is a felony under the laws of the place from which the individual flees, or that, in the case of the State of New Jersey, is a high misdemeanor; or violating a condition of probation or parole imposed under Federal or State law.
(iii)
Eviction for criminal activity.
(A)
Evidence.
The PHA may evict the tenant by judicial action for criminal activity in accordance with this section if the PHA determines that the covered
person has engaged in the criminal activity, regardless of whether the covered person has been arrested or convicted for such activity and without satisfying the standard of proof used for a criminal conviction.
(B)
Notice to Post Office.
When a PHA evicts an individual or family for criminal activity, the PHA must notify the local post office serving the dwelling unit that the individual or family is no longer residing in the unit.
(iv)
Use of criminal record.
If the PHA seeks to terminate the tenancy for criminal activity as shown by a criminal record, the PHA must notify the household of the proposed action to be based on the information and must provide the subject of the record and the tenant with a copy of the criminal record before a PHA grievance hearing or court trial concerning the termination of tenancy or eviction. The tenant must be given an opportunity to dispute the accuracy and relevance of that record in the grievance hearing or court trial.
(v)
Cost of obtaining criminal record.
The PHA may not pass along to the tenant the costs of a criminal records check.
(vi)
Evicting alcohol abusers.
The PHA must establish standards that allow termination of tenancy if the PHA determines that a household member has:
(A) Engaged in abuse or pattern of abuse of alcohol that threatens the health, safety, or right to peaceful enjoyment of the premises by other residents; or
(B) Furnished false or misleading information concerning illegal drug use, alcohol abuse, or rehabilitation of illegal drug users or alcohol abusers.
(vii)
PHA action, generally.
(A)
Assessment under PHAS.
Under the Public Housing Assessment System (PHAS), PHAs that have adopted policies, implemented procedures and can document that they appropriately evict any public housing residents who engage in certain activity detrimental to the public housing community receive points. (See 24 CFR 902.43(a)(5).) This policy takes into account the importance of eviction of such residents to public housing communities and program integrity, and the demand for assisted housing by families who will adhere to lease responsibilities.
(B)
Consideration of circumstances.
In a manner consistent with such policies, procedures and practices, the PHA may consider all circumstances relevant to a particular case such as the seriousness of the offending action, the extent of participation by the leaseholder in the offending action, the effects that the eviction would have on family members not involved in the offending activity and the extent to which the leaseholder has shown personal responsibility and has taken all reasonable steps to prevent or mitigate the offending action.
(C)
Exclusion of culpable household member.
The PHA may require a tenant to exclude a household member in order to continue to reside in the assisted unit, where that household member has participated in or been culpable for action or failure to act that warrants termination.
(D)
Consideration of rehabilitation.
In determining whether to terminate tenancy for illegal drug use or a pattern of illegal drug use by a household member who is no longer engaging in such use, or for abuse or a pattern of abuse of alcohol by a household member who is no longer engaging in such abuse, the PHA may consider whether such household member is participating in or has successfully completed a supervised drug or alcohol rehabilitation program, or has otherwise been rehabilitated successfully (42 U.S.C. 13662). For this purpose, the PHA may require the tenant to submit evidence of the household member's current participation in, or successful completion of, a supervised drug or alcohol rehabilitation program or evidence of otherwise having been rehabilitated successfully.
(E)
Length of period of mandatory prohibition on admission.
If a statute requires that the PHA prohibit admission of persons for a prescribed period of time after some disqualifying behavior or event, the PHA may apply that prohibition for a longer period of time.
(F)
Nondiscrimination limitation.
The PHA's eviction actions must be consistent with fair housing and equal opportunity provisions of § 5.105 of this title.
(m)
Eviction: Right to examine PHA documents before hearing or trial.
The PHA shall provide the tenant a reasonable opportunity to examine, at the tenant's request, before a PHA grievance hearing or court trial concerning a termination of tenancy or eviction, any documents, including records and regulations, which are in the possession of the PHA, and which are directly relevant to the termination of tenancy or eviction. The tenant shall be allowed to copy any such document at the tenant's expense. A notice of lease termination pursuant to § 966.4(l) (3) shall inform the tenant of the tenant's right to examine PHA documents concerning the termination of tenancy or eviction. If the PHA does not make documents available for examination upon request by the tenant (in accordance with this § 966.4(m)), the PHA may not proceed with the eviction.
(n)
Grievance procedures.
(1) The lease must provide that all disputes concerning the obligations of the tenant or the PHA must (except as provided in § 966.51(a)(2)) be resolved in accordance with the PHA grievance procedures. The grievance procedures must comply with subpart B of this part.
(2) The lease must include a description of the PHA's policies for selecting a hearing officer.
(o)
Provision for modifications.
The lease shall provide that modification of the lease must be accomplished by a written rider to the lease executed by both parties, except for paragraph (c) of this section and § 966.5.
(p)
Signature clause.
The lease shall provide a signature clause attesting that the lease has been executed by the parties.
(q)
Notification for nonpayment of rent.
The lease shall contain a provision or addendum that tenants will receive notification at least 30 days before an eviction for nonpayment of rent is filed.
(r)
Time of service.
The PHA must not provide tenants with a termination notice prior to the day after the rent is due according to the lease. The PHA must not proceed with filing an eviction if the tenant pays the alleged amount of rent owed within the 30-day notification period.
[56 FR 51576, Oct. 11, 1991, as amended at 61 FR 13273, Mar. 26, 1996; 65 FR 16730, Mar. 29, 2000; 66 FR 28802, May 24, 2001; 66 FR 32875, June 18, 2001; 66 FR 33134, June 20, 2001; 69 FR 68791, Nov. 26, 2004; 75 FR 66262, Oct. 27, 2010; 81 FR 12374, Mar. 8, 2016; 81 FR 80815, Nov. 16, 2016; 81 FR 87444, Dec. 5, 2016; 88 FR 9675, Feb. 14, 2023; 89 FR 101303, Dec. 13, 2024]
§ 966.5
Posting of policies, rules and regulations.
Schedules of special charges for services, repairs and utilities and rules and regulations which are required to be incorporated in the lease by reference shall be publicly posted in a conspicuous manner in the Project Office and shall be furnished to applicants and tenants on request. Such schedules, rules and regulations may be modified from time to time by the PHA provided that the PHA shall give at least 30-day written notice to each affected tenant setting forth the proposed modification, the reasons therefor, and providing the tenant an opportunity to present written comments which shall be taken into consideration by the PHA prior to the proposed modification becoming effective. A copy of such notice shall be:
(a) Delivered directly or mailed to each tenant; or
(b) Posted in at least three (3) conspicuous places within each structure or building in which the affected dwelling units are located, as well as in a conspicuous place at the project office, if any, of if none, a similar central business location within the project.
§ 966.6
Prohibited lease provisions.
Lease clauses of the nature described below shall not be included in new leases between a PHA and a tenant and shall be deleted from existing leases either by amendment thereof or execution of a new lease:
(a)
Confession of judgment.
Prior consent by the tenant to any lawsuit the landlord may bring against him in connection with the lease and to a judgment in favor of the landlord.
(b)
Distraint for rent or other charges.
Agreement by the tenant that landlord is authorized to take property of the tenant and hold it as a pledge until the
tenant performs the obligation which the landlord has determined the tenant has failed to perform.
(c)
Exculpatory clauses.
Agreement by the tenant not to hold the landlord or landlord's agent liable for any acts or omissions whether intentional or negligent on the part of the landlord or the landlord's authorized representatives or agents.
(d)
Waiver of legal notice by tenant prior to actions for eviction or money judgments.
Agreements by the tenant that the landlord may institute suit without any notice to the tenant that the suit has been filed, thus preventing the tenant from defending against the lawsuit.
(e)
Waiver of legal proceedings.
Authorization to the landlord to evict the tenant or hold or sell the tenant's possessions whenever the landlord determines that a breach or default has occurred without notice to the tenant or any determination by a court of the rights and liabilities of the parties.
(f)
Waiver of jury trial.
Authorization of the landlord's lawyer to appear in court for the tenant and waive the right to a trial by jury.
(g)
Waiver of right to appeal judicial error in legal proceeding.
Authorization to the landlord's lawyer to waive the right to appeal for judicial error in any suit or to waive the right to file a suit in equity to prevent the execution of a judgment.
(h)
Tenant chargeable with cost of legal actions regardless of outcome.
Provision that the tenant agrees to pay attorney's fees or other legal costs whenever the landlord decides to take action against the tenant even though the court determines that the tenant prevails in the action. Prohibition of this type of provision does not mean that the tenant as a party to the lawsuit may not be obligated to pay attorney's fees or other costs if he loses the suit.
§ 966.7
Accommodation of persons with disabilities.
(a) For all aspects of the lease and grievance procedures, a handicapped person shall be provided reasonable accommodation to the extent necessary to provide the handicapped person with an opportunity to use and occupy the dwelling unit equal to a non-handicapped person.
(b) The PHA shall provide a notice to each tenant that the tenant may, at any time during the tenancy, request reasonable accommodation of a handicap of a household member, including reasonable accommodation so that the tenant can meet lease requirements or other requirements of tenancy.
[56 FR 51579, Oct. 11, 1991]

# Subpart B—Grievance Procedures and Requirements

# Source:
40 FR 33406, Aug. 7, 1975, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 49 FR 6714, Feb. 23, 1984.
§ 966.50
Purpose and scope.
The purpose of this subpart is to set forth the requirements, standards and criteria for a grievance procedure to be established and implemented by public housing agencies (PHAs) to assure that a PHA tenant is afforded an opportunity for a hearing if the tenant disputes within a reasonable time any PHA action or failure to act involving the tenant's lease with the PHA or PHA regulations which adversely affect the individual tenant's rights, duties, welfare or status.
[56 FR 51579, Oct. 11, 1991]
§ 966.51
Applicability.
(a)(1) The PHA grievance procedure shall be applicable (except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section) to all individual grievances as defined in § 966.53 of this subpart between the tenant and the PHA.
(2)(i) The term
due process determination
means a determination by HUD that law of the jurisdiction requires that the tenant must be given the opportunity for a hearing in court which provides the basic elements of due process (as defined in § 966.53(c)) before eviction from the dwelling unit. If HUD has issued a due process determination, a PHA may exclude from the PHA administrative grievance procedure under this subpart any grievance concerning a termination of tenancy or eviction that involves:
(A) Any criminal activity that threatens the health, safety or right to
peaceful enjoyment of the premises of other residents or employees of the PHA;
(B) Any violent or drug-related criminal activity on or off such premises; or
(C) Any criminal activity that resulted in felony conviction of a household member.
(iii) For guidance of the public, HUD will publish in the
Federal Register
a notice listing the judicial eviction procedures for which HUD has issued a due process determination. HUD will make available for public inspection and copying a copy of the legal analysis on which the determinations are based.
(iv) If HUD has issued a due process determination, the PHA may evict the occupants of the dwelling unit through the judicial eviction procedures which are the subject of the determination. In this case, the PHA is not required to provide the opportunity for a hearing under the PHA's administrative grievance procedure.
(b) The PHA grievance procedure shall not be applicable to disputes between tenants not involving the PHA or to class grievances. The grievance procedure is not intended as a forum for initiating or negotiating policy changes between a group or groups of tenants and the PHA's Board of Commissioners.
[40 FR 33406, Aug. 7, 1975. Redesignated at 49 FR 6714, Feb. 23, 1984, and amended at 56 FR 51579, Oct. 11, 1991; 61 FR 13273, Mar. 26, 1996; 66 FR 28804, May 24, 2001]
§ 966.52
Requirements.
(a) Each PHA shall adopt a grievance procedure affording each tenant an opportunity for a hearing on a grievance as defined in § 966.53 in accordance with the requirements, standards, and criteria contained in this subpart. A PHA may establish an expedited grievance procedure as defined in § 966.53.
(b) The PHA grievance procedure shall be included in, or incorporated by reference in, all tenant dwelling leases pursuant to subpart A of this part.
(c) The PHA shall provide at least 30 days notice to tenants and resident organizations setting forth proposed changes in the PHA grievance procedure, and providing an opportunity to present written comments. Subject to requirements of this subpart, comments submitted shall be considered by the PHA before adoption of any grievance procedure changes by the PHA.
(d) The PHA shall furnish a copy of the grievance procedure to each tenant and to resident organizations.
(e) The PHA must not only meet the minimal procedural due process requirements contained in this subpart but also satisfy any additional requirements required by local, state, or federal law.
[56 FR 51579, Oct. 11, 1991, as amended at 81 FR 12374, Mar. 8, 2016]
§ 966.53
Definitions.
For the purpose of this subpart, the following definitions are applicable:
(a)
Grievance
shall mean any dispute which a tenant may have with respect to PHA action or failure to act in accordance with the individual tenant's lease or PHA regulations which adversely affect the individual tenant's rights, duties, welfare or status.
(b)
Complainant
shall mean any tenant whose grievance is presented to the PHA or at the project management office.
(c)
Elements of due process
shall mean an eviction action or a termination of tenancy in a State or local court in which the following procedural safeguards are required:
(1) Adequate notice to the tenant of the grounds for terminating the tenancy and for eviction;
(2) Right of the tenant to be represented by counsel;
(3) Opportunity for the tenant to refute the evidence presented by the PHA including the right to confront and cross-examine witnesses and to present any affirmative legal or equitable defense which the tenant may have;
(4) A decision on the merits.
(d)
Expedited grievance
means a procedure established by the PHA for any grievance concerning a termination of tenancy or eviction that involves:
(1) Any criminal activity that threatens the health, safety, or right to peaceful enjoyment of the PHA's public housing premises by other residents or employees of the PHA; or
(2) Any drug-related or violent criminal activity on or off such premises.
(e)
Hearing officer
means an impartial person or persons selected by the PHA, other than the person who made or approved the decision under review, or a subordinate of that person. Such individual or individuals do not need legal training. PHAs must describe their policies for selection of a hearing officer in their lease forms as required by § 966.4, changes to which are subject to a 30-day comment period as described in § 966.3.
(f)
Tenant
shall mean the adult person (or persons) (other than a live-in aide):
(1) Who resides in the unit, and who executed the lease with the PHA as lessee of the dwelling unit, or, if no such person now resides in the unit,
(2) Who resides in the unit, and who is the remaining head of household of the tenant family residing in the dwelling unit.
(g)
Resident organization
includes a resident management corporation.
[40 FR 33406, Aug. 7, 1975. Redesignated at 49 FR 6714, Feb. 23, 1984, and amended at 56 FR 51579, Oct. 11, 1991; 81 FR 12374, Mar. 8, 2016]
§ 966.54
Informal settlement of grievance.
Any grievance shall be personally presented, either orally or in writing, to the PHA office or to the office of the project in which the complainant resides so that the grievance may be discussed informally and settled without a hearing. A summary of such discussion shall be prepared within a reasonable time and one copy shall be given to the tenant and one retained in the PHA's tenant file. The summary shall specify the names of the participants, dates of meeting, the nature of the proposed disposition of the complaint and the specific reasons therefor, and shall specify the procedures by which a hearing may be obtained if the complainant is not satisfied.
[40 FR 33406, Aug. 7, 1975. Redesignated at 49 FR 6714, Feb. 23, 1984, as amended at 81 FR 12374, Mar. 8, 2016]
§ 966.56
Procedures governing the hearing.
(a) The hearing must be scheduled promptly for a time and place reasonably convenient to both the complainant and the PHA and held before a hearing officer. A written notification specifying the time, place, and the procedures governing the hearing must be delivered to the complainant and the appropriate official.
(b) The complainant shall be afforded a fair hearing, which shall include:
(1) The opportunity to examine before the grievance hearing any PHA documents, including records and regulations, that are directly relevant to the hearing. (For a grievance hearing concerning a termination of tenancy or eviction, see also § 966.4(m).) The tenant shall be allowed to copy any such document at the tenant's expense. If the PHA does not make the document available for examination upon request by the complainant, the PHA may not rely on such document at the grievance hearing.
(2) The right to be represented by counsel or other person chosen as the tenant's representative and to have such person make statements on the tenant's behalf;
(3) The right to a private hearing unless the complainant requests a public hearing;
(4) The right to present evidence and arguments in support of the tenant's complaint, to controvert evidence relied on by the PHA or project management, and to confront and cross-examine all witnesses upon whose testimony or information the PHA or project management relies; and
(5) A decision based solely and exclusively upon the facts presented at the hearing.
(c) If the complainant or the PHA fails to appear at a scheduled hearing, the hearing officer may make a determination to postpone the hearing for no more than 5 business days or may make a determination that the party has waived his right to a hearing. Both the complainant and the PHA must be notified of the determination by the hearing officer. A determination that the complainant has waived the complainant's right to a hearing will not constitute a waiver of any right the complainant may have to contest the PHA's disposition of the grievance in an appropriate judicial proceeding.
(d) At the hearing, the complainant must first make a showing of an entitlement to the relief sought and thereafter the PHA must sustain the burden of justifying the PHA action or failure to act against which the complaint is directed.
(e) The complainant or the PHA may arrange, in advance and at the expense of the party making the arrangement, for a transcript of the hearing. Any interested party may purchase a copy of such transcript.
(f)
Accommodation of persons with disabilities.
(1) The PHA must provide reasonable accommodation for persons with disabilities to participate in the hearing. Reasonable accommodation may include qualified sign language interpreters, readers, accessible locations, or attendants.
(2) If the tenant is visually impaired, any notice to the tenant which is required under this subpart must be in an accessible format.
(g)
Limited English Proficiency.
PHAs must comply with HUD's “Final Guidance to Federal Financial Assistance Recipients Regarding Title VI Prohibition Against National Origin Discrimination Affecting Limited English Proficient Persons” issued on January 22, 2007 and available at
http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/fair_housing_equal_opp/promotingfh/lep-faq.
[40 FR 33406, Aug. 7, 1975. Redesignated at 49 FR 6714, Feb. 23, 1984, and amended at 56 FR 51580, Oct. 11, 1991; 81 FR 12374, Mar. 8, 2016]
§ 966.57
Decision of the hearing officer.
(a) The hearing officer must prepare a written decision, including the reasons for the PHA's decision within a reasonable time after the hearing. A copy of the decision must be sent to the complainant and the PHA. The PHA must retain a copy of the decision in the tenant's folder. The PHA must maintain a log of all hearing officer decisions and make that log available upon request of the hearing officer, a prospective complainant, or a prospective complainant's representative.
(b) The decision of the hearing officer will be binding on the PHA unless the PHA Board of Commissioners determines that:
(1) The grievance does not concern PHA action or failure to act in accordance with or involving the complainant's lease on PHA regulations, which adversely affects the complainant's rights, duties, welfare or status; or
(2) The decision of the hearing officer is contrary to applicable Federal, State or local law, HUD regulations or requirements of the annual contributions contract between HUD and the PHA.
(c) A decision by the hearing officer or Board of Commissioners in favor of the PHA or which denies the relief requested by the complainant in whole or in part will not constitute a waiver of, nor affect in any manner whatever, any rights the complainant may have to a trial de novo or judicial review in any judicial proceedings, which may thereafter be brought in the matter.
[81 FR 12375, Mar. 8, 2016]
Pt. 970

# PART 970—PUBLIC HOUSING PROGRAM—DEMOLITION OR DISPOSITION OF PUBLIC HOUSING PROJECTS
Sec.
970.1
Purpose.
970.3
Applicability.
970.5
Definitions.
970.7
General requirements for HUD approval of a PHA demolition/disposition application.
970.9
Resident participation—consultation and opportunity to purchase.
970.11
Procedures for the offer of sale to established eligible organizations.
970.13
Environmental review requirements.
970.15
Specific criteria for HUD approval of demolition requests.
970.17
Specific criteria for HUD approval of disposition requests.
970.19
Disposition of property; use of proceeds.
970.21
Relocation of residents.
970.23
Costs of demolition and relocation of displaced tenants.
970.25
Required and permitted actions prior to approval.
970.27
De minimis exception to demolition requirements.
970.29
Criteria for disapproval of demolition or disposition applications.
970.31
Replacement units.
970.33
Effect on Operating Fund Program and Capital Fund Program.
970.35
Reports and records.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1437p and 3535(d).

# Source:
71 FR 62362, Oct. 24, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 970.1
Purpose.
This part states requirements for HUD approval of a public housing agency's application for demolition or disposition (in whole or in part) of public housing developments assisted under Title I of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 (Act). The regulations in 2 CFR part 200 are not applicable to this part.
§ 970.3
Applicability.
(a) This part applies to public housing developments that are owned by public housing agencies (PHAs) and that are subject to annual contributions contracts (ACCs) under the Act.
(b) This part does not apply to the following:
(1) PHA-owned section 8 housing, or housing leased under former sections 10(c) or 23 of the Act;
(2) Demolition or disposition before the date of full availability (DOFA) of property acquired incident to the development of a public housing project (however, this exception shall not apply to dwelling units under ACC);
(3) The conveyance of public housing for the purpose of providing homeownership opportunities for lower-income families under sections 21 and 32 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437s and 42 U.S.C. 1437z-4, respectively), the homeownership program under former section 5(h) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437c(h)), or other predecessor homeownership programs;
(4) The leasing of dwelling or non-dwelling space incidental to the normal operation of the project for public housing purposes, as permitted by the ACC;
(5) Making available common areas and unoccupied dwelling units in public housing projects to provide HUD-approved economic self-sufficiency services and activities to promote employment of public housing residents;
(6) The reconfiguration of the interior space of buildings (e.g., moving or removing interior walls to change the design, sizes, or number of units) without “demolition,” as defined in § 970.5. (This includes the conversion of bedroom size, occupancy type, changing the status of unit from dwelling to non-dwelling.);
(7) Easements, rights-of-way, and transfers of utility systems incident to the normal operation of the development for public housing purposes, as permitted by the ACC;
(8) A whole or partial taking by a public or quasi-public entity (taking agency) authorized to take real property by its use of police power or exercise of its power of eminent domain under state law. A taking does not qualify for the exception under this paragraph unless:
(i) The taking agency has been authorized to acquire real property by use of its police power or power of eminent domain under its state law;
(ii) The taking agency has taken at least the first step in formal proceedings under its state law; and
(iii) If the taking is for a federally assisted project, the Uniform Relocation Act (URA) (42 U.S.C. 4601
et seq.
) applies to any resulting displacement of residents and it is the responsibility of the taking agency to comply with applicable URA requirements.
(9) Demolition after conveyance of a public housing project to a non-PHA entity in accordance with an approved homeownership program under Title III of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (HOPE I) (42 U.S.C. 1437aaa note);
(10) Units or land leased for non-dwelling purposes for one year or less;
(11) A public housing property that is conveyed by a PHA prior to DOFA to enable an owner entity to develop the property using the mixed-finance development method;
(12) Disposition of public housing property for development pursuant to the mixed-finance development method at 24 CFR part 941, subpart F;
(13) Demolition under the de minimis exception in § 970.27, except that the environmental review provisions apply, including the provisions at §§ 970.7(a)(15) and (b)(13) of this part.
(14) Demolition (but not disposition) of severely distressed units as part of a revitalization plan under section 24 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437v) (HOPE VI) approved after October 21, 1998;
(15) Demolition (but not disposition) of public housing developments removed from a PHA's inventory under section 33 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1437z-5.
[71 FR 62362, Oct. 24, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 3868, Jan. 23, 2008]
§ 970.5
Definitions.
ACC
, or
annual contributions contract
, is defined in 24 CFR 5.403.
Act
means the United States Housing Act of 1937, 42 U.S.C. 1437
et seq.
Appropriate government officials
mean the Chief Executive Officer or officers of a unit of general local government.
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing at HUD.
Chief Executive Officer of a unit of general local government
means the elected official or the legally designated official, who has the primary responsibility for the conduct of that entity's governmental affairs. Examples of the chief executive officer of a unit of general local government are: the elected mayor of a municipality; the elected county executive of a county; the chairperson of a county commission or board in a county that has no elected county executive; and the official designated pursuant to law by the governing body of a unit of general local government.
Demolition
means the removal by razing or other means, in whole or in part, of one or more permanent buildings of a public housing development. A demolition involves any four or more of the following:
(1) Envelope removal (roof, windows, exterior walls);
(2) Kitchen removal;
(3) Bathroom removal;
(4) Electrical system removal (unit service panels and distribution circuits); or
(5) Plumbing system removal (e.g., either the hot water heater or distribution piping in the unit, or both).
Disposition
means the conveyance or other transfer by the PHA, by sale or other transaction, of any interest in the real estate of a public housing development, subject to the exceptions stated in § 970.3.
DOFA
, or date of full availability, means the last day of the month in which substantially all (95 percent or more) of the units in a housing development are available for occupancy.
Firm financial commitment
means a commitment that obligates a creditable source, lender, or equity provider, to the lending or equity investment of a specific sum of funds to be made on or before a specific date(s) and may contain contingencies or conditions that must be satisfied by the borrower (or entity receiving equity investments) before the closing of the transaction. The condition of a firm commitment must be that it is enforceable by the borrower (or entity receiving the equity investment) upon the satisfaction of all contingencies or conditions.
PHA Plan
—Means the PHA's initial, annual, and 5-year submissions under section 5A of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937, 42 U.S.C. 1437c-1.
Resident Advisory Board
(RAB) has the same meaning as in § 903.13(a) of this title.
Resident Council
means a resident organization, the role and requirements of which are as described in 24 CFR part 964.
Total development cost
has the same meaning as in 24 CFR 941.103.
§ 970.7
General requirements for HUD approval of a PHA demolition/disposition application.
(a)
Application for HUD Approval.
A PHA must obtain written approval from HUD before undertaking any transaction involving demolition or disposition of PHA-owned property under the ACC. Where a PHA demolishes or disposes of public housing property without HUD approval, no HUD funds may be used to fund the costs of demolition or disposition or reimburse the PHA for those costs. HUD will approve an application for demolition or disposition upon the PHA's submission of an application with the required certifications and the supporting information required by this section and §§ 970.15 or 970.17. Section 970.29 specifies criteria for disapproval of an application. Approval of the application under this part does not imply approval of a request for additional funding, which the PHA must make separately under a program that
makes available funding for this purpose. The PHA shall submit the application for demolition or disposition and the timetable in a time and manner and in a form prescribed by HUD. The supporting information shall include:
(1) A certification that the PHA has described the demolition or disposition in the PHA Annual Plan and timetable under 24 CFR part 903 (except in the case of small or high-performing PHAs eligible for streamlined annual plan treatment), and that the description in the PHA Annual Plan is identical to the application submitted pursuant to this part and otherwise complies with section 18 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437p) and this part;
(2) A description of all identifiable property, by development, including land, dwelling units, and other improvements, involved in the proposed demolition or disposition;
(3) A description of the specific action proposed, such as:
(i) Demolition, disposition, or demolition with disposition;
(ii) If disposition is involved, the method of sale;
(4) A general timetable for the proposed action(s), including the initial contract for demolition, the actual demolition, and, if applicable, the closing of sale or other form of disposition;
(5) A statement justifying the proposed demolition or disposition under the applicable criteria of §§ 970.15 or 970.17;
(6) If applicable, a plan for the relocation of tenants who would be displaced by the proposed demolition or disposition (including persons with disabilities requiring reasonable accommodations and a relocation timetable as prescribed in § 970.21);
(7) A description with supporting evidence of the PHA's consultations with residents, any resident organizations, and the Resident Advisory Board, as required under § 903.9 of this title;
(8) In the case of disposition only, evidence of compliance with the offering to resident organizations, as required under § 970.9;
(9) In the case of disposition, an estimate of the fair market value of the property, established on the basis of one independent appraisal, unless otherwise determined by HUD, as described in § 970.19(c);
(10) In the case of disposition, estimates of the gross and net proceeds to be realized, with an itemization of estimated costs to be paid out of gross proceeds and the proposed use of any net proceeds in accordance with § 970.19;
(11) An estimate of costs for any required relocation housing, moving costs, and counseling.
(12) Where the PHA is requesting a waiver of the requirement for the application of proceeds for repayment of outstanding debt, the PHA must request such a waiver in its application, along with a description of the proposed use of the proceeds;
(13) A copy of a resolution by the PHA's Board of Commissioners approving the specific demolition or disposition application (or, in the case of the report required under § 970.27(e) for “de minimis” demolitions, the Board of Commissioner's resolution approving the “de minimis” action) for that development or developments or portions thereof. The resolution must be signed and dated after all resident and local government consultation has been completed;
(14) Evidence that the application was developed in consultation with appropriate government officials as defined in § 970.5, including:
(i) A description of the process of consultation with local government officials, which summarizes dates, meetings, and issues raised by the local government officials and the PHA's responses to those issues;
(ii) A signed and dated letter in support of the application from the chief executive officer of the unit of local government that demonstrates that the PHA has consulted with the appropriate local government officials on the proposed demolition or disposition;
(iii) Where the local government consistently fails to respond to the PHA's attempts at consultation, including letters, requests for meetings, public notices, and other reasonable efforts, documentation of those attempts;
(iv) Where the PHA covers multiple jurisdictions (such as a regional housing authority), the PHA must meet these requirements for each of the jurisdictions where the PHA is proposing
demolition or disposition of PHA property;
(15) An approved environmental review of the proposed demolition or disposition in accordance with 24 CFR parts 50 or 58 for any demolition or disposition of public housing property covered under this part, as required under 24 CFR 970.13;
(16) A certification that the demolition or disposition application does not violate any remedial civil rights order or agreement, voluntary compliance agreement, final judgment, consent decree, settlement agreement, or other court order or agreement;
(17) Any additional information necessary to support the application and assist HUD in making determinations under this part.
(b)
Completion of demolition/disposition or rescissions of approval.
(1) HUD will consider a PHA's request to rescind an earlier approval to demolish or dispose of public housing property, where a PHA submits a resolution from the Board of Commissioners and submits documentation that the conditions that originally led to the request for demolition or disposition have significantly changed or been removed.
(2) The Assistant Secretary will not approve any request by the PHA to either substitute units or add units to those originally included in the approved demolition or disposition application, unless the PHA submits a new application for those units that meet the requirements of this part.
§ 970.9
Resident participation—consultation and opportunity to purchase.
(a)
Resident consultation.
PHAs must consult with residents who will be affected by the proposed action with respect to all demolition or disposition applications. The PHA must provide with its application evidence that the application was developed in consultation with residents who will be affected by the proposed action, any resident organizations for the development, PHA-wide resident organizations that will be affected by the demolition or disposition, and the Resident Advisory Board (RAB). The PHA must also submit copies of any written comments submitted to the PHA and any evaluation that the PHA has made of the comments.
(b)
Resident organization offer to sell—applicability.
In the situation where the PHA applies to dispose of a development or portion of a development:
(1) The PHA shall, in appropriate circumstances as determined by the Assistant Secretary, initially offer the property proposed for disposition to any eligible resident organization, eligible resident management corporation as defined in 24 CFR part 964, or to a nonprofit organization acting on behalf of the residents at any development proposed for disposition, if the resident entity has expressed an interest in purchasing the property for continued use as low-income housing. The entity must make the request in writing to the PHA, no later than 30 days after the resident entity has received the notification of sale from the PHA;
(2) If the resident entity has expressed an interest in purchasing the property for continued use as low-income housing, the entity, in order for its purchase offer to be considered, must:
(i) In the case of a nonprofit organization, be acting on behalf of the residents of the development; and
(ii) Demonstrate that it has obtained a firm commitment for the necessary financing within 60 days of serving its written notice of interest under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3) The requirements of this section do not apply to the following cases, which have been determined not to present an appropriate opportunity for purchase by a resident organization:
(i) A unit of state or local government requests to acquire vacant land that is less than two acres in order to build or expand its public services (a local government wishes to use the land to build or establish a police substation); or
(ii) A PHA seeks disposition outside the public housing program to privately finance or otherwise develop a facility to benefit low-income families (e.g., day care center, administrative building, mixed-finance housing under 24 CFR part 941 subpart F, or other types of low-income housing);
(iii) Units that have been legally vacated in accordance with the HOPE VI
program, the regulations at 24 CFR part 971, or the mandatory conversion regulations at 24 CFR part 972, excluding developments where the PHA has consolidated vacancies;
(iv) Distressed units required to be converted to tenant-based assistance under section 33 of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437z-5); or
(v) Disposition of non-dwelling properties, including administration and community buildings, and maintenance facilities.
(4) If the requirements of this section are not applicable, as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the PHA may proceed to submit to HUD its application under this part to dispose of the property, or a portion of the property, without affording an opportunity for purchase by a resident organization. However, PHAs must consult with their residents in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. The PHA must submit documentation with date and signatures to support the applicability of one of the exceptions in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Examples of appropriate documentation include, but are not limited to: a letter from the public body that wants to acquire the land, copies of memoranda or letters approving the PHA's previous application under part 970 or mandatory conversion plan, and the HUD transmittal document approving the proposed revitalization plan.
(c)
Established eligible organizations.
Where there are eligible resident organizations, eligible resident management corporations as defined in 24 CFR part 964, or nonprofit organizations acting on behalf of the residents as defined in 24 CFR part 964 (collectively, “established eligible organizations”), that have expressed an interest, in writing, to the PHA within 30 days of the date of notification of the proposed sale, in purchasing the property for continued use as low-income housing at the affected development, the PHA shall follow the procedures for making the offer described in § 970.11.
[71 FR 62362, Oct. 24, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 3868, Jan. 23, 2008]
§ 970.11
Procedures for the offer of sale to established eligible organizations.
In making an offer of sale to established eligible organizations as defined in § 970.9(c) in the case of proposed disposition, the PHA shall proceed as follows:
(a)
Initial written notification of sale of property.
The PHA shall send an initial written notification to each established eligible organization (for purposes of this section, an established eligible organization that has been so notified is a “notified eligible organization”) of the proposed sale of the property. The notice of sale must include, at a minimum, the information listed in paragraph (d) of this section;
(b)
Initial expression of interest.
All notified eligible organizations shall have 30 days to initially express an interest, in writing, in the offer (“initial expression of interest”). The initial expression of interest need not contain details regarding financing, acceptance of an offer of sale, or any other terms of sale.
(c)
Opportunity to obtain firm financial commitment by interested entity.
If a notified eligible organization expresses interest in writing during the 30-day period referred to in paragraph (b) of this section, no disposition of the property shall occur during the 60-day period beginning on the date of the receipt of the written notice of interest. During this period, the PHA must give the entity expressing interest an opportunity to obtain a firm financial commitment as defined in § 970.5 for the financing necessary to purchase the property;
(d)
Contents of initial written notification.
The initial written notification to established eligible organizations under paragraph (a) of this section must include at a minimum the following:
(1) An identification of the development, or portion of the development, involved in the proposed disposition, including the development number and location, the number of units and bedroom configuration, the amount and use of non-dwelling space, the current physical condition (fire damaged, friable asbestos, lead-based paint test results), and percent of occupancy;
(2) A copy of the appraisal of the property and any terms of sale;
(3) Disclosure and description of the PHA's plans for reuse of land, if any, after the proposed disposition;
(4) An identification of available resources (including its own and HUD's) to provide technical assistance to the organization to help it to better understand its opportunity to purchase the development, the development's value, and potential use;
(5) A statement that public housing developments sold to resident organizations will not continue to receive capital and operating subsidy after the completion of the sale;
(6) Any and all terms of sale that the PHA will require, including a statement that the purchaser must use the property for low-income housing. If the PHA does not know all the terms of the offer of sale at the time of the notice of sale, the PHA shall include all the terms of sale of which it is aware. The PHA must supply the totality of all the terms of sale and all necessary material to the residents no later than 3 business days from the day it receives the residents' initial expression of interest;
(7) A date by which an established eligible organization must express its interest, in writing, in response to the PHA's offer to sell the property proposed for demolition or disposition, which shall be up to 30 days from the date of the official written offer of sale from the PHA;
(8) A statement that the established eligible organization will be given 60 days from the date of the PHA's receipt of its letter expressing interest to develop and submit a proposal to the PHA to purchase the property and to obtain a firm financial commitment, as defined in § 970.5. The statement shall explain that the PHA shall approve the proposal from an organization if the proposal meets the terms of sale and is supported by a firm commitment for financing. The statement shall also provide that the PHA can consider accepting an offer from the organization that differs from the terms of sale. The statement shall explain that if the PHA receives proposals from more than one organization, the PHA shall select the proposal that meets the terms of sale, if any. In the event that two proposals from the development to be sold meet the terms of sale, the PHA shall choose the best proposal. If no proposal meets the terms of sale, the PHA in its discretion may or may not select the best proposal.
(e)
Response to the notice of sale.
The established eligible organization or organizations have up to 30 days to respond to the notice of sale from the PHA. The established eligible organization shall respond to the PHA's notice of sale by means of an initial expression of interest under paragraph (b) of this section.
(f)
Resident proposal.
The established eligible organization has up to 60 days from the date the PHA receives its initial expression of interest and provides all necessary terms and information to prepare and submit a proposal to the PHA for the purchase of the property of which the PHA plans to dispose, and to obtain a firm commitment for financing. The resident's proposal shall provide all the information requested in paragraph (i) of this section.
(g)
PHA Review of Proposals.
The PHA has up to 60 days from the date of receipt of the proposal or proposals to review the proposals and determine whether they meet the terms of sale described in the PHA's offer or offers. If the PHA determines that the proposal meets the terms of sale, within 14 days of the date of this determination, the PHA shall notify the organization of that fact and that the proposal has been accepted. If the PHA determines that the proposal differs from the terms of sale, the PHA may accept or reject the proposal at its discretion;
(h)
Appeals.
The established eligible organization has the right to appeal the PHA's decision to the Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, or his designee, by sending a letter of appeal within 30 days of the date of the PHA's decision to the field office director. The letter of appeal must include copies of the proposal and any related correspondence, along with a statement of reasons why the organization believes the PHA should have decided differently. HUD shall render a decision within 30 days, and notify the organization and the PHA by letter within 14 days of such decision. If HUD
cannot render a decision within 30 days, HUD will so notify the PHA and the established eligible organization in writing, in which case HUD will have an additional 30 days in which to render a decision. HUD may continue to extend its time for decision in 30-day increments for a total of 120 days. Once HUD renders its decision, there is no further administrative appeal or remedy available.
(i)
Contents of the organization's proposal.
The established eligible organization's proposal shall at a minimum include the following:
(1) The length of time the organization has been in existence;
(2) A description of current or past activities that demonstrate the organization's organizational and management capability, or the planned acquisition of such capability through a partner or other outside entities (in which case the proposal should state how the partner or outside entity meets this requirement);
(3) To the extent not included in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, the organization's experience in the development of low-income housing, or planned arrangements with partners or outside entities with such experience (in which case the proposal should state how the partner or outside entity meets this requirement);
(4) A statement of financial capability;
(5) A description of involvement of any non-resident organization (such as non-profit, for-profit, governmental, or other entities), if any, the proposed division of responsibilities between the non-resident organization and the established eligible organization, and the non-resident organization's financial capabilities;
(6) A plan for financing the purchase of the property and a firm financial commitment as stated in paragraph (c) of this section for funding resources necessary to purchase the property and pay for any necessary repairs;
(7) A plan for using the property for low-income housing;
(8) The proposed purchase price in relation to the appraised value;
(9) Justification for purchase at less than the fair market value in accordance with § 970.19(a) of this part, if appropriate;
(10) Estimated time schedule for completing the transaction;
(11) Any additional items necessary to respond fully to the PHA's terms of sale;
(12) A resolution from the resident organization approving the proposal; and
(13) A proposed date of settlement, generally not to exceed 6 months from the date of PHA approval of the proposal, or such period as the PHA may determine to be reasonable.
(j)
PHA obligations.
The PHA must:
(1) Prepare and distribute the initial notice of sale pursuant to 24 CFR 970.11(a), and, if any established eligible organization expresses an interest, any further documents necessary to enable the organization or organizations to make an offer to purchase;
(2) Evaluate proposals received, make the selection based on the considerations set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, and issue letters of acceptance or rejection;
(3) Prepare certifications, where appropriate, as provided in paragraph (k) of this section;
(4) Comply with its obligations under § 970.7(a) regarding tenant consultation and provide evidence to HUD that the PHA has met those obligations. The PHA shall not act in an arbitrary manner and shall give full and fair consideration to any offer from a qualified resident management corporation, resident council of the affected development, or a nonprofit organization acting on behalf of the residents, and shall accept the proposal if the proposal meets the terms of sale.
(k)
PHA post-offer requirements.
After the resident offer, if any, is made, the PHA shall:
(1) Submit its disposition application to HUD in accordance with section 18 of the Act and this part. The disposition application must include complete documentation that the resident offer provisions of this part have been met. This documentation shall include:
(i) A copy of the signed and dated PHA notification letter(s) to each established eligible organization informing them of the PHA's intention to submit an application for disposition,
the organization's right to purchase the property to be disposed of; and
(ii) The responses from each organization.
(2)(i) If the PHA accepts the proposal of an established eligible organization, the PHA shall submit revisions to its disposition application to HUD in accordance with section 18 of the Act and this part reflecting the arrangement with the resident organization, with appropriate justification for a negotiated sale and for sale at less than fair market value, if applicable.
(ii) If the PHA rejects the proposal of the resident organization, the resident organization may appeal as provided in paragraph (h) of this section. Once the appeal is resolved, or, if there is no appeal, and the 30 days allowed for appeal has passed, HUD shall proceed to approve or disapprove the application.
(3) HUD will not process an application for disposition unless the PHA provides HUD with one of the following:
(i) An official board resolution or its equivalent from each established eligible organization stating that such organization has received the PHA offer, and that it understands the offer and waives its opportunity to purchase the project, or portion of the project, covered by the disposition application;
(ii) A certification from the executive director or board of commissioners of the PHA that the 30-day time frame to express interest has expired and no response was received to its offer; or
(iii) A certification from the executive director or board of commissioners of the PHA with supporting documentation that the offer was otherwise rejected.
§ 970.13
Environmental review requirements.
(a) Activities under this part (including de minimis demolition pursuant to § 970.27) are subject to HUD environmental regulations in 24 CFR part 58. However, HUD may make a finding in accordance with 24 CFR 58.11(d) of this title and may itself perform the environmental review under the provisions of 24 CFR part 50 if a PHA objects in writing to the responsible entity performing the review under 24 CFR part 58.
(b) The environmental review is limited to the demolition or disposition action and any known re-use, and is not required for any unknown future re-use. Factors that indicate that the future site reuse can reasonably be considered to be known include the following:
(1) Private, Federal, state, or local funding for the site reuse has been committed;
(2) A grant application involving the site has been filed with the Federal government or a state or local unit of government;
(3) The Federal government or a state or unit of local government has made a commitment to take an action, including a physical action, that will facilitate a particular reuse of the site; and
(4) Architectural, engineering, or design plans for the reuse exist that go beyond preliminary stages.
(c) In the case of a demolition or disposition made necessary by a disaster that the President has declared under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. 5121
et seq.,
or a disaster that has been declared under state law by the officer or entity with legal authority to make such declaration, pursuant to 24 CFR 50.43 and 24 CFR 58.33, the provisions of 40 CFR 1506.11 will apply.
§ 970.15
Specific criteria for HUD approval of demolition requests.
(a) In addition to other applicable requirements of this part, HUD will approve an application for demolition upon the PHA's certification that it meets the following statutory criteria, unless the application meets the criteria for disapproval under 24 CFR 970.29. An application for the demolition of all or a portion of a public housing project must certify that the project:
(1) Is obsolete as to physical condition, location, or other factors, making it unsuitable for housing purposes, and no reasonable program of modifications is cost-effective to return the public housing project or portion of the project to useful life; and
(2) In the case of an application for demolition of a portion of a project, the demolition will help to ensure the
viability of the remaining portion of the project.
(b) As to paragraph (a)(1) of this section:
(1) Major problems indicative of obsolescence are:
(i) As to physical condition: Structural deficiencies that cannot be corrected in a cost-effective manner (settlement of earth below the building caused by inadequate structural fills, faulty structural design, or settlement of floors), or other design or site problems (severe erosion or flooding);
(ii) As to location: physical deterioration of the neighborhood; change from residential to industrial or commercial development; or environmental conditions as determined by HUD environmental review in accord with 24 CFR part 50, which jeopardize the suitability of the site or a portion of the site and its housing structures for residential use; or
(iii) There are other factors that have seriously affected the marketability, usefulness, or management of the property.
(2) HUD generally shall not consider a program of modifications to be cost-effective if the costs of such program exceed 62.5 percent of total development cost (TDC) for elevator structures and 57.14 percent of TDC for all other types of structures in effect at the time the application is submitted to HUD.
(c) As to paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a partial demolition will be considered to ensure the viability of the remaining portion if the application certifies that the demolition will reduce development density to permit better access by emergency, fire, or rescue services, or improve marketability by reducing the density to that of the neighborhood or other developments in the PHA's inventory.
[71 FR 62362, Oct. 24, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 3868, Jan. 23, 2008]
§ 970.17
Specific criteria for HUD approval of disposition requests.
In addition to other applicable requirements of this part, HUD will approve a request for disposition by sale or other transfer of a public housing project or other real property if the PHA certifies that the retention of the property is not in the best interests of the residents or the PHA for at least one of the following reasons, unless information available to HUD is inconsistent with the certification:
(a) Conditions in the area surrounding the project (density, or industrial or commercial development) adversely affect the health or safety of the tenants or the feasible operation of the project by the PHA;
(b) Disposition allows the acquisition, development, or rehabilitation of other properties that will be more efficiently or effectively operated as low-income housing developments;
(c) The PHA has otherwise determined the disposition to be appropriate for reasons that are consistent with the goals of the PHA and the PHA Plan and that are otherwise consistent with the Act;
(d) In the case of disposition of property other than dwelling units (community facilities or vacant land), the PHA certifies that:
(1) The non-dwelling facilities or land exceeds the needs of the development (after DOFA); or
(2) The disposition of the property is incidental to, or does not interfere with, continued operation of the remaining portion of the development.
§ 970.19
Disposition of property; use of proceeds.
(a) Where HUD approves the disposition of real property of a development, in whole or in part, the PHA shall dispose of the property promptly for not less than fair market value (in which case there is no showing of commensurate public benefit required), unless HUD authorizes negotiated sale for reasons found to be in the best interests of the PHA or the federal government; or dispose of the property for sale for less than fair market value (where permitted by state law), based on commensurate public benefits to the community, the PHA, or the federal government justifying such an exception. General public improvements, such as streets and bridges, do not qualify as commensurate public benefits.
(b) A PHA may pay the reasonable costs of disposition, and of relocation of displaced tenants allowable under
§ 970.21, out of the gross proceeds, as approved by HUD.
(c) To obtain an estimate of the fair market value before the property is advertised for bid, the PHA shall have one independent appraisal performed on the property proposed for disposition, unless HUD determines that:
(1) More than one appraisal is warranted; or
(2) Another method of valuation is clearly sufficient and the expense of an independent appraisal is unjustified because of the limited nature of the property interest involved or other available data.
(d) To obtain an estimate of the fair market value when a property is not publicly advertised for bid, HUD may accept a reasonable valuation of the property.
(e) A PHA shall use net proceeds, including any interest earned on the proceeds (after payment of HUD-approved costs of disposition and relocation under paragraph (a) of this section), subject to HUD approval, as follows:
(1) Unless waived by HUD, for the retirement of outstanding obligations, if any, issued to finance original development or modernization of the project; and
(2) To the extent that any net proceeds remain, after the application of proceeds in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section, for:
(i) The provision of low-income housing or to benefit the residents of the PHA, through such measures as modernization of lower-income housing or the acquisition, development, or rehabilitation of other properties to operate as lower-income housing; or
(ii) Leveraging amounts for securing commercial enterprises, on-site in public housing developments of the PHA, appropriate to serve the needs of the residents.
(f) For dispositions for the purpose stated in § 970.17(b), a PHA must demonstrate to the satisfaction of HUD that the replacement units are being provided in connection with the disposition of the property. A PHA may use sale proceeds in accordance with paragraph (e) to fund the replacement units.
§ 970.21
Relocation of residents.
(a)
Relocation of residents on a nondiscriminatory basis and relocation resources.
A PHA must offer each family displaced by demolition or disposition comparable housing that meets housing quality standards (HQS) and is located in an area that is generally not less desirable than the location of the displaced persons. The housing must be offered on a nondiscriminatory basis, without regard to race, color, religion, creed, national origin, handicap, age, familial status, or gender, in compliance with applicable Federal and state laws. For persons with disabilities displaced from a unit with reasonable accommodations, comparable housing should include similar accommodations. Such housing may include:
(1) Tenant-based assistance, such as assistance under the Housing Choice Voucher Program, 24 CFR part 982, except that such assistance will not be considered “comparable housing” until the family is actually relocated into such housing;
(2) Project-based assistance; or
(3) Occupancy in a unit operated or assisted by the PHA at a rental rate paid by the family that is comparable to the rental rate applicable to the unit from which the family is vacated.
(b)
In-place tenants.
A PHA may not complete disposition of a building until all tenants residing in the building are relocated.
(c)
Financial resources.
(1) Sources of funding for relocation costs related to demolition or disposition may include, but are not limited to, capital funds or other federal funds currently available for this purpose;
(2) If Federal financial assistance under the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, 42 U.S.C. 5301
et seq.
(including loan guarantees under section 108 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 5308
et seq.
); the Urban Development Action Grant (UDAG) program, 42 U.S.C. 5318
et seq.;
or HOME program, 42 U.S.C. 12701
et seq.
is used in connection with the demolition or disposition of public housing, the project is subject to section 104(d) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 5304(d) (as amended)), including the relocation payment provisions
and the anti-displacement provisions, which require that comparable replacement dwellings be provided within the community for the same number of occupants as could have been housed in the occupied and vacant, occupiable low- and moderate-income units demolished or converted to another use.
(d)
Relocation timetable.
For the purpose of determining operating subsidy eligibility under 24 CFR part 990, a PHA must provide the following information in the application or immediately following application submission:
(1) The number of occupied units at the time of demolition/disposition application approval;
(2) A schedule for the relocation of those residents on a month-by-month basis.
(e) The PHA is responsible for the following:
(1) Notifying each family residing in the development of the proposed demolition or disposition 90 days prior to the displacement date, except in cases of imminent threat to health and safety. The notification must include a statement that:
(i) The development or portion of the development will be demolished or disposed of;
(ii) The demolition of the building in which the family resides will not commence until each resident of the building has been relocated;
(iii) Each family displaced by such action will be provided comparable housing, which may include housing with reasonable accommodations for disability, if required under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and HUD's regulations in 24 CFR part 8, as described in paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) Providing for the payment of the actual and reasonable relocation expenses of each resident to be displaced, including residents requiring reasonable accommodations because of disabilities;
(3) Ensuring that each displaced resident is offered comparable replacement housing as described in paragraph (b) of this section; and
(4) Providing any necessary counseling for residents that are displaced.
(f) In addition, the PHA's plan for the relocation of residents who would be displaced by the proposed demolition or disposition must indicate:
(1) The number of individual residents to be displaced;
(2) The type of counseling and advisory services the PHA plans to provide;
(3) What housing resources are expected to be available to provide housing for displaced residents; and
(4) An estimate of the costs for counseling and advisory services and resident moving expenses, and the expected source for payment of these costs.
(g) The Uniform Relocation Act does not apply to demolitions and dispositions under this part.
§ 970.23
Costs of demolition and relocation of displaced tenants.
Where HUD has approved demolition of a project, or a portion of a project, and the proposed action is part of a program under the Capital Fund Program (24 CFR part 905), the costs of demolition and of relocation of displaced residents may be included in the budget funded with capital funds pursuant to section 9(d) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1437g(d)) or awarded HOPE VI or other eligible HUD funds.
§ 970.25
Required and permitted actions prior to approval.
(a) A PHA may not take any action to demolish or dispose of a public housing development or a portion of a public housing development without obtaining HUD approval under this part. HUD funds may not be used to pay for the cost to demolish or dispose of a public housing development or a portion of a public housing development, unless HUD approval has been obtained under this part. Until the PHA receives HUD approval, the PHA shall continue to meet its ACC obligations to maintain and operate the property as housing for low-income families. However, the PHA may engage in planning activities, analysis, or consultations without seeking HUD approval. Planning activities may include project viability studies, capital planning, or comprehensive occupancy planning. The PHA must continue to provide full housing services to all residents that
remain in the development. A PHA should not re-rent these units at turnover while HUD is considering its application for demolition or disposition. However, the PHA's operating subsidy eligibility will continue to be calculated as stated in 24 CFR part 990.
(b) A PHA may consolidate occupancy within or among buildings of a development, or among developments, or with other housing for the purposes of improving living conditions of, or providing more efficient services to residents, without submitting a demolition or disposition application.
§ 970.27
De minimis exception to demolition requirements.
(a) A PHA may demolish units without submitting an application if the PHA is proposing to demolish not more than the lesser of:
(1) five dwelling units; or
(2) 5 percent of the total dwelling units owned by the PHA over any 5-year period.
(b) The 5-year period referred to in paragraph (a)(2) of this section is the 5 years counting backward from the date of the proposed de minimis demolition, except that any demolition performed prior to October 21, 1998, will not be counted against the five units or 5 percent of the total, as applicable. For example, if a PHA that owns 1,000 housing units wishes to demolish units under this de minimis provision on July 1, 2004, and previously demolished two units under this provision on September 1, 2000, and two more units on July 1, 2001, the PHA would be able to demolish one additional unit for a total of five in the preceding 5 years. As another example, if a PHA that owns 60 housing units as of July 1, 2004, had demolished two units on September 1, 2000, and one unit on July 1, 2001, that PHA would not be able to demolish any further units under this “de minimis” provision until after September 1, 2005, because it would have already demolished 5 percent of its total.
(c)(1) In order to qualify for this exemption, the space occupied by the demolished unit must be used for meeting the service or other needs of public housing residents (use of space to construct a laundry facility, community center, child care facility, office space for a general provider; or for use as open space or garden); or
(2) The unit being demolished must be beyond repair.
(d) PHAs utilizing this section will comply with environmental review requirements at 24 CFR 970.13 and, if applicable, the requirements of 24 CFR 8.23.
(e) For recordkeeping purposes, PHAs that wish to demolish units under this section shall submit the information required in § 970.7(a)(1), (2), (12), (13), and (14). HUD will accept a certification from the PHA that one of the two conditions in paragraph (c) of this section apply unless HUD has independent information that requirements for “de minimis” demolition have not been met.
[71 FR 62362, Oct. 24, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 3868, Jan. 23, 2008]
§ 970.29
Criteria for disapproval of demolition or disposition applications.
HUD will disapprove an application if HUD determines that:
(a) Any certification made by the PHA under this part is clearly inconsistent with:
(1) The PHA Plan;
(2) Any information and data available to HUD related to the requirements of this part, such as failure to meet the requirements for the justification for demolition or disposition as found in §§ 970.15 or 970.17; or
(3) Information or data requested by HUD; or
(b) The application was not developed in consultation with:
(1) Residents who will be affected by the proposed demolition or disposition as required in § 970.9; and
(2) Each resident advisory board and resident council, if any, of the project (or portion thereof) that will be affected by the proposed demolition or disposition as required in § 970.9, and appropriate government officials as required in § 970.7.
§ 970.31
Replacement units.
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, replacement public housing units may be built on the original public housing location or in the same neighborhood as the original public
housing location if the number of the replacement public housing units is significantly fewer than the number of units demolished. Such development must comply with 24 CFR part 905, Public Housing Capital Fund Program, as well as 24 CFR part 941.
§ 970.33
Effect on the Operating Fund Program and Capital Fund Program.
The provisions of 24 CFR part 990, the Public Housing Operating Fund Program, and 24 CFR part 905, the Public Housing Capital Fund Program, apply.
§ 970.35
Reports and records.
(a) After HUD approval of demolition or disposition of all or part of a project, the PHA shall provide information on the following:
(1) Actual completion of each demolition contract by entering the appropriate information into HUD's applicable data system, or providing the information by another method HUD may require, within a week of making the final payment to the demolition contractor, or expending the last remaining funds if funded by force account;
(2) Execution of sales or lease contracts by entering the appropriate information into HUD's applicable data system, or providing the information by another method HUD may require, within a week of execution;
(3) The PHA's use of the proceeds of sale by providing a financial statement showing how the funds were expended by item and dollar amount;
(4) Amounts expended for closing costs and relocation expenses, by providing a financial statement showing this information for each property sold; and
(5) Such other information as HUD may from time to time require.
(b) [Reserved]
Pt. 971

# PART 971—ASSESSMENT OF THE REASONABLE REVITALIZATION POTENTIAL OF CERTAIN PUBLIC HOUSING REQUIRED BY LAW
Sec.
971.1
Purpose.
971.3
Standards for identifying developments.
971.5
Long-term viability.
971.7
Plan for removal of units from public housing inventories.
971.9
Tenant and local government consultation.
971.11
Hope VI developments.
971.13
HUD enforcement authority.
Appendix to Part 971—Methodology of Comparing Cost of Public Housing With Cost of Tenant-Based Assistance

# Authority:
Pub. L. 104-134; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
62 FR 49576, Sept. 22, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 971.1
Purpose.
Section 202 of the Omnibus Consolidated Rescissions and Appropriations Act of 1996 (Pub.L. 104-134, approved April 26, 1996) (“OCRA”) requires PHAs to identify certain distressed public housing developments that cost more than Section 8 rental assistance and cannot be reasonably revitalized. Households in occupancy that will be affected by the activities will be offered tenant-based or project-based assistance (that can include other public housing units) and will be relocated, to other decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable housing which is, to the maximum extent practicable, housing of their choice. After residents are relocated, the distressed developments (or affected buildings) for which no reasonable means of revitalization exists will be removed from the public housing inventory.
§ 971.3
Standards for identifying developments.
(a) PHAs shall use the following standards for identifying developments or portions thereof which are subject to section 202's requirement that PHAs develop and carry out plans for the removal over time from the public housing inventory. These standards track section 202(a) of OCRA. The development, or portions thereof, must:
(1)
Be on the same or contiguous sites.
(OCRA Sec. 202(a)(1)). This standard and the standard set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section refer to the actual number and location of units, irrespective of HUD development project numbers.
(2)
Total more than 300 dwelling units.
(OCRA Sec. 202(a)(2)).
(3)
Have a vacancy rate of at least ten percent for dwelling units not in funded,
on-schedule modernization.
(OCRA Sec. 202(a)(3)). For this determination, PHAs and HUD shall use the data the PHA relied upon for its last Public Housing Management Assessment Program (PHMAP) certification, as reported on the Form HUD-51234 (Report on Occupancy), or more recent data which demonstrates improvement in occupancy rates. Units in the following categories shall not be included in this calculation:
(i) Vacant units in an approved demolition or disposition program;
(ii) Vacant units in which resident property has been abandoned, but only if State law requires the property to be left in the unit for some period of time, and only for the period stated in the law;
(iii) Vacant units that have sustained casualty damage, but only until the insurance claim is adjusted; and
(iv) Units that are occupied by employees of the PHA and units that are utilized for resident services.
(4)
Have an estimated cost of continued operation and modernization of the developments as public housing in excess of the cost of providing tenant-based assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 for all families in occupancy, based on appropriate indicators of cost (such as the percentage of total development cost required for modernization).
(OCRA Sec. 202(a)(5)).
(i) For purposes of this determination, the costs used for public housing shall be those necessary to produce a revitalized development as described in the paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(ii) These costs, including estimated operating costs, modernization costs and accrual needs must be used to develop a per unit monthly cost of continuing the development as public housing.
(iii) That per unit monthly cost of public housing must be compared to the per unit monthly Section 8 cost.
(iv) Both the method to be used and an example are included in the Appendix to this part.
(5)
Be identified as distressed housing that the PHA cannot assure the long-term viability as public housing through reasonable revitalization, density reduction, or achievement of a broader range of household income.
(OCRA Sec. 202(a)(4)). [See § 971.5.]
(b) Properties meeting the standards set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section will be assumed to be “distressed” unless the PHA can show that the property fails the standard set forth in paragraph (a)(3) of this section for reasons that are temporary in duration and are unlikely to recur.
(c) Where the PHA will demolish all of the units in a development, or the portion thereof, that is subject to section 202, section 202 requirements will be satisfied once the demolition occurs and its standards will not be applied further to the use of the site.
(d) PHAs will meet the test for assuring long-term viability of identified housing only if it is probable that, after reasonable investment, for at least twenty years (or at least 30 years for rehabilitation equivalent to new construction) the development can sustain structural/system soundness and full occupancy; will not be excessively densely configured relative to standards for similar (typically family) housing in the community; will not constitute an excessive concentration of very low-income families; and has no other site impairments which clearly should disqualify the site from continuation as public housing.
§ 971.5
Long-term viability.
(a)
Reasonable investment.
(1) Proposed revitalization costs for viability must be reasonable. Such costs must not exceed, and ordinarily would be substantially less than, 90 percent of HUD's total development cost limit for the units proposed to be revitalized (100 percent of the total development cost limit for any “infill” new construction subject to this regulation). The revitalization cost estimate used in the PHA's most recent comprehensive plan for modernization is to be used for this purpose, unless a PHA demonstrates or HUD determines that another cost estimate is clearly more realistic to ensure viability and to sustain the operating costs that are described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2) The overall projected cost of the revitalized development must not exceed the Section 8 cost under the method contained in the Appendix to this
part, even if the cost of revitalization is a lower percentage of the TDC than the limits stated in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(3) The source of funding for such a revitalization program must be identified and already available. In addition to other resources already available to the PHA, a PHA may assume that future formula funds provided through the Comprehensive Grant Program are available for this purpose, provided that they are sufficient to permit completion of the revitalization within the statutory five year time frame. (Comprehensive plans must be amended accordingly.)
(b)
Density.
Density reduction measures would have to result in a public housing community with a density approaching that which prevails in the community for similar types of housing (typically family), or a lower density. If the development's density already meets this description, further reduction in density is not a requirement.
(c)
Income mix.
(1) Measures generally will be required to broaden the range of resident incomes to include over time a significant mix of households with at least one full-time worker (for example, at least 20 percent with an income at least 30 percent of median area income). Measures to achieve a broader range of household incomes must be realistic in view of the site's location. Evidence of such realism typically would include some mix of incomes of other households located in the same census tract or neighborhood, or unique advantages of the public housing site.
(2) For purposes of judging appropriateness of density reduction and broader range of income measures, overall size of the public housing site and its number of dwelling units will be considered. The concerns these measures would address generally are greater as the site's size and number of dwelling units increase.
§ 971.7
Plan for removal of units from public housing inventories.
(a)
Time frames.
Section 202 is a continuing requirement, and the Secretary will establish time frames for submission of necessary information annually through publication of a
Federal Register
notice.
(b)
Plan for removal.
With respect to any development that meets all of the standards listed, the PHA shall develop a plan for removal of the affected public housing units from the inventory. The plan should consider relocation alternatives for households in occupancy, including other public housing and Section 8 tenant-based assistance, and shall provide for relocation from the units as soon as possible. For planning purposes, PHAs shall assume that HUD will be able to provide in a timely fashion any necessary Section 8 rental assistance. The plan shall include:
(1) A listing of the public housing units to be removed from the inventory;
(2) The number of households to be relocated, by bedroom size;
(3) Identification and obligation status of any previously approved CIAP, modernization, or major reconstruction funds for the distressed development and PHA recommendations concerning transfer of these funds to Section 8 or alternative public housing uses;
(4) The relocation resources that will be necessary, including a request for any necessary Section 8 and a description of actual or potential public or other assisted housing vacancies that can be used as relocation housing;
(5) A schedule for relocation and removal of units from the public housing inventory;
(6) Provision for notifying families residing in the development, in a timely fashion, that the development shall be removed from the public housing inventory; informing such families that they will receive tenant-based or project-based assistance; providing any necessary counselling with respect to the relocation, including a request for any necessary counseling funds; and assuring that such families are relocated as necessary to other decent, safe, sanitary and affordable housing which is, to the maximum extent possible, housing of their choice;
(7) The displacement and relocation provisions set forth in 24 CFR 970.5.
(8) A record indicating compliance with the statute's requirements for consultation with applicable public
housing tenants of the affected development and the unit of local government where the public housing is located, as set forth in § 971.9.
(c) Section 18 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 shall not apply to demolition of developments removed from PHA inventories under this section, but shall apply to any proposed dispositions of such developments or their sites. HUD's review of any such disposition application will take into account that the development has been required to be removed from the PHA's inventory.
(d) For purposes of determining operating subsidy eligibility under the Performance Funding System (PFS), the submitted plan will be considered the equivalent of a formal request to remove dwelling units from the PHA's inventory and ACC and approval (or acceptance). The PHA will receive written notification that the plan has been approved (or accepted). Units that are vacant or vacated on or after the written notification date will be treated as approved for deprogramming under § 990.108(b)(1) of this chapter and also will be provided the phase-down of subsidy pursuant to § 990.114 of this chapter.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0210)
§ 971.9
Tenant and local government consultation.
(a) PHAs are required to proceed in consultation with affected public housing residents. PHAs must provide copies of their submissions complying with §§ 971.3(a) (1) through (3) to the appropriate tenant councils and resident groups before or immediately after these submissions are provided to HUD.
(b) PHAs must:
(1) Hold a meeting with the residents of the affected sites and explain the requirements of section 202 of OCRA;
(2) Provide an outline of the submission(s) complying with § 971.3(a) (4) and (5) to affected residents; and
(3) Provide a reasonable comment period for residents and must provide a summary of the resident comments to HUD.
(c) PHAs must prepare conversion plans in consultation with affected tenants and must:
(1) Hold a meeting with affected residents and provide draft copies of the plan; and
(2) Provide a reasonable comment period for residents and must provide a summary of the resident comments to HUD.
(d) The conversion plan must be approved by the local officials as not inconsistent with the Consolidated Plan.
§ 971.11
HOPE VI developments.
Developments with HOPE VI implementation grants that have approved HOPE VI revitalization plans will be treated as having shown the ability to achieve long-term viability with reasonable revitalization plans. Future HUD actions to approve or deny proposed HOPE VI implementation grant revitalization plans will be taken with consideration of the standards for section 202. Developments with HOPE VI planning or implementation grants, but without approved HOPE VI revitalization plans, are fully subject to section 202 standards and requirements.
§ 971.13
HUD enforcement authority.
Section 202 provides HUD authority to ensure that certain distressed developments are properly identified and removed from PHA inventories. Specifically, HUD may:
(a) Direct a PHA to cease additional spending in connection with a development which meets or is likely to meet the statutory criteria, except as necessary to ensure decent, safe and sanitary housing until an appropriate course of action is approved;
(b) Identify developments which fall within the statutory criteria where a PHA has failed to do so properly;
(c) Take appropriate actions to ensure the removal of developments from the inventory where the PHA has failed to adequately develop or implement a plan to do so; and
(d) Authorize or direct the transfer of capital funds committed to or on behalf of the development (including comprehensive improvement assistance, comprehensive grant amounts attributable to the development's share of funds under the formula, and major reconstruction of obsolete projects
funds) to tenant-based assistance or appropriate site revitalization for the agency.
Pt. 971, App.

# Appendix to Part 971—Methodology of Comparing Cost of Public Housing With Cost of Tenant-Based Assistance

# I. Public Housing
The costs used for public housing shall be those necessary to produce a revitalized development as described in the next paragraph. These costs, including estimated operating costs, modernization costs and costs to address accrual needs must be used to develop a per unit monthly cost of continuing the development as public housing. That per unit monthly cost of public housing must be compared to the per unit monthly Section 8 cost. The estimated cost of the continued operation and modernization as public housing shall be calculated as the sum of total operating, modernization, and accrual costs, expressed on a monthly per occupied unit basis. The costs shall be expressed in current dollar terms for the period for which the most recent Section 8 costs are available.

# A. Operating Costs
1. The proposed revitalization plan must indicate how unusually high current operating expenses (e.g, security, supportive services, maintenance, utilities) will be reduced as a result of post-revitalization changes in occupancy, density and building configuration, income mix and management. The plan must make a realistic projection of overall operating costs per occupied unit in the revitalized development, by relating those operating costs to the expected occupancy rate, tenant composition, physical configuration and management structure of the revitalized development. The projected costs should also address the comparable costs of buildings or developments whose siting, configuration, and tenant mix is similar to that of the revitalized public housing development.
2. The development's operating cost (including all overhead costs pro-rated to the development—including a Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILOT) or some other comparable payment, and including utilities and utility allowances) shall be expressed as total operating costs per month, divided by the number of units occupied by households. For example, if a development will have 1,000 units occupied by households and will have $300,000 monthly in non-utility costs (including pro-rated overhead costs and appropriate P.I.L.O.T.) and $100,000 monthly in utility costs paid by the authority and $50,000 monthly in utility allowances that are deducted from tenant rental payments to the authority because tenants paid some utility bills directly to the utility company, then the development's monthly operating cost per occupied unit is $450—the sum of $300 per unit in non-utility costs, $100 per unit in direct utility costs, and $50 per unit in utility allowance costs.
3. In justifying the operating cost estimates as realistic, the plan should link the cost estimates to its assumptions about the level and rate of occupancy, the per-unit funding of modernization, any physical reconfiguration that will result from modernization, any planned changes in the surrounding neighborhood and security costs. The plan should also show whether developments or buildings in viable condition in similar neighborhoods have achieved the income mix and occupancy rate projected for the revitalized development. The plan should also show how the operating costs of the similar developments or buildings compare to the operating costs projected for the development.
4. In addition to presenting evidence that the operating costs of the revitalized development are plausible, when the per-unit operating cost of the renovated development is more than ten percent lower than the current per-unit operating cost of the development, then the plan should detail how the revitalized development will achieve its reduction in costs. To determine the extent to which projected operating costs are lower than current operating costs, the current per-unit operating costs of the development will be estimated as follows:
a. If the development has reliable operating costs and if the overall vacancy rate is less than twenty percent, then these costs will be divided by the sum of all occupied units and vacant units fully funded under PFS plus fifty percent of all units not fully funded under PFS. For instance, if the total monthly operating costs of the current development are $6.6 million and it has 1,000 occupied units and 200 vacant units not fully funded under PFS (or a 17 percent overall vacancy rate), then the $6.6 million is divided by 1100—1000 plus 50 percent of 200—to give a per unit figure of $600 per unit month. By this example, the current costs of $600 per occupied unit are at least ten percent higher than the projected costs per occupied unit of $450 for the revitalized development, and the reduction in costs would have to be detailed.
b. If the development currently lacks reliable cost data or has a vacancy rate of twenty percent or higher, then its current per unit costs will be estimated as follows. First, the per unit cost of the entire authority will be computed, with total costs divided by the sum of all occupied units and vacant units fully funded under PFS plus fifty percent of all vacant units not fully funded under PFS. Second, this amount will be multiplied by the ratio of the bedroom adjustment factor
of the development to the bedroom adjustment factor of the Housing Authority. The bedroom adjustment factor, which is based on national rent averages for units grouped by the number of bedrooms and which has been used by HUD to adjust for costs of units when the number of bedrooms vary, assigns to each unit the following factors: .70 for 0-bedroom units, .85 for 1-bedroom units, 1.0 for 2-bedroom units, 1.25 for 3-bedroom units, 1.40 for 4-bedroom units, 1.61 for 5-bedroom units, and 1.82 for 6 or more bedroom units. The bedroom adjustment factor is the unit-weighted average of the distribution. For instance, if the development with one thousand occupied units had in occupancy 500 two-bedroom units and 500 three-bedroom units, then its bedroom adjustment factor would be 1.125—500 times 1.0 plus 500 times 1.25, the sum divided by 1,000. Where necessary, HUD field offices will arrange for assistance in the calculation of the bedroom adjustment factors of the Housing Authority and its affected developments.
c. As an example of estimating development operating costs from PHA operating costs, suppose that the Housing Authority had a total monthly operating cost per unit of $500 and a bedroom adjustment factor of .90, and suppose that the development had a bedroom adjustment factor of 1.125. Then, the development's estimated current monthly operating cost per occupied unit would be $625—or $500 times 1.25 (the ratio of 1.125 to .90).

# B. Modernization
The cost of modernization is the initial revitalization cost to meet viability standards, that cost amortized over twenty years (which is equivalent to fifteen years at a three percent annual real capital cost for the initial outlay). Expressed in monthly terms, the modernization cost is divided by 180 (or 15 years times 12 months). Thus, if the initial modernization outlay to meet viability standards is $60 million for 1,000 units, then the per-unit outlay is $60,000 and the amortized modernization cost is $333 per unit per month (or $60,000 divided by 180). However, when revitalization would be equivalent to new construction and the PHA thus is permitted to amortize the proposed cost over thirty years (which is equivalent to twenty-two and one-half years at a three percent annual real capital cost to the initial outlay), the modernization cost will be divided by 270, the product of 22.5 and 12, to give a cost per unit month of $222.

# C. Accrual
The monthly per occupied unit cost of accrual (i.e., replacement needs) will be estimated by using the latest published HUD unit total development cost limits for the area and applying them to the development's structure type and bedroom distribution after modernization, then subtracting from that figure half the per-unit cost of modernization, then multiplying that figure by .02 (representing a fifty year replacement cycle), and dividing this product by 12 to get a monthly cost. For example, if the development will remain a walkup structure containing five hundred two-bedroom occupied and five hundred three-bedroom occupied units, if HUD's Total Development Cost limit for the area is $70,000 for two-bedroom walkup structures and $92,000 for three-bedroom walkup structures, and if the per unit cost of modernization is $60,000, then the estimated monthly cost of accrual per occupied unit is $85. This is the result of multiplying the value of $51,000—the cost guideline value of $81,000 minus half the modernization value of $60,000—by .02 and then dividing by 12.

# D. Overall Cost
The overall current cost for continuing the development as public housing is the sum of its monthly post-revitalization operating cost estimates, its monthly modernization cost per occupied unit, and its estimated monthly accrual cost per occupied unit. For example, if the operating cost per occupied unit month is $450 and the amortized modernization cost is $333 and the accrual cost is $85, the overall monthly cost per occupied unit is $868.

# II. Tenant-Based Assistance
The estimated cost of providing tenant-based assistance under Section 8 for all households in occupancy shall be calculated as the unit-weighted averaging of the monthly Fair Market Rents for units of the applicable bedroom size; plus the administrative fee applicable to newly funded Section 8 rental assistance during the year used for calculating public housing operating costs (e.g., the administrative fee for units funded from 10/1/95 through 9/30/96 is based on column C of the January 24, 1995
Federal Register,
at 60 FR 4764, and the administrative fee for units funded from 10/1/96 through 9/30/97 is based on column B of the March 12, 1997
Federal Register,
at 62 FR 11526); plus the amortized cost of demolishing the occupied public housing units, where the cost per unit is not to exceed ten percent of the TDC prior to amortization. For example, if the development has five hundred occupied two-bedroom units and five hundred occupied three-bedroom units and if the Fair Market Rent in the area is $600 for two bedroom units and is $800 for three bedroom units and if the administrative fee comes to $46 per unit, and if the cost of demolishing 1000 occupied units is $5 million, then the per unit monthly cost of tenant based assistance is $774 ($700 for the unit-weighted average of Fair Market Rents,
or 500 times $600 plus 500 times $800 with the sum divided by 1,000; plus $46 for the administrative fee; plus $28 for the amortized cost of demolition and tenant relocation (including any necessary counseling), or $5000 per unit divided by 180 in this example). This Section 8 cost would then be compared to the cost of revitalized public housing development—in the example of this section, the revitalized public housing cost of $868 monthly per occupied unit would exceed the Section 8 cost of $774 monthly per occupied unit by 12 percent. The PHA would have to prepare a conversion plan for the property.

# III. Detailing the Section-8 Cost Comparison: A Summary Table
The Section 8 cost comparison methods are summarized, using the example provided in this section III.
A. Key Data, Development: The revitalized development has 1000 occupied units. All of the units are in walkup buildings. The 1000 occupied units will consist of 500 two-bedroom units and 500 three-bedroom units. The total current operating costs attributable to the development are $300,000 per month in non-utility costs, $100,000 in utility costs paid by the PHA, and $50,000 in utility allowance expenses for utilities paid directly by the tenants to the utility company. Also, the modernization cost for revitalization is $60,000,000, or $60,000 per occupied unit. This will provide standards for viability but not standards for new construction. The cost of demolition and relocation of the 1000 occupied units is $5 million, or $5000 per unit, based on recent experience.
B. Key Data, Area: The unit total development cost limit is $70,000 for two-bedroom walkups and $92,000 for three-bedroom walkups. The two-bedroom Fair Market Rent is $600 and the three-bedroom Fair Market Rent is $800. The applicable monthly administrative fee amount, in column B of the March 12, 1997
Federal Register
Notice, at 62 FR 11526, is $46.
C. Preliminary Computation of the Per-Unit Average Total Development Cost of the Development: This results from applying the location's unit total development cost by structure type and number of bedrooms to the occupied units of the development. In this example, five hundred units are valued at $70,000 and five hundred units are valued at $92,000 and the unit-weighted average is $81,000.
D. Current Per Unit Monthly Occupied Costs of Public Housing:
1. Operating Cost—$450 (total monthly costs divided by occupied units: in this example, the sum of $300,000 and $100,000 and $50,000—divided by 1,000 units).
2. Amortized Modernization Cost—$333 ($60,000 per unit divided by 180 for standards less than those of new construction).
3. Estimated Accrual Cost—$85 (the per-unit average total development cost minus half of the modernization cost per unit, times .02 divided by 12 months: in this example, $51,000 times .02 and then divided by 12).
4. Total per unit public housing costs—$868.
E. Current per unit monthly occupied costs of section 8:
1. Unit-weighted Fair Market Rents—$700 (the unit-weighted average of the Fair Market Rents of occupied bedrooms: in this example, 500 times $600 plus 500 times $800, divided by 1000).
2. Administrative Fee—$46.
3. Amortized Demolition and Relocation Cost—$28 ($5000 per unit divided by 180).
4. Total per unit section 8 costs—$774.
F. Result: In this example, because revitalized public housing costs exceed current Section 8 costs, a conversion plan for the property would be required.
Pt. 972

# PART 972—CONVERSION OF PUBLIC HOUSING TO TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE

# Subpart A—Required Conversion of Public Housing Developments

# Purpose; Definition of “Conversion”
Sec.
972.100
Purpose.
972.103
Definition of “conversion.”

# Required Conversion Process
972.106
Procedure for required conversion of public housing developments to tenant-based assistance.
972.109
Conversion of developments.
972.112
Relationship between required conversion and demolition/disposition requirements.
972.115
Relationship between required conversions and HOPE VI developments.
972.118
Applicability of Uniform Relocation Act.

# Identifying Developments Subject to Required Conversion
972.121
Developments subject to this subpart.
972.124
Standards for identifying public housing developments subject to required conversion.
972.127
Standards for determining whether a property is viable in the long term.

# Conversion Plans
972.130
Conversion plan components.
972.133
Public and resident consultation process for developing a conversion plan.
972.136
Timing of submission of conversion plans to HUD.

# HUD Actions With Respect to Required Conversions
972.139
HUD actions with respect to required conversions.

# Subpart B—Voluntary Conversion of Public Housing Developments

# Purpose; Definition of Conversion
972.200
Purpose.
972.203
Definition of “conversion.”

# Required Initial Assessments
972.206
Required initial assessments.

# Voluntary Conversion Procedure
972.209
Procedure for voluntary conversion of public housing developments to tenant-based assistance.
972.212
Timing of voluntary conversion.
972.215
Applicability of Uniform Relocation Act.

# Conversion Assessments
972.218
Conversion assessment components.
972.221
Timing of submission of conversion assessments to HUD.
972.224
Necessary conditions for HUD approval of conversion.

# Conversion Plans
972.227
Public and resident consultation process for developing a conversion plan.
972.230
Conversion plan components.
972.233
Timing of submission of conversion plans to HUD.
972.236
HUD process for approving a conversion plan.
972.239
HUD actions with respect to a conversion plan.
Appendix to Part 972—Methodology of Comparing Cost of Public Housing with the Cost of Tenant-Based Assistance

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1437t, 1437z-5, and 3535(d).

# Source:
66 FR 33618, June 22, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Required Conversion of Public Housing Developments

# Source:
68 FR 54608, Sept. 17, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Purpose; Definition of Conversion
§ 972.100
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to implement section 33 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437z-5), which requires PHAs to annually review their public housing inventory and identify developments, or parts of developments, which must be removed from its stock of public housing operated under an Annual Contributions Contract (ACC) with HUD.
This subpart provides the procedures a PHA must follow to develop and carry out a conversion plan to remove the units from the public housing inventory, including how to provide for the transition for residents of these developments to other affordable housing.
§ 972.103
Definition of “conversion.”
For purposes of this subpart, the term “conversion” means the removal of public housing units from the inventory of a PHA, and the provision of tenant-based or project-based assistance for the residents of the public housing units that are being removed. The term “conversion,” as used in this subpart, does not necessarily mean the physical removal of the public housing development.

# Required Conversion Process
§ 972.106
Procedure for required conversion of public housing developments to tenant-based assistance.
(a) A PHA must annually review its public housing inventory and identify developments, or parts of developments, which must be converted to tenant-based assistance, in accordance with §§ 972.121-972.127.
(b) With respect to any public housing development that is identified under paragraph (a) of this section, the PHA generally must develop a 5-year plan for removal of the affected public housing units from the inventory, in accordance with §§ 972.130-972.136.
(c) The PHA may proceed to convert the development if HUD approves the conversion plan.
§ 972.109
Conversion of developments.
(a)(1) The PHA may proceed to convert the development covered by a conversion plan after receiving written approval from HUD. This approval will be separate from the approval that the PHA receives for its Annual Plan.
(2) HUD anticipates that its review of a conversion plan will ordinarily occur
within 90 days following submission of a complete plan by the PHA. A longer process may be required where HUD's initial review of the plan raises questions that require further discussion with the PHA. In any event, HUD will provide all PHAs with a preliminary response within 90 days following submission of a conversion plan.
(b) The PHA may not demolish or dispose of units or property until completion of the required environmental review under part 58 of this title (if a responsible entity has assumed environmental responsibility for the project) or part 50 of this title (if HUD is performing the environmental review). Further, HUD will not approve a conversion plan until completion of the required environmental review. However, before completion of the environmental review, HUD may approve the targeted units for removal from the PHA's inventory and may authorize the PHA to undertake other activities proposed in its conversion plan that do not require environmental review (such as certain activities related to the relocation of residents), as long as the buildings in question are adequately secured and maintained.
(c) For purposes of determining operating subsidy eligibility, HUD will consider the conversion plan the PHA submits to be the equivalent of a formal request to remove dwelling units from the PHA's inventory and ACC. HUD will notify the PHA in writing whether it has approved the conversion plan. Units that are vacant or vacated on or after the written notification date will be treated as approved for deprogramming under § 990.108(b)(1) of this title and also will be provided any phase-down of subsidy to which the PHA is entitled pursuant to § 990.114 of this title.
(d) The PHA may apply for tenant-based assistance in accordance with Section 8 program requirements, and HUD will give the PHA a priority for receiving tenant-based assistance to replace the public housing units. It is HUD's policy to provide funds for one-for-one replacement housing with either public housing or tenant-based assistance, if funds are available. HUD may require that funding for the initial year be provided from the public housing Capital Fund, Operating Fund, or both.
§ 972.112
Relationship between required conversion and demolition/disposition requirements.
(a) Section 18 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 does not apply to demolition of developments removed from the inventory of the PHA under this subpart. Demolition of these developments is therefore not subject to section 18(g), which provides an exclusion from the applicability of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601) (URA). Accordingly, the URA will apply to the displacement of tenants as the direct result of the demolition of a development carried out pursuant to this subpart, in accordance with § 972.118. With respect to any such demolition, the PHA must comply with the requirements for environmental review found at part 58 of this title.
(b) Section 18 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 does apply to any disposition of developments removed from the inventory of the PHA under this subpart. Therefore, to dispose of property, the PHA must submit a disposition application under section 18. HUD's review of any such disposition application will take into account that the development has been required to be converted.
§ 972.115
Relationship between required conversions and HOPE VI developments.
HUD actions to approve or deny proposed HOPE VI revitalization plans must be consistent with the requirements of this subpart. Developments with HOPE VI revitalization grants, but without approved HOPE VI revitalization plans, are fully subject to required conversion standards under this subpart.
§ 972.118
Applicability of Uniform Relocation Act.
To the extent that tenants are displaced as a direct result of the demolition, acquisition, or rehabilitation of federally-assisted property converted pursuant to this subpart, the requirements of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition
Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601) (URA), and the implementing regulations issued by the Department of Transportation at 49 CFR part 24, apply.

# Identifying Developments Subject to Required Conversion
§ 972.121
Developments subject to this subpart.
(a) This subpart is applicable to any development not identified before October 21, 1998, for conversion, or for assessment of whether such conversion is required, in accordance with section 202 of the Omnibus Consolidated Rescissions and Appropriations Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-134, approved April 26, 1996, 110 Stat. 1321-279—1321-281). Developments identified before October 21, 1998, continue to be subject to the requirements of section 202 and part 971 of this chapter until these requirements are satisfied. Thereafter, the provisions of this subpart apply to any remaining public housing on the sites of those developments.
(b) The developments to which this subpart is applicable are subject to the requirements of section 33 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437z-5).
(c) The provisions of this subpart cease to apply when the units in a development that are subject to the requirements of this subpart have been demolished.
§ 972.124
Standards for identifying public housing developments subject to required conversion.
The development, or portions thereof, must be converted if it is a general occupancy development of 250 or more dwelling units and it meets the following criteria:
(a)
The development is on the same or contiguous sites.
This refers to the actual number and location of units, irrespective of HUD development project numbers.
(b)
The development has a vacancy rate of at least a specified percent for dwelling units not in funded, on-schedule modernization, for each of the last three years, and the vacancy rate has not significantly decreased in those three years.
(1) For a conversion analysis performed on or before March 16, 2009, the specified vacancy rate is 15 percent. For a conversion analysis performed after that date, the specified vacancy rate is 12 percent.
(2) For the determination of vacancy rates, the PHA must use the data it relied upon for the PHA's latest Public Housing Assessment System (PHAS) certification, as reported on the Form HUD-51234 (report on Occupancy). Units in the following categories must not be included in this calculation:
(i) Vacant units in an approved demolition or disposition program;
(ii) Vacant units in which resident property has been abandoned, but only if state law requires the property to be left in the unit for some period of time, and only for the period of time stated in the law;
(iii) Vacant units that have sustained casualty damage, but only until the insurance claim is adjusted;
(iv) Units that are occupied by employees of the PHA and units that are used for resident services; and
(v) Units that HUD determines, in its sole discretion, are intentionally vacant and do not indicate continued distress.
(c)
The development either is distressed housing for which the PHA cannot assure the long-term viability as public housing, or more expensive for the PHA to operate as public housing than providing tenant-based assistance.
(1) The development is distressed housing for which the PHA cannot assure the long-term viability as public housing through reasonable revitalization, density reduction, or achievement of a broader range of household income. (See § 972.127)
(i) Properties meeting the standards set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section will be assumed to be “distressed,” unless HUD determines that the reasons a property meets such standards are temporary in duration and are unlikely to recur.
(ii) A development satisfies the long-term viability test only if it is probable that, after reasonable investment, for at least 20 years (or at least 30 years for rehabilitation equivalent to new construction) the development can sustain structural/system soundness and full occupancy; will not be excessively densely configured relative to other
similar rental (typically family) housing in the community; can achieve a broader range of family income; and has no other site impairments that clearly should disqualify the site from continuation as public housing.
(2) The development is more expensive for the PHA to operate as public housing than to provide tenant-based assistance if it has an estimated cost, during the remaining useful life of the project, of continued operation and modernization of the development as public housing in excess of the cost of providing tenant-based assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 for all families in occupancy, based on appropriate indicators of cost (such as the percentage of total development cost required for modernization).
(i) For purposes of this determination, the costs used for public housing must be those necessary to produce a revitalized development as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(ii) These costs, including estimated operating costs, modernization costs, and accrual needs must be used to develop a per unit monthly cost of continuing the development as public housing.
(iii) That per unit monthly cost of public housing must be compared to the per unit monthly Section 8 cost.
(iv) The cost methodology necessary to conduct the cost comparisons for required conversions has not yet been finalized. PHAs are not required to undertake conversions under this subpart until six months after the effective date of the cost methodology, which will be announced in the
Federal Register.
Once effective, the cost methodology will be codified as an appendix to this part.
§ 972.127
Standards for determining whether a property is viable in the long term.
In order for a property to meet the standard of long-term viability, as discussed in § 972.124, the following criteria must be met:
(a)
The investment to be made in the development is reasonable.
(1) Proposed revitalization costs for viability must be reasonable. Such costs must not exceed, and ordinarily would be substantially less than, 90 percent of HUD's total development cost (TDC) limit for the units proposed to be revitalized (100 percent of the total development cost limit for any “infill” new construction subject to this regulation). The revitalization cost estimate used in the PHA's most recent Annual Plan or 5-Year Plan is to be used for this purpose, unless the PHA demonstrates, or HUD determines, that another cost estimate is clearly more realistic to ensure viability and to sustain the operating costs that are described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2) The overall projected cost of the revitalized development must not exceed the Section 8 cost under the method contained in the Appendix to this part, even if the cost of revitalization is a lower percentage of the TDC than the limits stated in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(3) The source of funding for such a revitalization program must be identified and available. In addition to other resources already available to the PHA, it may assume that future formula funds provided through the Capital Fund over five years are available for this purpose.
(b)
Appropriate density is achieved.
The resulting public housing development must have a density which is comparable to that which prevails in or is appropriate for assisted rental housing or for other similar types of housing in the community (typically family).
(c)
A greater income mix can be achieved.
(1) Measures generally will be required to broaden the range of resident incomes over time to include a significant mix of households with at least one full-time worker. Measures to achieve a broader range of household incomes must be realistic in view of the site's location. Appropriate evidence typically would include census or other recent statistical evidence demonstrating some mix of incomes of other households located in the same census tract or neighborhood, or unique advantages of the public housing site.
(2) For purposes of judging appropriateness of density reduction and broader range of income measures, overall size of the public housing site and its number of dwelling units will
be considered. The concerns these measures would address generally are greater as the site's size and number of dwelling units increase.

# Conversion Plans
§ 972.130
Conversion plan components.
(a) With respect to any development that is identified under §§ 972.121 through 972.127, the PHA generally must develop a 5-year plan for removal of the affected public housing units from the inventory. The plan must consider relocation alternatives for households in occupancy, including other public housing and Section 8 tenant-based assistance, and must provide for relocation from the units as soon as possible. For planning purposes, the PHA must assume that HUD will be able to provide in a timely fashion any necessary Section 8 rental assistance. The plan must include:
(1) A listing of the public housing units to be removed from the inventory;
(2) Identification and obligation status of any previously approved modernization, reconstruction, or other capital funds for the distressed development and the PHA's recommendations concerning transfer of these funds to Section 8 or alternative public housing uses;
(3) A record indicating compliance with the statute's requirements for consultation with applicable public housing tenants of the affected development and the unit of local government where the public housing is located, as set forth in § 972.133;
(4) A description of the plans for demolition or disposition of the public housing units; and
(5) A relocation plan, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Relocation plan.
The relocation plan must incorporate all of the information identified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section. In addition, if the required conversion is subject to the URA, the relocation plan must also contain the information identified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section. The relocation plan must incorporate the following:
(1) The number of households to be relocated, by bedroom size, and by the number of accessible units.
(2) The relocation resources that will be necessary, including a request for any necessary Section 8 funding and a description of actual or potential public or other assisted housing vacancies that can be used as relocation housing and budget for carrying out relocation activities.
(3) A schedule for relocation and removal of units from the public housing inventory (including the schedule for providing actual and reasonable relocation expenses, as determined by the PHA, for families displaced by the conversion).
(4) Provide for issuance of a written notice to families residing in the development in accordance with the following requirements:
(i)
Timing of notice.
If the required conversion is not subject to the URA, the notice shall be provided to families at least 90 days before displacement. If the required conversion is subject to the URA the written notice shall be provided to families no later than the date the conversion plan is submitted to HUD. For purposes of a required conversion subject to the URA, this written notice shall constitute the General Information Notice (GIN) required by the URA.
(ii)
Contents of notice.
The written notice shall include all of the following:
(A) The development must be removed from the public housing inventory and that the family may be displaced as a result of the conversion;
(B) The family will be offered comparable housing, which may include tenant-based or project-based assistance, or occupancy in a unit operated or assisted by the PHA (if tenant-based assistance is used, the comparable housing requirement is fulfilled only upon the relocation of the family into such housing);
(C) Any necessary counseling with respect to the relocation will be provided, including any appropriate mobility counseling (the PHA may finance the mobility counseling using Operating Fund, Capital Fund, or Section 8 administrative fee funding);
(D) Such families will be relocated to other decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable housing that is, to the maximum extent possible, housing of their choice;
(E) If the development is used as housing after conversion, the PHA must ensure that each resident may choose to remain in the housing, using tenant-based assistance towards rent; and
(F) Where section 8 voucher assistance is being used for relocation, the family will be provided with the vouchers at least 90 days before displacement.
(5) If the required conversion is subject to the URA, the written notice described in paragraph (b)(4) must also provide that:
(i) The family will not be required to move without at least 90-days advance written notice of the earliest date by which the family may be required to move, and that the family will not be required to move permanently until the family is offered comparable housing, as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section;
(ii) Any person who is an alien not lawfully present in the United States is ineligible for relocation payments or assistance under the URA, unless such ineligibility would result in exceptional and extremely unusual hardship to a qualifying spouse, parent, or child, as provided in the URA regulations at 49 CFR 24.208;
(iii) The family has a right to appeal the PHA's determination as to the family's application for relocation assistance for which the family may be eligible under this subpart and URA;
(iv) Families residing in the development will be provided with the URA Notice of Relocation Eligibility or Notice of Non-displacement (as applicable) as of the date HUD approves the conversion plan (for purposes of this subpart, the date of HUD's approval of the conversion plan shall be the “date of initiation of negotiations” as that term is used in URA and the implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24); and
(v) Any family that moves into the development after submission of the conversion plan to HUD will also be eligible for relocation assistance, unless the PHA issues a written move-in notice to the family prior to leasing and occupancy of the unit advising the family of the development's possible conversion, the impact of the conversion on the family, and that the family will not be eligible for relocation assistance.
(c) The conversion plan may not be more than a 5-year plan, unless the PHA applies for and receives approval from HUD for a longer period of time. HUD may allow the PHA up to 10 years to remove the units from the inventory, in exceptional circumstances where HUD determines that this is clearly the most cost effective and beneficial means of providing housing assistance over that same period. For example, HUD may allow a longer period of time to remove the units from the public housing inventory, where more than one development is being converted, and a larger number of families require relocation than can easily be absorbed into the rental market at one time, provided the housing has a remaining useful life of longer than five years and the longer time frame will assist in relocation.
§ 972.133
Public and resident consultation process for developing a conversion plan.
(a) The PHA must consult with appropriate public officials and with the appropriate public housing residents in developing the conversion plan.
(b) The PHA may satisfy the requirement for consultation with public officials by obtaining a certification from the appropriate government official that the conversion plan is consistent with the applicable Consolidated Plan. This may be the same certification as is required for the PHA Annual Plan that includes the conversion plan, so long as the certification specifically addresses the conversion plan.
(c) To satisfy the requirement for consultation with the appropriate public housing residents, in addition to the public participation requirements for the PHA Annual Plan, the PHA must:
(1) Hold at least one meeting with the residents of the affected sites (including the duly elected Resident
Council, if any, that covers the development in question) at which the PHA must:
(i) Explain the requirements of this section, especially as they apply to the residents of the affected developments; and
(ii) Provide draft copies of the conversion plan to the residents;
(2) Provide a reasonable comment period for residents; and
(3) Summarize the resident comments for HUD, in the conversion plan, and consider these comments in developing the final conversion plan.
§ 972.136
Timing of submission of conversion plans to HUD.
The requirements of this section are on-going requirements. If the PHA must submit a plan for conversion, it must submit the conversion plan as part of the PHA's Annual Plan, beginning with PHA fiscal years that commence six months after the effective date of HUD's final rule establishing the cost methodology for required conversions.

# HUD Actions With Respect to Required Conversions
§ 972.139
HUD actions with respect to required conversions.
(a) HUD will take appropriate steps to ensure that distressed developments subject to this subpart are properly identified and converted. If a PHA fails to properly identify a development for required conversion, or does not submit a conversion plan for a development in the PHA Annual Plan following the Annual Plan in which the development was identified as subject to required conversion, HUD will take the actions described in paragraph (b) of this section, and may also take any or all of the actions described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) If a PHA fails to take the conversion activities described in paragraph (a) of this section, HUD will:
(1) Disqualify the PHA from HUD funding competitions; and
(2) Direct the PHA to cease additional spending in connection with a development that meets, or is likely to meet the statutory criteria, except to the extent that failure to expend such amounts would endanger health or safety.
(c) If a PHA fails to take the conversion activities described in paragraph (a) of this section, HUD may also take any or all of the following actions:
(1) Identify developments that fall within the statutory criteria where the PHA has failed to do so properly;
(2) Take appropriate actions to ensure the conversion of developments where the PHA has failed to adequately develop or implement a conversion plan;
(3) Require the PHA to revise the conversion plan, or prohibit conversion, where HUD has determined that the PHA has erroneously identified a development as being subject to the requirements of this section;
(4) Authorize or direct the transfer of capital or operating funds committed to or on behalf of the development (including comprehensive improvement assistance, comprehensive grant or Capital Fund amounts attributable to the development's share of funds under the formula, and major reconstruction of obsolete projects funds) to tenant-based assistance or appropriate site revitalization for the agency; and
(5) Any other action that HUD determines appropriate and has the authority to undertake.

# Subpart B—Voluntary Conversion of Public Housing Developments

# Source:
68 FR 54619, Sept. 17, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Purpose; Definition of Conversion
§ 972.200
Purpose.
This subpart implements section 22 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437t). The purposes of this subpart are to:
(a) Require PHAs to perform an assessment which considers developments for which conversion of public housing may be appropriate; and
(b) Provide a basis for a PHA to take action for conversion on a voluntary basis.
§ 972.203
Definition of “conversion.”
For purposes of this subpart, the term “conversion” means the removal
of public housing units from the inventory of a Public Housing Agency (PHA), and the provision of tenant-based, or project-based assistance for the residents of the public housing that is being removed. The term “conversion,” as used in this subpart, does not necessarily mean the physical removal of the public housing development from the site.

# Required Initial Assessments
§ 972.206
Required initial assessments.
(a)
General.
A PHA must conduct a required initial assessment (which consists of the certification described in paragraph (b) of this section), in accordance with this section, once for each of its developments, unless:
(1) The development is subject to required conversion under 24 CFR part 971;
(2) The development is the subject of an application for demolition or disposition that has not been disapproved by HUD;
(3) A HOPE VI revitalization grant has been awarded for the development; or
(4) The development is designated for occupancy by the elderly and/or persons with disabilities (
i.e.,
is not a general occupancy development).
(b)
Certification procedure.
For each development, the PHA shall certify that it has:
(1) Reviewed the development's operation as public housing;
(2) Considered the implications of converting the public housing to tenant-based assistance; and
(3) Concluded that conversion of the development may be:
(i) Appropriate because removal of the development would meet the necessary conditions for voluntary conversion described in § 972.224; or
(ii) Inappropriate because removal of the development would not meet the necessary conditions for voluntary conversion described § 972.224.
(c)
Documentation.
A PHA must maintain documentation of the reasoning with respect to each required initial assessment.
(d)
Timing of submission.
Consistent with statutory submission requirements, the results of each required initial assessment (consisting of the certification described in paragraph (b) of this section) must be submitted to HUD as part of the next PHA Annual Plan after its completion.

# Voluntary Conversion Procedure
§ 972.209
Procedure for voluntary conversion of public housing developments to tenant-based assistance.
A PHA that wishes to convert a public housing development to tenant-based assistance must comply with the following process:
(a) The PHA must perform a conversion assessment, in accordance with §§ 972.218-972.224 and submit it to HUD as part of the next PHA Annual Plan submission.
(b) The PHA must prepare a conversion plan, in accordance with § 972.227-972.233, and submit it to HUD, as part of its PHA Annual Plan, within one year after submitting the conversion assessment. The PHA may submit the conversion plan in the same Annual Plan as the conversion assessment.
(c) The PHA may proceed to convert the development if HUD approves the conversion plan.
§ 972.212
Timing of voluntary conversion.
(a) A PHA may proceed to convert a development covered by a conversion plan only after receiving written approval of the conversion plan from HUD. This approval will be separate from the approval that the PHA receives for its PHA Annual Plan. A PHA may apply for tenant-based assistance in accordance with Section 8 program requirements and will be given priority for receiving tenant-based assistance to replace the public housing units.
(b) A PHA may not demolish or dispose of units or property until completion of the required environmental review under part 58 of this title (if a Responsible Entity has assumed environmental responsibility for the project) or part 50 of this title (if HUD is performing the environmental review). Further, HUD will not approve a conversion plan until completion of the required environmental review. However, before completion of the environmental review, HUD may approve the targeted units for deprogramming and
may authorize the PHA to undertake other activities proposed in the conversion plan that do not require environmental review (such as certain activities related to the relocation of residents), as long as the buildings in question are adequately secured and maintained.
(c) For purposes of determining operating subsidy eligibility, the submitted conversion plan will be considered the equivalent of a formal request to remove dwelling units from the PHA's inventory and Annual Contributions Contract (ACC). Units that are vacant or are vacated on or after the written notification date will be treated as approved for deprogramming under § 990.108(b)(1) of this title, and will also be provided the phase down of subsidy pursuant to § 990.114 of this title.
(d) HUD may require that funding for the initial year of tenant-based assistance be provided from the public housing Capital Fund, Operating Fund, or both.
§ 972.215
Applicability of the Uniform Relocation Act.
To the extent that tenants are displaced as a direct result of the demolition, acquisition, or rehabilitation of federally-assisted property converted under this subpart, the requirements of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601) (URA), and the implementing regulations issued by the Department of Transportation at 49 CFR part 24, apply.

# Conversion Assessments
§ 972.218
Conversion assessment components.
The conversion assessment contains five elements, as described below:
(a)
Cost analysis.
A PHA must conduct a cost analysis comparing the cost of providing Section 8 tenant-based assistance with the cost of continuing to operate the development as public housing for the remainder of its useful life. The cost methodology necessary to conduct the cost comparisons for voluntary conversions has not yet been finalized. PHAs may not undertake conversions under this subpart until the effective date of the cost methodology, which will be announced in the
Federal Register.
Once effective, the cost methodology will be codified as an appendix to this part.
(b)
Analysis of the market value.
(1) A PHA must have an independent appraisal conducted to compare the market value of the development before and after rehabilitation. In both cases, the market value must be based on the use of the development as public housing.
(2) In addition, the appraisal must compare:
(i) The market value of the development before rehabilitation, based on the use of the development as public housing, with the market value of the development after conversion; with
(ii) The market value of the development after rehabilitation, based on the use of the development as public housing, with the market value of the development after conversion.
(3) A copy of the appraisal findings and the analysis of market value of the development in the conversion assessment must be provided in the conversion assessment.
(c)
Analysis of rental market conditions.
(1) A PHA must conduct an analysis of the likely success of using tenant-based assistance for the residents of the public housing development. This analysis must include an assessment of the availability of decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling units rented at or below the applicable Section 8 payment standard established for the jurisdiction or designated part of the FMR area in which the development is located.
(2) In conducting this assessment, a PHA must take into account:
(i) Its overall use of rental vouchers under lease and the success rates of using Section 8 tenant-based assistance in the community for the appropriate bedroom sizes, including recent success rates for units renting at or below the established payment standard; and
(ii) Any particular characteristics of the specific residents of the public housing which may affect their ability to be housed (such as large household size or the presence of an elderly or disabled family member).
(d)
Impact analysis.
A PHA must describe the likely impact of conversion
of the public housing development on the neighborhood in which the public housing is located. This must include:
(1) The impact on the availability of affordable housing in the neighborhood;
(2) The impact on the concentration of poverty in the neighborhood; and
(3) Other substantial impacts on the neighborhood.
(e)
Conversion implementation.
If a PHA intends to convert the development (or a portion of it) to tenant-based assistance, the conversion assessment must include a description of any actions the PHA plans to take in converting the development. This must include a general description of the planned future uses of the development, and the means and timetable for accomplishing such uses.
[68 FR 54619, Sept. 17, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 38293, May 7, 2024]
§ 972.221
Timing of submission of conversion assessments to HUD.
(a)
Submission with PHA Plan.
A PHA that wishes to convert a public housing development to tenant-based assistance must submit a conversion assessment to HUD with its next PHA Annual Plan.
(b)
Updated conversion assessment.
Where a PHA proposes to convert a development to tenant-based assistance, it must submit an updated conversion assessment if the conversion assessment otherwise would be more than one year older than the conversion plan to be submitted to HUD. To update a conversion assessment, a PHA must ensure that the analysis of rental market conditions is based on the most recently available data, and must include any data that have changed since the initial conversion assessment. A PHA may submit the initial cost analysis and comparison of the market value of the public housing before and after rehabilitation and/or conversion if there is no reason to believe that such information has changed significantly.
§ 972.224
Necessary conditions for HUD approval of conversion.
(a)
Conditions.
In order to convert a public housing development, the PHA must conduct a conversion assessment that demonstrates that the conversion of the development:
(1) Will not be more expensive than continuing to operate the development (or portion of it) as public housing;
(2) Will principally benefit the residents of the public housing development (or portion thereof) to be converted, the PHA, and the community; and
(3) Will not adversely affect the availability of affordable housing in the community.
(b)
Evidence
—(1)
Relative expense.
The relative expense of continuing operation as public housing or conversion to tenant-based assistance may be demonstrated by the cost analysis and market value analysis.
(2)
Benefit to residents, PHA, and the community.
(i) The benefit to residents, the PHA, and the community may be demonstrated in the rental market analysis, the analysis of the impact on the neighborhood, the market value analysis, and the proposed future use of the development. In determining whether a conversion will principally benefit residents, the PHA, and the community, HUD will consider whether the conversion will conflict with any litigation settlement agreements, voluntary compliance agreements, or other remedial agreements signed by the PHA with HUD.
(ii) In making the determination of whether a conversion would principally benefit residents, the PHA, and the community, the PHA must consider such factors as the availability of landlords providing tenant-based assistance, as well as access to schools, jobs, and transportation.
(iii) To determine the benefit to residents, the PHA must hold at least one public meeting with residents of the affected site (including the duly elected Resident Council, if any, that covers the development in question). At the meeting, the PHA must:
(A) Explain the requirements of section 22 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 and these regulations, especially as they apply to residents of affected developments;
(B) Provide draft copies of the conversion assessment to the residents; and
(C) Provide the residents with a reasonable period of time to submit comments on the draft conversion assessment.
(iv) The conversion assessment submitted to HUD must contain a summary of the resident comments, and the PHA responses to any significant issues raised by the commenters.
(3)
Impact on affordable housing.
The impact on affordable housing may be demonstrated in the rental market analysis and the analysis of the impact of conversion on the neighborhood.

# Conversion Plans
§ 972.227
Public and resident consultation process for developing a conversion plan.
(a) A conversion plan must be developed in consultation with appropriate public officials and with significant participation by residents of the development.
(b) The requirement for consultation with public officials may be satisfied by obtaining a certification from the appropriate state or local officials that the conversion plan is consistent with that jurisdiction's Consolidated Plan. This may be the same certification as is required for the PHA Annual Plan that includes the conversion plan, so long as the certification specifically addresses the conversion plan.
(c) To satisfy the requirement for significant participation by residents of the development, in addition to the public participation requirements for the PHA Annual Plan, a PHA must:
(1) Hold at least one meeting with the residents of the affected sites (including the duly elected Resident Council, if any, that covers the development in question) at which the PHA must:
(i) Explain the requirements of section 22 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 and these regulations, especially as they apply to residents of affected developments; and
(ii) Provide draft copies of the conversion plan to them.
(2) Provide a reasonable comment period for residents; and
(3) Summarize the resident comments (as well as the PHA responses to the significant issues raised by the commenters) for HUD, and consider these comments in developing the final conversion plan.
§ 972.230
Conversion plan components.
A conversion plan must:
(a) Describe the conversion and future use or disposition of the public housing development. If the future use of the development is demolition or disposition, the PHA is not required to submit a demolition or disposition application, so long as the PHA submits, and HUD approves, a conversion plan that includes a description of the future uses of the development.
(b) Include an impact analysis of the conversion on the affected community. This may include the description that is required as part of the conversion assessment.
(c) Include a description of how the conversion plan is consistent with the findings of the conversion assessment undertaken in accordance with § 972.218.
(d) Include a summary of the resident comments received when developing the conversion plan, and the PHA responses to the significant issues raised by the commenters (including a description of any actions taken by the PHA as a result of the comments).
(e) Confirm that any proceeds received from the conversion are subject to the limitations under section 18(a)(5) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437p(a)(5)) applicable to proceeds resulting from demolition or disposition.
(f) Summarize why the conversion assessment for the public housing project supports the three conditions necessary for conversion described in § 972.224.
(g) Include a relocation plan that incorporates all of the information identified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(4) of this section. In addition, if the required conversion is subject to the URA, the relocation plan must also contain the information identified in paragraph (g)(5) of this section. The relocation plan must incorporate the following:
(1) The number of households to be relocated, by bedroom size, by the number of accessible units.
(2) The relocation resources that will be necessary, including a request for
any necessary Section 8 funding and a description of actual or potential public or other assisted housing vacancies that can be used as relocation housing and budget for carrying out relocation activities.
(3) A schedule for relocation and removal of units from the public housing inventory (including the schedule for providing actual and reasonable relocation expenses, as determined by the PHA, for families displaced by the conversion).
(4) Provide for issuance of a written notice to families residing in the development in accordance with the following requirements:
(i)
Timing of notice.
If the voluntary conversion is not subject to the URA, the notice shall be provided to families at least 90 days before displacement. If the voluntary conversion is subject to the URA the written notice shall be provided to families no later than the date the conversion plan is submitted to HUD. For purposes of a voluntary conversion subject to the URA, this written notice shall constitute the General Information Notice (GIN) required by the URA.
(ii)
Contents of notice.
The written notice shall include all of the following:
(A) The development will no longer be used as public housing and that the family may be displaced as a result of the conversion;
(B) The family will be offered comparable housing, which may include tenant-based or project-based assistance, or occupancy in a unit operated or assisted by the PHA (if tenant-based assistance is used, the comparable housing requirement is fulfilled only upon relocation of the family into such housing);
(C) Any necessary counseling with respect to the relocation will be provided, including any appropriate mobility counseling (the PHA may finance the mobility counseling using Operating Fund, Capital Fund, or Section 8 administrative fee funding);
(D) The family will be relocated to other decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable housing that is, to the maximum extent possible, housing of their choice;
(E) If the development is used as housing after conversion, the PHA must ensure that each resident may choose to remain in the housing, using tenant-based assistance towards rent;
(F) Where Section 8 voucher assistance is being used for relocation, the family will be provided with the vouchers at least 90 days before displacement;
(5)
Additional information required for conversions subject to the URA.
If the voluntary conversion is subject to the URA, the written notice described in paragraph (g)(4) must also provide that:
(i) The family will not be required to move without at least 90-days advance written notice of the earliest date by which the family may be required to move, and that the family will not be required to move permanently until the family is offered comparable housing as provided in paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(B) of this section;
(ii) Any person who is an alien not lawfully present in the United States is ineligible for relocation payments or assistance under the URA, unless such ineligibility would result in exceptional and extremely unusual hardship to a qualifying spouse, parent, or child, as provided in the URA regulations at 49 CFR 24.208.
(iii) The family has a right to appeal the PHA's determination as to the family's application for relocation assistance for which the family may be eligible under this subpart and URA.
(iv) Families residing in the development will be provided with the URA Notice of Relocation Eligibility or Notice of Non-displacement (as applicable) as of the date HUD approves the conversion plan (for purposes of this subpart, the date of HUD's approval of the conversion plan shall be the “date of initiation of negotiations” as that term is used in URA and the implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24).
(v) Any family that moves into the development after submission of the conversion plan to HUD will also be eligible for relocation assistance, unless the PHA issues a written move-in notice to the family prior to leasing and occupancy of the unit advising the family of the development's possible conversion, the impact of the conversion on the family, and that the family
will not be eligible for relocation assistance.
§ 972.233
Timing of submission of conversion plans to HUD.
A PHA that wishes to convert a public housing project to tenant-based assistance must submit a conversion plan to HUD. A PHA must prepare a conversion plan, in accordance with § 972.230, and submit it to HUD, as part of the next PHA Annual Plan within one year after submitting the full conversion assessment, or as a significant amendment to that Annual Plan. The PHA may also submit the conversion plan in the same Annual Plan as the conversion assessment.
§ 972.236
HUD process for approving a conversion plan.
Although a PHA will submit its conversion plan to HUD as part of the PHA Annual Plan, the conversion plan will be treated separately for purposes of HUD approval. A PHA needs a separate written approval from HUD in order to proceed with conversion. HUD anticipates that its review of a conversion plan will ordinarily occur within 90 days following submission of a complete plan by the PHA. A longer process may be required where HUD's initial review of the plan raises questions that require further discussion with the PHA. In any event, HUD will provide all PHAs with a preliminary response within 90 days following submission of a conversion plan. A lack of a HUD response within this time frame will constitute automatic HUD approval of the conversion plan.
§ 972.239
HUD actions with respect to a conversion plan.
(a) When a PHA submits a conversion plan to HUD, HUD will review it to determine whether:
(1) The conversion plan is complete and includes all of the information required under § 972.230; and
(2) The conversion plan is consistent with the conversion assessment the PHA submitted.
(b) HUD will disapprove a conversion plan only if HUD determines that:
(1) The conversion plan is plainly inconsistent with the conversion assessment;
(2) There is reliable information and data available to the Secretary that contradicts the conversion assessment; or
(3) The conversion plan is incomplete or otherwise fails to meet the requirements under § 972.230.
Pt. 972, App.

# Appendix to Part 972—Methodology of Comparing Cost of Public Housing With the Cost of Tenant-Based Assistance

# I. Public Housing-Net Present Value
The costs used for public housing shall be those necessary to produce a viable development for its projected useful life. The estimated cost for the continued operation of the development as public housing shall be calculated as the sum of total operating cost, modernization cost, and costs to address accrual needs. Costs will be calculated at the property level on an annual basis covering a period of 30 years (with options for 20 or 40 years). All costs expected to occur in future years will be discounted, using an OMB-specified real discount rate provided on the OMB Web site at
http://www.whitehouse.gov/OMB/Budget
, for each year after the initial year. The sum of the discounted values for each year (net present value) for public housing will then be compared to the net present value of the stream of costs associated with housing vouchers.
Applicable information on discount rates may be found in Appendix C of OMB Circular A-94, “Guidelines and Discount Rates for Benefit Cost Analysis of Federal Programs,” which is updated annually, and may be found on OMB's Web site at
http://www.whitehouse.gov/OMB.
All cost adjustments conducted pursuant to this cost methodology must be performed using the real discount rates provided on the OMB Web site at
http://www.whitehouse.gov/OMB/Budget.
HUD will also provide information on current rates, along with guidance and instructions for completing the cost comparisons on the HUD Homepage (
http://www.hud.gov
). The Homepage will also include a downloadable spreadsheet calculator that HUD has developed to assist PHAs in completing the assessments. The spreadsheet calculator is designed to walk housing agencies through the calculations and comparisons laid out in the appendix and allows housing agencies to enter relevant data for their PHA and the development being assessed. Results, including net present values, are generated based on these housing agency data.

# A. Operating Costs
1. Any proposed revitalization or modernization plan must indicate how unusually
high current operating expenses (
e.g.
, security, supportive services, maintenance, tenant, and PHA-paid utilities) will be reduced as a result of post-revitalization changes in occupancy, density and building configuration, income mix, and management. The plan must make a realistic projection of overall operating costs per occupied unit in the revitalized or modernized development, by relating those operating costs to the expected occupancy rate, tenant composition, physical configuration, and management structure of the revitalized or modernized development. The projected costs should also address the comparable costs of buildings or developments whose siting, configuration, and tenant mix is similar to that of the revitalized or modernized public housing development.
2. The development's operating cost (including all overhead costs pro-rated to the development—including a Payment in Lieu of Taxes (P.I.L.O.T.) or some other comparable payment, and including utilities and utility allowances) shall be expressed as total operating costs per year. For example, if a development will have 375 units occupied by households and will have $112,500 monthly non-utility costs (including pro-rated overhead costs and appropriate P.I.L.O.T.) and $37,500 monthly utility costs paid by the PHA, and $18,750 in monthly utility allowances that are deducted from tenant rental payments to the PHA because tenants paid some utility bills directly to the utility company, then the development's monthly operating cost is $168,750 (or $450 per unit per month) and its annual operating cost would be $5,400 ($450 times 12). Operating costs are assumed to begin in the initial year of the 30-year (or alternative period) calculation and will be incurred in each year thereafter.
3. In justifying the operating cost estimates as realistic, the plan should link the cost estimates to its assumptions about the level and rate of occupancy, the per-unit funding of modernization, any physical reconfiguration that will result from modernization, any planned changes in the surrounding neighborhood, and security costs. The plan should also show whether developments or buildings in viable condition in similar neighborhoods have achieved the income mix and occupancy rate projected for the revitalized or modernized development. The plan should also show how the operating costs of the similar developments or buildings compare to the operating costs projected for the development.
4. In addition to presenting evidence that the operating costs of the revitalized or modernized development are plausible, when the projected initial year per-unit operating cost of the renovated development is lower than the current per unit cost by more than 10 percent, then the plan should detail how the revitalized development will achieve this reduction in costs. To determine the extent to which projected operating costs are lower than current operating costs, the current per-unit operating costs of the development will be estimated as follows:
a. If the development has reliable operating costs and if the overall vacancy rate is less than 20 percent, then the development-based method will be used to determine projected costs. The current costs will be divided by the sum of all occupied units and vacant units fully funded under the Operating Fund Program plus 20 percent of all units not fully funded under the Operating Fund Program. For instance, if the total monthly operating costs of the current development are $168,750 and it has 325 occupied units and 50 vacant units not fully funded under the Operating Fund Program (or a 13 percent overall vacancy rate), then the $2,250,000 is divided by 335—325 plus 20 percent of 50—to give a per unit figure of $504 per unit month. By this example, the current costs per occupied unit are at least 10 percent higher (12 percent in this example) than the projected costs per occupied unit of $450 for the revitalized development, and the reduction in costs would have to be detailed.
b. If the development currently lacks reliable cost data or has a vacancy rate of 20 percent or higher, then the PHA-wide method will be used to determine projected costs. First, the current per unit cost of the entire PHA will be computed, with total costs divided by the sum of all occupied units and vacant units fully funded under the Operating Fund Program plus 20 percent of all vacant units not fully funded under the Operating Fund Program. For example, if the PHA's operating cost is $18 million, and the PHA has 4,000 units, of which 3,875 are occupied and 125 are vacant and not fully funded under the Operating Fund Program, then the PHA's vacancy adjusted operating cost is $385 per unit per month—$18,000,000 divided by the 3,825 (the sum of 3,800 occupied units and 20 percent of 125 vacant units) divided by 12 months. Second, this amount will be multiplied by the ratio of the bedroom adjustment factor of the development to the bedroom adjustment factor of the PHA. The bedroom adjustment factor, which is based on national rent averages for units grouped by the number of bedrooms and which has been used by HUD to adjust for costs of units when the number of bedrooms vary, assigns to each unit the following factors: .70 for 0-bedroom units, .85 for 1-bedroom units, 1.0 for 2-bedroom units, 1.25 for 3-bedroom units, 1.40 for 4-bedroom units, 1.61 for 5-bedroom units, and 1.82 for 6 or more bedroom units. The bedroom adjustment factor is the unit-weighted average of the distribution. For instance, consider a development with 375 occupied units that had the following under an ACC contract: 200 two-bedroom units, 150 three-bedroom units, and 25 four-bedroom
units. In that example, the bedroom adjustment factor would be 1.127—200 times 1.0, plus 150 times 1.25, plus 25 times 1.4 with the sum divided by 375. Where necessary, HUD field offices will arrange for assistance in the calculation of the bedroom adjustment factors of the PHA and its affected developments.
c. As an example of estimating development operating costs from PHA-wide operating costs, suppose that the PHA had a total monthly operating cost per unit of $385 and a bedroom adjustment factor of .928, and suppose that the development had a bedroom adjustment factor of 1.127. Then, the development's estimated current monthly operating cost per occupied unit would be $467—or $385 times 1.214 (the ratio of 1.127 to .928). By this example, the development's current operating costs of $467 per unit per month are not more than 10 percent higher (3.8 percent in this example) than the projected costs of $450 per unit per month and no additional justification of the cost reduction would be required.

# B. Modernization
Under both the required and voluntary conversion programs, PHAs prepare modernization or capital repair estimates in accordance with the physical needs of the specific properties proposed for conversion. There are three key assumptions that guide how PHAs prepare modernization estimates that affect remaining useful life and determine whether the 20-, 30-, or discretionary 40-year remaining useful life evaluation period are used for the cost-test. When calculating public housing revitalization costs for a property, PHAs will use a 30-year period if the level of modernization addresses all accumulated backlog needs and the planned redesign ensures long-term viability. For modernization equivalent to new construction or when the renovations restore a property to as-new physical conditions, a 40-year remaining useful life test is used. When light or moderate rehabilitation that does not address all accumulated backlog is undertaken, but it is compliant with the International Existing Building Codes (ICC) or Public Housing Modernization Standards in the absence of a local rehabilitation code, the 20-year remaining useful life evaluation period must be used.
Except for some voluntary conversion situations as explained in paragraph E below, the cost of modernization is, at a minimum, the initial revitalization cost to meet viability standards. In the absence of a local code, PHAs may refer to the Public Housing Modernization Standards Handbook (Handbook 7485.2) or the International Existing Building Codes (ICC) 2003 Edition. To justify a 40-year amortization cycle that increases the useful life period and time over which modernization costs are amortized, PHAs must demonstrate that the proposed modernization meets the applicable physical viability standards, but must also cover accumulated backlog and redesign that achieves as-new physical conditions to ensure long-term viability. To be a plausible estimate, modernization costs shall be justified by a newly created property-based needs assessment (a life-cycle physical needs assessments prepared in accordance with a PHA's Capital Fund annual or 5-year action plan and shall be able to be reconciled with standardized measures, such as components of the PHAs physical inspection and chronic vacancy due to physical condition and design. Modernization costs may be assumed to occur during years one through four, consistent with the level of work proposed and the PHA's proposed modernization schedule. For example, if the initial modernization outlay (excluding demolition costs) to meet viability standards is $21,000,000 for 375 units, a PHA might incur costs in three equal increments of $7,000,000 in years two, three, and four (based on the PHA's phased modernization plan). In comparing the net present value of public housing to voucher costs for required conversion, a 30-year amortization period will normally be used, except when revitalization would bring the property to as-new condition and a 40-year amortization would be justified. On the other hand, when the modernization falls short of meeting accumulated backlog and long-term redesign needs, only a 20-year amortization period might be justified.

# C. Accrual
Accrual projections estimate the ongoing replacement repair needs for public housing properties and building structures and systems required to maintain the physical viability of a property throughout its useful life as the lifecycle of building structures and systems expire. The cost of accrual (i.e., replacement needs) will be estimated with an algorithm that meets all ongoing capital needs based on systems that have predictable lifecycles. The algorithm starts with the area index of housing construction costs (HCC) that HUD publishes as a component of its TDC index series. Subtracted from this HCC figure is half the estimated modernization per unit, with a coefficient of .025 multiplied by the result to provide an annual accrual figure per unit. For example, suppose that the development after modernization will remain a walkup structure containing 200 two-bedroom, 150 three-bedroom, and 25 four-bedroom occupied units, and if HUD's HCC limit for the area is $66,700 for two-bedroom walkup structures, $93,000 for three-bedroom walkup structures, and $108,400 for four-bedroom walkup structures. Then the unit-weighted HCC cost is $80,000 per unit
and .75 of that figure is $60,000 per unit. Then, if the per unit cost of the modernization is $56,000, the estimated annual cost of accrual per occupied unit is $1,300. This is the result of multiplying .025 times $52,000 (the weighted HCC of $80,000) minus $28,000 (half the per-unit modernization cost of $56,000). The first year of total accrual for the development is $487,500 ($1,300 times 375 units) and should be assumed to begin in the year after modernization is complete. Accrual—like operating cost—is an annual expense and will occur in each year over the amortized period. Because the method assumes full physical renewal each year, this accrual method when combined with a modernization that meets past backlog and redesign needs justifies a 30- or 40-year amortization period, because the property is refreshed each year to as-new or almost as-new condition.

# D. Residual Value (Voluntary Conversion Only)
Under the voluntary conversion program, PHAs are required to prepare market appraisals based on the “as-is” and post-rehabilitation condition of properties, assuming the buildings are operated as public or assisted, unassisted, or market-rate housing. Section 972.218 requires PHAs to describe the future use for a property proposed for conversion and to describe the means and timetable to complete these activities. HUD will permit a PHA to enter the appraised market value of a property into the cost-test in Years 1 through 5 when a PHA anticipates selling a property or receiving income generated from the sale or lease of a property.
As a separate line item to be added to total public costs as a foregone opportunity cost, a PHA shall include in the voluntary cost-test calculations the appraised market or residual value (or net sales proceeds) from the sale or lease of a property that is to be voluntarily converted to tenant-based voucher assistance. The PHA must hire an appraiser to estimate the market value of the property using the comparable sale, tax-assessment, or revenue-based appraisal methods. PHAs are advised to select one or more of these appraisal methods to accurately determine the actual or potential market value of a property, particularly the comparable sales or revenue-based methods. The market or residual value is to be determined by calculating the estimated market value for the property based on the appraisal, minus any costs required for demolition and remediation. The residual value must be incorporated into the cost-test instead of the actual market value only when any demolition, site remediation, and clearance costs that are necessary are covered by the selling PHA. However, if the sum of the estimated per unit cost of demolition and remediation exceeds 10 percent of the average Total Development Cost (TDC) for the units, the lower of the PHA estimate or a figure based on 10 percent of TDC must be used. Suppose the estimated remediation and demolition costs necessary for conversion sale are $7,000 per unit. Also, suppose the TDC limits are $115,000 for a two-bedroom unit, $161,000 for a three-bedroom unit, and $184,000 for a four-bedroom unit. Then the average TDC of a development with 200 two-bedroom units, 150 three-bedroom units, and 25 four-bedroom units is $138,000 (200 times $115,000, plus 150 times $161,000, plus 25 times $184,000, the sum divided by 375) and 10 percent of TDC is $13,800. In this example, the estimated $7,000 per unit costs for demolition and remediation is less than 10 percent of TDC for the development, and the PHA estimate of $7,000 is used. If estimated expenses had exceeded 10 percent of TDC ($13,800 in this example), demolition and remediation expenses must be capped at the lower amount.

# E. Accumulated Discounted Cost: Public Housing
The overall cost for continuing to operate the development as public housing is the sum of the discounted values of the yearly stream of costs up for the amortization period, which can range from 20 to 30 to 40 years, depending on the extent of modernization relative to the current physical and redesign needs of the development. In calculating net present value for required conversion, the sum of all costs in each future year is discounted back to the current year using the OMB-specified real discount rate. For voluntary conversion, the discount rate is applied forward as a direct inflation factor. To assist PHAs in completing the net present value comparison and to ensure consistency in the calculations, HUD has developed a spreadsheet calculator that is available for downloading from the HUD Internet site. Using PHA data and property specific inputs (to be entered by the housing agency), the spreadsheet will discount costs as described above and will generate net present values for amortization periods of 20, 30, and 40 years.

# II. Tenant-Based Assistance
The estimated cost of providing tenant-based assistance under Section 8 for all households in occupancy shall be calculated as the unit-weighted average of recent movers in the local area; plus the administrative fee for providing such vouchers; plus $1,000 per unit (or a higher amount allowed by HUD) for relocation assistance costs, including counseling. However, if the sum of the estimated per unit cost of demolition, remediation, and relocation exceeds 10 percent of the average Total Development Cost (TDC) for the units, the lower of the PHA estimate
or a figure based on 10 percent of TDC must be used.
For example, if the development has 200 occupied two-bedroom units, 150 occupied three-bedroom units, and 25 occupied four-bedroom units, and if the monthly payment standard for voucher units occupied by recent movers is $550 for two-bedroom units, $650 for three-bedroom units, and $750 for four-bedroom units, the unit-weighted monthly payment standard is $603.33. If the administrative fee comes to $46 per unit, then the monthly per unit operating voucher costs are $649.33, which rounds to an annual total of $2,922,000 for 375 occupied units of the same bedroom size as those being demolished in public housing. To these operating voucher costs, a first-year relocation is added on the voucher side. For per-unit relocation costs of $1,000 per unit for relocation, then $375,000 for 375 units is placed on the voucher cost side of the first year.

# Accumulated Discounted Cost: Vouchers
The overall cost for vouchers is the sum of the discounted values of the yearly stream of costs up for the amortization period, which can range from 20 to 30 to 40 years, depending on the extent of modernization relative to the current physical and redesign needs of the development. The amortization period chosen is the one that was appropriate for discounting public housing costs. In calculating net present value for required conversion, the sum of all costs in each future year is discounted back to the current year using the OMB-specified real discount rate. For voluntary conversion, the discount rate is applied forward as a direct inflation factor.
To assist PHAs in completing the net present value comparison and to ensure consistency in the calculations, HUD has developed a spreadsheet calculator that will be available for downloading from the HUD Internet site.

# III. Results of the Example
With the hypothetical data used in the examples, under an amortization period of 30 years, the discounted public housing costs under required conversion sums to $69,633,225, and the discounted voucher cost under required conversions totals $60,438,698. The ratio is 1.15, which means that public housing is 15 percent more costly than vouchers. With this amortization and this data, the PHA would be required to convert the development under the requirements of subpart A of this part, except in a situation where a PHA can demonstrate a distressed property that has failed the cost-test can be redeveloped by meeting each of the four factors that compose the long-term physical viability test to avoid removal from the inventory. With the same data, but a 40-year amortization period, public housing is still 11 percent costlier than vouchers, and with a 20-year amortization, public housing is 25 percent costlier than vouchers. In voluntary conversion, with the same hypothetical data, but a slightly different methodology (use of residual value as a public housing cost, inflating forward the discount numbers), the ratio of public housing costs to voucher costs would be 1.16 for the 20-year amortization period, 1.03 for the 30-year amortization period, and .97 for the 20-year amortization period. Thus, in voluntary conversion, the appropriate amortization period would decide whether public housing is more costly or is slightly more costly, or less than vouchers. Under a 20-year amortization assumption and possibly under a 30-year amortization period, the PHA would have the option of preparing a conversion plan for the development under subpart B of this part. Different sets of data would yield different conclusions for required and voluntary conversion determinations.
[71 FR 14336, Mar. 21, 2006]
Pt. 982

# PART 982—SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED ASSISTANCE: HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Information
Sec.
982.1
Programs: Purpose and structure.
982.2
Applicability.
982.3
HUD.
982.4
Definitions.
982.5
Notices required by this part.

# Subpart B—HUD Requirements and PHA Plan for Administration of Program
982.51
PHA authority to administer program.
982.52
HUD requirements.
982.53
Equal opportunity requirements and protection for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
982.54
Administrative Plan.

# Subpart C—Funding and PHA Application for Funding
982.101
Allocation of funding.
982.102
Allocation of budget authority for renewal of expiring CACC funding increments.
982.103
PHA application for funding.
982.104
HUD review of application.

# Subpart D—Annual Contributions Contract and PHA Administration of Program
982.151
Annual contributions contract.
982.152
Administrative fee.
982.153
PHA responsibilities.
982.154
ACC reserve account.
982.155
Administrative fee reserve.
982.156
Depositary for program funds.
982.157
Budget and expenditure.
982.158
Program accounts and records.
982.159
Audit requirements.
982.160
HUD determination to administer a local program.
982.161
Conflict of interest.
982.162
Use of HUD-required contracts and other forms.
982.163
Fraud recoveries.

# Subpart E—Admission to Tenant-Based Program
982.201
Eligibility and targeting.
982.202
How applicants are selected: General requirements.
982.203
Special admission (non-waiting list): Assistance targeted by HUD.
982.204
Waiting list: Administration of waiting list.
982.205
Waiting list: Different programs.
982.206
Waiting list: Opening and closing; public notice.
982.207
Waiting list: Local preferences in admission to program.
Subpart F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Leasing a Unit
982.301
Information when family is selected.
982.302
Issuance of certificate or voucher; Requesting PHA approval of assisted tenancy.
982.303
Term of voucher.
982.304
Illegal discrimination: PHA assistance to family.
982.305
PHA approval of assisted tenancy.
982.306
PHA disapproval of owner.
982.307
Tenant screening.
982.308
Lease and tenancy.
982.309
Term of assisted tenancy.
982.310
Owner termination of tenancy.
982.311
When assistance is paid.
982.312
Absence from unit.
982.313
Security deposit: Amounts owed by tenant.
982.315
Family break-up.
982.316
Live-in aide.
982.317
Lease-purchase agreements.

# Subpart H—Where Family Can Live and Move
982.351
Overview.
982.352
Eligible housing.
982.353
Where family can lease a unit with tenant-based assistance.
982.354
Move with continued tenant-based assistance.
982.355
Portability: Administration by initial and receiving PHA.

# Subpart I—Dwelling Unit: Housing Quality Standards, Subsidy Standards, Inspection and Maintenance
982.401
Housing quality standards.
982.402
Subsidy standards.
982.403
Terminating HAP contract when unit is too small.
982.404
Maintenance: Owner and family responsibility; PHA remedies.
982.405
PHA unit inspection.
982.406
Use of alternative inspections.
982.407
Enforcement of HQS.

# Subpart J—Housing Assistance Payments Contract and Owner Responsibility
982.451
Housing assistance payments contract.
982.452
Owner responsibilities.
982.453
Owner breach of contract.
982.454
Termination of HAP contract: Insufficient funding.
982.455
Automatic termination of HAP contract.
982.456
Third parties.

# Subpart K—Rent and Housing Assistance Payment
982.501
Overview.
982.504
Payment standard for family in restructured subsidized multifamily project.
982.505
How to calculate housing assistance payment.
982.506
Negotiating rent to owner.
982.507
Rent to owner: Reasonable rent.
982.508
Maximum family share at initial occupancy.
982.509
Rent to owner: Effect of rent control.
982.510
Other fees and charges.
982.514
Distribution of housing assistance payment.
982.515
Family share: Family responsibility.
982.516
Family income and composition: Annual and interim examinations.
982.517
Utility allowance schedule.
982.521
Rent to owner in subsidized project.

# Subpart L—Family Obligations; Denial and Termination of Assistance
982.551
Obligations of participant.
982.552
PHA denial or termination of assistance for family.
982.553
Denial of admission and termination of assistance for criminals and alcohol abusers.
982.554
Informal review for applicant.
982.555
Informal hearing for participant.

# Subpart M—Special Housing Types
982.601
Overview.

# Single Room Occupancy (SRO)
982.602
SRO: Who may reside in an SRO?
982.603
SRO: Lease and HAP contract.
982.604
SRO: Voucher housing assistance payment.
982.605
SRO: Housing quality standards.

# Congregate Housing
982.606
Congregate housing: Who may reside in congregate housing.
982.607
Congregate housing: Lease and HAP contract.
982.608
Congregate housing: Voucher housing assistance payment.
982.609
Congregate housing: Housing quality standards.

# Group Home
982.610
Group home: Who may reside in a group home.
982.611
Group home: Lease and HAP contract.
982.612
Group home: State approval of group home.
982.613
Group home: Rent and voucher housing assistance payment.
982.614
Group home: Housing quality standards.

# Shared Housing
982.615
Shared housing: Occupancy.
982.616
Shared housing: Lease and HAP contract.
982.617
Shared housing: Rent and voucher housing assistance payment.
982.618
Shared housing: Housing quality standards.

# Cooperative
982.619
Cooperative housing.

# Manufactured Home
982.620
Manufactured home: Applicability of requirements.
982.621
Manufactured home space rental: Housing quality standards.

# Manufactured Home Space Rental
982.622
Manufactured home space rental: Rent to owner.
982.623
Manufactured home space rental: Housing assistance payment.
982.624
Manufactured home space rental: Utility allowance schedule.

# Homeownership Option
982.625
Homeownership option: General.
982.626
Homeownership option: Initial requirements.
982.627
Homeownership option: Eligibility requirements for families.
982.628
Homeownership option: Eligible units.
982.629
Homeownership option: Additional PHA requirements for family search and purchase.
982.630
Homeownership option: Homeownership counseling.
982.631
Homeownership option: Home inspections, contract of sale, and PHA disapproval of seller.
982.632
Homeownership option: Financing purchase of home; affordability of purchase.
982.633
Homeownership option: Continued assistance requirements; Family obligations.
982.634
Homeownership option: Maximum term of homeownership assistance.
982.635
Homeownership option: Amount and distribution of monthly homeownership assistance payment.
982.636
Homeownership option: Portability.
982.637
Homeownership option: Move with continued tenant-based assistance.
982.638
Homeownership option: Denial or termination of assistance for family.
982.639
Homeownership option: Administrative fees.
982.641
Homeownership option: Applicability of other requirements.
982.642
Homeownership option: Pilot program for homeownership assistance for disabled families.
982.643
Homeownership option: Downpayment assistance grants.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1437f and 3535(d).

# Source:
59 FR 36682, July 18, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 982 appear at 64 FR 26640, May 14, 1999, and at 89 FR 38293, May 7, 2024.

# Subpart A—General Information

# Source:
60 FR 34695, July 3, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 982.1
Programs: purpose and structure.
(a)
General description.
(1) In the HUD Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) program, HUD pays rental subsidies so eligible families can afford decent, safe, and sanitary housing. The HCV program is generally administered by State or local governmental entities called public housing agencies (PHAs). HUD provides housing assistance funds to the PHA. HUD also provides funds for PHA administration of the program.
(2) Families select and rent units that meet program housing quality standards. If the PHA approves a family's unit and tenancy, the PHA contracts with the owner to make rent subsidy payments on behalf of the family. A PHA may not approve a tenancy unless the rent is reasonable.
(3) Subsidy in the HCV program is based on a local “payment standard” that reflects the cost to lease a unit in the local housing market. If the rent is less than the payment standard, the family generally pays 30 percent of adjusted monthly income for rent. If the rent is more than the payment standard, the family pays a larger share of the rent.
(b)
Tenant-based and project-based assistance.
(1) Section 8 assistance may be “tenant-based” or “project-based”. In project-based programs, rental assistance is paid for families who live in specific housing developments or units. With tenant-based assistance, the assisted unit is selected by the family. The family may rent a unit anywhere in the United States in the jurisdiction of a PHA that runs a voucher program.
(2) To receive tenant-based assistance, the family selects a suitable unit. After approving the tenancy, the PHA enters into a contract to make rental subsidy payments to the owner to subsidize occupancy by the family. The PHA contract with the owner only covers a single unit and a specific assisted family. If the family moves out of the leased unit, the contract with the owner terminates. The family may move to another unit with continued assistance so long as the family is complying with program requirements.
[60 FR 34695, July 3, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 26640, May 14, 1999; 80 FR 8245, Feb. 17, 2015]
§ 982.2
Applicability.
Part 982 contains the program requirements for the tenant-based housing assistance program under Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f). The tenant-based program is the HCV program.
[80 FR 8245, Feb. 17, 2015]
§ 982.3
HUD.
The HUD field offices have been delegated responsibility for day-to-day administration of the program by HUD. In exercising these functions, the field offices are subject to HUD regulations and other HUD requirements issued by HUD headquarters. Some functions are specifically reserved to HUD headquarters.
§ 982.4
Definitions.
(a)
Definitions found elsewhere.
(1) The following terms are defined in 24 CFR part 5, subpart A: 1937 Act, Covered person, Drug, Drug-related criminal activity, federally assisted housing, Guest, Household, HUD, MSA, Other person under the tenant's control, Public housing, Section 8, and Violent criminal activity.
(2) The following terms are defined in 24 CFR part 5, subpart D: Disabled family, Elderly family, Near-elderly family, and Person with disabilities.
(3) The following terms are defined in 24 CFR part 5, subpart F: Adjusted income, Annual income, Extremely low income family, Total tenant payment, Utility allowance, and Welfare assistance.
(b) In addition to the terms listed in paragraph (a) of this section, the following definitions apply:
Abatement.
Stopping HAP payments to an owner with no potential for retroactive payment.
Absorption.
For purposes of subpart H, the point at which a receiving PHA starts making assistance payments with funding under its consolidated ACC, rather than billing, the initial PHA.
Administrative fee.
Fee paid by HUD to the PHA for administration of the program. See § 982.152.
Administrative fee reserve
(formerly “operating reserve”). Account established by PHA from excess administrative fee income. The administrative fee reserve must be used for housing purposes. See § 982.155.
Administrative Plan.
The plan that describes PHA policies for administration of the HCV program. See § 982.54.
Admission.
The point when the family becomes a participant in the program. The date used for this purpose is the effective date of the first HAP contract
for a family (first day of initial lease term) in the tenant-based program.
Applicant
(applicant family). A family that has applied for admission to the HCV program but is not yet a program participant.
Authorized voucher units.
The number of units for which a PHA is authorized to make assistance payments to owners under its annual contributions contract.
Budget authority.
An amount authorized and appropriated by the Congress for payment to PHAs under the HCV program. For each funding increment in the program, budget authority is the maximum amount that may be paid by HUD to the PHA over the ACC term of the funding increment.
Building.
A structure with a roof and walls that contains one or more dwelling units.
Common space.
In shared housing: Space available for use by the assisted family and other occupants of the unit.
Congregate housing.
Housing for elderly persons or persons with disabilities that meets the HQS for congregate housing. A special housing type: see § 982.606 to § 982.609.
Continuously assisted.
An applicant is continuously assisted under the 1937 Act if the family is already receiving assistance under any 1937 Act program when the family is admitted to the HCV program.
Cooperative.
Housing owned by a corporation or association, and where a member of the corporation or association has the right to reside in a particular unit, and to participate in management of the housing.
Cooperative member.
A family of which one or more members owns membership shares in a cooperative.
Domicile.
The legal residence of the household head or spouse as determined in accordance with State and local law.
Downpayment assistance grant.
A form of homeownership assistance in the homeownership option: A single downpayment assistance grant for the family. If a family receives a downpayment assistance grant, a PHA may not make monthly homeownership assistance payments for the family. A downpayment assistance grant is applied to the downpayment for purchase of the home or reasonable and customary closing costs required in connection with purchase of the home.
Fair market rent (FMR).
The rent, including the cost of utilities (except telephone), as established by HUD for units of varying sizes (by number of bedrooms), that must be paid in the housing market area to rent privately owned, existing, decent, safe and sanitary rental housing of modest (non-luxury) nature with suitable amenities. In the HCV program, the FMR may be established at the ZIP code level (see definition of Small Area Fair Market Rents), metropolitan area level, or non-metropolitan county level.
Family.
A person or group of persons, as determined by the PHA consistent with 24 CFR 5.403, approved to reside in a unit with assistance under the program. See “family composition” at § 982.201(c).
Family rent to owner.
In the voucher program, the portion of rent to owner paid by the family. For calculation of family rent to owner, see § 982.515(b).
Family self-sufficiency program
(FSS program). The program established by a PHA in accordance with 24 CFR part 984 to promote self-sufficiency of assisted families, including the coordination of supportive services (42 U.S.C. 1437u).
Family share.
The portion of rent and utilities paid by the family. For calculation of family share, see § 982.515(a).
Family unit size.
The appropriate number of bedrooms for a family, as determined by the PHA under the PHA subsidy standards.
First-time homeowner.
In the homeownership option: A family of which no member owned any present ownership interest in a residence of any family member during the three years before commencement of homeownership assistance for the family. The term “first-time homeowner” includes a single parent or displaced homemaker (as those terms are defined in 12 U.S.C. 12713) who, while married, owned a home with his or her spouse, or resided in a home owned by his or her spouse.
Foster adult.
A member of the household who is 18 years of age or older and meets the definition of a foster adult under State law. In general, a foster
adult is a person who is 18 years of age or older, is unable to live independently due to a debilitating physical or mental condition and is placed with the family by an authorized placement agency or by judgment, decree, or other order of any court of competent jurisdiction.
Foster child.
A member of the household who meets the definition of a foster child under State law. In general, a foster child is placed with the family by an authorized placement agency (
e.g.,
public child welfare agency) or by judgment, decree, or other order of any court of competent jurisdiction.
Funding increment.
Each commitment of budget authority by HUD to a PHA under the consolidated annual contributions contract for the PHA program.
Gross rent.
The sum of the rent to owner plus any utility allowance.
Group home.
A dwelling unit that is licensed by a State as a group home for the exclusive residential use of two to twelve persons who are elderly or persons with disabilities (including any live-in aide). A special housing type: see § 982.610 to § 982.614.
HAP contract.
Housing assistance payments contract.
Home.
In the homeownership option: A dwelling unit for which the PHA pays homeownership assistance.
Homeowner.
In the homeownership option: A family of which one or more members owns title to the home.
Homeownership assistance.
Assistance for a family under the homeownership option. There are two alternative and mutually exclusive forms of homeownership assistance by a PHA for a family: monthly homeownership assistance payments, or a single downpayment assistance grant. Either form of homeownership assistance may be paid to the family, or to a mortgage lender on behalf of the family.
Homeownership expenses.
In the homeownership option: A family's allowable monthly expenses for the home, as determined by the PHA in accordance with HUD requirements (see § 982.635).
Homeownership option.
Assistance for a homeowner or cooperative member under § 982.625 to § 982.641. A special housing type.
Housing assistance payment.
The monthly assistance payment by a PHA, which includes:
(1) A payment to the owner for rent to the owner under the family's lease; and
(2) An additional payment to the family if the total assistance payment exceeds the rent to owner.
Housing quality standards (HQS).
The minimum quality standards developed by HUD in accordance with 24 CFR 5.703 for the HCV program, including any variations approved by HUD for the PHA under 24 CFR 5.705(a)(3).
Independent entity.
(i) The unit of general local government; however, if the PHA itself is the unit of general local government or an agency of such government, then only the next level of general local government (or an agency of such government) or higher may serve as the independent entity; or
(ii) A HUD-approved entity that is autonomous and recognized under State law as a separate legal entity from the PHA. The entity must not be connected financially (except regarding compensation for services performed for PHA-owned units) or in any other manner that could result in the PHA improperly influencing the entity.
Initial PHA.
In portability, the term refers to both:
(1) a PHA that originally selected a family that later decides to move out of the jurisdiction of the selecting PHA; and
(2) a PHA that absorbed a family that later decides to move out of the jurisdiction of the absorbing PHA.
Initial payment standard.
The payment standard at the beginning of the HAP contract term.
Initial rent to owner.
The rent to owner at the beginning of the HAP contract term.
Interest in the home.
In the homeownership option:
(1) In the case of assistance for a homeowner, “interest in the home” includes title to the home, any lease or other right to occupy the home, or any other present interest in the home.
(2) In the case of assistance for a cooperative member, “interest in the home” includes ownership of membership shares in the cooperative, any lease or other right to occupy the
home, or any other present interest in the home.
Jurisdiction.
The area in which the PHA has authority under State and local law to administer the program.
Lease.
(1) A written agreement between an owner and a tenant for the leasing of a dwelling unit to the tenant. The lease establishes the conditions for occupancy of the dwelling unit by a family with housing assistance payments under a HAP contract between the owner and the PHA.
(2) In cooperative housing, a written agreement between a cooperative and a member of the cooperative. The agreement establishes the conditions for occupancy of the member's cooperative dwelling unit by the member's family with housing assistance payments to the cooperative under a HAP contract between the cooperative and the PHA. For purposes of this part 982, the cooperative is the Section 8 “owner” of the unit, and the cooperative member is the Section 8 “tenant.”
Manufactured home.
A manufactured structure that is built on a permanent chassis, is designed for use as a principal place of residence, and meets the HQS. A special housing type: see § 982.620 and § 982.621.
Manufactured home space.
In manufactured home space rental: A space leased by an owner to a family. A manufactured home owned and occupied by the family is located on the space. See § 982.622 to § 982.624.
Membership shares.
In the homeownership option: shares in a cooperative. By owning such cooperative shares, the share-owner has the right to reside in a particular unit in the cooperative, and the right to participate in management of the housing.
Merger date.
October 1, 1999, which is the effective date of the merger of the two tenant-based programs (the housing voucher and housing certificate programs) into the Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) program.
Notice of Funding Availability
(NOFA). For budget authority that HUD distributes by competitive process, the
Federal Register
document that invites applications for funding. This document explains how to apply for assistance and the criteria for awarding the funding.
Owner.
Any person or entity with the legal right to lease or sublease a unit to a participant.
Participant
(participant family). A family that has been admitted to the PHA program and is currently assisted in the program. The family becomes a participant on the effective date of the first HAP contract executed by the PHA for the family (first day of initial lease term).
Payment standard.
The maximum monthly assistance payment for a family assisted in the voucher program (before deducting the total tenant payment by the family).
PHA plan.
The annual plan and the 5-year plan as adopted by the PHA and approved by HUD in accordance with part 903 of this chapter.
PHA-owned unit.
(i) A dwelling unit in a project that is:
(A) Owned by the PHA (including having a controlling interest in the entity that owns the project);
(B) Owned by an entity wholly controlled by the PHA; or
(C) Owned by a limited liability company or limited partnership in which the PHA (or an entity wholly controlled by the PHA) holds a controlling interest in the managing member or general partner.
(ii) A controlling interest is:
(A) Holding more than 50 percent of the stock of any corporation;
(B) Having the power to appoint more than 50 percent of the members of the board of directors of a non-stock corporation (such as a nonprofit corporation);
(C) Where more than 50 percent of the members of the board of directors of any corporation also serve as directors, officers, or employees of the PHA;
(D) Holding more than 50 percent of all managing member interests in an LLC;
(E) Holding more than 50 percent of all general partner interests in a partnership; or
(F) Equivalent levels of control in other ownership structures.
Portability.
Renting a dwelling unit with Section 8 tenant-based assistance outside the jurisdiction of the initial PHA.
Premises.
The building or complex in which the dwelling unit is located, including common areas and grounds.
Present homeownership interest.
In the homeownership option: “Present ownership interest” in a residence includes title, in whole or in part, to a residence, or ownership, in whole or in part, of membership shares in a cooperative. “Present ownership interest” in a residence does not include the right to purchase title to the residence under a lease-purchase agreement.
Private space.
In shared housing: The portion of a contract unit that is for the exclusive use of an assisted family.
Program.
The Section 8 HCV program under this part.
Program receipts.
HUD payments to the PHA under the consolidated ACC, and any other amounts received by the PHA in connection with the program.
Public housing agency (PHA).
PHA includes both:
(1) Any State, county, municipality, or other governmental entity or public body which is authorized to administer the program (or an agency or instrumentality of such an entity), and
(2) Any of the following:
(i) A consortium of housing agencies, each of which meets the qualifications in paragraph (1) of this definition, that HUD determines has the capacity and capability to efficiently administer the program (in which case, HUD may enter into a consolidated ACC with any legal entity authorized to act as the legal representative of the consortium members);
(ii) Any other public or private non-profit entity that was administering a Section 8 tenant-based assistance program pursuant to a contract with the contract administrator of such program (HUD or a PHA) on October 21, 1998; or
(iii) For any area outside the jurisdiction of a PHA that is administering a tenant-based program, or where HUD determines that such PHA is not administering the program effectively, a private non-profit entity or a governmental entity or public body that would otherwise lack jurisdiction to administer the program in such area.
Reasonable rent.
A rent to owner that is not more than rent charged:
(1) For comparable units in the private unassisted market; and
(2) For comparable unassisted units in the premises.
Receiving PHA.
In portability: A PHA that receives a family selected for participation in the HCV program of another PHA. The receiving PHA issues a voucher and provides program assistance to the family.
Renewal units.
The number of units, as determined by HUD, for which funding is reserved on HUD books for a PHA's program. This number is used is calculating renewal budget authority in accordance with § 982.102.
Rent to owner.
The total monthly rent payable to the owner under the lease for the unit. Rent to owner covers payment for any housing services, maintenance and utilities that the owner is required to provide and pay for.
Request for Tenancy Approval (RFTA).
A form (form HUD-52517) submitted by or on behalf of a family to a PHA once the family has identified a unit that it wishes to rent using tenant-based voucher assistance.
Residency preference.
A PHA preference for admission of families that reside anywhere in a specified area, including families with a member who works or has been hired to work in the area (“residency preference area”).
Residency preference area.
The specified area where families must reside to qualify for a residency preference.
Section 8 Management Assessment Program (SEMAP).
A system used by HUD to measure PHA performance in key Section 8 program areas. See 24 CFR part 985.
Shared housing.
A unit occupied by two or more families. The unit consists of both common space for shared use by the occupants of the unit and separate private space for each assisted family. A special housing type: see § 982.615 to § 982.618.
Single room occupancy housing
(SRO). A unit that contains no sanitary facilities or food preparation facilities, or contains either, but not both, types of facilities. A special housing type: see § 982.602 to § 982.605.
Small Area Fair Market Rents (SAFMRs or Small Area FMRs).
Small Area FMRs are FMRs established for U.S. Postal
Service ZIP code areas and are calculated in accordance with 24 CFR 888.113(a) and (b).
Special admission.
Admission of an applicant that is not on the PHA waiting list or without considering the applicant's waiting list position.
Special housing types.
See subpart M of this part 982. Subpart M of this part states the special regulatory requirements for: SRO housing, congregate housing, group home, shared housing, manufactured home (including manufactured home space rental), cooperative housing (rental assistance for cooperative member) and homeownership option (homeownership assistance for cooperative member or first-time homeowner).
Statement of homeowner obligations. In the homeownership option:
The family's agreement to comply with program obligations.
Subsidy standards.
Standards established by a PHA to determine the appropriate number of bedrooms and amount of subsidy for families of different sizes and compositions.
Suspension.
The term on the family's voucher stops from the date that the family submits a request for PHA approval of the tenancy, until the date the PHA notifies the family in writing whether the request has been approved or denied.
Tenant.
The person or persons (other than a live-in aide) who executes the lease as lessee of the dwelling unit.
Tenant-paid utilities.
Utilities and services that are not included in the rent to owner and are the responsibility of the assisted family, regardless of whether the payment goes to the utility company or the owner. The utilities and services are those necessary in the locality to provide housing that complies with HQS. The utilities and services may also include those required by HUD through a
Federal Register
notice after providing opportunity for public comment.
Utility reimbursement.
The portion of the housing assistance payment which exceeds the amount of the rent to owner. (See § 982.514(b)).
Voucher holder.
A family holding a voucher with an unexpired term (search time).
Voucher (rental voucher).
A document issued by a PHA to a family selected for admission to the voucher program. This document describes the program and the procedures for PHA approval of a unit selected by the family. The voucher also states obligations of the family under the program.
Waiting list admission.
An admission from the PHA waiting list.
Welfare-to-work (WTW) families.
Families assisted by a PHA with voucher funding awarded to the PHA under the HUD welfare-to-work voucher program (including any renewal of such WTW funding for the same purpose).
Withholding.
Stopping HAP payments to an owner while holding them for potential retroactive disbursement.
[63 FR 23857, Apr. 30, 1998; 63 FR 31625, June 10, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 26641, May 14, 1999; 64 FR 49658, Sept. 14, 1999; 64 FR 56887, 56911, Oct. 21, 1999; 65 FR 16821, Mar. 30, 2000; 65 FR 55161, Sept. 12, 2000; 66 FR 28804, May 24, 2001; 66 FR 33613, June 22, 2001; 67 FR 64492, Oct. 18, 2002; 77 FR 5675, Feb. 3, 2012; 80 FR 8245, Feb. 17, 2015; 80 FR 50572, Aug. 20, 2015; 88 FR 30503, May 11, 2023; 89 FR 38293, May 7, 2024]
§ 982.5
Notices required by this part.
Where part 982 requires any notice to be given by the PHA, the family or the owner, the notice must be in writing.

# Subpart B—HUD Requirements and PHA Plan for Administration of Program

# Source:
60 FR 34695, July 3, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 982.51
PHA authority to administer program.
(a) The PHA must have authority to administer the program. The PHA must provide evidence, satisfactory to HUD, of its status as a PHA, of its authority to administer the program, and of the PHA jurisdiction.
(b) The evidence submitted by the PHA to HUD must include enabling legislation and a supporting legal opinion satisfactory to HUD. The PHA must submit additional evidence when there is a change that affects its status
as a PHA, its authority to administer the program, or its jurisdiction.
[60 FR 34695, July 3, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 26641, May 14, 1999; 80 FR 8245, Feb. 17, 2015]
§ 982.52
HUD requirements.
(a) The PHA must comply with HUD regulations and other HUD requirements for the program. HUD requirements are issued by HUD headquarters, as regulations,
Federal Register
notices or other binding program directives.
(b) The PHA must comply with the consolidated ACC and the PHA's HUD-approved applications for program funding.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0169)
[60 FR 34695, July 3, 1995, as amended at 60 FR 45661, Sept. 1, 1995]
§ 982.53
Equal opportunity requirements and protection for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
(a) The tenant-based program requires compliance with all equal opportunity requirements imposed by contract or federal law, including the authorities cited at 24 CFR 5.105(a) and title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.
(b)
Civil rights certification.
The PHA must submit a signed certification to HUD that:
(1) The PHA will administer the program in conformity with the Fair Housing Act, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act.
(2) The PHA will affirmatively further fair housing in the administration of the program.
(c)
Obligation to affirmatively further fair housing.
The PHA shall affirmatively further fair housing as required by § 903.7(o) of this title.
(d)
State and local law.
Nothing in part 982 is intended to pre-empt operation of State and local laws that prohibit discrimination against a Section 8 voucher-holder because of status as a Section 8 voucher-holder. However, such State and local laws shall not change or affect any requirement of this part, or any other HUD requirements for administration or operation of the program.
(e)
Protection for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
The PHA must apply the requirements in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking). For purposes of compliance with HUD's regulations in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, the covered housing provider is the PHA or owner, as applicable given the responsibilities of the covered housing provider as set forth in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L. For example, the PHA is the covered housing provider responsible for providing the Notice of occupancy rights under VAWA and certification form described at 24 CFR 5.2005(a). In addition, the owner is the covered housing provider that may choose to bifurcate a lease as described at 24 CFR 5.2009(a), while the PHA is the covered housing provider responsible for complying with emergency transfer plan provisions at 24 CFR 5.2005(e).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0169)
[60 FR 34695, July 3, 1995, as amended at 60 FR 45661, Sept. 1, 1995; 63 FR 23859, Apr. 30, 1998; 64 FR 26641, May 14, 1999; 64 FR 56911, Oct. 21, 1999; 73 FR 72344, Nov. 28, 2008; 75 FR 66263, Oct. 27, 2010; 80 FR 8245, Feb. 17, 2015; 81 FR 80816, Nov. 16, 2016]
§ 982.54
Administrative Plan.
(a) The PHA must adopt a written Administrative Plan that establishes local policies for administration of the program in accordance with HUD requirements. The Administrative Plan and any revisions of the plan must be formally adopted by the PHA Board of Commissioners or other authorized PHA officials. The Administrative Plan states PHA policy on matters for which the PHA has discretion to establish local policies.
(b) The Administrative Plan must be in accordance with HUD regulations and requirements. The Administrative Plan is a supporting document to the PHA Plan (part 903 of this title) and must be available for public review. The PHA must revise the Administrative Plan if needed to comply with HUD requirements.
(c) The PHA must administer the program in accordance with the PHA Administrative Plan.
(d) The PHA Administrative Plan must cover all the PHA's local policies for administration of the program, including the PHA's policies on the following subjects (see 24 CFR 983.10 for a list of subjects specific to the project-based voucher (PBV) program that also must be included in the Administrative Plan of a PHA that operates a PBV program):
(1) Selection and admission of applicants from the PHA waiting list, including any PHA admission preferences, procedures for removing applicant names from the waiting list, and procedures for closing and reopening the PHA waiting list;
(2) Issuing or denying vouchers, including PHA policy governing the voucher term and any extensions of the voucher term. If the PHA decides to allow extensions of the voucher term, the PHA Administrative Plan must describe how the PHA determines whether to grant extensions, and how the PHA determines the length of any extension.
(3) Any special rules for use of available funds when HUD provides funding to the PHA for a special purpose (e.g., desegregation), including funding for specified families or a specified category of families;
(4) Occupancy policies, including:
(i) Definition of what group of persons may qualify as a “family”;
(ii) Definition of when a family is considered to be “continuously assisted”;
(iii) Standards for denying admission or terminating assistance based on criminal activity or alcohol abuse in accordance with § 982.553, or other factors in accordance with §§ 982.552, 982.554, and 982.555; and
(iv) Policies concerning residency by a foster child, foster adult, or live-in aide, including defining when PHA consent for occupancy by a foster child, foster adult, or live-in aide must be given or may be denied;
(5) Encouraging participation by owners of suitable units located outside areas of low income or minority concentration;
(6) Assisting a family that claims that illegal discrimination has prevented the family from leasing a suitable unit;
(7) Providing information about a family to prospective owners;
(8) Disapproval of owners;
(9) Subsidy standards;
(10) Family absence from the dwelling unit;
(11) How to determine who remains in the program if a family breaks up;
(12) Informal review procedures for applicants;
(13) Informal hearing procedures for participants;
(14) Payment standard policies, including:
(i) The process for establishing and revising payment standards, including whether the PHA has voluntarily adopted the use of Small Area Fair Market Rents (SAFMRs);
(ii) A description of how the PHA will administer decreases in the payment standard amount for a family continuing to reside in a unit for which the family is receiving assistance (see § 982.505(c)(3)); and
(iii) If the PHA establishes different payment standard amounts for designated areas within its jurisdiction, including exception areas, the criteria used to determine the designated areas and the payment standard amounts for those designated areas. (See § 982.503(a)(2)). All such areas must be described in the PHA's Administrative Plan or payment standard schedule;
(15) The method of determining that rent to owner is a reasonable rent (initially and during the term of a HAP contract);
(16) Special policies concerning special housing types in the program (e.g., use of shared housing);
(17) Policies concerning payment by a family to the PHA of amounts the family owes the PHA;
(18) Policies concerning interim redeterminations of family income and composition, the frequency of determinations of family income, and income-determination practices, including whether the PHA will accept a family declaration of assets;
(19) Restrictions, if any, on the number of moves by a participant family (see § 982.354(c));
(20) Approval by the Board of Commissioners or other authorized officials to charge the administrative fee reserve;
(21) Procedural guidelines and performance standards for conducting required HQS inspections, including:
(i) Any deficiency that the PHA has adopted as a life-threatening deficiency that is not a HUD-required life-threatening deficiency.
(ii) For PHAs that adopt the initial inspection non-life-threatening deficiency option:
(A) The PHA's policy on whether the provision will apply to all initial inspections or a portion of initial inspections.
(B) The PHA's policy on whether the provision will be applied to only some inspections and how the units will be selected.
(C) The PHA's policy on using withheld HAP funds to repay an owner once the unit is in compliance with HQS.
(iii) For PHAs that adopt the alternative inspection provision:
(A) The PHA's policy on how it will apply the provision to initial and periodic inspections.
(B) The specific alternative inspection method used by the PHA.
(C) The specific properties or types of properties where the alternative inspection method will be employed.
(D) For initial inspections, the maximum amount of time the PHA will withhold HAP if the owner does not correct the HQS deficiencies within the cure period, and the period of time after which the PHA will terminate the HAP contract for the owner's failure to correct the deficiencies, which may not exceed 180 days from the effective date of the HAP contract.
(iv) The PHA's policy on charging a reinspection fee to owners.
(22) The PHA's policy on withholding HAP for units that do not meet HQS (see § 982.404(d)(1));
(23) The PHA's policy on assisting families with relocating and finding a new unit (see § 982.404(e)(3));
(24) The PHA's policy on screening of applicants for family behavior or suitability for tenancy;
(25) Whether the PHA will permit a family to submit more than one Request for Tenancy Approval at a time (see § 982.302(b)); and
(26) In the event of insufficient funding, taking into account any cost-savings measures taken by the PHA, a description of the factors the PHA will consider when determining which HAP contracts to terminate first (
e.g.,
prioritization of PBV HAP contracts over tenant-based HAP contracts or prioritization of contracts that serve vulnerable families or individuals).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0169)
[60 FR 34695, July 3, 1995, as amended at 60 FR 45661, Sept. 1, 1995; 61 FR 27163, May 30, 1996; 63 FR 23859, Apr. 30, 1998; 64 FR 26641, May 14, 1999; 64 FR 49658, Sept. 14, 1999; 64 FR 56911, Oct. 21, 1999; 66 FR 28804, May 24, 2001; 80 FR 8245, Feb. 17, 2015; 80 FR 50572, Aug. 20, 2015; 81 FR 80582, Nov. 16, 2016; 89 FR 38294, May 7, 2024]

# Subpart C—Funding and PHA Application for Funding

# Source:
60 FR 34695, July 3, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 982.101
Allocation of funding.
(a)
Allocation of funding.
HUD allocates available budget authority for the tenant-based assistance program to HUD field offices.
(b)
Section 213(d) allocation.
(1) Section 213(d) of the HCD Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 1439) establishes requirements for allocation of assisted housing budget authority. Some budget authority is exempt by law from allocation under section 213(d). Unless exempted by law, budget authority for the tenant-based programs must be allocated in accordance with section 213(d).
(2) Budget authority subject to allocation under section 213(d) is allocated in accordance with 24 CFR part 791, subpart D. There are three categories of section 213(d) funding allocations under part 791 of this title:
(i) Funding retained in a headquarters reserve for purposes specified by law;
(ii) funding incapable of geographic formula allocation (e.g., for renewal of expiring funding increments); or
(iii) funding allocated by an objective fair share formula. Funding allocated
by fair share formula is distributed by a competitive process.
(c)
Competitive process.
For budget authority that is distributed by competitive process, the Department solicits applications from PHAs by publishing one or more notices of funding availability (NOFAs) in the
Federal Register.
See 24 CFR part 12, subpart B; and 24 CFR 791.406. The NOFA explains how to apply for assistance, and specifies the criteria for awarding the assistance. The NOFA may identify any special program requirements for use of the funding.
[60 FR 34695, July 3, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 26642, May 14, 1999; 80 FR 8246, Feb. 17, 2015]
§ 982.102
Allocation of budget authority for renewal of expiring consolidated ACC funding increments.
(a)
Applicability.
This section applies to the renewal of consolidated ACC funding increments in the program (as described in § 982.151(a)(2)) that expire after December 31, 1999 (including any assistance that the PHA has attached to units for project-based assistance under 24 CFR part 983). This section implements section 8(dd) of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437f(dd)).
(b)
Renewal Methodology.
HUD will use the following methodology to determine the amount of budget authority to be allocated to a PHA for the renewal of expiring consolidated ACC funding increments in the program, subject to the availability of appropriated funds. If the amount of appropriated funds is not sufficient to provide the full amount of renewal funding for PHAs, as calculated in accordance with this section, HUD may establish a procedure to adjust allocations for the shortfall in funding.
(c)
Determining the amount of budget authority allocated for renewal of an expiring funding increment.
Subject to availability of appropriated funds, as determined by HUD, the amount of budget authority allocated by HUD to a PHA for renewal of each program funding increment that expires during a calendar year will be equal to:
(1)
Number of renewal units.
The number of renewal units assigned to the funding increment (as determined by HUD pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section); multiplied by
(2)
Adjusted annual per unit cost.
The adjusted annual per unit cost (as determined by HUD pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section).
(d)
Determining the number of renewal units
—(1)
Number of renewal units.
HUD will determine the total number of renewal units for a PHA's program as of the last day of the calendar year previous to the calendar year for which renewal funding is calculated. The number of renewal units for a PHA's program will be determined as follows:
(i)
Step 1: Establishing the initial baseline.
HUD will establish a baseline number of units (“baseline”) for each PHA program. The initial baseline equals the number of units reserved by HUD for the PHA program as of December 31, 1999.
(ii)
Step 2: Establishing the adjusted baseline.
The adjusted baseline equals the initial baseline with the following adjustments from the initial baseline as of the last day of the calendar year previous to the calendar year for which renewal funding is calculated:
(A)
Additional units.
HUD will add to the initial baseline any additional units reserved for the PHA after December 31, 1999.
(B)
Units removed.
HUD will subtract from the initial baseline any units de-reserved by HUD from the PHA program after December 31, 1999.
(iii)
Step 3: Determining the number of renewal units.
The number of renewal units equals the adjusted baseline minus the number of units supported by contract funding increments that expire after the end of the calendar year.
(2)
Funding increments.
HUD will assign all units reserved for a PHA program to one or more funding increment(s).
(3)
Correction of errors.
HUD may adjust the number of renewal units to correct errors.
(e)
Determining the adjusted per unit cost.
HUD will determine the PHA's adjusted per unit cost when HUD processes the allocation of renewal funding for an expiring contract funding increment. The adjusted per unit cost calculated will be determined as follows:
(1)
Step 1: Determining monthly program expenditure
—(i)
Use of most recent HUD-approved year end statement.
HUD will determine the PHA's monthly per unit program expenditure for the HCV program (including project-based assistance under such program) under the consolidated ACC with HUD using data from the PHA's most recent HUD-approved year end statement.
(ii)
Monthly program expenditure.
The monthly program expenditure equals:
(A)
Total program expenditure.
The PHA's total program expenditure (the total of housing assistance payments and administrative costs) for the PHA fiscal year covered by the approved year end statement; divided by
(B)
Total unit months leased.
The total of unit months leased for the PHA fiscal year covered by the approved year end statement.
(2)
Step 2: Determining annual per unit cost.
HUD will determine the PHA's annual per unit cost. The annual per unit cost equals the monthly program expenditures (as determined under paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section) multiplied by 12.
(3)
Step 3: Determining adjusted annual per unit cost.
(i) HUD will determine the PHA's adjusted annual per unit cost. The adjusted annual per unit cost equals the annual per unit cost (as determined under paragraph (e)(2) of this section) multiplied cumulatively by the applicable published Section 8 housing assistance payments program annual adjustment factors in effect during the period from the end of the PHA fiscal year covered by the approved year end statement to the time when HUD processes the allocation of renewal funding.
(ii)
Use of annual adjustment factor applicable to PHA jurisdiction.
For this purpose, HUD will use the annual adjustment factor from the notice published annually in the
Federal Register
pursuant to part 888 that is applicable to the jurisdiction of the PHA. For a PHA whose jurisdiction spans multiple annual adjustment factor areas, HUD will use the highest applicable annual adjustment factor.
(iii)
Use of annual adjustment factors in effect subsequent to most recent Year End Statement.
HUD will use the Annual Adjustment Factors in effect during the time period subsequent to the time covered by the most recent HUD approved Year End Statement and the time of the processing of the contract funding increment to be renewed.
(iv)
Special circumstances.
At its discretion, HUD may modify the adjusted annual per unit cost based on receipt of a modification request from a PHA. The modification request must demonstrate that because of special circumstances application of the annual adjustment factor will not provide an accurate adjusted annual per unit cost.
(4)
Correction of errors.
HUD may correct for errors in the adjusted per unit cost.
(f)
Consolidated ACC amendment to add renewal funding.
HUD will reserve allocated renewal funding available to the PHA within a reasonable time prior to the expiration of the funding increment to be renewed and establish a new expiration date one-year from the date of such expiration.
(g)
Modification of allocation of budget authority
—(1)
HUD authority to conform PHA program costs with PHA program finances through Federal Register notice.
In the event that a PHA's costs incurred threaten to exceed budget authority and allowable reserves, HUD reserves the right, through
Federal Register
notice, to bring PHA program costs and the number of families served, in line with PHA program finances.
(2)
HUD authority to limit increases of per unit cost through Federal Register notice.
HUD may, by
Federal Register
notice, limit the amount or percentage of increases in the adjusted annual per unit cost to be used in calculating the allocation of budget authority.
(3)
HUD authority to limit decreases to per unit costs through Federal Register notice.
HUD may, by
Federal Register
notice, limit the amount or percentage of decreases in the adjusted annual per unit cost to be used in calculating the allocation of budget authority.
(4)
Contents of Federal Register notice.
If HUD publishes a
Federal Register
notice pursuant to paragraphs (g)(1), (g)(2) or (g)(3) of this section, it will describe the rationale, circumstances and procedures under which such modifications are implemented. Such circumstances and procedures shall, be
consistent with the objective of enabling PHAs and HUD to meet program goals and requirements including but not limited to:
(i) Deconcentration of poverty and expanding housing opportunities;
(ii) Reasonable rent burden;
(iii) Income targeting;
(iv) Consistency with applicable consolidated plan(s);
(v) Rent reasonableness;
(vi) Program efficiency and economy;
(vii) Service to additional households within budgetary limitations; and
(viii) Service to the adjusted baseline number of families.
(5)
Public consultation before issuance of Federal Register notice.
HUD will design and undertake informal public consultation prior to issuing
Federal Register
notices pursuant to paragraphs (g)(1) or (g)(2) of this section.
(h)
Ability to prorate and synchronize contract funding increments.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section, HUD may prorate the amount of budget authority allocated for the renewal of funding increments that expire on different dates throughout the calendar year. HUD may use such proration to synchronize the expiration dates of funding increments under the PHA's consolidated ACC.
(i)
Reallocation of budget authority.
If a PHA has performance deficiencies, such as a failure to adequately lease units, HUD may reallocate some of its budget authority to other PHAs. If HUD determines to reallocate budget authority, it will reduce the number of units reserved by HUD for the PHA program of the PHA whose budget authority is being reallocated and increase the number of units reserved by HUD for the PHAs whose programs are receiving the benefit of the reallocation, so that such PHAs can issue vouchers. HUD will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
that will describe the circumstances and procedures for reallocating budget authority pursuant to this paragraph.
[64 FR 56887, Oct. 21, 1999; 65 FR 16818, Mar. 30, 2000; 80 FR 8246, Feb. 17, 2015]
§ 982.103
PHA application for funding.
(a) A PHA must submit an application for program funding to HUD at the time and place and in the form required by HUD.
(b) For competitive funding under a NOFA, the application must be submitted by a PHA in accordance with the requirements of the NOFA.
(c) The application must include all information required by HUD. HUD requirements may be stated in the HUD-required form of application, the NOFA, or other HUD instructions.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0169)
[60 FR 34695, July 3, 1995, as amended at 60 FR 45661, Sept. 1, 1995; 63 FR 23859, Apr. 30, 1998. Redesignated at 64 FR 56887, Oct. 21, 1999; 80 FR 8246, Feb. 17, 2015]
§ 982.104
HUD review of application.
(a)
Competitive funding under NOFA.
For competitive funding under a NOFA, HUD must evaluate an application on the basis of the selection criteria stated in the NOFA, and must consider the PHA's capacity and capability to administer the program.
(b)
Approval or disapproval of PHA funding application.
(1) HUD must notify the PHA of its approval or disapproval of the PHA funding application.
(2) When HUD approves an application, HUD must notify the PHA of the amount of approved funding.
(3) For budget authority that is distributed to PHAs by competitive process, documentation of the basis for provision or denial of assistance is available for public inspection in accordance with 24 CFR 12.14(b).
(c)
PHA disqualification.
HUD will not approve any PHA funding application (including an application for competitive funding under a NOFA) if HUD determines that the PHA is disbarred or otherwise disqualified from providing assistance under the program.
[60 FR 34695, July 3, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 26642, May 14, 1999. Redesignated at 64 FR 56887, Oct. 21, 1999]

# Subpart D—Annual Contributions Contract and PHA Administration of Program

# Source:
60 FR 34695, July 3, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 982.151
Annual contributions contract.
(a)
Nature of ACC.
(1) An annual contributions contract (ACC) is a written contract between HUD and a PHA. Under the ACC, HUD agrees to make payments to the PHA, over a specified term, for housing assistance payments to owners and for the PHA administrative fee. The ACC specifies the maximum payment over the ACC term. The PHA agrees to administer the program in accordance with HUD regulations and requirements.
(2) HUD's commitment to make payments for each funding increment in the PHA program constitutes a separate ACC. However, commitments for all the funding increments in a PHA program are listed in one consolidated contractual document called the consolidated annual contributions contract (consolidated ACC). A single consolidated ACC covers funding for the PHA's HCV program.
(b)
Budget authority.
(1) Budget authority is the maximum amount that may be paid by HUD to a PHA over the ACC term of a funding increment. Before adding a funding increment to the consolidated ACC for a PHA program, HUD reserves budget authority from amounts authorized and appropriated by the Congress for the program.
