Dec. 31, 2024
Title 7
Agriculture
Part 2000 to End
Revised as of January 1, 2025
Containing a codification of documents of general applicability and future effect
As of January 1, 2025
Published by the Office of the Federal Register National Archives and Records Administration as a Special Edition of the Federal Register

# U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL EDITION NOTICE

# Legal Status and Use of Seals and Logos
e:\seals\archives.ai
The seal of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) authenticates the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) as the official codification of Federal regulations established under the Federal Register Act. Under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 1507, the contents of the CFR, a special edition of the Federal Register, shall be judicially noticed. The CFR is prima facie evidence of the original documents published in the Federal Register (44 U.S.C. 1510).
It is prohibited to use NARA's official seal and the stylized Code of Federal Regulations logo on any republication of this material without the express, written permission of the Archivist of the United States or the Archivist's designee. Any person using NARA's official seals and logos in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of 36 CFR part 1200 is subject to the penalties specified in 18 U.S.C. 506, 701, and 1017.

# Use of ISBN Prefix
This is the Official U.S. Government edition of this publication and is herein identified to certify its authenticity. Use of the 0-16 ISBN prefix is for U.S. Government Publishing Office Official Editions only. The Superintendent of Documents of the U.S. Government Publishing Office requests that any reprinted edition clearly be labeled as a copy of the authentic work with a new ISBN.
e:\seals\gpologo2.eps
U . S . G O V E R N M E N T P U B L I S H I N G O F F I C E
U.S. Superintendent of Documents • Washington, DC 20402-0001
http://bookstore.gpo.gov
Phone: toll-free (866) 512-1800; DC area (202) 512-1800

# Table of Contents
Page
Explanation
vi

# Title 7:

# SUBTITLE B—
Regulations of the Department of Agriculture (Continued)
Chapter XVIII—Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Continued)
5
Chapter XX [Reserved]
Chapter XXV—Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture
23
Chapter XXVI—Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture
43
Chapter XXVII—Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture
51
Chapter XXVIII—Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture
57
Chapter XXIX—Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture
65
Chapter XXX—Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture
79
Chapter XXXI—Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture
83
Chapter XXXII—Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture
91
Chapter XXXIII—Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture
173
Chapter XXXIV—National Institute of Food and Agriculture
187
Chapter XXXV—Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
371
Chapter XXXVI—National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture
637
Chapter XXXVII—Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture
645
Chapter XXXVIII—World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture
651
Chapter XLI [Reserved]
Chapter XLII—Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture
655
Chapter L—Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
1055

# Finding Aids:
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
1181
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
1201
List of CFR Sections Affected
1211
Cite this Code:
CFR
To cite the regulations in this volume use title, part and section number. Thus,
7 CFR 2003.1
refers to title 7, part 2003, section 1.

# Explanation
The Code of Federal Regulations is a codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the Executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Code is divided into 50 titles which represent broad areas subject to Federal regulation. Each title is divided into chapters which usually bear the name of the issuing agency. Each chapter is further subdivided into parts covering specific regulatory areas.
Each volume of the Code is revised at least once each calendar year and issued on a quarterly basis approximately as follows:
Title 1 through Title 16
as of January 1
Title 17 through Title 27
as of April 1
Title 28 through Title 41
as of July 1
Title 42 through Title 50
as of October 1
The appropriate revision date is printed on the cover of each volume.

# LEGAL STATUS
The contents of the Federal Register are required to be judicially noticed (44 U.S.C. 1507). The Code of Federal Regulations is prima facie evidence of the text of the original documents (44 U.S.C. 1510).

# HOW TO USE THE CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS
The Code of Federal Regulations is kept up to date by the individual issues of the Federal Register. These two publications must be used together to determine the latest version of any given rule.
To determine whether a Code volume has been amended since its revision date (in this case, January 1, 20242025), consult the “List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA),” which is issued monthly, and the “Cumulative List of Parts Affected,” which appears in the Reader Aids section of the daily Federal Register. These two lists will identify the Federal Register page number of the latest amendment of any given rule.

# EFFECTIVE AND EXPIRATION DATES
Each volume of the Code contains amendments published in the Federal Register since the last revision of that volume of the Code. Source citations for the regulations are referred to by volume number and page number of the Federal Register and date of publication. Publication dates and effective dates are usually not the same and care must be exercised by the user in determining the actual effective date. In instances where the effective date is beyond the cut-off date for the Code a note has been inserted to reflect the future effective date. In those instances where a regulation published in the Federal Register states a date certain for expiration, an appropriate note will be inserted following the text.

# OMB CONTROL NUMBERS
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-511) requires Federal agencies to display an OMB control number with their information collection request.
Many agencies have begun publishing numerous OMB control numbers as amendments to existing regulations in the CFR. These OMB numbers are placed as close as possible to the applicable recordkeeping or reporting requirements.

# PAST PROVISIONS OF THE CODE
Provisions of the Code that are no longer in force and effect as of the revision date stated on the cover of each volume are not carried. Code users may find the text of provisions in effect on any given date in the past by using the appropriate List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). For the convenience of the reader, a “List of CFR Sections Affected” is published at the end of each CFR volume. For changes to the Code prior to the LSA listings at the end of the volume, consult previous annual editions of the LSA. For changes to the Code prior to 2001, consult the List of CFR Sections Affected compilations, published for 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000.

# “[RESERVED]” TERMINOLOGY
The term “[Reserved]” is used as a place holder within the Code of Federal Regulations. An agency may add regulatory information at a “[Reserved]” location at any time. Occasionally “[Reserved]” is used editorially to indicate that a portion of the CFR was left vacant and not dropped in error.

# INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
What is incorporation by reference?
Incorporation by reference was established by statute and allows Federal agencies to meet the requirement to publish regulations in the Federal Register by referring to materials already published elsewhere. For an incorporation to be valid, the Director of the Federal Register must approve it. The legal effect of incorporation by reference is that the material is treated as if it were published in full in the Federal Register (5 U.S.C. 552(a)). This material, like any other properly issued regulation, has the force of law.
What is a proper incorporation by reference?
The Director of the Federal Register will approve an incorporation by reference only when the requirements of 1 CFR part 51 are met. Some of the elements on which approval is based are:
(a) The incorporation will substantially reduce the volume of material published in the Federal Register.
(b) The matter incorporated is adequately summarized in the preamble of the final rule and is in fact available to the extent necessary to afford fairness and uniformity in the administrative process.
(c) The incorporating document is drafted and submitted for publication in accordance with 1 CFR part 51.
What if the material incorporated by reference cannot be found?
If you have any problem locating or obtaining a copy of material listed as an approved incorporation by reference, please contact the agency that issued the regulation containing that incorporation. If, after contacting the agency, you find the material is not available, please notify the Director of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001, or call 202-741-6010email fr.inspection@nara.gov.

# CFR INDEXES AND TABULAR GUIDES
A subject index to the Code of Federal Regulations is contained in a separate volume, revised annually as of January 1, entitled CFR
Index and Finding Aids.
This volume contains the Parallel Table of Authorities and Rules. A list of CFR titles, chapters, subchapters, and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are also included in this volume.
An index to the text of “Title 3—The President” is carried within that volume.
The Federal Register Index is issued monthly in cumulative form. This index is based on a consolidation of the “Contents” entries in the daily Federal Register.
A List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA) is published monthly, keyed to the revision dates of the 50 CFR titles.

# REPUBLICATION OF MATERIAL
There are no restrictions on the republication of material appearing in the Code of Federal Regulations.

# INQUIRIES
For a legal interpretation or explanation of any regulation in this volume, contact the issuing agency. The issuing agency's name appears at the top of odd-numbered pages.
For inquiries concerning CFR reference assistance, call 202-741-6000 or write to the Director, Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001 or e-mail
fedreg.info@nara.gov.

# SALES
The Government Publishing Office (GPO) processes all sales and distribution of the CFR. For payment by credit card, call toll-free, 866-512-1800, or DC area, 202-512-1800, M-F 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. e.s.t. or fax your order to 202-512-2104, 24 hours a day. For payment by check, write to: U.S. Government Publishing Office Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 37082, Washington, DC 20013-7082.

# ELECTRONIC SERVICES
The full text of the Code of Federal Regulations, the LSA (List of CFR Sections Affected), The United States Government Manual, the Federal Register, Public Laws, Compilation of Presidential Documents and the Privacy Act Compilation are available in electronic format via
www.govinfo.gov.
For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office. Phone 202-512-1800, or 866-512-1800 (toll-free). E-mail,
ContactCenter@gpo.gov.
The Office of the Federal Register also offers a free service on the National Archives and Records Administration's (NARA) website for public law numbers, Federal Register finding aids, and related information. Connect to NARA's website at
www.archives.gov/federal-register.
The eCFR is a regularly updated, unofficial editorial compilation of CFR material and Federal Register amendments, produced by the Office of the Federal Register and the Government Publishing Office. It is available at
www.ecfr.gov.
Oliver A. Potts,
Director,
Office of the Federal Register
January 1, 2025.

# THIS TITLE
Title 7—
Agriculture
is composed of fifteen volumes. The parts in these volumes are arranged in the following order: Parts 1-26, 27-52, 53-209, 210-299, 300-399, 400-699, 700-899, 900-999, 1000-1199, 1200-1599, 1600-1759, 1760-1939, 1940-1949, 1950-1999, and part 2000 to end. The contents of these volumes represent all current regulations codified under this title of the CFR as of January 1, 2025.
The Food and Nutrition Service current regulations in the volume containing parts 210-299 include the Child Nutrition Programs and the Food Stamp Program. The regulations of the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation are found in the volume containing parts 400-699.
All marketing agreements and orders for fruits, vegetables and nuts appear in the one volume containing parts 900-999. All marketing agreements and orders for milk appear in the volume containing parts 1000-1199.
For this volume, Susannah C. Hurley was Chief Editor. The Code of Federal Regulations publication program is under the direction of John Hyrum Martinez, assisted by Stephen J. Frattini.
7 CFR Ch. XVIII (1-1-11 Edition)
RHS, RBS, RUS, FSA, USDA

# Title 7—Agriculture
(This book contains part 2000 to end)

# SUBTITLE B—
Regulations of the Department of Agriculture (Continued)
Part
chapter xviii
—Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Continued)
2003
chapter xx
[Reserved]
chapter xxv
—Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture
2500
chapter xxvi
—Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture
2610
chapter xxvii
—Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture
2700
chapter xxviii
—Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture
2810
chapter xxix
—Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture
2900
chapter xxx
—Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture
3010
chapter xxxi
—Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture
3100
chapter xxxii
—Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture
3200
chapter xxxiii
—Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture
3300
chapter xxxiv
—National Institute of Food and Agriculture
3400
chapter xxxv
—Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture
3550
chapter xxxvi
—National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture
3600
chapter xxxvii
—Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture
3700
chapter xxxviii
—World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture
3800
chapter xli
[Reserved]
chapter xlii
—Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture
4274
chapter l
—Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture
5001

# Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture (Continued)

# CHAPTER XVIII—RURAL HOUSING SERVICE, RURAL BUSINESS-COOPERATIVE SERVICE, RURAL UTILITIES SERVICE, AND FARM SERVICE AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (CONTINUED)

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to chapter XVIII appear at 61 FR 1109, Jan. 16, 1996, and 61 FR 2899, Jan. 30, 1996.

# SUBCHAPTER I—ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
Part
Page
2000-2002
[Reserved]
2003
Organization
7
2018
General
17
2045
General
19
2046-2099
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER I—ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
PARTS 2000-2002 [RESERVED]
Pt. 2003

# PART 2003—ORGANIZATION

# Subpart A—Functional Organization of the Rural Development Mission Area
Sec.
2003.1
Definitions.
2003.2
General.
2003.3-2003.4
[Reserved]
2003.5
Headquarters organization.
2003.6
Office of the Under Secretary.
2003.7-2003.9
[Reserved]
2003.10
Rural Development State Offices.
2003.11-2003.13
[Reserved]
2003.14
Field Offices.
2003.15-2003.16
[Reserved]
2003.17
Availability of information.
2003.18
Functional organization of RHS.
2003.19-2003.21
[Reserved]
2003.22
Functional organization of RUS.
2003.23-2003.25
[Reserved]
2003.26
Functional organization of RBS.
2003.27-2003.50
[Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 6941; and 7 CFR 2.17.

# Source:
62 FR 67259, Dec. 24, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Functional Organization of the Rural Development Mission Area
§ 2003.1
Definitions.
EEO
—the Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1972, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e
et seq.
O
M
—Operations and Management.
P
P
—Policy and Planning.
RBS
—Rural Business-Cooperative Development Service, USDA, or any successor agency.
RHS
—Rural Housing Service, USDA, or any successor agency.
Rural Development
—Rural Development mission area of USDA.
RUS
—Rural Utilities Service, USDA, or any successor agency.
Secretary
—the Secretary of USDA.
USDA
—the United States Department of Agriculture.
[62 FR 67259, Dec. 24, 1997, as amended at 84 FR 59923, Nov. 7, 2019]
§ 2003.2
General.
The Rural Development mission area of the Department of Agriculture was established as a result of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994, Title II of Pub.L. 103-354. Rural Development's basic organization consists of Headquarters in Washington, D.C. and 47 State Offices. Headquarters maintains overall planning, coordination, and control of Rural Development agency programs. Administrators head RHS, RBS, and RUS under the direction of the Under Secretary for Rural Development. State Directors head the State Offices and are directly responsible to the Under Secretary for the execution of all Rural Development agency programs within the boundaries of their states.
§§ 2003.3-2003.4
[Reserved]
§ 2003.5
Headquarters organization.
(a) The Rural Development Headquarters is comprised of:
(1) The Office of the Under Secretary;
(2) Two Deputy Under Secretaries; and,
(3) Three Administrators and their staffs.
(b) The Rural Development Headquarters is located at 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC. 20250-0700
§ 2003.6
Office of the Under Secretary.
In accordance with 7 CFR § 2.17 the Secretary has delegated to the Under Secretary, Rural Development, authority to manage and administer programs and support functions of the Rural Development mission area.
(a)
Office of the Deputy Under Secretary for P
P.
This office is headed by the Deputy Under Secretary for P
P. The Under Secretary, Rural Development, has delegated to the Deputy Under Secretary for P
P, responsibility for formulation and development of short-and long-range rural development policies of the Department in accordance with 7 CFR § 2.45. The Deputy Under Secretary for P
P reports directly to the Under Secretary, Rural
Development, and provides guidance and supervision for research, policy analysis and development, strategic planning, partnerships and special initiatives. For budget and accounting purposes, all of the staff offices under the Deputy Under Secretary for P
P are housed in RBS.
(1) The Budget Analysis Division assesses potential impacts of alternative policies on the mission area's programs and operations and develops recommendations for change. The units are headed by the Chief Budget Officer, who individually serves as the top policy advisor to the Under Secretary and Deputy Under Secretary on all matters relating to mission area budget policy.
(2) The Research, Analysis and Information Division analyzes information on rural conditions and the strategies and techniques for promoting rural development. The division performs, or arranges to have conducted, short-term and major research studies needed to formulate policy.
(3) The Reinvention and Capacity Building Division coordinates the mission area's strategic planning initiatives, both at the National level and in the State Offices. The division assists the Rural Development agencies in their implementation of the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) and special initiatives of the Administration, USDA, and the Office of the Under Secretary.
(4) The Rural Initiatives and Partnership Division manages the mission area's involvement and coordination with other Federal and state departments and agencies to assess rural issues and develop model partnerships and initiatives to achieve shared rural development goals. The division is responsible for managing the National Rural Development Partnership and providing support and oversight of 37 State Rural Development Councils.
(b)
Office of the Deputy Under Secretary for O
M.
In accordance with 7 CFR 2.45, the Under Secretary, Rural Development, has delegated to the Deputy Under Secretary for O
M responsibility for providing leadership in planning, developing, and administering overall administrative management program policies and operational activities of the Rural Development mission area. The Deputy Under Secretary for O
M reports directly to the Under Secretary, Rural Development.
(1)
Office of the Deputy Administrator for O
M.
Headed by the Deputy Administrator for O
M, this office reports directly to the Deputy Under Secretary for O
M, and is responsible for directing and coordinating the consolidated administrative and financial management functions for Rural Development. This office provides overall guidance and supervision for budget and financial management, human resources management and personnel services, administrative and procurement services, information resources management and automated data systems. For budget and accounting purposes, all of the staff offices under the Deputy Administrator for O
M are housed in RHS.
(i)
Office of the Controller.
Headed by the Chief Financial Officer, this office supports the Deputy Administrator for O
M in executing Rural Development requirements related to compliance with the Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990 and provides leadership, coordination, and oversight of all financial management matters and financial execution of the budget for the Rural Development agencies. This office also has full responsibility for Rural Development agencies' accounting, financial, reporting, and internal controls. The office provides direct oversight to the Headquarters Budget Division, Financial Management Division, and the Office of the Assistant Controller, located in St. Louis, Missouri.
(ii)
Office of Assistant Administrator for Procurement and Administrative Services.
Headed by the Assistant Administrator for Procurement and Administrative Services, this office is responsible to the Deputy Administrator for O
M for overseeing the Procurement Management Division, the Property and Supply Management Division, and the Support Services Division:
(A) The Procurement Management Division is responsible for developing, implementing, and interpreting procurement and contracting policies for the Rural Development mission area. Major functions include planning outreach efforts and goals for small and disadvantaged businesses, providing
staff assistance reviews in State and Local Offices, administering the Contracting Officer Professionalism Warrant program for Rural Development agencies, and coordinating the development of Rural Development's acquisition plans.
(B) The Property and Supply Management Division is responsible for developing office space acquisition and utilization policies, providing training to field office leasing officers, administering the Leasing Officer Warrant program, assuring accessibility compliance in Rural Development's work sites, administering Rural Development's Physical Security program, and establishing and providing oversight to the worksite Energy Conservation program. This office operates a nationwide supply warehousing and distribution program, and oversees a nationwide Personal Property Management and Utilization Program, manages the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Excess Personal Property Program for field level activities, and provides direct support services to Rural Development's St. Louis facilities.
(C) The Support Services Division has responsibility for designing, developing, administering, and controlling Rural Development's directives management and issuance system, coordinating Rural Development's Regulatory Agenda and Regulatory Program submissions to USDA and OMB, serving as
Federal Register
liaison, and analyzing and coordinating regulatory work plans for the Under Secretary. This office submits Paperwork Reduction Act public burden clearances to OMB, administers all printing programs, manages Rural Development travel policies and programs, and manages Freedom of Information Act, Privacy Act and Tort Claims programs.
(iii)
Office of Information Resources Management (IRM).
Headed by the Chief Information Officer, this office is responsible to the Deputy Administrator for O
M for developing Rural Development's IRM policies, regulations, standards and guidelines. This office provides overall leadership and direction to activities assigned to the following four major divisions:
(A) The Customer Services Division is responsible for direct customer and technical support (hardware and software).
(B) The Management Services Division coordinates all IRM acquisition, budget, and policy and planning activities in support of Rural Development automation.
(C) The Information Technology Division provides support technical services in the areas of data administration, system integrity management, research and development, and telecommunications.
(D) The Systems Services Division is responsible for planning, directing, and controlling activities related to Rural Development's Automated Information Systems.
(iv)
Office of the Assistant Administrator for Human Resources.
Headed by the Assistant Administrator for Human Resources, this office is responsible to the Deputy Administrator for O
M for the overall development, implementation, and management, of personnel and human resources support services for Rural Development. The office provides direction to the Headquarters Personnel Services, Human Resources Training and Mission Area Personnel Services Division, and Labor Relations Staff offices. The office is also responsible for the establishment of recruitment, retention, and development policies and programs supporting workforce diversity and affirmative action.
(2)
Office of Civil Rights Staff.
Headed by a staff director, this staff has primary responsibility for providing leadership and administration of the Civil Rights Program for the Rural Development mission area. The staff conducts on-site reviews of borrowers and beneficiaries of Federal financial assistance to ensure compliance with Titles VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, and prepares compliance reports. The staff conducts and evaluates Title VII compliance visits to insure that EEO programs are adequately implemented. In addition, the office develops, monitors, and evaluates Affirmative Employment programs for minorities, women and
persons with disabilities, and coordinates and conducts community outreach activities at historically black colleges and universities. It also has oversight of special emphasis programs such as the Federal Women's Program, Hispanic Emphasis Program, and Black Emphasis Program. The staff director reports directly to the Deputy Under Secretary for O
M.
(3)
Office of Communications.
Headed by a director who reports directly to the Deputy Under Secretary for O
M, this office has primary responsibility for tracking legislation and development and institution of policies to provide public communication and information services related to the Rural Development. The office maintains a constituent data base and conducts minority outreach efforts and administers a public information and media center responsible for media inquiries, news releases, program announcements, media advisories, and information retrieval. This office also serves as a liaison with Office of Congressional Relations (OCR), Office of the General Counsel (OGC), and other Departmental units involved in Congressional relations and public information. This office drafts testimony, prepares witnesses, and provides staff for hearings and markups. In addition, the office briefs Congressional members and staff on the Rural Development matters, coordinates Rural Development's legislative activities with other USDA agencies and OMB and develops and implements legislative strategy. The staff also coordinates development and production of brochures, press releases, and other public information materials.
§§ 2003.7-2003.9
[Reserved]
§ 2003.10
Rural Development State Offices.
(a) Headed by State Directors, State Offices report directly to the Under Secretary, Rural Development, and are responsible to the three Rural Development agency Administrators for carrying out agency program operations at the State level, ensuring adherence to program plans approved for the State by the Under Secretary, and rendering staff advisory and manpower support to Area and Local offices. The Rural Development State Directors, for budget and accounting purposes, are housed in the RHS agency.
(b) Program Directors within the State Office provide oversight and leadership on major program functions. Major program functions include: Single Family and Multi-Family Housing loans and grants, Community Facility, Water and Waste Disposal, Business and Cooperative, and the Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities (EZ/EC) programs.
(c) The USDA Rural Development State Office locations are as follows:
State
Location
Alabama
Montgomery, AL
Alaska
Palmer, AK
Arizona
Phoenix, AZ
Arkansas
Little Rock, AR
California
Woodland, CA
Colorado
Lakewood, CO
Delaware
Camden, DE
Florida
Gainesville, FL
Georgia
Athens, GA
Hawaii
Hilo, HI
Idaho
Boise, ID
Illinois
Champaign, IL
Indiana
Indianapolis, IN
Iowa
Des Moines, IA
Kansas
Topeka, KS
Kentucky
Lexington, KY
Louisiana
Alexandria, LA
Maine
Bangor, ME
Massachusetts
Amherst, MA
Michigan
East Lansing, MI
Minnesota
St. Paul, MN
Mississippi
Jackson, MS
Missouri
Columbia, MO
Montana
Bozeman, MT
Nebraska
Lincoln, NE
Nevada
Carson City, NV
New Jersey
Mt. Holly, NJ
New Mexico
Albuquerque, NM
New York
Syracuse, NY
North Carolina
Raleigh, NC
North Dakota
Bismarck, ND
Ohio
Columbus, OH
Oklahoma
Stillwater, OK
Oregon
Portland, OR
Pennsylvania
Harrisburg, PA
Puerto Rico
Hato Rey, PR
South Carolina
Columbia, SC
South Dakota
Huron, SD
Tennessee
Nashville, TN
Texas
Temple, TX
Utah
Salt Lake City, UT
Vermont
Montpelier, VT
Virginia
Richmond, VA
Washington
Olympia, WA
West Virginia
Charleston, WV
Wisconsin
Stevens Point, WI
Wyoming
Casper, WY
[62 FR 67259, Dec. 24, 1997; 63 FR 3256, Jan. 22, 1998]
§§ 2003.11-2003.13
[Reserved]
§ 2003.14
Field Offices.
Rural Development field offices report to their respective State Director and State Office Program Directors. State Directors may organizationally structure their offices based on the program workloads within their respective State. Field offices generally are patterned in a three or two tier program delivery structure. In a three tier system, Local offices report to an Area office, that reports to the State Office. In a two tier system, a “Local” or “Area” office reports to the State Office. Locations and telephone numbers of Area and Local Offices may be obtained from the appropriate Rural Development State Office.
§§ 2003.15-2003.16
[Reserved]
§ 2003.17
Availability of information.
Information concerning Rural Development programs and agencies may be obtained from the Office of Communications, Rural Development, U. S. Department of Agriculture, STOP 0705, 1400 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20250-0705.
§ 2003.18
Functional organization of RHS.
(a)
General.
The Secretary established RHS pursuant to section 233 of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6943).
(b)
Office of the Administrator.
According to 7 CFR 2.49, the Administrator has responsibility for implementing programs aimed at delivering loans and grant assistance to rural Americans and their communities in obtaining adequate and affordable housing and community facilities, in accordance with Title V of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1471
et seq.
) and the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921
et seq.
).
(1)
Legislative Affairs Staff.
The duties and responsibilities of this staff have now been aligned under the Office of Communication, headed by a director who reports directly to the Under Secretary for O
M. The Office of Communication is responsible for providing and carrying out legislative, public communication, and information services for the Rural Development mission area.
(2)
Office of Program Support Staff.
The Program Support Staff is headed by a staff director who is responsible to the Administrator for monitoring managerial and technical effectiveness of RHS programs. The staff coordinates review and analysis of legislation, Executive Orders, OMB circulars, and Department regulations for their impact on Agency programs. The staff develops, implements, and reports on architectural and environmental policies, in cooperation with the Department. Staff responsibilities also include managing RHS's Hazardous Waste Management Fund, coordinating the Debarment and Suspension process for RHS, tracking the use of Program Loan Cost Expense funds, and maintaining the RHS Internet “Home Page.”
(3)
Office of Deputy Administrator, Single Family Housing.
Headed by the Deputy Administrator, Single Family Housing, this office is responsible to the Administrator for the development and implementation of RHS's Single Family Housing programs, which extend supervised housing credit to rural people of limited resources, for adequate, modest, decent, safe, and sanitary homes. The office is responsible for administering and managing sections 502 and 504 Rural Housing direct and guaranteed loan and grant programs, Rural Housing and Self-Help Site loans, the Self-Help Technical Assistance grant program, Housing Application Packaging and Technical and Supervisory Assistance grants, and Home Improvement and Repaid loans and grants. The office directs the following three divisions: Single Family Housing Processing Division, Single Family Housing Servicing and Property Management Division, and Single Family Housing Centralized Servicing Center in St. Louis, Mo.
(i)
Office of Single Family Housing Processing Division.
Headed by a division director, this division is responsible for development and nationwide implementation of policies on processing Single Family Housing direct and guaranteed program loans. In addition, the division provides direction on the following: the Rural Housing Targeted Area Set-Aside program,
debarments, payment assistance, title clearance and loan closing, site/subdivision development, Deferred Mortgage Payment Program; construction defects, credit reports, appraisals, Manufactured Housing, coordinated assessment reviews, Home Buyer's Counseling/Education Program, and allocation of loan and grant program funds.
(ii)
Office of Single Family Housing Servicing and Property Management Division.
Headed by a division director, this division is responsible for the development and implementation of nationwide policies for servicing RHS's multi-billion dollar portfolio of Single Family Housing loans, and managing and selling Single Family Housing inventory properties. The division also conducts state program evaluations, identifies program weaknesses, makes recommendations for improvements, and identifies corrective actions.
(iii)
Office of Single Family Housing Centralized Servicing Center (CSC)—St. Louis, Missouri.
Headed by a director, CSC is responsible for centrally servicing RHS's multi-billion dollar portfolio of Single Family Housing loans. CSC provides interest credit or payment assistance renewals, performs escrow activities for real estate taxes and property hazard insurance, oversees collection of loan payments, and grants interest credit, payment assistance, and moratoria.
(4)
Office of the Deputy Administrator, Multi-Family Housing Division.
Headed by the Deputy Administrator, Multi-Family Housing, this office is responsible for the development and nationwide implementation of RHS's Multi-Family Housing programs, which extend supervised housing credit to rural residents an opportunity to have decent, safe, and sanitary rental housing. The following programs are administered and managed by this office: Section 515 Rural Rental Housing, Rural Cooperative and Congregate Housing Programs, Section 521 Rental Assistance, Farm Labor Housing loan and grant programs, Housing Preservation Grants, rural housing vouchers, and Housing Application Packaging Grants. This office directs the following two divisions:
(i)
Multi-Family Housing Processing Division.
Headed by a division director, this division is responsible for the development and nationwide implementation of policies on processing Multi-Family Housing program loans. The division manages the following program areas: elderly and family rental housing, Farm Labor Housing loans and grants, outreach contacts, congregate facilities, Housing Preservation Grants, cooperative housing, rural housing vouchers, appraisals, Congregate Housing Services Grants, Rental Assistance, Housing Application Packaging Grants, targeted area and nonprofit set asides, Multi-Family Housing suspensions and debarments, title clearance and loan closing, allocation and monitoring of loan and grant funds, adverse decisions and appeals, commercial credit reports, individual credit reports, and, site development.
(ii)
Multi-Family Housing Portfolio Management Division.
Headed by a division director, this division is responsible for the development and institution of policies on the management and servicing of the nationwide Multi-Family Housing programs. The Division implements current and long range plans for servicing Rural Rental Housing loans, Labor Housing loans and grants, and Rental Assistance or similar tenant subsidies.
(5)
Office of the Deputy Administrator, Community Programs.
Headed by the Deputy Administrator, Community Programs, this office is responsible for overseeing the administration and management of Community Facilities loans and grants to hospitals and nursing homes, police and fire stations, libraries, schools, adult and child care centers, etc. The office monitors and evaluates the administration of loan and grant programs on a nationwide basis and provides guidance and direction for community programs through two divisions, Community Programs Loan Processing Division and Servicing and Special Authorities Division.
(i)
Community Programs Loan Processing Division.
Headed by a director, this division is responsible for the overall administration, policy development, fund distribution, and processing of Community Facilities loans and grants and other loan and grant programs assigned to the Division.
(ii)
Servicing and Special Authorities Division.
Headed by a division director, this division is responsible for the overall administration, policy development, and servicing of the Community Facilities loan and grant programs. The division conducts program evaluations, identifies program weaknesses, makes recommendations for improvements, and identifies corrective actions. The division also administers and services Nonprofit National Corporation loans and grants.
[62 FR 67259, Dec. 24, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 32388, June 17, 1999]
§§ 2003.19-2003.21
[Reserved]
§ 2003.22
Functional organization of RUS.
(a)
General.
The Secretary established RUS pursuant to § 232 of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6942).
(b)
Office of the Administrator.
According to 7 CFR 2.47, the Administrator has responsibility for managing and administering the programs and support functions of RUS to provide financial and technical support for rural infrastructure to include electrification, clean drinking water, telecommunications, and water disposal systems, pursuant to the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1921
et. seq.
), and the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901
et. seq.
). The office develops and implements strategic plans concerning the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended.
(1)
Borrower and Program Support Services.
Borrower and Program Support Services consist of the three following staffs which are responsible to the Administrator for planning and carrying out a variety of program and administrative services in support of all RUS programs, and providing expert advice and coordination for the Administrator:
(i)
Administrative Liaison Staff.
Headed by a staff director, this staff advises the Administrator on management issues and policies relating to human resources, EEO, labor-management partnership, administrative services, travel management, automated information systems, and administrative budgeting and funds control.
(ii)
Program Accounting Services Division.
Headed by a division director, this division develops and evaluates the accounting systems and procedures of Electric, Telecommunications, and Water and Wastewater borrowers; assures that accounting policies, systems, and procedures meet regulatory, Departmental, General Accounting Office, OMB, and Treasury Department requirements; examines borrowers' records and operations, and reviews expenditures of loans and other funds; develops audit requirements; and approves Certified Public Accountants to perform audits of borrowers.
(iii)
Program and Financial Services Staff.
Headed by a staff director, this staff evaluates the financial conditions of troubled borrowers, negotiates settlements of delinquent loans, and makes recommendations to program Assistant Administrators on ways to improve the financial health of borrowers.
(2)
Office of Assistant Administrator—Electric Program.
Headed by the Assistant Administrator—Electric Program, this office is responsible to the Administrator for directing and coordinating the Rural Electrification program of RUS nationwide. This office develops, maintains, and implements regulations and program procedures on processing and approving loans and loan-related activities for rural electric borrowers. The office directs the following three divisions:
(i)
Electric Regional Divisions.
Headed by division directors, these two divisions are responsible for administering the Rural Electrification program in specific geographic areas and serving as the single point of contact for all distribution borrowers. The divisions provide guidance to borrowers on RUS loan policies and procedures, maintain oversight of borrower rate actions, and make recommendations to the Administrator on borrower applications for RUS financing. The divisions also assure that power plant, distribution, and transmission systems and facilities are designed and constructed in accordance with the terms of the loan and proper engineering practices and specifications.
(ii)
Power Supply Division.
Headed by a division director, this division is responsible for administering the Rural Electrification program responsibilities with regard to power supply borrowers nationwide and serves as primary point of contact between RUS and all such borrowers. The division develops and maintains a loan processing program for Rural Electrification Act purposes, and develops and administers engineering and construction policies related to planning, design, construction, operation, and maintenance for power supply borrowers.
(iii)
Electric Staff Division.
Headed by a division director, this division is responsible for engineering activities related to the design, construction, and technical operations and maintenance of power plants; distribution of power; and transmission systems and facilities, including load management and communications. The division develops criteria and techniques for evaluating the financing and performance of electric borrowers and forecasting borrowers' future power needs; and maintains financial expertise on the distribution and power supply loan program, and retail and wholesale rates.
(3)
Office of Assistant Administrator
—
Telecommunications Program.
Headed by the Assistant Administrator—Telecommunications Program, this office is responsible to the Administrator for directing and coordinating the National Rural Telecommunications, Distance Learning, and Telemedicine programs of RUS. The Assistant Administrator, Telecommunications Program, is responsible for developing, maintaining, and implementing regulations and program procedures on the processing and approval of grants, loans, and loan-related activities for all rural telecommunications borrowers and grant recipients. The office directs the following three divisions:
(i)
Telecommunications Standards Division.
Headed by a division director, this division is responsible for engineering staff activities related to the design, construction, and technical operation and maintenance of rural telecommunications systems and facilities. The office develops engineering practices, policies, and technical data related to borrowers' telecommunications systems; and evaluates the application of new communications network technology, including distance learning and telemedicine, to rural telecommunications systems.
(ii)
Advanced Telecommunications Services Staff.
Headed by a staff director, this staff primarily serves the Assistant Administrator, Telecommunications Program in the role of the Assistant Governor of the RTB. The office performs analyses and makes recommendations to the AAT on issues raised by the RTB Governor, Board of Directors, or RTB borrowers. This staff maintains official records for the RTB Board and prepares minutes of RTB Board meetings. The staff director serves as the Assistant Secretary to the RTB. The staff performs the calculations necessary to determine the cost of money rate to RTB borrowers and recommends and develops program- wide procedures for loan and grant programs. The office is responsible for the Telecommunications Program's home page on the Internet.
(iii)
Telecommunications Area Offices.
Headed by area directors, these four offices are responsible for administering the Telecommunications, Distance Learning, and Telemedicine programs for specific geographic areas, and serving as the single point of contact for all program applicants and borrowers within their respective areas. The offices provide guidance to applicants and borrowers on RUS loan policies and procedures and make recommendations to the Administrator on applications for loans, guarantees, and grants. The offices assure that borrower systems and facilities are designed and constructed in accordance with the terms of the loan, acceptable engineering practices and specifications, and acceptable loan security standards.
(4)
Office of the Assistant Administrator—Water and Environmental Programs.
Headed by the Assistant Administrator, Water and Environmental Programs, this office is responsible to the Administrator for directing and coordinating a nationwide Water and Waste Disposal Program for RUS as authorized under Section 306 of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1926). The office oversees administration of RUS
policies on making and servicing loans and grants for water and waste facilities in rural America, and the development of engineering policies, and practices related to the construction and operation of community water and waste disposal systems. This office is responsible for development and coordination of environmental programs with regard to the Water and Waste Disposal Program and directs the following two divisions:
(i)
Water Programs Division.
Headed by the division director, this division is responsible for administering the Water and Waste Disposal loan and grant making and servicing and special authorities activities nationwide. This office also makes allocation of loan and grant funds to field offices and manages National Office reserves.
(ii)
Engineering and Environmental Staff.
Headed by a staff director, this staff is responsible for engineering activities at all stages of program implementation, including: review of preliminary engineering plans and specifications, procurement practices, contract awards, construction monitoring, and system operation and maintenance. The staff also develops Agency engineering practices, policies, and technical data related to the construction and operation of community water and waste disposal systems. The staff is responsible for coordinating environmental policy and providing technical support in areas such as: hazardous waste, debarment and suspension, flood insurance, drug free workplace requirements, and computer program software.
[62 FR 67259, Dec. 24, 1997, as amended at 84 FR 59923, Nov. 7, 2019]
§§ 2003.23-2003.25
[Reserved]
§ 2003.26
Functional organization of RBS.
(a)
General.
The Secretary established RBS pursuant to section 234 of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6944).
(b)
Office of the Administrator.
According to 7 CFR 2.48, the Administrator is responsible for managing and administering the programs and support functions of RBS to provide assistance to disadvantaged communities through grants and loans and technical assistance to businesses and communities for rural citizens and cooperatives, pursuant to the following authorities: the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 940c and 950aa
et seq.
), the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921
et seq.
), the Cooperative Marketing Act of 1926 (7 U.S.C. 451-457), the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627), and the Food Security Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1932). These grants, loans, and technical assistance improve community welfare by enhancing organizational and management skills, developing effective economic strategies, and expanding markets for a wide range of rural products and services.
(1)
Resources Coordination Staff.
Headed by the staff director, this staff is responsible to the Administrator for preparing legislative initiatives and modifications for program enhancement. The staff monitors legislative and regulatory proposals that potentially impact RBS functions. The staff serves as liaison on budgetary and financial management matters between RBS staff and the Office of the Controller, and assists the Administrator in presenting and supporting RBS's budget and program plans. The staff also advises the Administrator and RBS officials on management issues and policies related to: human resources, labor relations, civil rights, EEO, space, equipment, travel, Senior Executive Service and Schedule C activities, contracting, automated information systems, and accounting. The staff provides analysis and recommendations on the effectiveness of administrative and management activities, and performs liaison functions between RBS and the Office of the Deputy Under Secretary for O
M on a wide variety of administrative functions.
(2)
Office of the Deputy Administrator, Business Programs.
Headed by the Deputy Administrator, Business Programs, this office is responsible to the Administrator for overseeing and coordinating the Business and Industry Guaranteed and Direct Loan programs, Intermediary Relending Program loans, Rural Business Enterprise grants, Rural Business Opportunity grants, Rural Economic Development
loan and grant programs, and the Rural Venture Capital Demonstration Program. The office participates in policy planning, and program development and evaluation. It also directs the following three divisions:
(i)
Processing Division.
Headed by the division director, this division is responsible for developing and maintaining loan processing regulations, and directs the processing and approval of guaranteed and direct business and industry loans, and the Rural Venture Capital Demonstration Program. It provides technical assistance to field employees and borrowers on loan processing and develops approval criteria and performance standards for loans. The division recommends plans, programs, and activities related to business loan programs and provides environmental guidance and support.
(ii)
Servicing Division.
Headed by the division director, this office is responsible for developing and maintaining servicing regulations. It directs and provides technical assistance to field employees and borrowers on servicing business loans and grants. The division reviews large, complex, or potentially controversial loan and grant dockets related to loan servicing and recommends servicing plans, programs, and activities related to business loan and grant programs.
(iii)
Specialty Lenders Division.
Headed by the division director, this office is responsible for directing and developing and maintaining regulations concerning the processing and approval of Intermediary Relending loans, Rural Business Enterprise grants, Rural Business Opportunity grants, and Rural Economic Development loan and grant programs. The division provides technical assistance to field employees and borrowers on loan and grant processing and other activities. It also develops approval criteria and performance standards and recommends plans, programs, and activities related to business loan and grant programs.
(3)
Office of the Deputy Administrator, Cooperative Services Programs.
Headed by the Deputy Administrator, Cooperative Services Programs, this office is responsible to the Administrator for providing service to cooperative associations by administering a program of research and analysis of economic, social, legal, financial, and other related issues concerning cooperatives. The office administers programs to assist cooperatives in the organization and management of their associations and a program for economic research and analysis of the marketing aspects of cooperatives. The division administers and monitors activities of the National Sheep Industry Improvement Center and the Appropriate Technology Transfer to Rural Areas Program, and the Rural Cooperative Development Grant Program. The office directs the following three divisions:
(i)
Cooperative Marketing Division.
Headed by the division director, this division is responsible for participating in the formulation of National policies and procedures on cooperative marketing. The division conducts research and analysis and gives technical assistance to farmer cooperatives on cooperative marketing of certain crops, livestock, aquaculture, forestry, poultry, semen, milk, and dairy products to improve their market performance and economic position.
(ii)
Cooperative Development Division.
Headed by the division director, this division is responsible for participating in the formulation of National policies and procedures on cooperative development. The office conducts evaluations and analysis of proposed new cooperatives to develop plans for implementing feasible operations, and advises and assists rural resident groups and developing cooperatives in implementing sound business plans for new cooperatives. It provides research, analysis, and technical assistance to rural residents on cooperative development initiatives and strategies to improve economic conditions through cooperative efforts.
(iii)
Cooperative Resource Management Division.
Headed by the division director, this division is responsible for participating in the formulating of National policies and procedures on cooperative resource management. The division conducts research and analysis and gives technical assistance to cooperatives on their overall structure,
strategic management and planning, financial issues, and operational characteristics to improve their use of resources, financial policies, and ability to adapt to market conditions. The division conducts research and analysis of policy, taxation, Federal laws, State statutes, and common laws that apply to cooperative incorporation, structure, and operation to assist cooperatives in meeting legal requirements.
(4)
Office of the Deputy Administrator, Community Development.
Headed by the Deputy Administrator, Community Development, this office is responsible to the Under Secretary, Rural Development, for coordinating and overseeing all functions in the Community Outreach and Empowerment Program areas. The office assists in providing leadership and coordination to National and local rural economic and community development efforts. For appropriation and accounting purposes, this office is located under RBS. The office directs the following two divisions:
(i)
Empowerment Program Division.
Headed by the division director, this division is responsible for formulating policies and developing plans, standards, procedures, and schedules for accomplishing RBS activities related to “community empowerment programs”, including EZ/EC, AmeriCorps, and other initiatives. The office develops informational materials and provides technical advice and services to support States on community empowerment programs. It also generates information about rural conditions and strategies and techniques for promoting rural economic development for community empowerment programs.
(ii)
Community Outreach Division.
Headed by the division director, this division is responsible for designing and overseeing overall systems and developing resources to support State and community level implementation activities for RBS programs. The office designs program delivery systems and tools, removes impediments to effective community-level action, supports field offices with specialized skills, and establishes partnerships with National organizations with grass-roots membership to assure that programs and initiatives are designed and implemented in a way that empowers communities. It develops methods for working with rural business intermediaries to assist them in providing technical assistance to new, small business, and provides Internet-based services to 1890 Land-grant universities, EZ/EC, and AmeriCorps volunteers, linking RBS information support to communities with high levels of need.
(5)
Alternative Agricultural Research and Commercialization Corporation.
Headed by a director, this Corporation is responsible for providing and monitoring financial assistance for the development and commercialization of new nonfood and nonfeed products from agricultural and forestry commodities in accordance with 7 U.S.C. 5901
et seq.
The Corporation acts as a catalyst in forming private and public partnerships and promotes new uses of agricultural materials. It expands market opportunities for U.S. farmers through development of value-added industrial products and promotes environmentally friendly products. For budget and accounting purposes, this office is assigned to RBS. The director of the Corporation is responsible to the Office of the Secretary.
§§ 2003.27-2003.50
[Reserved]
Pt. 2018

# PART 2018—GENERAL
Subparts A-E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Availability of Information
Sec.
2018.251
General statement.
2018.252
Public inspection and copying.
2018.253
Indexes.
2018.254
Requests for records.
2018.255
Appeals.
2018.256-2018.300
[Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552.
Subparts A-E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Availability of Information

# Source:
61 FR 32645, June 25, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2018.251
General statement.
In keeping with the spirit of the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), the policy of Rural Development and its component agencies, Rural Housing Service (RHS), Rural Utilities Service (RUS), and Rural Business-Cooperative Service (RBS), governing access to information is one of nearly total availability, limited only by the countervailing policies recognized by the FOIA.
§ 2018.252
Public inspection and copying.
Facilities for inspection and copying are provided by the Freedom of Information Officer (FOIO) in the National Office, by the State Director in each State Office, by the Rural Development Manager (formerly, District Director) in each District Office, and by the Community Development Manager (formerly, County Supervisor) in each County Office. A person requesting information may inspect such materials and, upon payment of applicable fees, obtain copies. Material may be reviewed during regular business hours. If any of the Rural Development materials requested are not located at the office to which the request was made, the request will be referred to the office where such materials are available.
§ 2018.253
Indexes.
Since Rural Development does not maintain any materials to which 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) applies, it maintains no indexes.
§ 2018.254
Requests for records.
Requests for records are to be submitted in accordance with 7 CFR 1.3 and may be made to the appropriate Community Development Manager, Rural Development Manager, State Administrative Management Program Director (formerly, State Administrative Officer), State Director, Freedom of Information/Privacy Act Specialist, or Freedom of Information Officer. The last two positions are located in the Rural Development Support Services Division, Washington, DC 20250. The phrase “FOIA REQUEST” should appear on the outside of the envelope in capital letters. The FOIA requests under the Farm Credit Programs (formally FmHA Farmer Programs) should be forwarded to the Farm Service Agency (FSA), Freedom of Information Officer, Room 3624, South Agriculture Building, 14th
Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20250-0506. Requests should be as specific as possible in describing the records being requested. The FOIO, Freedom of Information/Privacy Act Specialist, each State Administrative Management Program Director, each State Director, each Rural Development Manager, and each Community Development Manager are delegated authority to act respectively at the national, state, district, or county level on behalf of Rural Development to:
(a) Deny requests for records determined to be exempt under one or more provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552(b);
(b) Make discretionary releases (unless prohibited by other authority) of such records when it is determined that the public interests in disclosure outweigh the public and/or private ones in withholding; and
(c) Reduce or waive fees to be charged where determined to be appropriate.
§ 2018.255
Appeals.
If all or any part of an initial request is denied, it may be appealed in accordance with 7 CFR 1.7 to that particular Agency possessing the documents. Please select the appropriate Agency to forward your FOIA appeal from the following addresses: Administrator, Rural Housing Service, Room 5014, AG Box 0701, 14th
Independence Avenue, SW.—South Building, Washington, DC 20250-0701; Administrator, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Room 5045, AG Box 3201, 14th
Independence Avenue, SW.—South Building, Washington, DC 20250-3201 and Administrator, Rural Utilities Service, Room 4501, AG Box 1510, 14th
Independence Avenue, SW.—South Building, Washington, DC 20250-1510. The phrase “FOIA APPEAL” should appear on the front of the envelope in capital letters.
§§ 2018.256-2018.300
[Reserved]
Pt. 2045

# PART 2045—GENERAL
Subparts A-II [Reserved]

# Subpart JJ—Rural Development—Utilization of Gratuitous Services
Sec.
2045.1751
General.
2045.1752
Policy.
2045.1753
Authority to accept gratuitous services.
2045.1754
Scope of gratuitous services performed.
2045.1755
Preparation and disposition of agreement forms.
2045.1756
Records and reports.
Exhibit A to Subpart JJ of Part 2045—Agreement Form

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480.

# Source:
43 FR 3694, Jan. 27, 1978, unless otherwise noted.
Subparts A-II [Reserved]

# Subpart JJ—Rural Development—Utilization of Gratuitous Services
§ 2045.1751
General.
Section 331(b) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (Pub. L. 92-419), and section 506(a) of the Housing Act of 1949, empower the Secretary of Agriculture to accept and utilize voluntary and uncompensated services in carrying out the provisions of the above cited Acts. The Secretary has delegated those authorities to the Administrator of the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 in 7 CFR 2.70(a) (1) and (2).
§ 2045.1752
Policy.
Voluntary and uncompensated (gratuitous) services may be accepted with the consent of the agency concerned, from the following sources under the conditions set forth in Exhibit A, “Agreement for Utilization of Employee of (
Enter Official Title of Governing Body or Other Authorized Organization
) By the Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354” (Agreement Form).
(a) Any agency of State government or of any territory or political subdivision.
(b) Non-profit, educational, and charitable organizations, provided that no partisan, political, or profit motive is involved either explicitly or implicitly.
§ 2045.1753
Authority to accept gratuitous services.
(a) State Directors, Director, Personnel Division, and Director, Finance Office, are hereby authorized to accept and utilize gratuitous services offered by the governmental agencies listed in § 2045.1752(a).
(b) An offer received by an FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 State or County Office from a source listed in § 2045.1752(b) shall be transmitted to the National Office, Attention: Director, Personnel Division, for decision. The offer will be accompanied by copies of the Articles of Incorporation and By-laws (if the organization is incorporated), a statement that the organization accepts the conditions set forth in the Agreement Form, and evidence that the organization is financially able to meet the required fiscal obligations of the agreement.
§ 2045.1754
Scope of gratuitous services performed.
(a) Gratuitous services accepted in accordance with this subpart may be utilized to perform any function performed by regular FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 employees (excluding Committee members). Such services must not result in the displacement of employees. Most of the gratuitous services should be performed at the County Office level and conform to a standard FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 position description. A nonstandard position description may be developed and used, depending on current agency needs in a particular office and gratuitous skills available.
(b) Orientation and other training will be provided by FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 so that gratuitous services may be performed in accordance with current FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 procedure.
(c) Persons performing authorized gratuitous services will be held to the same standard as regular FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 employees performing similar duties. The issuance of, and accountability for, identification cards and clearance of employee accountability will be as prescribed in FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 Instruction 2024-B which is available in all FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 Offices. Such persons, except Construction Inspectors may, when under direct supervision of County Supervisors, act as Collection Officers and be allowed to use receipt books.
[43 FR 3694, Jan. 27, 1978, as amended at 68 FR 61333, Oct. 28, 2003]
§ 2045.1755
Preparation and disposition of agreement forms.
(a) Agreements to accept and utilize gratuitous services must be identical to the attached Exhibit A (Agreement Form) with such exceptions as may be authorized by the Office of the General Counsel, Department of Agriculture.
(b) Two copies of each signed Agreement Form will be forwarded to the Personnel Division. One copy will be retained in the State or Finance Office.
§ 2045.1756
Records and reports.
The FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 official signing the Agreement Form will maintain records to show the names, duty assignments, time worked and work locations of all persons performing gratuitous services. Copies of time reports submitted to the persons' employers should suffice. These records will be necessary to respond to occasional requests for reports on the acceptance and utilization of gratuitous services in the FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354.
Pt. 2045, Subpt. JJ, Exh. A

# Exhibit A to Subpart JJ of Part 2045—Agreement Form

# for utilization of employees of (official title of governing body or other authorized organization,
i.e.

# , pickens county, ala., board of commissioners)

# by the Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354
1. This Agreement, date ______ between, ____________________, a (political subdivision), (educational), (charitable), (or nonprofit) an organization of the State of____________(hereinafter called the Agency) and the United States of America acting through Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354, U.S. Department of Agriculture (hereinafter called the Administration) is entered into for the purpose of permitting certain employees of the Agency (hereinafter called the Agency employees) to assist in the Administration's effort to provide agricultural, housing and other assistance for rural people of the State of____________in accordance with Section 331(b) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act and Section 506(a), Title V of the Housing Act of 1949.
2. The Administration certifies that it is empowered by the current Federal laws cited above, and related rules and regulations, to accept personnel assistance from the Agency as provided in paragraphs 4 and 5 below; and that the work assigned to Agency employees will be useful, in the public interest, could not otherwise be provided, and will not result in the displacement of employed workers.
3. The Agency certifies that it has the authority under the laws of the State of____________to enter into this Agreement and to provide the services agreed upon in the manner provided for.
4. The Administration hereby supplies the Agency with a narrative description which is made a part of this Agreement as Attachment “A,” explicitly setting forth the duties, knowledge, skills, and abilities to be required of Agency employees.
5. The Administration agrees to:
(a) Provide training for and responsible supervision of qualified and acceptable Agency employees in accordance with Attachment “A.”
(b) Provide work within the State of____________for qualified and acceptable Agency employees for periods not to exceed eight hours per day and 40 hours per week.
(c) Provide the office space, tools, equipment, and supplies to be used by Agency employees in performing work for the Administration.
(d) Report in the Agency, as required, the time worked by and work accomplishments of Agency employees.
(e) Consult with the Agency, as necessary, on situations involving delinquency, misconduct, neglect of work, and apparent conflicts of interest of Agency employees.
(f) Reimburse Agency employees for proper and reasonable travel and per diem expenses incurred in performing official duties for the Administration, in accordance with Administration travel regulations.
(g) Consider Agency employees to be Federal employees for the purposes of the Federal Employees Compensation Act (5 U.S.C. 8101) and of the Federal Tort Claims Act (28 U.S.C. 2671-2680).
6. The Agency agrees to:
(a) Not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, age, marital status, physical handicap, or national origin. The Agency will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment, without regard to their race, color, religion, sex, age, marital status, physical handicap, or national origin. Such action shall include, but not be limited to, the following Employment, upgrading, demotion or transfer; recruitment or recruitment advertising; layoff or termination; rates of pay or other forms of compensation; and selection for training including apprenticeship. The Agency will post in conspicuous places, available to employees and appliants for employment, notices setting forth the provisions of this nondiscriminating clause.
(b) Obtain fingerprints, police records, and work qualifications checks on potential assignees, and divulge the results to the Administration or permit the Administration to obtain this information.
(c) Assign only Agency employees who are acceptable to the Administration in terms of meeting the same ability and suitability standards which are applied to Federal employment.
(d) Pay all salaries and other expenses of Agency employees and comply with Federal, State, and local minimum wage statutes. No monies will be paid by the Administration under this agreement, either to the Agency or its employees.
(e) Consider any Tort claims by third parties under applicable laws and regulations.
(f) Reassign or terminate the assignment of Agency employees upon request of the Administration.
7. The Agency and the Administration mutually understand and agree that the reasons for determining that an Agency employee is unacceptable or unsuitable for initial or continued assignment to Administration work may include but shall not be limited to the following:
(a) Practicing or appearing to practice discrimination for reasons of race, color, religion, sex, age, marital status, physical handicap, or national origin.
(b) Being or becoming involved in real or apparent conflicts of interest, such as, engaging directly or indirectly in business transactions with Administration applicants or borrowers, or using or appearing to use the Administration work assignment for private gain.
(c) Engaging in or having engaged in criminal, dishonest, or immoral conduct, or conducting himself in a manner which might embarrass or cause criticism of the Administration.
(d) Being absent from duty without authorization.
(e) Engaging in partisan political activity prohibited to Federal employees doing similar work.
(f) Lack of work.
(g) Inability of the employee to perform the duties of the assignment.
8. The term of this Agreement shall commence on the date thereof. It shall end on________________, unless extended by mutual agreement, or unless terminated earlier by at least (30) days advanced written notice by either party to the other.
9. The Agency and the Administration respectively certify, each for itself, that its officer signing this Agreement is duly authorized thereto.

# (Enter Official Title of Agency,
i.e.

# , City Council, Modesto, Calif.)

# BY

# Chairman, City Council,

# Modesto, Calif.

# FARMERS HOME

# ADMINISTRATION or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354

# BY

# FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 State Director for ( )
USDA
PARTS 2046-2099 [RESERVED]
CHAPTER XX [RESERVED]
7 CFR Ch. XXV (1-1-25 Edition)
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, USDA

# CHAPTER XXV—OFFICE OF ADVOCACY AND OUTREACH, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Part
Page
2500
OAO Federal financial assistance programs—general award administrative procedures
25
2502
Agricultural Career and Employment (ACE) Grants Program
38
2503-2599
[Reserved]
Pt. 2500

# PART 2500—OAO FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS—GENERAL AWARD ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES

# Subpart A—General Information
Sec.
2500.001
Applicability of regulations.
2500.002
Definitions.
2500.003
Other applicable statutes and regulations.

# Subpart B—Pre-Award: Solicitation and Proposals
2500.011
Competition.
2500.012
Requests for proposals.
2500.013
Types of proposals.
2500.014
Eligibility requirements.
2500.015
Content of a proposal.
2500.016
Submission of a proposal.
2500.017
Confidentiality of proposals and awards.
2500.018
Electronic submission.

# Subpart C—Pre-Award: Proposal Review and Evaluation
2500.021
Guiding principles.
2500.022
Preliminary proposal review.
2500.023
Selection of reviewers.
2500.024
Evaluation criteria.
2500.025
Procedures to minimize or eliminate duplication of effort.
2500.026
Applicant feedback.

# Subpart D—Award
2500.031
Administration.

# Subpart E—Post-Award and Closeout
2500.041
Payment.
2500.042
Cost sharing and matching.
2500.043
Program income.
2500.044
Indirect costs.
2500.045
Technical reporting.
2500.046
Financial reporting.
2500.047
Project meetings.
2500.048
Review of disallowed costs.
2500.049
Prior approvals.
2500.050
Suspension, termination, and withholding of support.
2500.051
Debt collection.
2500.052
Award appeals procedures.
2500.053
Expiring appropriations.
2500.055
Audit.
2500.056
Civil rights.

# Subpart F—Outreach and Assistance for Socially Disadvantaged Farmers and Ranchers Program
2500.101
Applicability of regulations.
2500.102
Purpose.
2500.103
Definitions.
2500.104
Eligibility requirements.
2500.105
Project types and priorities.
2500.106
Funding restrictions.
2500.107
Matching.
2500.108
Term of award.
2500.109
Program requirements.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 6934, 7 U.S.C. 2279.

# Source:
76 FR 66170, Oct. 26, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Information
§ 2500.001
Applicability of regulations.
The regulations in subparts A through E of this part apply to the programs authorized under section 14013 of the FCEA to be administered within the Office of Advocacy and Outreach (OAO). The purpose of this part is to set forth regulations for competitive and noncompetitive grants, cooperative agreements, and other assistance agreements awarded through OAO.
§ 2500.002
Definitions.
Applicant
means the entity that has submitted a proposal in response to an OAO Request For Proposal (RFP).
Authorized Departmental Officer (ADO)
means the Secretary or any employee of the Department with delegated authority to issue or modify award instruments on behalf of the Secretary.
Authorized Organizational Representative (AOR)
means the President or Chief Executive Officer of the applicant organization or the official, designated by the President or Chief Executive Officer of the applicant organization, who has the authority to commit the resources of the organization to the project.
Award
means financial assistance that provides support to accomplish a public purpose. Awards may be grants, cooperative agreements, or other assistance agreements.
Award agreement
means the agreement between OAO and the awardee which sets forth the terms and conditions under which the OAO funds will be made available. Award agreement is used as a general term to describe grant agreements, cooperative agreements, and other assistance agreements.
Award closeout
means the process by which the award operation is concluded
at the expiration of the award period or following a decision to terminate the award.
Award period
means the timeframe of the award from the beginning date to the ending date as defined in the award agreement.
Awardee
means the entity designated in the grant agreement, cooperative agreement, or other assistance agreement as the legal entity to which the award is given.
Baseline monitoring
is the minimum, basic monitoring that will take place on an ongoing basis throughout the lifetime of every award.
Beginning date
means the date the award agreement is executed by the awardee and OAO and from which costs can be incurred.
Community-based organization
means a nongovernmental organization with a well-defined constituency that includes all or part of a particular community.
Cooperative agreement
means the award of funds to an eligible awardee to assist in meeting the costs of conducting a project which is intended and designed to accomplish the purpose of the program as identified in the RFP, and where substantial involvement is expected between OAO and the awardee when carrying out the activities included in the agreement. This agreement may also be referred to more generally as an award.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Disallowed costs
means the use of Federal financial assistance funds for unauthorized activities or items as stipulated in the applicable Federal cost principles (2 CFR part 220, 2 CFR part 225, and 2 CFR part 230).
Ending date
means the date the award agreement is scheduled to be completed. It is also the latest date award funds will be provided under the award agreement, without an approved time extension.
Participant
means an individual or entity that participates in awardee-led activities funded under the award agreement. Furthermore, a participant is any individual or entity who has applied for, otherwise participated in, or received a payment, or other benefit as a result of participating in an activity funded by an OAO award.
Partnering
means a joint effort among two or more eligible entities with the capacity to conduct projects intended and designed to accomplish the purpose of the program.
Program leader
means the program supervisor within OAO.
Project
means activities supported under an OAO award.
Project Director (PD)
means the individual designated by the awardee in the proposal and award documentation, and approved by the ADO who is responsible for the direction and management of the award.
Project Officer (PO)
means an individual within OAO who is responsible for the programmatic oversight of the award on behalf of the Department.
Request for Proposals (RFP)
means an official USDA funding opportunity. At OAO discretion, funding opportunities may be referred to as request for proposals, request for applications, notice of funding availability, or funding opportunity.
Review panel
means an evaluation process involving qualified individuals within the relevant field to give advice on the merit of proposals submitted to OAO.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture and any other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom authority may be delegated.
Terminate funding
means the cancellation of Federal assistance, in whole or in part, at any time before the ending date.
§ 2500.003
Other applicable statutes and regulations.
Several Federal statutes and regulations apply to proposals for Federal assistance considered for review and to grants and cooperative agreements awarded by OAO. These include, but are not limited to:
(a) 7 CFR Part 1, Subpart A—USDA implementation of the Freedom of Information Act;
(b) 7 CFR Part 3—USDA implementation of OMB Circular No. A-129, regarding debt management;
(c) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Pub. L. 88-352), as amended, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national origin, and 7
CFR part 15, subpart A (USDA implementation);
(d) 2 CFR part 415, General Program Administrative Regulations.
(e) 2 CFR part 416, General Program Administrative Regulations for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments.
(f) 2 CFR part 417, Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension.
(g) 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying. Imposes prohibitions and requirements for disclosure and certification related to lobbying on awardees of Federal contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, and loans.
(h) 2 CFR part 200, subparts B—General Provisions, C—Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards, and D—Post-Federal Award Requirements, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.
(i) 2 CFR part 421, Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance).
(j) 2 CFR part 200, subpart F—Audit Requirements, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.
(k) 7 U.S.C. 3318—conferring upon the Secretary general authority to enter into contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements to further the research, extension, or teaching programs in the food and agricultural sciences of the Department of Agriculture.
(l) 29 U.S.C. 794 (Section 504, Rehabilitation Act of 1973) and 7 CFR part 15b (USDA implementation of statute)—prohibiting discrimination based upon physical or mental handicap in Federally assisted programs.
(m) 35 U.S.C. 200
et seq.
—Bayh-Dole Act, promoting the utilization of inventions arising from federally supported research or development; encouraging maximum participation of small business firms in federally supported research and development efforts; and promoting collaboration between commercial concerns and nonprofit organizations, including universities, while ensuring that the Government obtains sufficient rights in federally supported inventions to meet the needs of the Government and protect the public against nonuse or unreasonable use of inventions (implementing regulations are contained in 37 CFR part 401)
(n) Title IX of the Education Amendment of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681-1683 and 1685-1686), as amended, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex;
(o) Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101-6107), as amended, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of age;
(p) Drug Abuse Office and Treatment Act of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-255), as amended, relating to nondiscrimination on the basis of drug abuse;
(q) Comprehensive Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism Prevention, Treatment and Rehabilitation Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-616), as amended, relating to nondiscrimination on the basis of alcohol abuse or alcoholism;
(r) Sections 523 and 527 of the Public Health Service Act of 1912 (42 U.S.C. 290dd-3 and 290ee-3), as amended, relating to confidentiality of alcohol and drug abuse patient records;
(s) Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3601
et seq.
), as amended, relating to nondiscrimination in the sale, rental or financing of housing;
(t) Any other nondiscrimination provisions in the specific statute(s) under which proposals for Federal assistance are made, and the requirements of any other nondiscrimination statute(s) which may apply to the proposal.
[76 FR 66170, Oct. 26, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 31938, May 28, 2020]

# Subpart B—Pre-Award: Solicitation and Proposals
§ 2500.011
Competition.
(a)
Standards for competition.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, OAO will enter into discretionary grants or cooperative agreement only after competition, unless restricted by statute.
(b)
Exception.
The OAO ADO may make a determination in writing that competition is not deemed appropriate for a particular transaction. Such determination shall be limited to transactions where it can be adequately justified that a noncompetitive award is in the best interest of the Federal Government and necessary to the goals of the program. Non-competitive determinations will comply with regulations established in 7 CFR 3015.158(d).
§ 2500.012
Requests for proposals.
(a)
General.
For each competitive grant or cooperative agreement, OAO will prepare a program solicitation (also called a request for proposals (RFP)). The RFP may include all or a portion of the following items:
(1) Contact information.
(2) Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) number.
(3) Legislative authority and background information.
(4) Purpose, priorities, and fund availability.
(5) Program-specific eligibility requirements.
(6) Program-specific restrictions on the use of funds, if applicable.
(7) Matching requirements, if applicable.
(8) Acceptable types of proposals.
(9) Types of projects to be given priority consideration, including maximum anticipated awards and maximum project lengths, if applicable.
(10) Program areas, if applicable.
(11) Funding restrictions, if applicable.
(12) Directions for obtaining additional requests for proposals and proposal forms.
(13) Information about how to obtain proposal forms and the instructions for completing such forms.
(14) Instructions and requirements for submitting proposals, including submission deadline(s).
(15) Explanation of the proposal evaluation process.
(16) Specific evaluation criteria used in the review process.
(17) Type of Federal assistance awards (
i.e.
, grants or cooperative agreements).
(b)
RFP variations.
Where program-specific requirements differ from the requirements established in this part, program solicitations will also address any such variation(s). Variations may occur in the following:
(1) Award management guidelines.
(2) Restrictions on the delegation of fiscal responsibility.
(3) Required approval for changes to project plans.
(4) Expected program outputs and reporting requirements, if applicable.
(5) Applicable Federal statutes and regulations.
(6) Confidential aspects of proposals and awards, if applicable.
(7) Regulatory information.
(8) Definitions.
(9) Minimum and maximum budget requests and whether proposals outside of these limits will be returned without further review.
(c)
Program announcements.
Occasionally, OAO will issue a program announcement (PA) to alert potential applicants and the public about new and ongoing funding opportunities. These PAs may provide tentative due dates and are released without associated proposal packages. No proposals are solicited under a PA. PAs will be announced in the
Federal Register
or on the OAO Web site.
§ 2500.013
Types of proposals.
The type of proposal acceptable may vary by funding opportunity. The RFP will stipulate what will be required for submission to OAO in response to the funding opportunity.
§ 2500.014
Eligibility requirements.
Program-specific eligibility requirements appear in the subpart applicable to each program and in the corresponding RFPs.
§ 2500.015
Content of a proposal.
The RFP provides instructions on how to access a funding opportunity. The funding opportunity contains the proposal package, which includes the forms necessary for completion of a proposal in response to the RFP. The RFP will be posted on
http://www.Grants.gov.
OAO may also publish the RFP in the
Federal Register.
§ 2500.016
Submission of a proposal.
The RFP will provide deadlines for the submission of proposals. OAO may issue separate RFPs and/or establish separate deadlines for different types of proposals, different award instruments, or different topics or phases of the assistance programs. If proposals are not received by applicable deadlines, they will not be considered for funding. Exceptions will be considered only when extenuating circumstances exist, as determined by OAO, and justification and supporting documentation are provided by the applicant.
Conformance with preparation and submission instructions is required and will be strictly enforced unless a deviation has been approved. OAO may establish additional requirements. OAO may return without review proposals that are not consistent with the RFP instructions.
§ 2500.017
Confidentiality of proposals and awards.
(a)
General.
Names of entities submitting proposals, as well as proposal contents and evaluations, except to those involved in the review process, will be kept confidential to the extent permissible by law.
(b)
Identifying confidential and proprietary information in a proposal.
If a proposal contains proprietary information that constitutes a trade secret, proprietary commercial or financial information, confidential personal information, or data affecting the national security, it will be treated in confidence to the extent permitted by law, provided that the information is clearly marked by the applicant with the term “confidential and proprietary information.” In addition, the following statement must be included at the bottom of the project narrative or any other attachment included in the proposal that contains such information: “The following pages (specify) contain proprietary information which (name of proposing organization) requests not to be released to persons outside the Government, except for purposes of evaluation.”
(c)
Disposition of proposals.
By law, OAO is required to make the final decisions as to whether the information is required to be kept in confidence. Information contained in unsuccessful proposals will remain the property of the applicant. However, the Department will retain for three years one file copy of each proposal received; extra copies will be destroyed. Public release of information from any proposal submitted will be subject to existing legal requirements. Any proposal that is funded will be considered an integral part of the award and normally will be made available to the public upon request, except for information designated proprietary by OAO.
(d)
Submission of proprietary information.
The inclusion of proprietary information is discouraged unless it is necessary for the proper evaluation of the proposal. If proprietary information is to be included, it should be limited, set apart from other text on a separate page, and keyed to the text by numbers. It should be confined to a few critical technical items that, if disclosed, could jeopardize the obtaining of foreign or domestic patents. Trade secrets, salaries, or other information that could jeopardize commercial competitiveness should be similarly keyed and presented on a separate page. Proposals or reports that attempt to restrict dissemination of large amounts of information may be found unacceptable by OAO and constitute grounds for return of the proposal without further consideration. Without assuming any liability for inadvertent disclosure, OAO will limit dissemination of such information to its employees and, where necessary for the evaluation of the proposal, to outside reviewers on a confidential basis.
§ 2500.018
Electronic submission.
Applicants and awardees are encouraged, but not required, to submit proposals and reports in electronic form as prescribed in the RFP issued by OAO and in the applicable award agreement.

# Subpart C—Pre-Award: Proposal Review and Evaluation
§ 2500.021
Guiding principles.
The guiding principle for Federal assistance proposal review and evaluation is to ensure that each proposal is treated in a consistent and fair manner. After the evaluation process by the review panel, OAO will provide an opportunity for applicant feedback in as timely a manner as possible.
§ 2500.022
Preliminary proposal review.
Prior to technical examination, a preliminary review will be made of all proposals for responsiveness to the administrative requirements set forth in the RFP. Proposals that do not meet the administrative requirements may be eliminated from program competition. However, OAO retains the right
to conduct discussions with applicants to resolve technical and/or budget issues, as deemed necessary by OAO.
§ 2500.023
Selection of reviewers.
(a)
Requirement.
OAO is responsible for performing a review of proposals submitted to OAO competitive award programs. The RFP will identify the criteria that OAO will use for the selection of the proposal review panel.
(b)
Confidentiality.
The identities of reviewers will remain confidential to the maximum extent possible. Therefore, the names of reviewers will not be released to applicants. Names of applicants, as well as proposal content and evaluation comments will be kept confidential to the extent permitted by law, except to those involved in the review process. Reviewers will comply with the above-mentioned confidentiality guidelines.
(c)
Conflicts of interest.
During the evaluation process, extreme care will be taken to prevent any actual or perceived conflicts of interest that may impact review or evaluation. Reviewers are expected to be in compliance with the Conflict-of-Interest process made a part of the RFP.
§ 2500.024
Evaluation criteria.
(a)
General.
To ensure any project receiving funds from OAO is consistent with the broad goals of the funding program, the content of each proposal submitted to OAO will be evaluated based on a pre-determined set of review criteria as indicated in the RFP.
(b)
Guidance for reviewers.
In order that all potential applicants for a program have similar opportunities to compete for funds, all reviewers will receive an orientation from the Program Leader of the review criteria. Reviewers are instructed to use those same evaluation criteria, and only those criteria, to judge the merit of the proposals they review.
§ 2500.025
Procedures to minimize or eliminate duplication of effort.
OAO may implement appropriate business processes to minimize or eliminate the awarding of Federal assistance to projects that unnecessarily duplicate activities already being sponsored under other awards, including awards made by other Federal agencies.
§ 2500.026
Applicant feedback.
Unsuccessful applicants may submit a request for applicant feedback in writing to OAO within 10 days after receiving written notice of not being selected for further processing. Applicant feedback requests are to be mailed to the Program Leader at the address below, unless otherwise stated in the “Notice of Non-Selection” or in the RFP. At OAO's discretion, either written or oral feedback will be provided to unsuccessful applicants.
U.S. Department of Agriculture, Departmental Management, Office of Advocacy and Outreach,
Attn:
Program Leader (Applicant Feedback), Whitten Building, Rm. 520-A, stop 9821, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20250-9821.

# Subpart D—Award
§ 2500.031
Administration.
(a)
General.
Within the limit of funds available for such purpose, the OAO ADO shall make Federal assistance awards to those responsible, eligible applicants whose proposals are judged most meritorious under the procedures set forth in the RFP. The date specified by the OAO ADO as the effective date of the award shall be no later than September 30th of the Federal fiscal year in which the project is approved for support and funds are appropriated for such purpose, unless otherwise permitted by law. It should be noted that the project need not be initiated on the award effective date, but as soon thereafter as practical so that project goals may be attained within the funded project period. All funds awarded by OAO shall be expended solely for the purpose for which the funds are awarded in accordance with the approved statement of work and budget, the regulations, the terms and conditions of the OAO award agreement, the applicable Federal cost principles, and the Department's assistance regulations (e.g., 7 CFR parts 3015, 3016, and 3019).
(b)
Award agreement.
The award agreement and accompanying terms and conditions will provide pertinent
instructions and information including, at a minimum, the following:
(1) Legal name and address of performing organization or institution to which OAO has awarded a grant or cooperative agreement.
(2) Title of project.
(3) Name(s) of Project Director(s).
(4) Identifying award number assigned by OAO.
(5) Project period.
(6) Total amount of OAO financial assistance approved.
(7) Legal authority under which the grant or cooperative agreement is awarded.
(8) Appropriate CFDA number.
(9) Approved budget plan (that may be referenced).
(10) Terms and Conditions

# Subpart E—Post-Award and Closeout
§ 2500.041
Payment.
(a)
General.
All payments will be made in advance unless a deviation is accepted or as specified in paragraph (b) of this section. All payments to the awardee shall be made via the approved electronic funds transfer (EFT) method. Awardees are expected to request funds via the federally-approved electronic payment system for reimbursement in a timely manner. Exact payment method will be described in the terms and conditions of the award agreement.
(b)
Reimbursement method.
OAO shall use the reimbursement method if it determines that advance payment is not feasible or that the awardee does not maintain or demonstrate the willingness to maintain written procedures that minimize the elapse of time between the transfer of funds and disbursement by the awardee, and financial management systems that meet the standards for fund control and accountability.
§ 2500.042
Cost sharing and matching.
(a)
General.
Awardees may be required to match the Federal funds received under an OAO award. The required percentage of matching, type of matching (e.g., cash and/or in-kind contributions), sources of match (e.g., non-Federal), and whether OAO has any authority to waive the match will be specified in the subpart applicable to the specific Federal assistance program, as well as in the RFP.
(b)
Indirect costs as in-kind matching contributions.
Indirect costs may be claimed under the Federal portion of the award budget. However, unless explicitly authorized in the RFP, indirect costs may not be claimed on both the Federal and nonfederal portion of the award budget.
§ 2500.043
Program income.
(a)
General.
OAO shall apply the standards set forth in this subpart in requiring awardee organizations to account for program income related to projects financed in whole or in part with Federal funds.
(b)
Addition method.
Unless otherwise provided in the authorizing statute, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the award, program income earned during the project period shall be retained by the awardee and shall be added to funds committed to the project by OAO and the awardee and used to further eligible project or program objectives. Any specific program deviations will be identified in the individual subparts.
(c)
Award terms and conditions.
Unless the program regulations identified in the individual subpart provide otherwise, awardees shall follow the terms and conditions of the OAO award. Such terms and conditions will be made a part of the OAO award agreement.
§ 2500.044
Indirect costs.
Indirect cost rates for grants and cooperative agreements shall be determined in accordance with the applicable assistance regulations and cost principles, unless superseded by another authority.
§ 2500.045
Technical reporting.
All projects supported with Federal funds under this part must be documented according to the terms and conditions of the OAO award agreement.
§ 2500.046
Financial reporting.
(a)
SF-425, Federal Financial Report.
As stated in the award terms and conditions of the OAO award agreement, a
final SF-425, Federal Financial Report, is due 90 days after the expiration of the award and should be submitted to OAO electronically. The awardee shall report program outlays and program income on the same accounting basis (
i.e.
, cash or accrual) that it uses in its normal accounting system. When submitting a final SF-425, Federal Financial Report, the total matching contribution, if required, should be shown in the report. The final SF-425 must not show any unliquidated obligations. If the awardee still has valid obligations that remain unpaid when the report is due, it shall request an extension of time for submitting the report pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section; submit a provisional report (showing the unliquidated obligations) by the due date; and submit a final report when all obligations have been liquidated, but no later than the approved extension date. SF-425, Federal Financial Reports, must be submitted by all awardees, including Federal agencies and national laboratories.
(b)
Awards with required matching.
For awards requiring a matching contribution, an annual SF-425, Federal Financial Report, is required and this requirement will be indicated in the terms and conditions of the OAO award agreement, in which case it must be submitted no later than 45 days following the end of the budget or reporting period.
(c)
After the due date.
Requests are considered late when they are submitted after the 90-day period following the award expiration date. Requests to submit a late final SF-425, Federal Financial Report, will only be considered, up to 30 days after the due date, in extenuating circumstances. This request should include a provisional report pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, as well as an anticipated submission date, a justification for the late submission, and a justification for the extenuating circumstances. If an awardee needs to request additional funds, procedures in paragraph (d) of this section apply.
(d)
Overdue SF-425, Federal Financial Reports.
Awardees with overdue SF-425, Federal Financial Reports, or other required financial reports (as identified in the award terms and conditions), will have their applicable balances in the approved federal electronic funds transfer system restricted or placed on “manual review,” which restricts the awardee's ability to draw funds, thus requiring prior approval from OAO. If any remaining available balances are needed by the awardee (beyond the 90-day period following the award expiration date) and the awardee has not requested an extension to submit a final SF-425, Financial Status Report, the awardee will be required to contact OAO to request permission to draw any additional funds and will be required to provide justification and documentation to support the draw. Awardees also will need to comply with procedures in paragraph (c) of this section. OAO will approve these draw requests only in extenuating circumstances.
(e)
Additional reporting requirements.
OAO may require forecasts of Federal cash requirements in the “Remarks” section of the report; and when practical and deemed necessary, OAO may require awardees to report in the “Remarks” section the amount of cash advances received in excess of three days (
i.e.
, short narrative with explanations of actions taken to reduce the excess balances). When OAO needs additional information or more frequent reports, a special provision will be added to the award terms and conditions and identified in the OAO award agreement. Should OAO determine that an awardee's accounting system is inadequate, additional pertinent information to further monitor awards may be requested from the awardee until such time as the system is brought up to standard, as determined by OAO. This additional reporting requirement will be required via a special provision to the award terms and conditions of the OAO award agreement.
§ 2500.047
Project meetings.
In addition to reviewing and monitoring the status of progress and final technical reports and financial reports, OAO Project Officers may use regular and periodic conference calls to monitor the awardee's performance as well as conferences, workshops, meetings, and symposia to not only monitor the awards, but to facilitate communication and the sharing of project results.
These opportunities also serve to eliminate or minimize OAO funding of unneeded duplicative project activities. Required attendance at these conference calls, conferences, workshops, meetings, and symposia will be identified in the RFP or award document.
§ 2500.048
Review of disallowed costs.
(a)
Notice.
If the OAO Project Officer (PO) determines that there is a basis for disallowing a cost, OAO shall provide the awardee written notice of its intent to disallow the cost. The written notice shall state the amount of the cost and the factual and legal basis for disallowing it.
(b)
Awardee response.
Within 60 days of receiving written notice of the PO's intent to disallow the cost, the awardee may respond with written evidence and arguments to show the cost is allowable, or that, for equitable, practical, or other reasons, shall not recover all or part of the amount, or that the recovery should be made in installments. An extension of time will be granted only in extenuating circumstances.
(c)
Decision.
Within 60 days of receiving the awardee's written response to the notice of intent to disallow the cost, the PO shall issue a management decision stating whether or not the cost has been disallowed, the reasons for the decision, and the method of appeal that has been provided under this section. If the awardee does not respond to the written notice under paragraph (a) of this section within the time frame specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the PO shall issue a management decision on the basis of the information available to it. The management decision shall constitute the final action with respect to whether the cost is allowed or disallowed. In the case of a questioned cost identified in the context of an audit subject to 7 CFR part 3052, the management decision will constitute the management decision under 7 CFR 3052.405(a).
(d)
Demand for payment.
If the management decision under paragraph (c) of this section constitutes a finding that the cost is disallowed and, therefore, that a debt is owed to the Government, the PO shall provide the required demand and notice pursuant to 7 CFR 3.11.
(e)
Review process.
Within 60 days of receiving the demand and notice referred to in paragraph (d) of this section, the awardee may submit a written request to the OAO Director for a review of the final management decision that the debt exists and the amount of the debt. Within 60 days of receiving the written request for a review, the OAO Director will issue a final decision regarding the debt. A review by the OAO Director or designee constitutes an administrative review for debts under 7 CFR part 3, subpart F.
§ 2500.049
Prior approvals.
(a)
Subcontracts.
No more than 50 percent of the award may be subcontracted to other parties without prior written approval of the ADO. Any subcontract awarded to a Federal agency under an award must have prior written approval of the ADO. To request approval, a justification for the proposed subcontractual arrangements, a performance statement, and a detailed budget for the subcontract must be submitted to the ADO.
(b)
No-cost extensions of time
—(1)
General.
Awardees may initiate a one-time no-cost extension of the expiration date of the award of up to 12 months unless one or more of the following conditions apply: the terms and conditions of the award prohibit the extension; the extension requires additional Federal funds; and the extension involves any change in the approved objectives or scope of the project. For the first no-cost extension, the awardee must notify OAO in writing with the supporting reasons and revised expiration date at least 10 days before the expiration date specified in the award.
(2)
Additional requests for no-cost extensions of time before expiration date.
When more than one no-cost extension of time or an extension of more than 12 months is required, the extension(s) must be approved in writing by the PO. The awardee must submit a written request, which must be received no later than 10 days prior to the expiration date of the award, to the PO. The request must contain, at a minimum, the following information: The length of
the additional time required to complete the project objectives and a justification for the extension; a summary of the progress to date; an estimate of the funds expected to remain unobligated on the scheduled expiration date; a projected timetable to complete the portion(s) of the project for which the extension is being requested; and signature of the AOR and the PD.
(3)
Requests for no-cost extensions of time after expiration date.
OAO may consider and approve requests for no-cost extensions of time up to 120 days following the expiration of the award. These will be approved only for extenuating circumstances, as determined by OAO. The awardee's AOR must submit the requirements identified under paragraph (b)(2) of this section as well as an “extenuating circumstance” justification and a description of the actions taken by the awardee to minimize these requests in the future.
(4)
Other requirements.
No-cost extensions of time may not be exercised merely for the purpose of using unobligated balances.
§ 2500.050
Suspension, termination, and withholding of support.
(a)
General.
If an awardee has failed to materially comply with the terms and conditions of the award, OAO may take certain enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, suspending the award pending corrective action and terminating the award for cause.
(b)
Suspension.
OAO generally will suspend (rather than immediately terminate) an award to allow the awardee an opportunity to take appropriate corrective action before OAO makes a termination decision. OAO may decide to terminate the award if the awardee does not take appropriate corrective action during the period of suspension. OAO may terminate, without first suspending, the award if the deficiency is so serious as to warrant immediate termination. Termination for cause may be appealed under the terms and conditions identified in the OAO award agreement.
(c)
Termination.
An award also may be terminated, partially or wholly, by the awardee or by OAO with the consent of the awardee. If the awardee decides to terminate a portion of the award, OAO may determine that the remaining portion of the award will not accomplish the purposes for which the award was originally made. In any such case, OAO will advise the awardee of the possibility of termination of the entire award and allow the awardee to withdraw its termination request. If the awardee does not withdraw its request for partial termination, OAO may initiate procedures to terminate the entire award for cause.
§ 2500.051
Debt collection.
The collection of debts owed to OAO by awardees, including those resulting from cost disallowances, recovery of funds, unobligated balances, or other circumstances, are subject to the Department's debt collection procedures as set forth in 7 CFR part 3, and, with respect to cost disallowances, § 2500.048.
§ 2500.052
Award appeals procedures.
(a)
General.
OAO permits awardees to appeal certain adverse post-award administrative decisions made by OAO. Such adverse decisions include: Termination, in whole or in part, and determination that an award is void. An award may be terminated for failure of the awardee to carry out its approved project in accordance with the applicable law and the terms and conditions of award; or for failure of the awardee otherwise to comply with any law, regulation, assurance, term, or condition applicable to the award. Additionally, an award may be determined to be void if, for example, it was not authorized by statute or regulation or because it was fraudulently obtained. Appeals of determinations regarding the allowability of costs are subject to the procedures in § 2500.048.
(b)
Appeal Procedures.
The formal notification of an adverse determination will contain a statement of the awardee's appeal rights. To appeal an adverse determination, the awardee must submit a request for review to the OAO official specified in the notification, detailing the nature of the disagreement with the adverse determination and providing supporting documents in accordance with the procedures contained in the notification. The awardee's request to OAO for review must be received within 60 days after receipt of
the written notification of the adverse determination; however, an extension may be granted if the awardee can show good cause why an extension is warranted. OAO will carefully consider the merits of all requests for appeals and further reviews. However, at the conclusion of the OAO appeal review process, the OAO decision rendered on the appeal is considered final. The awardee will be notified in writing by OAO of final appeal review determinations.
§ 2500.053
Expiring appropriations.
(a)
OAO awards supported with office appropriations.
Most OAO awards are supported with annual appropriations. On September 30th of the 5th fiscal year after the period of availability for obligation ends, the funds for these appropriations accounts expire per 31 U.S.C. 1552 and the account is closed, unless otherwise specified by law. Funds that have not been drawn through the approved electronic funds transfer system, by the awardee or disbursed through any other system or method by August 31st of that fiscal year are subject to be returned to the U.S. Department of the Treasury after that date. The August 31st requirement also applies to awards with a 90-day period concluding on a date after August 31st of that fifth year. Appropriations cannot be restored after expiration of the accounts. More specific instructions are provided in the OAO award terms and conditions.
(b)
OAO awards supported with funds from other Federal agencies (reimbursable funds).
OAO may require that all draws and reimbursements for awards supported with reimbursable funds (from other Federal agencies) be completed prior to June 30th of the 5th fiscal year after the period of availability for obligation ends to allow for the proper billing, collection, and close-out of the associated interagency agreement before the appropriations expire. The June 30th requirement also applies to awards with a 90-day period concluding on a date after June 30th of that fifth year. Appropriations cannot be restored after expiration of the accounts. More specific instructions are provided in the terms and conditions of the OAO award agreement.
§ 2500.055
Audit.
Awardees must comply with the audit requirements of 7 CFR part 3052. The audit requirements apply to the years in which Federal financial assistance funds are received and years in which work is accomplished using these funds.
§ 2500.056
Civil rights.
Awardees must comply with the civil rights requirements of 7 CFR part 15, subpart A—USDA implementation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended. In accordance, no person in the United States shall, on the ground of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under any program or activity for which the recipient receives Federal financial assistance and will immediately take any measures necessary to effectuate this agreement.

# Subpart F—Outreach and Assistance For Socially Disadvantaged Farmers and Ranchers Program
§ 2500.101
Applicability of regulations.
The regulations in this subpart apply to the Outreach and Assistance for Socially Disadvantaged Farmers and Ranchers (OASDFR) Program authorized under section 2501 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279), as amended. Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, the requirements of 7 CFR part 2500 subparts A through E will apply in addition to the requirements discussed in this subpart.
§ 2500.102
Purpose.
(a) The purpose of the OASDFR Program is to make competitive awards to provide outreach and technical assistance to encourage and assist socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers in:
(1) Owning and operating farms, ranches and non-industrial forest lands; and
(2) In participating equitably in the full range of agricultural programs offered by the Department.
(b) The OASDFR Program awards shall be used exclusively to:
(1) Enhance coordination of the outreach, technical assistance, and education efforts authorized under agriculture programs;
(2) Assist in reaching current and prospective socially disadvantaged farmers, ranchers or forest landowners in a linguistically appropriate manner; and
(3) Improve the participation of those farmers and ranchers in agricultural programs.
§ 2500.103
Definitions.
The definitions provided in subpart A apply to this subpart. In addition, the definitions that apply specifically to the OASDFR Program under this subpart include:
Agriculture programs
means those programs administered within the Department, by agencies including but not limited to: Forest Service (FS), Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), Farm Service Agency (FSA), Risk Management Agency (RMA), Rural Development (RD), Rural Business Cooperative Service (RBCS), National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA), and Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS), and other such programs as determined by the Department on a case-by-case basis either at the OAO Director's initiative or in response to a written request with supporting explanation for inclusion of a program. (For further details on specific programs included under this subpart see 7 U.S.C. 2279(e)(3) or the RFP).
Alaska Native
means a citizen of the United States who is a person of one-fourth or more Alaska Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut blood, or combination thereof. (For further specification, see 43 U.S.C 1602(b) or the RFP).
Alaska Native cooperative colleges
means an eligible post-secondary educational institution that has an enrollment of undergraduate full-time equivalent students that is at least 20 percent Alaska Native students at the time of submission of a proposal.
Assistance
means providing educational and technical assistance to socially disadvantaged farmers, ranchers, and forest landowners in (1) owning and operating farms, ranches, and non-industrial forest lands; and (2) in participating equitably in the full range of agricultural programs offered by the Department through workshops, site visits and other means of contact in a linguistically appropriate manner.
Farmer, rancher, or forest landowner
means the person who primarily cultivates, operates, or manages a farm, ranch, or forest for profit, either as owner or tenant. A farm includes livestock, dairy, poultry, fish, fruit, and truck farms. It also includes plantations, ranches, ranges, and orchards.
Hispanic-serving institution
means an eligible institution of higher education that has an enrollment of undergraduate full-time equivalent students that is at least 25 percent Hispanic students at the end of the award year immediately preceding the date of submission of a proposal (see 20 U.S.C. 1101a(5)).
Indian tribe
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688) (43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
), which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians. (For further specification, see 25 U.S.C. 450b).
Indian tribal community college
means a post-secondary education institution which is formally controlled, or has been officially sanctioned, or chartered, by the governing body of an Indian tribe or tribes. (See 25 U.S.C. 1801(a)(4)).
Institution of higher education
means an educational institution in any State that is a public or other nonprofit institution that is legally authorized and accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association to provide a program of education beyond secondary education for which the institution awards a bachelor's degree. (For further specification, see 20 U.S.C. 1001(a)).
Outreach
means the use of formal and informal educational materials and activities in a linguistically appropriate
manner that serve to encourage and assist socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers in:
(1) Owning and operating farms and ranches; and in
(2) Participating equitably in the full range of agricultural programs offered by the Department.
Socially disadvantaged farmer, rancher or forest landowner
means a farmer, rancher, or forest landowner who is a member of a socially disadvantaged group. (See 7 U.S.C. 2279(e)(2)).
Socially disadvantaged group
means a group whose members have been subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice because of their identity as members of a group without regard to their individual qualities. (See 7 U.S.C. 2279(e)(1)).
State
means any of the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and federally recognized Indian tribes.
Supplemental funding
means funding to an existing awardee in addition to the amount of the original award contained in the grant or cooperative agreement. Such additional funding is intended to continue or expand work that is within the scope of the original agreement and statement of work.
Tribal organization
means the recognized governing body of any Indian tribe. A tribal organization is any legally established organization of Indians which is controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by such governing body or which is democratically elected by the adult members of the Indian community. In any case where an award is made to an organization to perform services benefiting more than one Indian tribe, the approval of each participating Indian tribe shall be a prerequisite to the making of such an award. (See 25 U.S.C. 1603(25).
§ 2500.104
Eligibility requirements.
Proposals may be submitted by any of the following:
(a) Any community-based organization, network, or coalition of community-based organizations that:
(1) Has demonstrated experience in providing agricultural education or other agriculturally related services to socially disadvantaged farmers, ranchers, and forest landowners;
(2) Has provided to the Secretary documentary evidence of work with, and on behalf of socially disadvantaged farmers, ranchers, or forest landowners during the three-year period preceding the submission of a proposal for assistance under this program; and
(3) Does not engage in activities prohibited under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(b) An 1890 institution or 1994 institution (as defined in 7 U.S.C. 7601), including West Virginia State University.
(c) An Indian tribal community college or an Alaska Native cooperative college.
(d) A Hispanic-serving institution (as defined in 7 U.S.C. 3103).
(e) Any other institution of higher education (as defined in 20 U.S.C. 1001) that has demonstrated experience in providing agriculture education or other agriculturally related services to socially disadvantaged farmers, ranchers, and forest landowners in a region.
(f) An Indian tribe (as defined in 25 U.S.C. 450b) or a national tribal organization that has demonstrated experience in providing agriculture education or other agriculturally-related services to socially disadvantaged farmers, ranchers, and forest landowners in a region.
(g) Other organizations or institutions that received funding under this program before January 1, 1996, but only with respect to projects that the Secretary considers are similar to projects previously carried out by the entity under this program.
§ 2500.105
Project types and priorities.
For each RFP, OAO may develop and include the appropriate project types and focus areas based on the critical needs of the socially disadvantaged farmer and rancher community. For standard OASDFR projects, competitive grants or cooperative agreements will be awarded to support programs and services, as appropriate, to encourage and assist socially disadvantaged
farmers and ranchers in the following focus areas:
(a) Owning and operating farms and ranches;
(b) Participating equitably in the full range of agricultural programs offered by the Department; and
(c) Other areas as specified by the Secretary in the RFP.
§ 2500.106
Funding restrictions.
Funds made available under this subpart shall not be used for the construction of a new building or facility or the acquisition, expansion, remodeling, or alteration of an existing facility (including site grading and improvement, and architect fees).
§ 2500.107
Matching.
Matching funds are not required as a condition of receiving awards under this subpart.
§ 2500.108
Term of award.
The award term will be defined in the OAO award agreement, and can be later amended upon approval of OAO.
§ 2500.109
Program requirements.
Grants and cooperative agreements under this subpart shall address the priorities in the Department that involve providing outreach and technical assistance to socially disadvantaged farmers, ranchers, and forest landowners to own and operate farms and participate equitably in agricultural programs; and other priorities as determined by the Secretary.
Pt. 2502

# PART 2502—AGRICULTURAL CAREER AND EMPLOYMENT (ACE) GRANTS PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Information
Sec.
2502.1
Applicability of regulations.
2502.2
Definitions.
2502.3
Deviations.

# Subpart B—Program Eligibility, Services and Delivery
2502.4
Program eligibility.
2502.5
Program benefits and services.
2502.6
Recipients of program benefits or services.
2502.7
Responsibilities of grantees.

# Subpart C—Grant Applications and Administration
2502.8
Pre-award, award, and post-award procedures and administration of grants.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2008q-1

# Source:
76 FR 69117, Nov. 8, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Information
§ 2502.1
Applicability of regulations.
(a) This part contains program-specific definitions for the ACE Grants Program.
(b) Subpart B establishes the criteria to be used in determining eligibility for an ACE grant award and the requirements for the delivery of program benefits and services, including who is considered eligible to receive such benefits and services and what the responsibilities are of ACE grantees.
(c) Subpart C establishes that, unless otherwise provided herein, the procedures for applying for ACE grants, the processes to be followed by OAO in evaluating grant proposals and awarding program funds, and the procedures for post-award administration of ACE grants are those set forth in a rule proposed ON DATE to codify provisions at 7 CFR part 2500, subparts A, B, C, D, and E.
§ 2502.2
Definitions.
As used in this part (unless otherwise indicated):
Agency
means the Office of Advocacy and Outreach (OAO), an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) or a successor agency.
Agricultural Employer
means any person or entity which employs, as defined in the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act, 29 U.S.C. 1802, individuals engaged in agricultural employment and may include farmers, ranchers, dairy operators, agricultural cooperatives, and farm labor contractors.
Agricultural Employment
means any service or activity as defined in the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act, 29 U.S.C. 1802, including any activity defined as “agriculture” in Section 3(f) or the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 29 U.S.C.
203(f), any activity defined as “agricultural labor” in 26 U.S.C. 3121(g) (the Internal Revenue Code); as well as the handling, planting, drying, packing, packaging, processing, freezing, or grading prior to delivery for storage of any agricultural or horticultural commodity in its unmanufactured state. Authorized Departmental Officer (ADO) means the individual, acting within the scope of delegated authority, who is responsible for executing and administering awards on behalf of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Community-based organization
means a non-governmental organization with a well-defined constituency that includes all or part of a particular community.
Consortium
means a group formed by entities with similar goals and objectives for the purpose of pooling resources to undertake a project that would otherwise be reasonably beyond the capabilities of any one member.
Eligible entity,
as described in section 379C(a) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2008q(a)), means a non-profit organization, or a consortium of nonprofit organizations, agribusinesses, State and local governments, agricultural labor organizations, farmer or rancher cooperatives, and community-based organizations with the capacity to train farm workers.
Farmworker
means an individual hired to perform agricultural employment, including migrant, seasonal, and hired family farm workers. The term farmworker includes individuals who are not currently employed as a farmworker but who are actively seeking work as such. The term does not include agricultural employers or individuals who are self-employed.
Grantee
means the organization designated in the grant award document as the responsible legal entity to which a grant is awarded.
Legally present in the United States
shall have the same meaning as the term “lawfully present” in the United States as defined at 8 CFR 103.12(a) (addressing eligibility for Title II Social Security benefits under Pub. L. 104-193).
Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA)
means a notice published in the
Federal Register
announcing the availability of money for the grants program which lists the application deadlines, eligibility requirements and locations where interested parties can get help in applying.
Office of Advocacy and Outreach (OAO)
means the Office of Advocacy and Outreach, an office within the USDA's Departmental Management.
Request for Proposal (RFP)
refers to a grant competition and is used interchangeably with the phrase grant application notice and solicitation for grant applications (SFA).
Retaining an agricultural job
means continuing agricultural employment, including upgraded employment.
Returning from an agricultural job
means returning to a home area from a position in agricultural employment.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture and any other officer or employee of the United States Department of Agriculture to whom the authority involved is delegated.
Securing an agricultural job
means obtaining agricultural employment.
State
means any of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and Guam.
United States worker (U.S. worker)
shall have the same meaning as the term U.S. worker defined by the Department of Labor at 20 CFR 655.4.
Upgrading an agricultural job
means advancement to a position in agricultural employment which offers more hours of work and/or better terms and conditions of employment and/or an increase in wages.
§ 2502.3
Deviations.
Any request by the applicant or grantee for a waiver or deviation from any provision of this part shall be submitted to the ADO identified in the agency specific requirements. OAO shall review the request and notify the applicant/grantee whether the request to deviate has been approved within 30 calendar days from the date of receipt of the deviation request. If the deviation request is still under consideration at the end of 30 calendar days, OAO shall inform the applicant/grantee in writing of the date when the applicant/grantee may expect the decision.

# Subpart B—Program Eligibility, Services and Delivery
§ 2502.4
Program eligibility.
(a) Entities eligible to apply for and receive a grant under this part include:
(1) A non-profit organization;
(2) A consortium of nonprofit organizations; or
(3) A consortium which includes a non-profit organization(s) and one or more of the following: agribusinesses, State and local governments, agricultural labor organizations, farmer or rancher cooperatives, and community-based organizations with the capacity to train farm workers.
(b) Additional information about eligible entities may be included in the RFP. In addition, the RFP will specify the criteria by which an entity's capacity to train farm workers will be evaluated, but at a minimum, the entity shall be required to demonstrate that it has:
(1) An understanding of the issues facing hired farmworkers and conditions under which they work;
(2) Familiarity with the agricultural industry in the geographic area to be served, including agricultural labor needs and existing services for farmworkers; and
(3) The capacity to effectively administer a program of services and benefits authorized by the ACE program.
(c) An applicant will be required to submit information to OAO, as specified in the RFP and/or FOA as part of the grant application.
§ 2502.5
Program benefits and services.
(a) The ACE grants program will be centrally administered by the USDA in a manner consistent with these regulations, as well as the pertinent requirements of 7 CFR part 3015, 7 CFR part 3016, 7 CFR part 3018, 7 CFR part 3019 and 7 CFR 3052.
(b) The Office of Advocacy and Outreach (OAO) has been designated as the organizational unit responsible for administering the ACE program, including, among other things, determining the number and amount of grants to be awarded, the purposes for the grants to be awarded, as well as the criteria for the evaluation and award of grants.
(c) Services and benefits provided under the ACE grants program are limited to those which will assist eligible farmworkers in securing, retaining, upgrading or returning from agricultural jobs.
(d) Such services will include the following:
(1) Agricultural labor skills development
(2) Provision of agricultural labor market information:
(3) Transportation:
(4) Short-term housing while in transit to an agricultural worksite;
(5) Workplace literacy and assistance with English as a second language;
(6) Health and safety instruction, including ways of safeguarding the food supply of the United States;
(7) Such other services as the Secretary deems appropriate.
(e) Grant funds shall not be used to deliver or replace any services or benefits which an agricultural employer, association, contractor, or any other entity is legally obliged to provide.
§ 2502.6
Recipients of program benefits or services.
(a) Those eligible to receive program services or benefits under the ACE program are farmworkers who meet the definition of “United States Workers” as set forth in § 2502.2 of this part.
(b) Grantees shall be responsible for verifying the employment of farmworkers who are actively employed and are seeking to participate in program services or benefits. Unemployed farmworkers seeking to participate shall be required to certify to grantees that they are eligible for program services and benefits as provided herein. Additional eligibility requirements may be included in the RFP.
§ 2502.7
Responsibilities of grantees.
Each grantee is responsible for providing services and/or benefits authorized by this program in accord with a service delivery strategy described in its approved grant plan. The services must reflect the needs of the relevant farmworker population in the area to be served and be consistent with the
goals of assisting farmworkers in securing, retaining, upgrading, or returning from agricultural jobs. The necessary components of a service delivery strategy and grant plan will be fully set forth in an RFP but the plan shall include, at a minimum, the following:
(a) The employment and education needs of the farmworker population to be served;
(b) The manner in which the proposed services to be delivered will assist agricultural employers and farmworkers in securing, retaining, upgrading or returning from agricultural jobs;
(c) The manner in which the proposed services will be coordinated with other available services;
(d) The number of participants the grantee expects to serve for each service provided, the results expected and the anticipated expenditures for each category of service.

# Subpart C—Grant Applications and Administration
§ 2502.8
Pre-award, award, and post-award procedures and administration of grants.
(a) Unless otherwise provided in this rule, the requirements governing pre-award solicitation and submission of proposals and/or applications, the review and evaluation of such, the award of grant funds, and post-award and close-out procedures are those set forth at 7 CFR part 2500, subparts A, B, C, D, and E.
(b) For purposes of the ACE Grants Program, the provisions of Subpart E, at 7 CFR 2500.49, “Prior Approvals,” shall not apply. In lieu of that provision, the following requirements shall apply: Awardees may not subcontract more than 20 percent of the award to other parties without prior written approval of the ADO. To request approval, a justification for the proposed subcontract, a performance statement, and a detailed budget for the subcontract must be submitted in writing to the ADO.
PARTS 2503-2599 [RESERVED]
7 CFR Ch. XXVI (1-1-25 Edition)
Office of Inspector General, USDA

# CHAPTER XXVI—OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Part
Page
2600-2609
[Reserved]
2610
Organization, functions, and delegations of authority
45
2620
Availability of information to the public
49
2621-2699
[Reserved]
PARTS 2600-2609 [RESERVED]
Pt. 2610

# PART 2610—ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIONS, AND DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY
Sec.
2610.1
General statement.
2610.2
Headquarters organization.
2610.3
Regional organization.
2610.4
Requests for service.
2610.5
Delegations of authority.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 552; Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 5 U.S.C. app.; 7 U.S.C. 2270.

# Source:
81 FR 93574, Dec. 21, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2610.1
General statement.
(a) The Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 5 U.S.C. app. (IG Act), established an Office of Inspector General (OIG) in the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and transferred to it the functions, powers, and duties of offices referred to in the Department as the “Office of Investigation” and the “Office of Audit,” previously assigned to the OIG created by the Secretary's Memoranda 1915 and 1727, dated March 23, 1977, and October 5, 1977, respectively. Under the IG Act, OIG was established as an independent and objective unit, headed by the Inspector General (IG), who is appointed by the President and reports to and is under the general supervision of the Secretary.
(b) OIG conducts and supervises audits and investigations relating to Department programs and operations; provides leadership and coordination and recommends policies for activities designed to promote economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the administration of, and to prevent and detect fraud and abuse in, such programs and operations; and provides a means for keeping the Secretary of Agriculture and the Congress fully and currently informed about problems and deficiencies relating to the administration of such programs and operations and the necessity for and progress of corrective action.
(c) The IG has specific duties, responsibilities, and authorities pursuant to the IG Act, including to:
(1) Provide policy direction for, and conduct, supervise, and coordinate audits and investigations relating to USDA programs and operations.
(2) Review existing and proposed legislation and regulations related to USDA programs and operations and make recommendations to the Secretary and the Congress on the impact such laws or regulations will have on the economy and efficiency of program administration or in the prevention and detection of fraud and abuse in USDA programs and operations.
(3) Recommend policies for, and conduct, supervise, or coordinate other activities carried out or financed by USDA for the purpose of promoting economy and efficiency in the administration of, or preventing and detecting fraud and abuse, in USDA programs and operations.
(4) Recommend policies for, and conduct, supervise, or coordinate relationships between, USDA and other Federal, State, and local governmental agencies and nongovernmental entities regarding the promotion of economy and efficiency, prevention of fraud and abuse, or the identification and prosecution of participants in fraud and abuse.
(5) Keep the Secretary and the Congress fully and currently informed about problems, abuses, and deficiencies, and the necessity for and progress of corrective actions in the administration of USDA programs and operations.
(6) Report expeditiously to the Attorney General any matter where there are reasonable grounds to believe there has been a violation of Federal criminal law.
(7) Have access to all records, reports, audits, reviews, documents, papers, recommendations, or other material available to the Department which relate to programs and operations for which the IG has responsibility.
(8) Make such investigations and reports relating to the administration of USDA programs and operations as are, in the judgment of the IG, necessary or desirable.
(9) Request such information or assistance as may be necessary for carrying out the duties and responsibilities of the IG Act from any Federal,
State, or local governmental agency or unit thereof.
(10) Issue subpoenas for the production of information, documents, reports, answers, records, accounts, papers, and other data in any medium (including electronically stored information, as well as any tangible thing) and documentary evidence necessary in the performance of functions assigned by the IG Act, except that procedures other than subpoenas shall be used to obtain documents and information from Federal agencies.
(11) Whenever necessary in the performance of functions assigned by the IG Act, administer to or take from any person an oath, affirmation, or affidavit, which shall have the same force and effect as if administered or taken by or before an officer having a seal.
(12) Have direct and prompt access to the Secretary when necessary for any purpose pertaining to the performance of functions and responsibilities under the IG Act.
(13) Select, appoint, and employ necessary officers and employees in OIG in accordance with laws and regulations governing the civil service, including an Assistant Inspector General for Audit (AIG/A) and an Assistant Inspector General for Investigations (AIG/I).
(14) Obtain services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
(15) Enter into contracts and other arrangements for audits, inspections, studies, analyses, and other services with public agencies and private persons, and make such payments as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of the IG Act, to the extent and in such amounts as may be provided in advance by an appropriation act.
(16) Receive and investigate complaints or information from any Department employee concerning the possible existence of an activity constituting a violation of law, rules, or regulations, or mismanagement, gross waste of funds, abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to the public health and safety.
(17) Designate a Whistleblower Protection Ombudsman, who will educate Department employees about prohibitions on retaliation for protected disclosures; and who have made or are contemplating making a protected disclosure about the rights and remedies against retaliation for protected disclosures.
(d) Pursuant to § 2.33 of this title, the Secretary has made the following delegations of authority to the IG:
(1) Advise the Secretary and General officers in the planning, development, and execution of Department policies and programs.
(2) At the request of the Secretary's security office, determine the availability of OIG law enforcement personnel to assist the security office in providing for the personal security of the Secretary and Deputy Secretary.
(3) Serve as liaison official for the Department for all audits of USDA performed by the Government Accountability Office.
(e) The IG, under section 1337 of the Agriculture and Food Act of 1981, Public Law 97-98, 7 U.S.C. 2270, and pursuant to rules issued by the Secretary in part 1a of this title, has the authority to:
(1) Designate OIG employees who investigate alleged or suspected felony criminal violations of statutes administered by the Secretary of Agriculture or any agency of USDA, when engaged in the performance of official duties to:
(i) Make an arrest without a warrant for any such criminal felony violation if such violation is committed, or if the employee has probable cause to believe that such violation is being committed, in his/her presence;
(ii) Execute and serve a warrant for an arrest, for the search of premises, or the seizure of evidence when issued under authority of the United States upon probable cause to believe that such a violation has been committed; and
(iii) Carry a firearm.
(2) Issue directives and take the actions prescribed by the Secretary's rules.
§ 2610.2
Headquarters organization.
(a) OIG has a headquarters office in Washington, DC, and regional offices throughout the United States. The headquarters office consists of the immediate office of the IG, which includes three component offices, and four operational units.
(b)
Immediate Office Components.
(1) The Director of the Office of Compliance and Integrity (OCI) performs independent quality assurance and internal control reviews of OIG operations. OCI also investigates allegations of criminal and/or serious administrative misconduct by OIG employees.
(2) Section 3(g) of the IG Act mandates that each IG shall obtain legal advice from a counsel either reporting directly to the IG or to another IG. Within USDA-OIG, such legal advice is provided by the Counsel to the Inspector General. The Office of Counsel (OC) provides legal advice and representation on issues arising during the course of audit, investigative, and Office of Data Sciences (ODS) activities or on internal administrative and management issues. OC also manages OIG's congressional, media relations, ethics, Freedom of Information Act, and Privacy Act programs; and reviews proposed legislation, regulations, and procedures.
(3) The Director of the Office of Diversity and Conflict Resolution advises OIG leadership on applying the principles of civil rights, equal employment opportunity, dispute resolution, diversity, and inclusion, on matters affecting the OIG workforce, program activities, and development of policy. This office also guides all OIG personnel through the use of the Federal sector employment discrimination complaints and dispute resolution processes, as needed.
(c)
Operational units.
(1) The AIG/A carries out the OIG's domestic and foreign audit operations through a headquarters office and three regional offices shown in § 2610.3(a). The staff provides for audit review of information technology (IT) security throughout USDA. Auditing officials conduct operational liaison on audit matters; schedule and conduct audits; release audit reports to management; monitor agency action to assure that audit reports have been properly acted upon through review of Department management follow up systems; monitor the quality of OIG audit reports; and coordinate activities with the AIG/I. The staff also provides an integrated approach to fraud prevention and detection and management improvement in USDA programs and operations; coordinates analyses and reports on vulnerability assessments; and recommends policies and provides technical assistance for audit operations. The Auditing headquarters office consists of the immediate office of the AIG/A and five staff divisions.
(2) The Assistant Inspector General for Data Sciences carries out OIG's data sciences operations through a headquarters office. OIG officials within ODS perform predictive data analysis, statistical sampling, modeling, computer matching, data mining, and data warehousing of USDA programs and operations in support of OIG audits, investigations, and other activities.
(3) The AIG/I carries out OIG's domestic and foreign investigative operations through a headquarters office and the five regional offices shown in § 2610.3(b). Investigations officials conduct operational and intelligence liaison on investigative matters with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Secret Service, Internal Revenue Service, Interpol, and other Federal, State, and local law enforcement organizations; determine the need for investigative action; conduct investigations; prepare factual reports of investigative findings; refer reports for appropriate administrative or legal action; follow up on agency actions to assure that OIG investigative reports have been properly acted upon; monitor the quality of investigative reports; and coordinate activities with the AIG/A. The staff also conducts special investigations of major programs, operations, and high level officials; can assist the Secretary's security office in providing for the protection of the Secretary and Deputy Secretary; and receives and processes employee complaints concerning possible violations of laws, rules, regulations or mismanagement. The OIG Whistleblower Protection Ombudsman described in § 2610.1(c)(17) is located within the Office of Investigations.
(4) The Assistant Inspector General for Management (AIG/M) manages formulation of OIG policies and procedures; develops, administers and directs comprehensive programs for the
management, budget, financial, personnel, systems improvement, and information activities and operations of OIG; and is responsible for OIG IT and information management systems. The staff maintains OIG's directives system, and Departmental Regulations and
Federal Register
issuances. The immediate office of the AIG/M and four divisions carry out these functions.
§ 2610.3
Regional organization.
(a) Each regional Audit Director is responsible to the IG and to the AIG/A for supervising the performance of all OIG auditing activities relating to the Department's domestic and foreign programs and operations within an assigned geographic area. The addresses and telephone numbers of the three Audit regional offices and the territories served are as follows:

# Audit Region, Address, Telephone Number, and Territory
Eastern Region, 5601 Sunnyside Avenue, Suite 2-2230 (Mail Stop 5300), Beltsville, Maryland 20705-5300, (301) 504-2100; Alabama, Arkansas, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Vermont, Virgin Islands, Virginia, West Virginia, and Wisconsin.
Midwestern Region, 8930 Ward Parkway, Suite 3016, Kansas City, Missouri 64114, (816) 926-7667; Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Montana, Minnesota, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming.
Western Region, 1333 Broadway, Suite 400, Oakland, California 94612, (510) 208-6800; Alaska, Arizona, California, Hawaii, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, Territory of Guam, Trust Territories of the Pacific, and Washington.
(b) Each regional Special Agent-in-Charge (SAC) is responsible to the IG and to the AIG/I for supervising the performance of all OIG investigative activities relating to the Department's domestic and foreign programs and operations within an assigned geographic area. The addresses and telephone numbers of the five Investigations regional offices and the territories served are as follows:

# Investigations Region, Address, Telephone Number, and Territory
Midwest Region, 111 N. Canal Street, Suite 325, Chicago, Illinois 60606-7296, (312) 353-1358; Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota, and Wisconsin.
Northeast Region, 26 Federal Plaza, Room 1409, New York, New York 10278-0004, (212) 264-8400; Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia, and West Virginia.
Southeast Region, 401 W. Peachtree Street NW., Room 2329, Atlanta, Georgia 30308, (404) 730-3274; Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, North Carolina, Puerto Rico, South Carolina, Tennessee, and the Virgin Islands.
Southwest Region, 101 South Main, Room 311, Temple, Texas 76501, (254) 743-6535; Arkansas, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas.
Western Region, 1333 Broadway, Suite 400, Oakland, California 94612, (510) 208-6860; Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, Territory of Guam, Trust Territories of the Pacific, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming.
§ 2610.4
Requests for service.
(a) Heads of USDA agencies will direct requests for audit or investigative service to the AIG/A, AIG/I, Audit Director, SAC, or to other OIG audit or investigation officials responsible for providing service of the type desired in the geographical area where service is desired.
(b) Agency officials or other employees may, at any time, direct to the personal attention of the IG any audit or investigation matter that warrants such attention.
(c) Other persons (
i.e.,
non-USDA personnel) may address their communications regarding audit or investigative matters to: The Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, USDA Stop 2301, Washington, DC 20250.
(d) OIG has established several channels for USDA employees and the general public to report fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement in USDA programs, or misconduct by a USDA employee. These include a general OIG Hotline, a Bribery/Assault Line, and (for USDA employees) a Whistleblower Ombudsman.
(1) General fraud, waste, and abuse hotline:
(i) File complaint online:
http://www.usda.gov/oig/hotline.htm
(click on “Submit a Complaint” button);
(ii) Telephone: (800) 424-9121, (202) 690-1622, or (202) 690-1202 (Telecommunication Device for the Deaf);
(iii) Facsimile: (202) 690-2474; or
(iv) Write a letter to United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Inspector General, P.O. Box 23399, Washington, DC 20026.
(2) Bribery/Assault Line: (202) 720-7257 (24 hours a day).
(3) Whistleblower Protection Ombudsman. USDA employees may contact the Ombudsman via email at:
OIGombudsman@oig.usda.gov
. Additional information about the Ombudsman is available online at
https://www.usda.gov/oig/ombudsman.htm
.
§ 2610.5
Delegations of authority.
(a) AIGs, Directors, and Counsel listed in § 2610.2, and Audit Directors and SACs listed in § 2610.3, are authorized to take whatever actions are necessary to carry out their assigned functions. This authority may be re-delegated.
(b) The IG reserves the right to establish audit and investigation policies, program, procedures, and standards; to allocate appropriated funds; to determine audit and investigative jurisdiction; and to exercise any of the powers or functions or perform any of the duties referenced in the above delegation.
Pt. 2620

# PART 2620—AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION TO THE PUBLIC
Sec.
2620.1
General statement.
2620.2
Public inspection.
2620.3
Requests.
2620.4
Denials.
2620.5
Appeals.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 552; Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 5 U.S.C. app. 3.

# Source:
81 FR 94230, Dec. 23, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2620.1
General statement.
This part supplements the regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture implementing the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552 (FOIA) (subpart A of part 1 of this title, including the appendix), and governs the availability of records of the Office of Inspector General (OIG) to the public upon request.
§ 2620.2
Public inspection.
The FOIA requires that certain materials be made available for public inspection in an electronic format. OIG records are available for public inspection on OIG's public Web site,
https://www.usda.gov/oig/foia.htm.
§ 2620.3
Requests.
Requests for OIG records shall be submitted to OIG's Office of Counsel and will be processed in accordance with subpart A of part 1 of this title. Specific guidance on how to submit requests (including current contact methods) is available through OIG's Web site,
https://www.usda.gov/oig/foiareq.htm,
and USDA's public FOIA Web site.
§ 2620.4
Denials.
If it is determined that a requested record is exempt from mandatory disclosure and that discretionary release would be improper, the Counsel to the Inspector General or the Counsel's designee shall give written notice of denial in accordance with subpart A of part 1 of this title.
§ 2620.5
Appeals.
The denial of a requested record may be appealed in accordance with subpart A of part 1 of this title. Appeals shall be addressed to the Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue SW., Whitten Building, Suite 441-E, Washington, DC 20250-2308. The Inspector General will give notice of the determination concerning an appeal in accordance with subpart A of part 1 of this title.
PARTS 2621-2699 [RESERVED]
7 CFR Ch. XXVII (1-1-25 Edition)
Off. of Info. Resources Mgt., USDA

# CHAPTER XXVII—OFFICE OF INFORMATION RESOURCES MANAGEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Part
Page
2700
Organization and functions
53
2710
Availability of information to the public
53
2711-2799
[Reserved]
Pt. 2700

# PART 2700—ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
Sec.
2700.1
General statement.
2700.2
Organization.
2700.3
Functions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 552; 7 CFR 2.81.

# Source:
47 FR 39128, Sept. 7, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2700.1
General statement.
This part is issued in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) to provide guidance for the general public as to the organization and functions of the Office of Information Resources Management.
§ 2700.2
Organization.
The Office of Information Resources Management (OIRM) was established on January 12, 1982. Delegations of authority to the Director, OIRM appear at 7 CFR 2.81. The organization is comprised of five headquarters divisions, an administrative staff and three computer centers to serve the Department. The organization is headed by the Director or, in the Director's absence, by the Deputy Director or, in the absence of both, by the Director's desginee.
§ 2700.3
Functions.
(a)
Director.
Provides executive direction for OIRM. Develops and recommends Departmental information resources management principles, policies, and objectives; develops and disseminates Departmental information resources management standards, guidelines, rules, and regulations necessary to implement approved principles, policies, and programs; designs, develops, implements, and revises systems, processes, work methods, and techniques to improve the management of information resources and the operational effectiveness of the Department; provides telecommunications and automated data processing services to the Department's agencies and staff offices.
(b)
Deputy Director.
Assists the Director and, in the absence of the Director, serves as the Acting Director.
(c)
Administrative Management Staff.
Provides support for agency management regarding budget, accounting, personnel, and other administrative matters.
(d)
Planning Division.
Defines, develops, guides, and administers the Department's long-range planning process for information resources.
(e)
Information Management Division.
Develops policy, standards and guidelines for collection, protection, access, use and management of information.
(f)
Review and Evaluation Division.
Reviews and evaluates information resources programs and activities of Department agencies and staff offices for conformance with plans, policies, and standards.
(g)
Agency Technical Services Division.
Advises and consults with and assists Department agencies and staff offices on activities related to the development and implementation of automated information systems.
(h)
Operations and Telecommunications Division.
Coordinates the development and implementation of programs for ADP and telecommunications resource planning within Departmental computer centers and the National Finance Center, and for the acquisition and use of Department-wide telecommunications facilities and services.
(i)
Departmental Computer Centers.
The following centers provide ADP facilities and services to agencies and staff offices of the Department.
(1) Washington Computer Center, 14th and Independence Ave., SW., Rm. S-107-South, Washington, DC 20250.
(2) Fort Collins Computer Center, 3825 E. Mulberry Street (P.O. Box 1206), Fort Collins, CO 80524.
(3) Kansas City Computer Center, 8930 Ward Parkway (P.O. Box 205), Kansas City, MO 64141.
Pt. 2710

# PART 2710—AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION TO THE PUBLIC
Sec.
2710.1
General statement.
2710.2
Public inspection and copying.
2710.3
Indexes.
2710.4
Initial request for records.
2710.5
Appeals.
Appendix A to Part 2710—List of Addresses

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 552; 7 CFR 1.1-1.16.

# Source:
47 FR 39129, Sept. 7, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2710.1
General statement.
This part is issued in accordance with 7 CFR 1.4 of the U.S. Department of Agriculture regulations governing the availability of records (7 CFR 1.1-1.16 and Appendix A) under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552). The Department's regulations, as supplemented by the regulations in this part, provide guidance for any person wishing to request records from the Office of Information Resources Management (OIRM).
§ 2710.2
Public inspection and copying.
(a)
Background.
5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) required that each agency make certain kinds of records available for public inspection and copying.
(b)
Procedure.
Persons wishing to gain access to OIRM records should contact the Information Access
Disclosure Officer by writing to the address shown in 2710.4(b)(2).
§ 2710.3
Indexes.
(a)
Background.
5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) also required that each agency maintain and make available for public inspection and copying current indexes providing identifying information for the public with regard to any records which are made available for public inspection and copying.
(b)
Procedure.
Persons wishing to get an index may contact the division or center that maintains the records. Publication of these indexes as a separate document is unnecessary and impractical.
§ 2710.4
Initial request for records.
(a)
Background.
The Information Access and Disclosure Officer is authorized to:
(1) Grant or deny requests for OIRM records.
(2) Make discretionary releases of OIRM records when it is determined that the public interests in disclosure outweigh the public and/or private ones in withholding.
(3) Reduce or waive fees to be charged where determined to be appropriate.
(b)
Procedure.
Persons wishing to request records from the Office of Information Resources Management may do so as follows:
(1)
How.
Submit each initial request for OIRM records as prescribed in 7 CFR 1.3(a).
(2)
Where.
Submit each initial request to the Information Access and Disclosure Officer, Office of Information Resources Management, USDA, 14th and Independence Ave., SW., Room 407-W, Washington, DC 20250.
§ 2710.5
Appeals.
Procedure.
Any person whose initial request is denied in whole or in part may appeal that denial, in accordance with 7 CFR 1.3(e) and 1.7, to the Director, Office of Information Resources Management, by sending the appeal to the Information Access and Disclosure Officer, Office of Information Resources Management, USDA, 14th and Independence Ave., SW., Room 407-W, Washington, DC 20250. The Director, Office of Information Resources Management, will make the determination on the appeal.
Pt. 2710, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 2710—List of Addresses

# Section 1. General
This list provides the titles and mailing addresses of officials who have custody of OIRM records. This list also identifies the normal working hours, Monday through Friday, excluding holidays, during which public inspection and copying of certain kinds of records, and indexes to those records, is permitted.

# Section 2. List of Addresses
Director, Office of Information Resources Management, 14th and Independence Ave., SW., Rm. 113-W, Washington, DC 20250; Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m.
Chief, Planning Division, OIRM, 14th and Independence Ave., SW., Rm. 446-W, Washington, DC 20250; Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m.
Chief, Review and Evaluation Division, OIRM, 14th and Independence Ave., SW., Rm. 442-W, Washington, DC 20250; Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m.
Chief, Agency Technical Services Division, OIRM, 14th and Independence Ave., SW., Rm. 416-W, Washington, DC 20250; Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m.
Chief, Operations and Telecommunications Division, OIRM, 14th and Independence Ave., SW., Rm. 419-W, Washington, DC 20250; Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m.
Chief, Information Management Division, OIRM, 14th and Independence Ave., SW., Rm. 404-W, Washington, DC 20250; Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m.
Chief, St. Louis Computer Center, OIRM, 1520 Market Street, Rm. 3441, St. Louis, MO 63101; Hours: 8:00 a.m.-4:40 p.m.
Director, Kansas City Computer Center, OIRM, 8930 Ward Parkway, (P.O. Box 205), Kansas City, MO 64141; Hours: 8:00 a.m.-4:45 p.m.
Director, Fort Collins Computer Center, OIRM, 3825 E. Mulberry Street, (P.O. Box 1206), Fort Collins, CO 80521; Hours: 8:00 a.m.-4:30 p.m.
Director, Washington Computer Center, OIRM, 14th and Independence Ave., SW., Rm. S-107-S, Washington, DC 20250; Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m.
Information Access and Disclosure Officer, OIRM, 14th and Independence Ave., SW., Rm. 407-W, Washington, DC 20250; Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m.
PARTS 2711-2799 [RESERVED]
7 CFR Ch. XXVIII (1-1-25 Edition)
Office of Operations, USDA

# CHAPTER XXVIII—OFFICE OF OPERATIONS, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Part
Page
2800-2809
[Reserved]
2810
Organization and functions—Office of Operations
59
2811
Availability of information to the public
59
2812
Department of Agriculture guidelines for the donation of excess research equipment under 15 U.S.C. 3710(i)
61
2813-2899
[Reserved]
PARTS 2800-2809 [RESERVED]
Pt. 2810

# PART 2810—ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS—OFFICE OF OPERATIONS
Sec.
2810.1
General statement.
2810.2
Organization.
2810.3
Functions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 552; 7 CFR 2.76.

# Source:
54 FR 52013, Dec. 20, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2810.1
General statement.
This part is issued in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) to provide guidance for the general public as to Office of Operations (OO) organization and functions.
§ 2810.2
Organization.
The Office of Operations (OO) was established January 12, 1982. Delegations of authority to the Director, OO, appear at 7 CFR 2.76. The organization is comprised of six divisions and one staff located at Department headquarters. Description of the functions of these organizational units are in the following section. The organization is headed by a Director.
§ 2810.3
Functions.
(a)
Director.
Provides executive direction for OO. Develops and promulgates overall policies and provides general direction, leadership, oversight, and coordination of USDA management of procurement, real and personal property activities, mail and copier management. Provides executive services to the Office of the Secretary and operates activities providing consolidated USDA administrative functions and services.
(b)
Deputy Director.
Assists the Director, and in the absence of the Director, serves as Acting Director.
(c)
Administrative Unit.
Provides support for agency management regarding budget, accounting, personnel, and other administrative matters.
(d)
Executive Services Division.
Provides executive services to the Office of the Secretary in travel arrangements, supplies, furnishings, communications, equipment, and records. Operates the central USDA DC imprest fund.
(e)
Facilities Management Division.
Operates and maintains the USDA DC headquarters building complex, including headquarters parking. Oversees management and operation of USDA buildings nationwide, and provides DC area labor services.
(f)
Mail and Reproduction Management Division.
Oversees USDA mail, copier, and duplicating programs. Operates DC area central activities in these areas.
(g)
Personal Property Management Division.
Oversees USDA supply, motor vehicle, and personal property programs. Operates centralized warehouse and property rehabilitation facilities.
(h)
Procurement Division.
Oversees USDA procurement programs. Operates centralized purchasing operations for ADP and Washington area activities.
(i)
Real Property Management Division.
Oversees USDA real property management programs.
Pt. 2811

# PART 2811—AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION TO THE PUBLIC
Sec.
2811.1
General statement.
2811.2
Public inspection and copying.
2811.3
Indexes.
2811.4
Initial requests for records.
2811.5
Appeals.
2811.6
Fee schedule.
Appendix A to Part 2811—List of Addresses

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 552 (as amended); 7 CFR 1.3.

# Source:
54 FR 52014, Dec. 20, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2811.1
General statement.
This part is issued in accordance with 7 CFR 1.3 of the Department of Agriculture regulations governing the availability of records (7 CFR 1.1-1.23 and Appendix A) under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552. The Department's regulations, as supplemented by the regulations in this part, provide guidance for any person wishing to request records from Office of Operations.
§ 2811.2
Public inspection and copying.
(a)
Background.
5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) requires that each agency maintain and
make available for public inspection and copying certain kinds of records.
(b)
Procedure.
To gain access to OO records that are available for public inspection, contact the division that maintains them. See Appendix A, List of Addresses, for the location and hours of operation.
§ 2811.3
Indexes.
(a)
Background.
15 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) also requires that each agency maintain and make available for public inspection and copying current indexes provided identifying information for the public with regard to any records which are made available for public inspection and copying. OO does not maintain any materials within the scope of these requirements.
§ 2811.4
Initial requests for records.
(a)
Background.
The head of each OO division, each OO contracting officer, each OO leasing officer, and the OO FOIA officer is authorized to:
(1) Grant or deny requests for OO records.
(2) Make discretionary release of OO records when it is determined that the public interest in disclosure outweighs the public and/or private ones in withholding.
(3) Reduce or waive fees to be charged where determined to be appropriate.
(4) Refer a request to the OO FOIA Officer for determination.
(b)
Procedures.
Persons wishing to request records from the Office of Operations may do so as follows:
(1) How. Submit each initial request for OO records as prescribed in 7 CFR 1.6.
(2) Where. Submit each initial request to the head of the unit that maintains the records. See Appendix A, List of Addresses. Contact the FOIA Officer for guidance as needed. Or, submit the request to the FOIA Officer for forwarding to the proper officials: FOIA Officer, Office of Operations, USDA, Room 134-W Administration Building, 14th
Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20250.
§ 2811.5
Appeals.
Procedure.
Any person whose initial request is denied in whole or in part may appeal that denial, in accordance with 7 CFR 1.6(e) and 1.8, to the Director, Office of Operations, USDA, Room 113-W Administration Building, 14th
Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20250.
§ 2811.6
Fee schedule.
Department regulations provide for a schedule of reasonable standard charges for document search and duplication. See 7 CFR 1.2(b). Fees to be charged are set forth in 7 CFR part 1, subpart A, appendix A.
Pt. 2811, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 2811—List of Addresses

# Section 1.
General
This list provides the titles and mailing address of officials who have custody of OO records. The normal working hours of these offices are 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, exclusing holidays, during which public inspection and copying of certain kinds of records is permitted.

# Section 2.
List of Addresses
All of the following addresses are located at 14th Street and Independence Avenue, Washington, DC. Address mail as follows:
Director, Office of Operations, USDA, Room 113-W Administration Building, Washington, DC 20250.
FOIA Officer, Office of Operations, USDA, Room 134-W Administration Building, Washington, DC 20250.
Chief, Administrative Unit, Office of Operations, USDA, Room 134-W, Washington, DC 20250.
Chief, Executive Services Division, Office of Operations, USDA, Room 10-A, Administration Building, Washington, DC 20250.
Chief, Facilities Management Division, Office of Operations, USDA, Room S-313 South Building, Washington, DC 20250.
Chief, Mail and Reproduction Management Division, Office of Operations, USDA, Room 1540 South Building, Washington, DC 20250.
Chief, Personal Property Management Division, Office of Operations, USDA Room 1524 South Building, Washington, DC 20250.
Chief, Procurement Division, Office of Operations, USDA, Room 1550 South Building, Washington, DC 20250.
Chief, Real Property Management Division, Office of Operations, USDA, Room 1566, South Building, Washington, DC 20250.
Pt. 2812

# PART 2812—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE GUIDELINES FOR THE DONATION OF EXCESS RESEARCH EQUIPMENT UNDER 15 U.S.C. 3710(i)
Sec.
2812.1
Purpose.
2812.2
Eligibility.
2812.3
Definitions.
2812.4
Procedures.
2812.5
Restrictions.
2812.6
Title.
2812.7
Costs.
2812.8
Accountability and recordkeeping.
2812.9
Disposal.
2812.10
Liabilities and losses.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; E.O. 12999, 61 FR 17227, 3 CFR, 1997 Comp., p. 180.

# Source:
60 FR 34456, July 3, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2812.1
Purpose.
This part sets forth the procedures to be utilized by USDA agencies and laboratories in the donation of excess research equipment to educational institutions and non-profit organizations for the conduct of technical and scientific education and research activities as authorized by 15 U.S.C. 3710(i). Title to excess research equipment donated pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 3710(i), shall pass to the donee.
§ 2812.2
Eligibility.
Eligible organizations are educational institutions or non-profit organizations involved in the conduct of technical and scientific educational and research activities.
§ 2812.3
Definitions.
(a)
Cannibalization.
The dismantling of equipment for parts to repair or enhance other equipment. The residual is reported for disposal. Cannibalization is only authorized if the property value is greater when cannibalized than retention in the original condition.
(b)
Community-based educational organization
means nonprofit organizations that are engaged in collaborative projects with pre-kindergarten through twelfth grade educational institutions or that have education as their primary focus. Such organizations shall qualify as nonprofit educational institutions for purposes of section 203(j) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 484(j)).
(c)
Educational institution
means a public or private, non-profit educational institution, encompassing pre-kindergarten through twelfth grade and two- and four-year institutions of higher education, as well as public school districts.
(d)
Educationally useful Federal equipment
means computers and related peripheral tools (e.g., printers, modems, routers, and servers), including telecommunications and research equipment, that are appropriate for use in pre-kindergarten, elementary, middle, or secondary school education. It shall also include computer software, where the transfer of licenses is permitted.
(e)
Excess personal property.
Items of personal property no longer required by the controlling Federal agency.
(f)
Federal empowerment zone or enterprise community (EZ/EC)
means a rural area designated by the Secretary of Agriculture under 7 CFR part 25.
(g)
Non-profit organization
means any corporation, trust association, cooperative, or other organization which:
(1) Is operated primarily for scientific, educational, service, charitable, or similar purposes in the public interest;
(2) Is not organized primarily for profit; and
(3) Uses its net proceeds to maintain, improve, or expand its operations. For the purposes of this part, “non-profit organizations” may include utilities affiliated with institutions of higher education, or with state and local governments and federally recognized Indian tribes.
(h)
Research equipment.
Federal property determined to be essential to conduct scientific or technical educational research.
(i)
Technical and scientific education and research activities.
Non-profit tax exempt public educational institutions or government sponsored research organizations which serve to conduct technical and scientific education and research.
[60 FR 34456, July 3, 1995, as amended at 65 FR 69857, Nov. 21, 2000]
§ 2812.4
Procedures.
(a) [Reserved]
(b) Each agency head will designate in writing an authorized official to approve donations of excess property/equipment under this part.
(c) After USDA screening has been accomplished, excess personal property targeted for donation under this part will be made available on a first-come, first-served basis. If there are competing requests, donations will be made to eligible recipients in the following priority order:
(1) Educationally useful Federal equipment for pre-kindergarten through twelfth grade educational institutions and community-based educational organizations in rural EZ/EC communities;
(2) Educationally useful Federal equipment for pre-kindergarten through twelfth grade educational institutions and community-based educational organizations not in rural EZ/EC areas;
(3) All other eligible organizations.
(d) Upon reporting property for excess screening, if the pertinent USDA agency has an eligible organization in mind for donation under this part, it shall enter “P.L. 102-245” in the note field. The property will remain in the excess system approximately 30 days, and if no USDA agency or cooperator requests it during the excess cycle, the Departmental Excess Personal Property Coordinator will send the agency a copy of the excess report stamped, “DONATION AUTHORITY TO THE HOLDING AGENCY IN ACCORDANCE WITH P.L. 102-245.” The holding USDA agency may then donate the excess property to the eligible organization.
(e) Donations under this Part will be accomplished by preparing a Standard Form (SF) 122, “Transfer Order-Excess Personal Property”.
(f) The SF-122 should be signed by both an authorized official of the agency and the Agency Property Management Officer. The following information should also be provided.
(1) Name and address of Donee Institution (Ship to)
(2) Agency name and address (holding Agency)
(3) Location of property
(4) Shipping instructions (Donee contact person)
(5) Complete description of property, including acquisition amount, serial no., condition code, quantity, and agency order no.
(6) This statement needs to be added following property descriptions. “The property requested hereon is certified to be used for the conduct of technical and scientific education and research activities. This donation is pursuant to the provisions of Pub. L. 102-245.”
(g) Once the excess personal property/equipment is physically received, the donee is required to immediately return a copy of the SF-122 to the donating agency indicating receipt of requested items. Cancellations should be reported to DEPPC so the property can be reported to the General Services Administration (GSA).

# Note:
The USDA agency shall send an informational copy of the transaction to GSA.
[60 FR 34456, July 3, 1995, as amended at 65 FR 69857, Nov. 21, 2000]
§ 2812.5
Restrictions.
(a) The authorized official (see § 2812.4(b)) will approve the donation of excess personal property/equipment in the following groups to educational institutions or nonprofit organizations for the conduct of technical and scientific educational and research activities.
Eligible Groups
FSC group
Name
19
Ships, Small Craft, Pontoons, and Floating Docks.
23
Vehicles, Trailers and Cycles.
24
Tractors.
37
Agricultural Machinery and Equipment.
43
Pumps, Compressors.
48
Valves.
58
Communication, Detection, and Coherent Radiation Equipment.
59
Electrical and Electronic Equipment Components.
65
Medical, Dental, and Veterinary Equipment and Supplies.
66
Instruments and Laboratory Equipment.
67
Photographic Equipment.
68
Chemicals and Chemical Products.
70
General Purpose Automatic Data Processing Equipment, Software Supplies, and Support Equipment.
74
Office Machines and Visible Record Equipment.

# Note:
Requests for items in FSC Groups or Classes other than the above should be referred to the agency head for consideration and approval.
(b) Excess personal property/equipment may be donated for cannibalization purposes, provided the donee submits a supporting statement which clearly indicates that cannibalizing the requested property for secondary use has greater potential benefit than utilization of the item in its existing form.
§ 2812.6
Title.
Title to excess personal property/equipment donated under this Part will automatically pass to the donee once the sponsoring agency receives the SF-122 indicating that the donee has received the property.
§ 2812.7
Costs.
Donated excess personal property/equipment is free of charge. However, the donee must pay all costs associated with packaging and transportation, unless the sponsoring agency has made other arrangements. The donee should specify the method of shipment.
§ 2812.8
Accountability and recordkeeping.
USDA requires that property requested by a donee be placed into use by the donee within a year of receipt and used for at least 1 year thereafter. Donees must maintain accountable records for such property during this time period.
§ 2812.9
Disposal.
When the property is no longer needed by the donee, it may be used in support of other Federal projects or sold and the proceeds used for technical and scientific education and research activities.
§ 2812.10
Liabilities and losses.
USDA assumes no liability with respect to accidents, bodily injury, illness, or any other damages or loss related to excess personal property/equipment donated under this part. The donee is advised to insure or otherwise protect itself and others as appropriate.
PARTS 2813-2899 [RESERVED]
7 CFR Ch. XXIX (1-1-25 Edition)
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, USDA

# CHAPTER XXIX—OFFICE OF ENERGY POLICY AND NEW USES, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Part
Page
2900
Essential agricultural uses and volumetric requirements—Natural Gas Policy Act
67
2901
Administrative procedures for adjustments of natural gas curtailment priority
68
2902
[Reserved]
2903
Biodiesel fuel education program
72
2904-2999
[Reserved]
Pt. 2900

# PART 2900—ESSENTIAL AGRICULTURAL USES AND VOLUMETRIC REQUIREMENTS—NATURAL GAS POLICY ACT
Sec.
2900.1
General.
2900.2
Definitions.
2900.3
Essential agricultural uses.
2900.4
Natural gas requirements.
2900.6
Effective date.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 95-621, Nov. 9, 1978.

# Source:
44 FR 28786, May 17, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2900.1
General.
Section 401(c) of the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (NGPA) requires the Secretary of Agriculture to determine the essential uses of natural gas, and to certify to the Secretary of Energy and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) the natural gas requirements, expressed either as volumes or percentages of use, of persons, or classes thereof, for essential agricultural uses in order to meet requirements of full food and fiber production. This rule covers establishments performing functions classed as essential agricultural uses whose natural gas supplies are distributed through the interstate pipeline systems even though such establishments may receive such gas directly from an intrastate pipeline or local distribution company. The rule provides to the Secretary of Energy (for purposes of Section 401(a) of the NGPA) and to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission the following certifications:
(a) Essential agricultural
uses
of natural gas, expressed as classes of establishments that use gas for essential agricultural purposes; and
(b) Essential agricultural current
requirements
of natural gas, expressed as percentages of use.
§ 2900.2
Definitions.
(a)
Full food and fiber production
means the entire output of food and fiber produced for the domestic market, and for export, for building of reserves, and crops for soil building or conservation. This term also includes the processing of food and fiber into stable and storable products, and the maintenance of food quality after processing.
(b)
Establishment
means an economic unit, generally at a single physical location where business is conducted or where service or industrial operations are performed (for example, a factory, mill, store, mine, farm, sales office, or warehouse). (Note: This is the same definition used in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972 edition).
(c)
Essential Agricultural Use Establishment
means any Establishment, or the portion of an Establishment, which performs (or has the capability to perform) activities specified in § 2900.3.
(d)
Current Natural Gas Requirements
means the amount of natural gas required by an Essential Agricultural Use Establishment to perform the activities devoted to full food and fiber production.
(Pub. L. 95-621, Nov. 8, 1979, 92 Stat. 3350, 15 U.S.C. 3301
et seq.
)
[44 FR 28786, May 17, 1979, as amended at 46 FR 47216, Sept. 25, 1981]
§ 2900.3
Essential agricultural uses.
For purposes of Section 401(c) of the NGPA the following classes or portions of classes are certified as essential agricultural uses in order to meet the requirements of full food and fiber production:
Essential Agricultural Uses

# Industry SIC No. and Industry Description

# Food and Natural Fiber Production
01 Agricultural Production—Crops
02 Agricultural Production—Livestock Excluding 0272—Horses and Other Equines, and Nonfood Portions of 0279—Animal Specialties, Not Elsewhere Classified.
0723 Crop Preparation Services for Market, Except Cotton Ginning (see fiber processing).
4971 Irrigation Systems.

# Fertilizer and Agricultural Chemicals

# (Process and Feedstock Use Only)
1474 Potash, Soda, and Borate Materials.
1475 Phosphate Rock.
1477 Sulfur.
2819 Industrial Inorganic Chemicals, n.e.c. (Agricultural related only).
2865 Cyclic Crudes and Cyclic Intermediates, Dyes and Organic Pigments (Agricutural related only).
2869 Industrial Organic Chemicals, n.e.c. (Agricutural related only).
287 Agricultural Chemicals.
2899 Chemicals and Chemical Preparations, n.e.c. (Salt—Feed grade only).
3274 Lime (Agricultural lime only).

# Food and Natural Fiber Processing-Food
20 Food and Kindred Products Except 2047 Dog, Cat and Other Pet Food, and 2048 Prepared Feeds and Feed Ingredients for Animals and Fowls, Not Elsewhere Classified.
2869 Industrial Organic Chemicals (Monosodium Glutamate, Food-grade Citric Acid and Food-grade Enzymes only).
2899 Chemicals and Chemical Preparations, n.e.c. (Salt for food use only).

# Animal Feeds, and Food

# (Process and Feedstock Use Only)
2047 Dog, Cat and Other Pet Food.
2048 Prepared Feeds and Feed Ingredients for Animals and Fowls, Not Elsewhere Classified.

# Natural Fiber
0724 Cotton Ginning.
2141 Tobacco Stemming and Redrying.
2299 Textile Goods, n.e.c. (wool tops, combing and converting).
3111 Leather Tanning and Finishing.

# Food Quality Maintenance—Food Packaging
2641 Paper Coating and Glazing (food related only).
2643 Bags, Except Textile (food related only).
2645 Die Cut Paper and Paperboard (food related only).
2646 Pressed and Molded Pulp Goods (food related only).
2649 Converted Paper Products (food related only).
2651 Folding Paperboard Boxes (food related only).
2653 Corrugated and Solid Fiber Boxes (food related only).
2654 Sanitary Food Containers.
2655 Fiber Cans, Tubes, Drums, and Similar Products (food related only).
3079 Miscellaneous Plastic Products (food related only).
3221 Glass Containers (food related only).
3411 Metal Cans (food related only).
3412 Metal Shipping Barrels, Drums, Kegs, and Pails (food related only).
3466 Metal Crowns and Closures (Food Related Only).
3497 Metal Foil and Leaf (food related only).
Petroleum wax, synthetic petroleum wax and polyethylene wax (food grade only) as food containers.

# Marketing and Distribution
4221 Farm Product Warehousing and Storage.
4222 Refrigerated Warehousing.
514 Groceries and Related Products.
5153 Farm Product Raw Materials—Grain.
54 Food Stores.

# Energy Production
(1) Agricultural production on set-aside acreage or acreage diverted from the production of a commodity (as provided under the Agricultural Act of 1949) to be devoted to the production of any commodity for conversion into alcohol or hydrocarbons for use as motor fuel or other fuels;
(2) Sugar refining for production of alcohol; and
(3) Distillation of fuel-grade alcohol from food grains and other biomass by facilities in existence on June 30, 1980 which do not have the installed capability to burn coal lawfully, for a period ending June 29, 1985.
(Pub. L. 95-621, Nov. 8, 1978, 92 Stat. 3350; 15 U.S.C. 3301
et seq.
)
[44 FR 28786, May 17, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 5298, Jan. 23, 1980; 45 FR 45887, 45888, July 8, 1980; 45 FR 50550, July 30, 1980; 47 FR 25320, June 11, 1982; 48 FR 43670, Sept. 26, 1983; 49 FR 37733, Sept. 26, 1984]
§ 2900.4
Natural gas requirements.
For purposes of Section 401(c), NGPA, the natural gas requirements for each Essential Agricultural Use Establishment, whether such Essential Agricultural Use Establishment is in existence on the effective date of this rule or comes into existence thereafter, are certified to be 100 percent of Current Natural Gas Requirements.
§ 2900.6
Effective date.
This rule shall become effective on May 14, 1979.
Pt. 2901

# PART 2901—ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES FOR ADJUSTMENTS OF NATURAL GAS CURTAILMENT PRIORITY
Sec.
2901.1
Purpose and scope.
2901.2
Definitions.
2901.3
Oral presentation.
2901.4
Interpretations.
2901.5
Modifications and rescissions.
2901.6
Exceptions and exemptions.
2901.7
Review of denials.
2901.8
Judicial review.
2901.9
Effective date.

# Authority:
Secs. 502, 507. Pub. L. 95-621, 92 Stat. 3397, 3405, Nov. 9, 1978.

# Source:
44 FR 55803, Sept. 28, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 2901.1
Purpose and scope.
The purpose of this part 2901 is to provide procedures for the making of certain adjustments to the Secretary of Agriculture's Essential Agricultural Uses and Requirements regulations in accordance with section 502(c) of the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, in order to prevent special hardship, inequity, or an unfair distribution of burdens. The procedures in this part 2901 apply to any person seeking an interpretation of, modification of, rescission of, exception of, or exemption from the Essential Agricultural Uses and Requirements regulations in part 2900 of this chapter.
§ 2901.2
Definitions.
(a)
Person
means any individual, firm, sole proprietorship, partnership, association, company, joint venture or corporation.
(b)
Director
means the Director of the Office of Energy, U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(c)
Secretary
means the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(d)
Adjustment
means an interpretation, modification, rescission of, exception to or exemption from the Essential Agricultural Uses and Requirements regulations, part 2900 of this chapter.
(e)
NGPA
means the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, Pub. L. 95-621.
(f)
Petitioner
means any person seeking an adjustment under this part 2901.
§ 2901.3
Oral presentation.
Any person seeking an adjustment under this part 2901 shall be given an opportunity to make an oral presentation of data, views and arguments in support of the request for an adjustment, provided that a request to make an oral presentation is submitted in writing with the request for the adjustment. An official of the Department of Agriculture shall preside at such oral presentation.
§ 2901.4
Interpretations.
(a)
Request for an interpretation.
(1) Any person seeking an interpretation of the Essential Agricultural Uses and Requirements regulations in part 2900 shall file a formal written request with the Director. The request should contain a full and complete statement of all relevant facts pertaining to the circumstances, act or transaction that is the subject of the request and to the action sought, and should state the special hardship, inequity, or unfair distribution of burdens that will be prevented by the interpretation sought and why the interpretation is consistent with the purposes of NGPA. The Director shall publish a notice in the
Federal Register
advising the public that a request for an interpretation has been received and that written comments will be accepted with respect thereto, if received within 20 days of the notice. The
Federal Register
notice will provide that copies of the request for interpretation from which confidential information has been deleted in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section may be obtained from the petitioner.
(2) If the petitioner wishes to claim confidential treatment for any information contained in the request or other documents submitted under this part 2901, such person shall file together with the document a second copy of the document from which has been deleted the information for which such person wishes to claim confidential treatment. The petitioner shall indicate in the original document that it is confidential or contains confidential information and may file a statement specifying the justification for non-disclosure of the information for which non-disclosure is sought. The Director shall consider such requests, and subject to the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552 and other applicable laws and regulations, shall treat such information as confidential.
(b)
Investigations.
The Director may initiate an investigation of any statement in a request and utilize in his evaluation any relevant facts obtained in such investigation. The Director may accept submissions from third persons relevant to any request for interpretation provided that the petitioner
is afforded an opportunity to respond to all such submissions. In evaluating a request for interpretation, the Director may consider any other source of information.
(c)
Applicability.
Any interpretation issued hereunder shall be issued on the basis of the information provided on the request, as supplemented by other information brought to the attention of the Director during the consideration of the request. The interpretation shall, therefore, depend for its authority on the accuracy of the factual statement and may be relied upon only to the extent that the facts of the actual situation correspond to those upon which the interpretation was based.
(d)
Issuance of an interpretation.
Upon consideration of the request for interpretation and other relevant information received or obtained by the Director, the Director may issue a written interpretation. A copy of the written interpretation shall be provided to FERC and the Secretary of Energy. Notice of the issuance of the written interpretation shall be published in the
Federal Register.
The granting of a request for issuance of an interpretation shall be considered final agency action for purposes of judicial review under § 2901.8.
(e)
Denial of an interpretation.
An interpretation shall be considered denied for purpose of review of such denial under § 2901.7 only if:
(1) The Director notifies the petitioner in writing that the request is denied and that an interpretation will not be issued; or
(2) The Director does not respond to a request for an interpretation, by (i) issuing an interpretation, or (ii) giving notice of when an interpretation will be issued within 45 days of the date of receipt of the request, or within such extended time as the Director may prescribe by written notice within the 45-day period.
(f) For purposes of this part 2901 the word
interpretation
shall not be deemed to include a simple clarification of an actual or purported ambiguity in part 2900. The Director reserves the right to determine whether a request involves simple clarification and shall advise the requester of his decision.
§ 2901.5
Modifications and rescissions.
(a)
Request for modification or rescission.
(1) Any person seeking a modification or a rescission of the Essential Agricultural Uses and Requirements regulations of part 2900 shall file a formal written request with the Director. The request shall contain a full and complete statement of all relevant facts pertaining to the circumstance, act or transaction that is the subject of the request and to the action sought. The request should state the special hardship, inequity or unfair distribution of burdens that will be prevented by making the modification or rescission.
(2) If the petitioner wishes to claim confidential treatment for any information contained in the request or other documents submitted under this part 2901, such person shall file together with the document a second copy of the document from which has been deleted the information for which such person wishes to claim confidential treatment. The petitioner shall indicate in the original document that it is confidential or contains confidential information and may file a statement specifying the justification for non-disclosure of the information for which non-disclosure is sought. The Director shall consider such requests, and subject to the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552 and other applicable laws and regulations, shall treat such information as confidential.
(3) The request shall be filed as a petition for rulemaking and treated in accordance with the procedures, as applicable, of 7 CFR part 1, subpart B.
(b)
Institution of rulemaking.
Upon consideration of the request for modification or rescission and other relevant information received or obtained by the Director, the Director may institute rulemaking proceedings in accordance with the Administrative Procedures Act 5 U.S.C. 551
et seq.
and applicable regulations.
(c)
Denial of a modification or rescission.
If the Director (1) denies the request for modification or rescission in writing by notifying the petitioner that he does not intend to institute rulemaking proceedings as proposed and stating the reasons therefor, or (2) does not respond to a request for a
modification or rescission in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section or (3) notifies the petitioner in writing that the matter is under continuing consideration and that no decision can be made at that time because of the inadequacy of available information, changing circumstances or other reasons as set forth therein, within 45 days of the date of the receipt thereof, or within such extended time as the Director may prescribe by written notice within that 45-day period, the request shall be considered denied for the purpose of review of such denial under § 2901.7.
§ 2901.6
Exceptions and exemptions.
(a)
Request for exception or exemption.
(1) Any person seeking an exception or exemption from the Essential Agricultural Uses and Requirements regulations in part 2900 shall file a formal written request with the Director. The request shall contain a full and complete statement of all relevant facts pertaining to the circumstance, act, or transaction that is the subject of the request and to the action sought. The request should state the special hardship, inequity or unfair distribution of burdens that will be prevented by making the exception or exemption. The Director shall publish a notice in the
Federal Register
advising the public that a request for an exception or exemption has been received and that written comments will be accepted with respect thereto if received within 20 days of the notice. The
Federal Register
notice will provide that copies of the request from which confidential information has been deleted in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section may be obtained from the petitioner. The Petitioner shall be afforded an opportunity to respond to such submissions.
(2) If the petitioner wishes to claim confidential treatment for any information contained in the request or other documents submitted under this part 2901, such person shall file together with the document a second copy of the document from which has been deleted the information for which such person wishes to claim confidential treatment. The petitioner shall indicate in the original document that it is confidential or contains confidential information and may file a statement specifying the justification for non-disclosure of the information for which non-disclosure is sought. The Director shall consider such requests, and subject to the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552 and other applicable laws and regulations, shall treat such information as confidential.
(b)
Decision and order.
Upon consideration of the request for an exception or exemption and other relevant information received or obtained during the proceedings, the Director shall issue an order granting or denying the request. The Director shall publish a notice in the
Federal Register
of the issuance of a decision and order on the request. The granting of a request for an exception or exemption shall be considered final agency action for purposes of judicial review under § 2901.8.
(c)
Denial of an exception or exemption.
A request for an exception or exemption shall be considered denied for purposes of review of such denial under § 2901.7 only if:
(1) The Director has notified the petitioner in writing that the request is denied under paragraph (b) of this section; or
(2) The Director does not respond to a request for an exception or exemption by (i) granting the request for an exception or exemption under paragraph (b) of this section or (ii) giving notice of when a decision will be made within 45 days of the receipt of the request, or with such extended time as the Director may prescribe by written notice within the 45-day period.
§ 2901.7
Review of denials.
(a)
Request for review.
(1) Any person aggrieved or adversely affected by a denial of a request for any interpretation under § 2901.4 may request a review of the denial by the Secretary, within 30 days from the date of the denial.
(2) Any person aggrieved or adversely affected by a denial of a request for a modification or rescission under § 2901.5, may request a review of the denial by the Secretary within 30 days from the date of the denial.
(3) Any person aggrieved or adversely affected by a denial of a request for an exception or an exemption under
§ 2901.6, may request a review of the denial by the Secretary within 30 days from the date of the denial.
(b)
Procedures.
Any request for review under § 2901.7(a) shall be in writing and shall set forth the specific ground upon which the request is based. There is no final agency action for purposes of judicial review under § 2901.8 until that request has been acted upon. If the request for review has not been acted upon within 30 days after it is received, the request shall be deemed to have been denied. That denial shall then constitute final agency action for the purpose of judicial review under § 2901.8.
§ 2901.8
Judicial review.
Any person aggrieved or adversely affected by a final agency action taken on a request for an adjustment under this section may obtain judicial review in accordance with section 506 of the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978.
§ 2901.9
Effective date.
This rule shall become effective on October 29, 1979.
PART 2902 [RESERVED]
Pt. 2903

# PART 2903—BIODIESEL FUEL EDUCATION PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Information
Sec.
2903.1
Applicability of regulations.
2903.2
Purpose of the program.
2903.3
Eligibility.
2903.4
Indirect costs.
2903.5
Matching requirements.

# Subpart B—Program Description
2903.6
Project types.
2903.7
Project objectives.

# Subpart C—Preparation of an Application
2903.8
Program application materials.
2903.9
Content of an application.
2903.10
Submission of an application.
2903.11
Acknowledgment of applications.

# Subpart D—Application Review and Evaluation
2903.12
Application review.
2903.13
Evaluation criteria.
2903.14
Conflicts of interest and confidentiality.

# Subpart E—Award Administration
2903.15
General.
2903.16
Organizational management information.
2903.17
Award document and notice of award.

# Subpart F—Supplementary Information
2903.18
Access to review information.
2903.19
Use of funds; changes.
2903.20
Reporting requirements.
2903.21
Applicable Federal statutes and regulations.
2903.22
Confidential aspects of applications and awards.
2903.23
Definitions.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 8104; 5 U.S.C. 301.

# Source:
68 FR 56139, Sept. 30, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Information
§ 2903.1
Applicability of regulations.
(a) The regulations of this part only apply to Biodiesel Fuel Education Program grants awarded under the provisions of section 9004 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (FSRIA) (7 U.S.C. 8104) which authorizes the Secretary to award competitive grants to eligible entities to educate governmental and private entities that operate vehicle fleets, other interested entities (as determined by the Secretary), and the public about the benefits of biodiesel fuel use. Eligibility is limited to nonprofit organizations and institutions of higher education (as defined in sec. 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001)) that have demonstrated both knowledge of biodiesel fuel production, use, or distribution and the ability to conduct educational and technical support programs. The Secretary delegated this authority to the Chief Economist, who in turn delegated this authority to the Director of OEPNU.
(b) The regulations of this part do not apply to grants awarded by the Department of Agriculture under any other authority.
§ 2903.2
Purpose of the program.
The Biodiesel Fuel Education Program seeks to familiarize public and
private vehicle fleet operators, other interested entities, and the public, with the benefits of biodiesel, a relatively new fuel option in the United States. It will also address concerns previously identified by fleet operators and other potential users of this alternative fuel, including the need to balance the positive environmental, social and human health impacts of biodiesel utilization with the increased per gallon cost to the user. It is the Program's goal to stimulate biodiesel demand and encourage the further development of a biodiesel industry in the United States.
§ 2903.3
Eligibility.
(a) Eligibility is limited to nonprofit organizations and institutions of higher education that have demonstrated both knowledge of biodiesel fuel production, use, or distribution and the ability to conduct educational and technical support programs.
(b) Award recipients may subcontract to organizations not eligible to apply provided such organizations are necessary for the conduct of the project.
§ 2903.4
Indirect costs.
(a) For the Biodiesel Fuel Education Program, applicants should use the current indirect cost rate negotiated with the cognizant Federal negotiating agency. Indirect costs may not exceed the negotiated rate. If no indirect cost rate has been negotiated, a reasonable dollar amount for indirect costs may be requested, which will be subject to approval by USDA. In the latter case, if a proposal is recommended for funding, an indirect cost rate proposal must be submitted prior to award to support the amount of indirect costs requested.
(b) A proposer may elect not to charge indirect costs and, instead, charge only direct costs to grant funds. Grantees electing this alternative will not be allowed to charge, as direct costs, indirect costs that otherwise would be in the grantee's indirect cost pool under the applicable Office of Management and Budget cost principles. Grantees who request no indirect costs will not be permitted to revise their budgets at a later date to charge indirect costs to grant funds.
§ 2903.5
Matching requirements.
There are no matching funds requirements for the Biodiesel Fuel Education Program and matching resources will not be factored into the review process as evaluation criteria.

# Subpart B—Program Description
§ 2903.6
Project types.
OEPNU intends to award continuation grants to successful Biodiesel Fuel Education Program applicants. A continuation grant is a grant instrument by which the Department agrees to support a specified level of effort for a predetermined project period with a statement of intention to provide additional support at a future date, provided that performance has been satisfactory, appropriations are available for this purpose, and continued government support would be in the best interest of the Federal government and the public. If these three elements are met, OEPNU plans to provide additional support to the funded project(s).
§ 2903.7
Project objectives.
(a) Successful projects will develop practical indicators or milestones to measure their progress towards achieving the following objectives:
(1) Enhance current efforts to collect and disseminate biodiesel information;
(2) Coordinate with other biodiesel educational or promotional programs, and with Federal, State and local programs aimed at encouraging biodiesel use, including the EPAct program;
(3) Create a nationwide networking system that delivers biodiesel information to targeted audiences, including users, distributors and other infrastructure-related personnel;
(4) Identify and document the benefits of biodiesel (e.g., lifecycle costing); and
(5) Gather data pertaining to information gaps and develop strategies to address the gaps.
(b) [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Preparation of an Application
§ 2903.8
Program application materials.
OEPNU will publish periodic program announcements to notify potential applicants of the availability of funds for competitive continuation grants. The program announcement will provide information about obtaining program application materials.
§ 2903.9
Content of an application.
(a) Applications should be prepared following the guidelines and the instructions in the program announcement. At a minimum, applications shall include: a proposal cover page, project summary, project description, information about key personnel, documentation of collaborative arrangements, information about potential conflicts-of-interest, budget forms and a budget narrative, information about current and pending support, and assurance statements.
(b) Proper preparation of applications will assist reviewers in evaluating the merits of each application in a systematic, consistent fashion. Specific instructions regarding additional application content requirements and the ordering of application contents will be included in the program announcement. These will include instructions about paper size, margins, font type and size, line spacing, page numbering, the inclusion of illustrations, and electronic submission.
§ 2903.10
Submission of an application.
The program announcement will provide the deadline date for submitting an application, the number of copies of each application that must be submitted, and the address to which proposals must be submitted.
§ 2903.11
Acknowledgment of applications.
The receipt of all applications will be acknowledged. Applicants who do not receive an acknowledgment within 60 days of the submission deadline should contact the program contact indicated on the program announcement. Once the application has been assigned a proposal number, that number should be cited on all future correspondence.

# Subpart D—Application Review and Evaluation
§ 2903.12
Application review.
(a) Reviewers will include government and non-government individuals. All reviewers will be selected based upon training and experience in relevant scientific, extension, or education fields, taking into account the following factors:
(1) The level of relevant formal scientific, technical education, or extension experience of the individual, as well as the extent to which an individual is engaged in relevant research, education, or extension activities; and
(2) The need to include as reviewers experts from various areas of specialization within relevant scientific, education, or extension fields.
(b) In addition, when selecting non-government reviewers, the following factors will be considered:
(1) The need to include as reviewers other experts (e.g., producers, range or forest managers/operators, and consumers) who can assess relevance of the applications to targeted audiences and to program needs;
(2) The need to include as reviewers experts from a variety of organizational types (e.g., colleges, universities, industry, state and Federal agencies, private profit and non-profit organizations) and geographic locations;
(3) The need to maintain a balanced composition of reviewers with regard to minority and female representation and an equitable age distribution; and
(4) The need to include reviewers who can judge the effective usefulness to producers and the general public of each application.
(c) Authorized departmental officers will compile application reviews and recommend awards to OEPNU. OEPNU will make final award decisions.
§ 2903.13
Evaluation criteria.
(a) The following evaluation criteria will be used in reviewing applications submitted for the Biodiesel Fuel Education Program:
(1) Relevance of proposed project to current and future issues related to the production, use, distribution, fuel quality, and fuel properties of biodiesel, including:
(i) Demonstrated knowledge about markets, state initiatives, impacts on local economies, regulatory issues, standards, and technical issues;
(ii) Demonstrated knowledge about issues associated with developing a biodiesel infrastructure; and
(iii) Quality and extent of stakeholder involvement in planning and accomplishment of program objectives.
(2) Reasonableness of project proposal, including:
(i) Sufficiency of scope and strategies to provide a consistent message in keeping with existing standards and regulations;
(ii) Adequacy of Project Description, suitability and feasibility of methodology to develop and implement program;
(iii) Clarity of objectives, milestones, and indicators of progress;
(iv) Adequacy of plans for reporting, assessing and monitoring results over project's duration; and
(v) Demonstration of feasibility, and probability of success.
(3) Technical quality of proposed project, including:
(i) Suitability and qualifications of key project personnel;
(ii) Institutional experience and competence in providing alternative fuel education, including:
(A) Demonstrated knowledge about programs involved in alternative fuel research and education;
(B) Demonstrated knowledge about other fuels, fuel additives, engine performance, fuel quality and fuel emissions;
(C) Demonstrated knowledge about Federal, State and local programs aimed at encouraging alternative fuel use;
(D) Demonstrated ability in providing educational programs and developing technical programs; and
(E) Demonstrated ability to analyze technical information relevant to the biodiesel industry.
(iii) Adequacy of available or obtainable resources; and
(iv) Quality of plans to administer and maintain the project, including collaborative efforts, evaluation and monitoring efforts.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 2903.14
Conflicts of interest and confidentiality.
(a) During the peer evaluation process, extreme care will be taken to prevent any actual or perceived conflicts of interest that may impact review or evaluation. Determinations of conflicts of interest will be based on the academic and administrative autonomy of an institution. The program announcement will specify the methodology for determining such autonomy.
(b) Names of submitting institutions and individuals, as well as application content and peer evaluations, will be kept confidential, except to those involved in the review process, to the extent permitted by law. In addition, the identities of peer reviewers will remain confidential throughout the entire review process. Therefore, the names of the reviewers will not be released to applicants. At the end of the fiscal year, names of reviewers will be made available in such a way that the reviewers cannot be identified with the review of any particular application.

# Subpart E—Award Administration
§ 2903.15
General.
Within the limit of funds available for such purpose, the Authorized Departmental Officer (ADO) shall make grants to those responsible, eligible applicants whose applications are judged most meritorious under the procedures set forth in this part. The date specified by the ADO as the effective date of the grant shall be no later than September 30 of the Federal fiscal year in which the project is approved for support and funds are appropriated for such purpose, unless otherwise permitted by law. It should be noted that the project need not be initiated on the grant effective date, but as soon thereafter as practical so that project goals may be attained within the funded project period. All funds granted by OEPNU under this program shall be expended solely for the purpose for which the funds are granted in accordance
with the approved application and budget, the regulations of this part, the terms and conditions of the award, the applicable Federal cost principles, and the applicable Department assistance regulations (including part 3019 of this title).
§ 2903.16
Organizational management information.
Specific management information relating to an applicant shall be submitted on a one-time basis as part of the responsibility determination prior to the award of a grant identified under this program, if such information has not been provided previously. Copies of forms recommended for use in fulfilling these requirements will be provided as part of the preaward process.
§ 2903.17
Award document and notice of award.
(a) The award document will provide pertinent instructions and information including, at a minimum, the following:
(1) Legal name and address of performing organization or institution to whom OEPNU has issued an award under this program;
(2) Title of project;
(3) Name(s) and institution(s) of PDs chosen to direct and control approved activities;
(4) Identifying award number assigned by the Department;
(5) Project period;
(6) Total amount of Departmental financial assistance approved by OEPNU during the project period;
(7) Legal authority(ies) under which the award is issued;
(8) Appropriate Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) number;
(9) Approved budget plan for categorizing allocable project funds to accomplish the stated purpose of the award; and
(10) Other information or provisions deemed necessary by OEPNU and the Authorized Departmental Officer to carry out the awarding activities or to accomplish the purpose of a particular award.
(b) [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Supplementary Information
§ 2903.18
Access to review information.
Copies of reviews, not including the identity of reviewers, and a summary of the comments will be sent to the applicant PD after the review process has been completed.
§ 2903.19
Use of funds; changes.
(a)
Delegation of fiscal responsibility.
Unless the terms and conditions of the award state otherwise, the awardee may not in whole or in part delegate or transfer to another person, institution, or organization the responsibility for use or expenditure of award funds.
(b)
Changes in project plans.
(1) The permissible changes by the awardee, PD(s), or other key project personnel in the approved project shall be limited to changes in methodology, techniques, or other similar aspects of the project to expedite achievement of the project's approved goals. If the awardee or the PD(s) is uncertain as to whether a change complies with this provision, the question must be referred to the Authorized Departmental Officer (ADO) for a final determination. The ADO is the signatory of the award document, not the program contact.
(2) Changes in approved goals or objectives shall be requested by the awardee and approved in writing by the ADO prior to effecting such changes. In no event shall requests for such changes be approved which are outside the scope of the original approved project.
(3) Changes in approved project leadership or the replacement or reassignment of other key project personnel shall be requested by the awardee and approved in writing by the ADO prior to effecting such changes.
(4) Transfers of actual performance of the substantive programmatic work in whole or in part and provisions for payment of funds, whether or not Federal funds are involved, shall be requested by the awardee and approved in writing by the ADO prior to effecting such transfers, unless prescribed otherwise in the terms and conditions of the award.
(5)
Changes in project period.
The project period may be extended by
OEPNU without additional financial support, for such additional period(s) as the ADO determines may be necessary to complete or fulfill the purposes of an approved project, but in no case shall the total project period exceed five years. Any extension of time shall be conditioned upon prior request by the awardee and approval in writing by the ADO, unless prescribed otherwise in the terms and conditions of award.
(6)
Changes in approved budget.
Changes in an approved budget must be requested by the awardee and approved in writing by the ADO prior to instituting such changes if the revision will involve transfers or expenditures of amounts requiring prior approval as set forth in the applicable Federal cost principles, Departmental regulations, or award.
§ 2903.20
Reporting requirements.
The award document will give instructions regarding the submission of progress reports, including the frequency and required contents of the reports.
§ 2903.21
Applicable Federal statutes and regulations.
Several Federal statutes and regulations apply to grant applications considered for review and to project grants awarded under this program. These include, but are not limited to:
(a) 7 CFR part 1, subpart A—USDA implementation of the Freedom of Information Act.
(b) 7 CFR part 3—USDA implementation of OMB Circular No. A-129 regarding debt collection.
(c) 7 CFR part 15, subpart A—USDA implementation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended.
(d) 2 CFR part 417, Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension.
(e) 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying. Imposes prohibitions and requirements for disclosure and certification related to lobbying on recipients of Federal contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, and loans.
(f) 2 CFR part 200, subparts B—General Provisions, C—Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards, and D—Post-Federal Award Requirements, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.
(g) 2 CFR part 421, Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance).
(h) 2 CFR part 200, subpart F—Audit Requirements, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400. Title 29 U.S.C. 794 (sec. 504, Rehabilitation Act of 1973) and 7 CFR part 15b (USDA implementation of statute)—prohibiting discrimination based upon physical or mental handicap in federally assisted programs. Title 35 U.S.C. 200
et seq.
—Bayh-Dole Act, controlling allocation of rights to inventions made by employees of small business firms and domestic nonprofit organizations, including universities, in federally assisted programs (implementing regulations are contained in 37 CFR part 401).
[85 FR 31939, May 28, 2020]
§ 2903.22
Confidential aspects of applications and awards.
When an application results in an award, it becomes a part of the record of USDA transactions, available to the public upon specific request. Information that the Secretary determines to be of a confidential, privileged, or proprietary nature will be held in confidence to the extent permitted by law. Therefore, any information that the applicant wishes to have considered as confidential, privileged, or proprietary should be clearly marked within the application. The original copy of an application that does not result in an award will be retained by the Agency for a period of one year. Other copies will be destroyed. Such an application will be released only with the consent of the applicant or to the extent required by law. An application may be withdrawn at any time prior to the final action thereon.
§ 2903.23
Definitions.
For the purpose of this program, the following definitions are applicable:
Authorized departmental officer
or
ADO
means the Secretary or any employee of the Department who has the authority to issue or modify grant instruments on behalf of the Secretary.
Authorized organizational representative
or
AOR
means the president or chief executive officer of the applicant
organization or the official, designated by the president or chief executive officer of the applicant organization, who has the authority to commit the resources of the organization.
Biodiesel
means a monoalkyl ester that meets the requirements of an appropriate American Society for Testing and Materials Standard.
Budget
period means the interval of time (usually 12 months) into which the project period is divided for budgetary and reporting purposes.
Department
or
USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
Education activity
means an act or process that imparts knowledge or skills through formal or informal training and outreach.
Grant
means the award by the Secretary of funds to an eligible recipient for the purpose of conducting the identified project.
Grantee
means the organization designated in the award document as the responsible legal entity to which a grant is awarded.
Institution of higher education,
as defined in sec. 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001), means an educational institution in any State that:
(1) Admits as regular students only persons having a certificate of graduation from a school providing secondary education, or the recognized equivalent of such a certificate;
(2) Is legally authorized within such State to provide a program of education beyond secondary education;
(3) Provides an educational program for which the institution awards a bachelor's degree or provides not less than a two-year program that is acceptable for full credit toward such a degree;
(4) Is a public or other nonprofit institution; and
(5) Is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association, or if not so accredited, is an institution that has been granted preaccreditation status by such an agency or association that has been recognized by the Secretary of Education for the granting of preaccreditation status, and the Secretary of Education has determined that there is satisfactory assurance that the institution will meet the accreditation standards of such an agency or association within a reasonable time.
OEPNU
means the Office of Energy Policy and New Uses.
Peer review
is an evaluation of a proposed project performed by experts with the scientific knowledge and technical skills to conduct the proposed work whereby the technical quality and relevance to the program are assessed.
Prior approval
means written approval evidencing prior consent by an authorized departmental officer (as defined in this section).
Program
means the Biodiesel Fuel Education Program.
Project
means the particular activity within the scope of the program supported by a grant award.
Project director
or
PD
means the single individual designated by the grantee in the grant application and approved by the Secretary who is responsible for the direction and management of the project, also known as a principal investigator for research activities.
Project period
means the period, as stated in the award document and modifications thereto, if any, during which Federal sponsorship begins and ends.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture and any other officer or employee of the Department to whom the authority involved may be delegated.
PARTS 2904-2999 [RESERVED]
7 CFR Ch. XXX (1-1-25 Edition)
Office of Chief Financial Officer, USDA

# CHAPTER XXX—OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Part
Page
3000-3010
[Reserved]
3011
Availability of information to the public
81
3053-3099
[Reserved]
PARTS 3000-3010 [RESERVED]
Pt. 3011

# PART 3011—AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION TO THE PUBLIC
Sec.
3011.1
General statement.
3011.2
Public inspection and copying.
3011.3
Indexes.
3011.4
Initial requests for records.
3011.5
Appeals.
3011.6
Fee schedule.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 522; 7 CFR 1.3.

# Source:
54 FR 51869, Dec. 19, 1989, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3011.1
General statement.
This part is issued in accordance with 7 CFR 1.3 of the Department of Agriculture regulations governing the availability of records (7 CFR 1.1-1.23 and Appendix A) under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552, as amended). These regulations supplement the Department's regulations by providing guidance for any person wishing to request records from the Office of Finance and Management (OFM).
§ 3011.2
Public inspection and copying.
(a)
Background.
5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) requires each agency to maintain and make available for public inspection and copying certain kinds of records.
(b)
Procedure.
To gain access to OFM records that are available for public inspection, contact the Freedom of Information Act Officer by writing to the address shown in § 3011.4(b) of this title.
§ 3011.3
Indexes.
5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) also requires that each agency maintain and make available for public inspection and copying current indexes providing identifying information for the public with regard to any records which are made available for public inspection and copying. OFM does not maintain any materials within the scope of these requirements.
§ 3011.4
Initial requests for records.
(a)
Background.
The Freedom of Information Act Officer is authorized to:
(1) Grant or deny requests for OFM records,
(2) Make discretionary release of OFM records when the benefit to the public in releasing the document outweighs any harm likely to result from disclosure,
(3) Reduce or waive fees to be charged where determined to be appropriate.
(b)
Procedures.
This part provides the titles and mailing address of officials who are authorized to release records to the public. The normal working hours of these offices are 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., local time, Monday through Friday, excluding holidays, during which public inspection and copying of certain kinds of records is permitted. Persons wishing to request records from the Office of Finance and Management may do so by submitting each initial written request for OFM records to the appropriate OFM official shown below:
(1) For records held at the Washington, DC Headquarters units, submit initial requests to the Freedom of Information Act Officer, Office of Finance and Management, USDA, 14th and Independence Ave., SW., Room 117-W, Administration Building, Washington, DC 20250-9000.
(2) For records held at the National Finance Center in New Orleans, Louisiana, submit initial requests to the Freedom of Information Act Officer, National Finance Center, OFM, USDA, 13800 Old Gentilly Road, Building 350, (P.O. Box 60,000, New Orleans, LA 70160), New Orleans, Louisiana 70129.
If the requester is unable to determine the official to whom the request should be addressed, it should be submitted to the Headquarters Freedom of Information Act Officer who will refer such requests to the appropriate officials.
§ 3011.5
Appeals.
Any person whose initial request is denied in whole or in part may appeal that denial, in accordance with 7 CFR 1.6(e) and 1.8, to the Director, Office of Finance and Management, USDA, Room 117-W, Administration Building, 14th and Independence Ave., Washington, DC 20250-9000.
§ 3011.6
Fee schedule.
Departmental regulations provide for a schedule of reasonable standard
charges for document search and duplication. See 7 CFR 1.2(b). Fees to be charged are set forth in 7 CFR part 1, subpart A, Appendix A.
PARTS 3053-3099 [RESERVED]
7 CFR Ch. XXXI (1-1-25 Edition)
Office of Environmental Quality, USDA

# CHAPTER XXXI—OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Part
Page
3100
Cultural and environmental quality
85
3101-3199
[Reserved]
Pt. 3100

# PART 3100—CULTURAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
Subparts A-B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Enhancement, Protection, and Management of the Cultural Environment
Sec.
3100.40
Purpose.
3100.41
Authorities.
3100.42
Definitions.
3100.43
Policy.
3100.44
Implementation.
3100.45
Direction to agencies.
3100.46
Responsibilities of the Department of Agriculture.
Subparts A-B [Reserved]

# Subpart C—Enhancement, Protection, and Management of the Cultural Environment

# Authority:
Sec. 106, National Historic Preservation Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470f); National Environmental Policy Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
); E.O. 11593, 36 FR 8921, May 13, 1971.

# Source:
44 FR 66181, Nov. 19, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3100.40
Purpose.
(a) This subpart establishes USDA policy regarding the enhancement, protection, and management of the cultural environment.
(b) This subpart establishes procedures for implementing Executive Order 11593, and regulations promulgated by the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (ACHP) “Protection of Historical and Cultural Properties” in 36 CFR part 800 as required by § 800.10 of those regulations.
(c) Direction is provided to the agencies of USDA for protection of the cultural environment.
§ 3100.41
Authorities.
These regulations are based upon and implement the following laws, regulations, and Presidential directives:
(a)
Antiquities Act of 1906
(Pub. L. 59-209; 34 Stat. 225; 16 U.S.C. 431
et seq.
) which provides for the protection of historic or prehistoric remains or any object of antiquity on Federal lands; establishes criminal sanctions for unauthorized destruction or appropriation of antiquities; and authorizes scientific investigation of antiquities on Federal lands, subject to permit and regulations. Paleontological resources also are considered to fall within the authority of this Act.
(b)
Historic Sites Act of 1935
(Pub. L. 74-292; 49 Stat. 666; 16 U.S.C. 461
et seq.
) which authorizes the establishment of National Historic Sites and otherwise authorizes the preservation of properties of national historical or archeological significance; authorizes the designation of National Historic Landmarks; establishes criminal sanctions for violation of regulations pursuant to the Act; authorizes interagency, intergovernmental, and interdisciplinary efforts for the preservation of cultural resources; and other provisions.
(c)
Reservoir Salvage Act of 1960
(Pub. L. 86-521; 74 Stat. 220; 16 U.S.C. 469-469c.) which provides for the recovery and preservation of historical and archeological data, including relics and specimens, that might be lost or destroyed as a result of the construction of dams, reservoirs, and attendant facilities and activities.
(d)
The National Historic Preservation Act of 1966
as amended (16 U.S.C. 470), which establishes positive national policy for the preservation of the cultural environment, and sets forth a mandate for protection in section 106. The purpose of section 106 is to protect properties on or eligible for the National Register of Historic Places through review and comment by the ACHP of Federal undertakings that affect such properties. Properties are listed on the National Register or declared eligible for listing by the Secretary of the Interior. As developed through the ACHP's regulations, section 106 establishes a public interest process in which the Federal agency proposing an undertaking, the State Historic Preservation Officer, the ACHP, interested organizations and individuals participate. The process is designed to insure that properties, impacts on them, and effects to them are identified, and that alternatives to avoid or mitigate an adverse effect on property eligible for the National Register are adequately considered in the planning process.
(e)
The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
(NEPA) (Pub. L. 91-190; 83
Stat. 852; 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
) which declares that it is the policy of the Federal Government to preserve important historic, cultural, and natural aspects of our national heritage. Compliance with NEPA requires consideration of all environmental concerns during project planning and execution.
(f)
Executive Order 11593, “Protection and Enhancement of the Cultural Environment”,
which gives the Federal Government the responsibility for stewardship of our nation's heritage resources and charges Federal agencies with the task of inventorying historic and prehistoric sites on their lands. E.O. 11593 also charges agencies with the task of identifying and nominating all historic properties under their jurisdiction, and exercising caution to insure that they are not transferred, sold, demolished, or substantially altered.
(g)
Historical and Archeological Data Preservation Act of 1974.
(Pub. L. 93-291; 88 Stat. 174.) which amends the Reservoir Salvage Act of 1960 to extend its provisions beyond the construction of dams to any alteration of the terrain caused as a result of any Federal construction project or federally licensed activity or program. In addition, the Act provides a mechanism for funding the protection of historical and archeological data.
(h)
Presidential memorandum of July 12, 1978, “Environmental Quality and Water Resource Management”
which directs the ACHP to publish final regulations, implementing section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA), and further directs each agency with water and related land resources responsibilities to publish procedures implementing those regulations.
(i)
36 CFR part 800,
“Protection of Historic and Cultural Properties” which establishes procedures for the implementation of section 106 of the NHPA, and directs publication of agency implementing procedures.
(j)
Land use policy of the USDA (Secretary's Memorandum No. 1827 Revised, with Supplement)
which establishes a commitment by the Department to the preservation of farms, rural communities, and rural landscapes.
(k)
Public Buildings Cooperative Use Act of 1976 (40 U.S.C. 611) and Executive Order 12072 (Federal Space Management).
The Act encourages adaptive use of historic buildings as administrative facilities for Federal agencies and activities; the Executive Order directs Federal agencies to locate administrative and other facilities in central business districts.
(l)
American Indian Religious Freedom Act of 1978 (42 U.S.C. 1996)
which declares it to be the policy of the United States to protect and preserve for American Indians their inherent right of freedom to believe, express, and exercise the traditional religions of the American Indian, Eskimo, Aleut, and Native Hawaiians.
§ 3100.42
Definitions.
All definitions are those which appear in 36 CFR part 800. In addition, the following apply in this rule:
Cultural resources (heritage resources)
are the remains or records of districts, sites, structures, buildings, networks, neighborhoods, objects, and events from the past. They may be historic, prehistoric, archeological, or architectural in nature. Cultural resources are an irreplaceable and nonrenewable aspect of our national heritage.
Cultural environment
is that portion of the environment which includes reminders of the rich historic and prehistoric past of our nation.
§ 3100.43
Policy.
(a) The nonrenewable cultural environment of our country constitutes a valuable and treasured portion of the national heritage of the American people. The Department of Agriculture is committed to the management—identification, protection, preservation, interpretation, evaluation and nomination—of our prehistoric and historic cultural resources for the benefit of all people of this and future generations.
(b) The Department supports the cultural resource goals expressed in Federal legislation. Executive orders, and regulations.
(c) The Department supports the preservation and protection of farms, rural landscapes, and rural communities.
(d) The Department is committed to consideration of the needs of American
Indians, Eskimo, Aleut, and Native Hawaiians in the practice of their traditional religions.
(e) The Department will aggressively implement these policies to meet goals for the positive management of the cultural environment.
§ 3100.44
Implementation.
(a) It is the intent of the Department to carry out its program of management of the cultural environment in the most effective and efficient manner possible. Implementation must consider natural resource utilization, must exemplify good government, and must constitute a noninflationary approach which makes the best use of tax dollars.
(b) The commitment to cultural resource protection is vital. That commitment will be balanced with the multiple departmental goals of food and fiber production, environmental protection, natural resource and energy conservation, and rural development. It is essential that all of these be managed to reduce conflicts between programs. Positive management of the cultural environment can contribute to achieving better land use, protection of rural communities and farm lands, conservation of energy, and more efficient use of resources.
(c) In reaching decisions, the long-term needs of society and the irreversible nature of an action must be considered. The Department must act to preserve future options; loss of important cultural resources must be avoided except in the face of overriding national interest where there are no reasonable alternatives.
(d) To assure the protection of Native American religious practices, traditional religious leaders and other native leaders (or their representatives) should be consulted about potential conflict areas in the management of the cultural environment and the means to reduce or eliminate such conflicts.
§ 3100.45
Direction to agencies.
(a) Each agency of the Department shall consult with OEQ to determine whether its programs and activities may affect the cultural environment. Then, if needed, the agency, in consultation with the OEQ, shall develop its own specific procedures for implementing section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act, Executive Order 11593, the regulations of the ACHP (36 CFR part 800), the American Indian Religious Freedom Act of 1978 and other relevant legislation and regulations in accordance with the agency's programs, mission and authorities. Such implementing procedures shall be published as proposed and final procedures in the
Federal Register,
and must be consistent with the requirements of 36 CFR part 800 and this subpart. Where applicable, each agency's procedures must contain mechanisms to insure:
(1) Compliance with section 106 of NHPA and mitigation of adverse effects to cultural properties on or eligible for the National Register of Historic Places;
(2) Clear definition of the kind and variety of sites and properties which should be managed;
(3) Development of a long-term program of management of the cultural environment on lands administered by USDA as well as direction for project-specific protection;
(4) Identification of all properties listed on or eligible for listing in the National Register that may be affected directly or indirectly by a proposed activity;
(5) Location, identification and nomination to the Register of all sites, buildings, objects, districts, neighborhoods, and networks under its management which appear to qualify (in compliance with E.O. 11593);
(6) The exercise of caution to assure that properties managed by USDA which may qualify for nomination are not transferred, sold, demolished, or substantially altered;
(7) Early consultation with, and involvement of, the State Historic Preservation Officer(s), the ACHP, Native American traditional religious leaders and appropriate tribal leaders, and others with appropriate interests or expertise;
(8) Early notification to insure substantive and meaningful involvement by the public in the agency's decisionmaking process as it relates to the cultural environment;
(9) Identification and consideration of alternatives to a proposed undertaking that would mitigate or minimize adverse effects to a property identified under paragraph (a)(4) of this section;
(10) Funding of mitigation measures where required to minimize the potential for adverse effects on the cultural environment. Funds for mitigation shall be available and shall be spent when needed during the life of the project to mitigate the expected loss; and
(11) Development of plans to provide for the management, protection, maintenance and/or restoration of Register sites under its management.
(b) Each agency of the Department which conducts programs or activities that may have an effect on the cultural environment shall recruit, place, develop, or otherwise have available, professional expertise in anthropology, archeology, history, historic preservation, historic architecture, and/or cultural resource management (depending upon specific need). Such arrangements may include internal hiring, Intergovernmental Personnel Act assignments, memoranda of agreement with other agencies or Departments, or other mechanisms which insure a professionally directed program. Agencies should use Department of the Interior professional standards (36 CFR 61.5) as guidelines to insure Departmentwide competence and consistency.
(c) Compliance with cultural resource legislation is the responsibility of each individual agency. Consideration of cultural resource values must begin during the earliest planning stages of any undertaking.
(d) Agency heads shall insure that cultural resource management activities meet professional standards as promulgated by the Department of the Interior (e.g., 36 CFR parts 60, 63, 66, 1208).
(e) Cultural resource review requirements and compliance with section 106 of NHPA and Executive Order 11593 shall be integrated and run concurrently, rather than consecutively, with the other environmental considerations under NEPA regulations. As such, direct and indirect impacts on cultural resources must be addressed in the environmental assessment for every agency undertaking. In meeting these requirements, agencies shall be guided by regulations implementing the procedural provisions of NEPA (40 CFR parts 1500-1508) and Department of Agriculture regulations (7 CFR part 3100, subpart B).
(f) Each agency shall work closely with the appropriate State Historic Preservation Officer(s) in their preparation of State plans, determination of inventory needs, and collection of data relevant to general plans or specific undertakings in carrying out mutual cultural resource responsibilities.
(g) Each agency shall, to the maximum extent possible, use existing historic structures for administrative purposes in compliance with Public Buildings Cooperative Use Act of 1976 and Executive Order 12072, “Federal Space Management”.
(h) Each agency should consult with Native American traditional religious leaders or their representatives and other native leaders in the development and implementation of cultural resource programs which may affect their religious customs and practices.
§ 3100.46
Responsibilities of the Department of Agriculture.
(a) Within the Department, the responsibility for the protection of the cultural environment is assigned to the Office of Environmental Quality (OEQ). The Office is responsible for reviewing the development and implementation of agency procedures and insuring Departmental commitment to cultural resource goals.
(b) The Director of the OEQ is the Secretary's Designee to the ACHP.
(c) In order to carry out cultural resource responsibilities, there will be professional expertise within the OEQ to advise agencies, aid the Department in meeting its cultural resource management goals, and to insure that all Departmental and agency undertakings comply with applicable cultural resource protection legislation and regulations.
(d) The OEQ will be involved in individual compliance cases only where resolution cannot be reached at the agency level. Prior to the decision to refer a matter to the full Council of the
ACHP, the OEQ will review the case and make recommendations to the Secretary regarding the position of the Department. The agency also will consult with the OEQ before reaching a final decision in response to the Council's comments. Copies of correspondence relevant to compliance with Section 106 shall be made available to OEQ.
PARTS 3101-3199 [RESERVED]
7 CFR Ch. XXXII (1-1-25 Edition)
Office of Procurement and Property Management, USDA

# CHAPTER XXXII—OFFICE OF PROCUREMENT AND PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Part
Page
3200
Department of Agriculture guidelines for the acquisition and transfer of excess personal property
93
3201
Guidelines for designating biobased products for Federal procurement
95
3202
Voluntary labeling program for biobased products
155
3203
Guidelines for the transfer of excess computers or other technical equipment pursuant to section 14220 of the 2008 Farm Bill
168
3204-3299
[Reserved]
Pt. 3200

# PART 3200—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE GUIDELINES FOR THE ACQUISITION AND TRANSFER OF EXCESS PERSONAL PROPERTY
Sec.
3200.1
Purpose.
3200.2
Eligibility.
3200.3
Definitions.
3200.4
Procedures.
3200.5
Dollar limitation.
3200.6
Restrictions.
3200.7
Title.
3200.8
Costs.
3200.9
Accountability and record keeping.
3200.10
Disposal.
3200.11
Liabilities and losses.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 2206a.

# Source:
63 FR 57234, Oct. 27, 1998, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3200.1
Purpose.
This Part sets forth the procedures to be utilized by Department of Agriculture (USDA) in the acquisition and transfer of excess property to the 1890 Land Grant Institutions (including Tuskegee University), 1994 Land Grant Institutions, and the Hispanic-Serving Institutions in support of research, educational, technical, and scientific activities or for related programs as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 2206a. Title to the personal property shall pass to the institution.
§ 3200.2
Eligibility.
Institutions that are eligible to receive Federal excess personal property pursuant to the provisions of this part are the 1890 Land Grant Institutions (including Tuskegee University), 1994 Land Grant Institutions, and the Hispanic-Serving Institutions conducting research, educational, technical, and scientific activities or related programs.
§ 3200.3
Definitions.
(a)
1890 Land grant institutions
—any college or university eligible to receive funds under the Act of August 30, 1890 (7 U.S.C. 321 et. seq.), including Tuskegee University.
(b)
1994 Land grant institutions
—any of the tribal colleges or universities as defined in section 532 of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 301 note).
(c)
Hispanic-serving institutions
—institutions of higher education as defined in section 316(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1059c (b)).
(d)
Property management officer
—is an authorized USDA or institution official responsible for property management.
(e)
Screener
—is an individual designated by an eligible institution and authorized by the General Services Administration (GSA) to visit property sites for the purpose of inspecting personal property intended for use by the institution.
(f)
Excess personal property
—is any personal property under the control of a Federal agency that is no longer needed.
(g)
Cannibalization
—is the dismantling of equipment for parts to repair or enhance other equipment.
§ 3200.4
Procedures.
(a) To receive information concerning the availability of Federal excess personal property, an eligible institution's property management officer may contact their regional GSA, Area Utilization Officer. For information on USDA excess personal property, visit the USDA Web site at
http://www.nfc.usda.gov/propexcs.
USDA excess property will first be screened by USDA agencies through the Departmental Excess Personal Property Coordinator (DEPPC) using the Departmental Property Management Information System.
(b) Excess property selected by screeners of eligible institutions should be inspected whenever possible, or the holding agency should be contacted to verify the condition of the items, because interpretation of condition codes varies among Federal agencies.
(c) If the condition of the item is acceptable, the institution should “freeze” (reserve) items by calling the appropriate GSA office or USDA Departmental Excess Personal Property Coordinator (DEPPC). Since GSA may have several “freezes” on a piece of equipment, it is critical that the paperwork be submitted as soon as possible. Further, while transfers of excess personal property normally will be approved by GSA on a first-come-first-serve basis, consideration will be given
to such factors as national defense requirements, emergency needs, preclusion of new procurement, energy conservation, equitable distribution, and retention of title in the Government.
(d) Eligible institutions may submit property requests by mail or fax on a Standard Form 122, “Transfer Order Excess Personal Property”.
(e) The SF-122 should be signed by the eligible institution's property management officer or authorized designee.
(1) The following information should also be provided:
(i) Date prepared.
(ii) GSA/DEPPC address.
(iii) Ordering Agency and address.
(iv) Holding Agency and address.
(v) Name and address of Institution.
(vi) Location of property.
(vii) Shipping instruction (including institution contact person and phone number).
(viii) Complete description of property including original acquisition cost, serial number, condition code, and quantity.
(2) This statement needs to be added following the property description:
“The property requested hereon is certified to be used in support of research, educational, technical, and scientific activities or for related programs. This transfer is requested pursuant to the provisions of Section 923 Pub. L. 104-127 (7 U.S.C. 2206a). Also, in accordance with these provisions USDA authorizes transfer of title of this property to the college/university/institution.”
(f) The SF-122 should be forwarded to USDA for approval and signature by an authorized USDA official. As confirmation of approval, the eligible institution's property management officer will receive a stamped copy of the SF-122. If the request is disapproved, it will be returned to the property management officer of the eligible institution with an appropriate explanation. All USDA approved SF-122's will be forwarded to DEPPC or the appropriate GSA office for final approval.
(g) Once the excess personal property is physically received, the institution is required to immediately return a copy of the SF-122 to USDA indicating receipt of requested items. Cancellations should also be reported to USDA.

# Note:
USDA shall send an informational copy of all SF-122's transactions to GSA.
[63 FR 57234, Oct. 27, 1998, as amended at 68 FR 75107, Dec. 30, 2003]
§ 3200.5
Dollar limitation.
There is no dollar limitation on excess personal property obtained under these procedures.
§ 3200.6
Restrictions.
(a) Property in the following Federal Supply Groups are prohibited from transfer.
Ineligible Federal Supply Code Groups
FSC Group
Name
10
Weapons.
11
Nuclear ordinance.
13
Ammunition and explosives.
14
Guided missiles.
18
Space vehicles.
(b) The property in the FSC's listed below are discouraged from transfer and not approved on a routine basis. However, Institutions may request items in these FSC groups, but all requests will be referred to the Director, Office of Procurement and Property Management for consideration and approval:
FSC Group
Name
15
Aircraft and airframe structural components.
16
Aircraft components and accessories.
17
Aircraft launching, landing and ground handling equipment.
20
Ship and marine equipment.
(c) Excess personal property may be transferred for the purpose of cannibalization, provided the eligible institution submits a supporting statement which clearly indicates that cannibalizing the requested property for secondary use has greater benefit than utilization of the item in its existing form.
(d) Use of the procedures in this part for the purpose of stockpiling of excess personal property for future cannibalization is prohibited. Transfer requests for the purpose of cannibalization will be considered, but are normally subordinate to requests for complete items.
[63 FR 57234, Oct. 27, 1998, as amended at 68 FR 75107, Dec. 30, 2003]
§ 3200.7
Title.
Title to excess personal property obtained under Part 3200 will automatically pass to the 1890 Land Grant Institutions (including Tuskegee University), 1994 Land Grant Institutions, and the Hispanic-Serving Institutions once USDA receives the SF-122 indicating that the institution has received the property. Note: When competing Federal claims are made for particular items of excess personal property held by agencies other than USDA, with or without payment of reimbursement, GSA will give preference to the Federal agency that will retain title in the Government.
§ 3200.8
Costs.
Excess personal property obtained under this part is provided free of charge. However, the institution must pay all costs associated with packaging and transportation. The institution should specify the method of shipment on the SF-122.
§ 3200.9
Accountability and record keeping.
USDA requires that Federal excess personal property received by an eligible institution pursuant to this part shall be placed into use for a research, educational, technical, or scientific activity, or for a related purpose, within 1 year of receipt of the property, and used for such purpose for at least 1 year thereafter. The institution's property management officer must establish and maintain accountable records identifying the property's location, description, utilization and value. To ensure that the excess personal property is being used for its intended purpose under this part, compliance reviews will be conducted by an authorized representative of USDA. The review will include site visit inspections of the property and the accountability and record keeping systems.
§ 3200.10
Disposal.
Once the requirements in § 3200.9 are met for retention and use of property by the Institution and title is transferred, Federal excess personal property (FEPP) no longer needed by an Institution will be disposed of in accordance with the Institution's disposal practices. Regardless of ownership, FEPP must never be disposed of in any manner which is detrimental or dangerous to public health or safety. Also, any costs incurred during the disposal process are the responsibility of the Institution.
[68 FR 75108, Dec. 30, 2003]
§ 3200.11
Liabilities and losses.
USDA assumes no liability with respect to accidents, bodily injury, illness, or any other damages or loss related to excess personal property transferred under this part.
Pt. 3201

# PART 3201—GUIDELINES FOR DESIGNATING BIOBASED PRODUCTS FOR FEDERAL PROCUREMENT

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
3201.1
Purpose and scope.
3201.2
Definitions.
3201.3
Applicability to Federal procurements.
3201.4
Procurement programs.
3201.5
Category designation.
3201.6
Providing product information to Federal agencies.
3201.7
Determining biobased content.
3201.8
Determining price, environmental and health benefits, and performance.
3201.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Designated Product Categories and Intermediate Ingredients or Feedstocks
3201.10
Mobile equipment hydraulic fluids.
3201.11
Roof coatings.
3201.12
Water tank coatings.
3201.13
Diesel fuel additives.
3201.14
Penetrating lubricants.
3201.15
Bedding, bed linens, and towels.
3201.16
Adhesive and mastic removers.
3201.17
Plastic insulating foam for residential and commercial construction.
3201.18
Hand cleaners and sanitizers.
3201.19
Composite panels.
3201.20
Fluid-filled transformers.
3201.21
Disposable containers.
3201.22
Fertilizers.
3201.23
Sorbents.
3201.24
Graffiti and grease removers.
3201.25
2-Cycle engine oils.
3201.26
Lip care products.
3201.27
Films.
3201.28
Stationary equipment hydraulic fluids.
3201.29
Disposable cutlery.
3201.30
Glass cleaners.
3201.31
Greases.
3201.32
Dust suppressants.
3201.33
Carpets.
3201.34
Carpet and upholstery cleaners.
3201.35
Bathroom and spa cleaners.
3201.36
Concrete and asphalt release fluids.
3201.37
De-Icers.
3201.38
Firearm cleaners, lubricants, and protectants.
3201.39
Floor strippers.
3201.40
Laundry products.
3201.41
Metalworking fluids.
3201.42
Wood and concrete sealers.
3201.43
Chain and cable lubricants.
3201.44
Corrosion preventatives.
3201.45
Food cleaners.
3201.46
Forming lubricants.
3201.47
Gear lubricants.
3201.48
General purpose household cleaners.
3201.49
Industrial cleaners.
3201.50
Multipurpose cleaners.
3201.51
Parts wash solutions.
3201.52
Disposable tableware.
3201.53
Expanded polystyrene foam recycling products.
3201.54
Heat transfer fluids.
3201.55
Ink removers and cleaners.
3201.56
Mulch and compost materials.
3201.57
Multipurpose lubricants.
3201.58
[Reserved]
3201.59
Topical pain relief products.
3201.60
Turbine drip oils.
3201.61
Animal repellents.
3201.62
Bath products.
3201.63
Bioremediation materials.
3201.64
Compost activators and accelerators.
3201.65
Concrete and asphalt cleaners.
3201.66
Cuts, burns, and abrasions ointments.
3201.67
Dishwashing products.
3201.68
Erosion control materials.
3201.69
Floor cleaners and protectors.
3201.70
Hair care products.
3201.71
Interior paints and coatings.
3201.72
Oven and grill cleaners.
3201.73
Slide way lubricants.
3201.74
Thermal shipping containers.
3201.75
Air fresheners and deodorizers.
3201.76
Asphalt and tar removers.
3201.77
Asphalt restorers.
3201.78
Blast media.
3201.79
Candles and wax melts.
3201.80
Electronic components cleaners.
3201.81
Floor coverings (non-carpet).
3201.82
Foot care products.
3201.83
Furniture cleaners and protectors.
3201.84
Inks.
3201.85
Packing and insulating materials.
3201.86
Pneumatic equipment lubricants.
3201.87
Wood and concrete stains.
3201.88
Agricultural spray adjuvants.
3201.89
Animal cleaning products.
3201.90
Deodorants.
3201.91
Dethatcher products.
3201.92
Fuel conditioners.
3201.93
Leather, vinyl, and rubber care products.
3201.94
Lotions and moisturizers.
3201.95
Shaving products.
3201.96
Specialty precision cleaners and solvents.
3201.97
Sun care products.
3201.98
Wastewater systems coatings.
3201.99
Water and wastewater treatment chemicals.
3201.100
Aircraft and boat cleaners.
3201.101
Automotive care products.
3201.102
Engine crankcase oil.
3201.103
Gasoline fuel additives.
3201.104
Metal cleaners and corrosion removers.
3201.105
Microbial cleaning products.
3201.106
Paint removers.
3201.107
Water turbine bearing oils.
3201.108
Intermediates—Plastic Resins.
3201.109
Intermediates—Chemicals.
3201.110
Intermediates—Paint and Coating Components.
3201.111
Intermediates—Textile Processing Materials.
3201.112
Intermediates—Foams.
3201.113
Intermediates—Fibers and Fabrics.
3201.114
Intermediates—Lubricant Components.
3201.115
Intermediates—Binders.
3201.116
Intermediates—Cleaner Components.
3201.117
Intermediates—Personal Care Product Components.
3201.118
Intermediates—Oils, Fats, and Waxes.
3201.119
Intermediates—Rubber Materials.
3201.120
Adhesives.
3201.121
Animal habitat care products.
3201.122
Cleaning tools.
3201.123
Concrete curing agents.
3201.124
Concrete repair materials.
3201.125
Durable cutlery.
3201.126
Durable tableware.
3201.127
Epoxy systems.
3201.128
Exterior paints and coatings.
3201.129
Facial care products.
3201.130
Feminine care products.
3201.131
Fire logs and fire starters.
3201.132
Folders and filing products.
3201.133
Foliar sprays.
3201.134
Gardening supplies and accessories.
3201.135
Heating fuels and wick lamps.
3201.136
Kitchenware and accessories.
3201.137
Other lubricants.
3201.138
Phase change materials.
3201.139
Playground and athletic surface materials.
3201.140
Powder coatings.
3201.141
Product packaging.
3201.142
Rugs and floor mats.
3201.143
Shopping and trash bags.
3201.144
Soil amendments.
3201.145
Surface guards, molding, and trim.
3201.146
Toys and sporting gear.
3201.147
Traffic and zone marking paints.
3201.148
Transmission fluids.
3201.149
Wall coverings.

# Source:
70 FR 1809, Jan. 11, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 97465, Dec. 9, 2024, Part 3201 was removed and reserved, effective Jan. 8, 2025.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 8102.

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
70 FR 1809, Jan. 11, 2005, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 76 FR 53632, Aug. 29, 2011.
§ 3201.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of the guidelines in this part is to assist procuring agencies in complying with the requirements of section 9002 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (FSRIA), Public Law 107-171, 116 Stat. 476 (7 U.S.C. 8102), as amended by the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, Public Law 110-246, 122 Stat. 1651, as they apply to the procurement of the products designated in subpart B of this part.
(b)
Scope.
The guidelines in this part establish a process for designating categories of products that are, or can be, produced with biobased components and materials and whose procurement by procuring agencies and other relevant stakeholders will carry out the objectives of section 9002 of FSRIA. The guidelines also establish a process for designating categories of intermediate ingredients and feedstocks that are, or can be, used to produce final products that will be designated and, thus, subject to Federal preferred procurement. The guidelines also establish a process for calculating the biobased content of complex assembly products, whose biobased content cannot be measured following ASTM Standard Method D6866, and for designating complex assembly product categories.
[76 FR 6321, Feb. 4, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 44654, Aug. 1, 2014]
§ 3201.2
Definitions.
These definitions apply to this part:
Agricultural materials.
Agricultural-based, including plant, animal, and marine materials, raw materials or residues used in the manufacture of commercial or industrial, nonfood/nonfeed products.
ASTM International.
ASTM International, a nonprofit organization organized in 1898, is one of the largest voluntary standards development organizations in the world with about 30,000 members in over 100 different countries. ASTM provides a forum for the development and publication of voluntary consensus standards for materials, products, systems, and services.
BEES.
An acronym for “Building for Environmental and Economic Sustainability,” an analytic tool used to determine the environmental and health benefits and life cycle costs of products and materials, developed by the U.S. Department of Commerce National Institute of Standards and Technology.
Biobased components.
Any intermediary biobased materials or parts that, in combination with other components, are functional parts of the biobased product.
Biobased content.
Biobased content shall be determined based on the amount of biobased carbon in the material or product as a percent of weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the material or product.
Biobased product.
(1) A product determined by USDA to be a commercial or industrial product (other than food or feed) that is:
(i) Composed, in whole or in significant part, of biological products, including renewable domestic agricultural materials and forestry materials; or
(ii) An intermediate ingredient or feedstock.
(2) The term “biobased product” includes, with respect to forestry materials, forest products that meet biobased content requirements, notwithstanding the market share the product holds, the age of the product, or whether the market for the product is new or emerging.
Biodegradability.
A quantitative measure of the extent to which a material is capable of being decomposed by biological agents, especially bacteria.
Biological products.
Products derived from living materials other than agricultural or forestry materials.
Complex assembly.
A system of distinct materials and components assembled to create a finished product with specific functional intent where some or all of the system inputs contain some amount of biobased material or feedstock.
Designated intermediate ingredient or feedstock category.
A generic grouping of biobased intermediate ingredients or feedstocks identified in subpart B of this part that, when comprising more than 50 percent (or another amount as specified in subpart B of this part) of a resultant final product, qualifies the resultant final product for the procurement preference established under section 9002 of FSRIA.
Designated product category.
A generic grouping of biobased products, including those final products made from designated intermediate ingredients or feedstocks, or complex assemblies identified in subpart B of this part, that is eligible for the procurement preference established under section 9002 of FSRIA.
Diluent.
A substance used to diminish the strength, scent, or other basic property of a substance.
Engineered wood products.
Products produced with a combination of wood, food fibers and adhesives.
EPA-designated recovered content product.
A product, designated under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, that is subject to Federal procurement as specified in section 6002 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6962), whereby Federal agencies must give preferred procurement to those products composed of the highest percentage of recovered materials practicable, subject to availability, cost, and performance.
FCEA.
The Food, Conservation and Energy Act of 2008, Pub. L. 110-246.
Federal agency.
Any executive agency or independent establishment in the legislative or judicial branch of the Government (except the Senate, the House of Representatives, the Architect of the Capitol, and any activities under the Architect's direction).
Filler.
A substance added to a product to increase the bulk, weight, viscosity, strength, or other property.
Forest product.
A product made from materials derived from the practice of forestry or the management of growing timber. The term “forest product” includes:
(1) Pulp, paper, paperboard, pellets, lumber, and other wood products; and
(2) Any recycled products derived from forest materials.
Forest thinnings.
Refers to woody materials removed from a dense forest, primarily to improve growth, enhance forest health, or recover potential mortality. (To recover potential mortality means to remove trees that are going to die in the near future.)
Formulated product.
A product that is prepared or mixed with other ingredients, according to a specified formula and includes more than one ingredient.
FSRIA.
The Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, Public Law 107-171, 116 Stat. 134 (7 U.S.C. 8102).
Functional unit.
A measure of product technical performance that provides a common reference to which all environmental and economic impacts of the product are scaled. This reference is necessary to ensure comparability of performance results across competing products. Comparability of results is critical when competing product alternatives are being assessed to ensure that such comparisons are made on a common basis. For example, the functional unit for competing interior paint products may be defined as “protecting one square foot of interior wall surface for 50 years.”
Ingredient.
A component; part of a compound or mixture; may be active or inactive.
Intermediate ingredient or feedstock.
A material or compound made in whole or in significant part from biological products, including renewable agricultural materials (including plant, animal, and marine materials) or forestry materials that have undergone value added processing (including thermal, chemical, biological, or a significant amount of mechanical processing), excluding harvesting operations, offered for sale by a manufacturer or vendor and that is subsequently used to make a more complex compound or product.
ISO.
The International Organization for Standardization, a network of national standards institutes from 145 countries working in partnership with
international organizations, governments, industries, business, and consumer representatives.
Neat product.
A product that is made of only one ingredient and is not diluted or mixed with other substances.
Procuring agency.
Any Federal agency that is using Federal funds for procurement or any person contracting with any Federal agency with respect to work performed under the contract.
Qualified biobased product.
A product that is eligible for Federal preferred procurement because it meets the definition and minimum biobased content criteria for one or more designated product categories, or one or more designated intermediate ingredient or feedstock categories, as specified in subpart B of this part.
Relative price.
The price of a product as compared to the price of other products on the market that have similar performance characteristics.
Relevant stakeholder.
Individuals or officers of state or local government organizations, private non-profit institutions or organizations, and private businesses or consumers.
Renewable chemical.
A monomer, polymer, plastic, formulated product, or chemical substance produced from renewable biomass.
Residues.
That which remains after a part is taken, separated, removed, or designated; a remnant; a remainder; and, for this purpose, is from agricultural materials, biological products, or forestry materials.
Secretary.
The Secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture.
Small and emerging private business enterprise.
Any private business which will employ 50 or fewer new employees and has less than $1 million in projected annual gross revenues.
Sustainably managed forests.
Refers to the practice of a land stewardship ethic that integrates the reforestation, management, growing, nurturing, and harvesting of trees for useful products while conserving soil and improving air and water quality, wildlife, fish habitat, and aesthetics.
[70 FR 1809, Jan. 11, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 13704, Mar. 16, 2006; 71 FR 42575, July 27, 2006; 76 FR 6321, Feb. 4, 2011; 79 FR 44654, Aug. 1, 2014; 80 FR 34029, June 15, 2015]
§ 3201.3
Applicability to Federal procurements.
(a)
Applicability to procurement actions.
The guidelines in this part apply to all procurement actions by procuring agencies involving items designated by USDA in this part, where the procuring agency purchases $10,000 or more worth of one of these items during the course of a fiscal year, or where the quantity of such items or of functionally equivalent items purchased during the preceding fiscal year was $10,000 or more. The $10,000 threshold applies to Federal agencies as a whole rather than to agency subgroups such as regional offices or subagencies of a larger Federal department or agency.
(b)
Exception for procurements subject to EPA regulations under the Solid Waste Disposal Act.
For any procurement by any procuring agency that is subject to regulations of the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency under section 6002 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended by the Resource Conservation Act of 1976 (40 CFR part 247), these guidelines do not apply to the extent that the requirements of this part are inconsistent with such regulations.
(c)
Procuring products composed of the highest percentage of biobased content.
Section 9002(a)(2) of FSRIA requires procuring agencies to procure qualified biobased products composed of the highest percentage of biobased content practicable or such products that comply with the regulations issued under section 103 of Public Law 100-556 (42 U.S.C. 6914b-1). Procuring agencies may decide not to procure such qualified biobased products if they are not reasonably priced or readily available or do not meet specified or reasonable performance standards.
(d) This guideline does not apply to purchases of qualified biobased products that are unrelated to or incidental to Federal funding; i.e., not the direct result of a contract or agreement with persons supplying items to a procuring agency or providing support services that include the supply or use of products.
(e)
Exemptions.
The following applications are exempt from the preferred procurement requirements of this part:
(1) Military equipment: Products or systems designed or procured for combat or combat-related missions.
(2) Spacecraft systems and launch support equipment.
[71 FR 42575, July 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 27953, May 14, 2008; 76 FR 6321, Feb. 4, 2011; 79 FR 44655, Aug. 1, 2014]
§ 3201.4
Procurement programs.
(a)
Integration into the Federal procurement framework.
The Office of Federal Procurement Policy, in cooperation with USDA, has the responsibility to coordinate this policy's implementation in the Federal procurement regulations. These guidelines are not intended to address full implementation of these requirements into the Federal procurement framework. This will be accomplished through revisions to the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
(b)
Federal agency preferred procurement programs.
(1) On or before July 31, 2015, each Federal agency shall develop a procurement program which will assure that qualified biobased products are purchased to the maximum extent practicable and which is consistent with applicable provisions of Federal procurement laws. Each procurement program shall contain:
(i) A preference program for purchasing qualified biobased products;
(ii) A promotion program to promote the preference program;
(iii) Provisions for the annual review and monitoring of the effectiveness of the procurement program; and
(iv) Provisions for reporting quantities and types of biobased products purchased by the Federal agency.
(2) In developing the preference program, Federal agencies shall adopt one of the following options, or a substantially equivalent alternative, as part of the procurement program:
(i) A policy of awarding contracts on a case-by-case basis to the vendor offering a qualified biobased product composed of the highest percentage of biobased content practicable except when such products:
(A) Are not available within a reasonable time;
(B) Fail to meet performance standards set forth in the applicable specifications, or the reasonable performance standards of the Federal agency; or
(C) Are available only at an unreasonable price.
(ii) A policy of setting minimum biobased content specifications in such a way as to assure that the required biobased content of qualified biobased products is consistent with section 9002 of FSRIA and the requirements of the guidelines in this part except when such products:
(A) Are not available within a reasonable time;
(B) Fail to meet performance standards for the use to which they will be put, or the reasonable performance standards of the Federal agency; or
(C) Are available only at an unreasonable price.
(3) In implementing the preference program, Federal agencies shall treat as eligible for the preference biobased products from “designated countries,” as that term is defined in section 25.003 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, provided that those products otherwise meet all requirements for participation in the preference program.
(4) No later than June 15, 2016, each Federal agency shall establish a targeted biobased-only procurement requirement under which the procuring agency shall issue a certain number of biobased-only contracts when the procuring agency is purchasing products, or purchasing services that include the use of products, that are included in a biobased product category designated by the Secretary.
(c)
Procurement specifications.
After the publication date of each designated product category and each designated intermediate ingredient or feedstock category, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products procured by Federal agencies shall ensure within a specified time frame that their specifications require the use of qualified biobased products, consistent with the guidelines in this part. USDA will specify the allowable time frame in each designation rule. The biobased content of qualified biobased products within a designated product category or a designated intermediate ingredient or feedstock category may vary considerably from product to product
based on the mix of ingredients used in its manufacture. Likewise, the biobased content of qualified biobased products that qualify because they are made from materials within designated intermediate ingredient or feedstock categories may also vary significantly. In procuring qualified biobased products, the percentage of biobased content should be maximized, consistent with achieving the desired performance for the product.
[70 FR 1809, Jan. 11, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 42575, July 27, 2006; 76 FR 6322, Feb. 4, 2011; 79 FR 44655, Aug. 1, 2014; 80 FR 34029, June 15, 2015]
§ 3201.5
Category designation.
(a)
Procedure.
Designated product categories, designated intermediate ingredient or feedstock categories, and designated final product categories composed of qualifying intermediate ingredients or feedstocks are listed in subpart B of this part.
(1) In designating product categories, USDA will designate categories composed of generic groupings of specific products or complex assemblies and will identify the minimum biobased content for each listed category or subcategory. As product categories are designated for procurement preference, they will be added to subpart B of this part.
(2) In designating intermediate ingredient or feedstock categories, USDA will designate categories composed of generic groupings of specific intermediate ingredients or feedstocks, and will identify the minimum biobased content for each listed category or sub-category. As categories are designated for product qualification, they will be added to subpart B of this part. USDA encourages manufacturers and vendors of intermediate ingredients or feedstocks to provide USDA with information relevant to significant potential applications for intermediate ingredients or feedstocks, including estimates of typical formulation rates.
(3) During the process of designating intermediate ingredient or feedstock categories, USDA will also gather information on the various types of final products that are, or can be, made from those intermediate ingredients or feedstocks. Final products that fall within existing designated product categories will be subject to the minimum biobased content requirements for those product categories, as specified in subpart B of this part. New product categories that are identified during the information gathering process will be listed in the
Federal Register
proposed rule for designating the intermediate ingredient or feedstock categories. A minimum biobased content for each of the final product categories will also be identified based on the amount of designated intermediate ingredients or feedstocks such products contain. Public comment will be invited on the list of potential final product categories, and the minimum biobased content for each, as well as on the intermediate ingredient and feedstock categories being proposed for designation. Public comments on the list of potential final product categories will be considered, along with any additional information gathered by USDA, and the list will be finalized. When the final rule designating the intermediate ingredient or feedstock categories, by adding them to subpart B of this part, is published in the
Federal Register,
the list of final product categories will also be added to subpart B of this part. Once these final product categories are listed in subpart B of this part, they will become eligible for the Federal procurement preference.
(b)
Considerations.
(1) In designating product categories and intermediate ingredient or feedstock categories, USDA will consider the availability of qualified biobased products and the economic and technological feasibility of using such products, including price. USDA will gather information on individual qualified biobased products within a category and extrapolate that information to the category level for consideration in designating categories.
(2) In designating product categories and intermediate ingredient or feedstock categories for the BioPreferred Program, USDA will consider as eligible only those products that use innovative approaches in the growing, harvesting, sourcing, procuring, processing, manufacturing, or application of the biobased product. USDA will consider products that meet one or
more of the criteria in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section to be eligible for the BioPreferred Program. USDA will also consider other documentation of innovative approaches in the growing, harvesting, sourcing, procuring, processing, manufacturing, or application of biobased products on a case-by-case basis. USDA may exclude from the BioPreferred Program any products whose manufacturers are unable to provide USDA with the documentation necessary to verify claims that innovative approaches are used in the growing, harvesting, sourcing, procuring, processing, manufacturing, or application of their biobased products.
(i)
Product applications.
(A) The biobased product or material is used or applied in applications that differ from historical applications; or
(B) The biobased product or material is grown, harvested, manufactured, processed, sourced, or applied in other innovative ways; or
(C) The biobased content of the product or material makes its composition different from products or material used for the same historical uses or applications.
(ii)
Manufacturing and processing.
(A) The biobased product or material is manufactured or processed using renewable, biomass energy or using technology that is demonstrated to increase energy efficiency or reduce reliance on fossil-fuel based energy sources; or
(B) The biobased product or material is manufactured or processed with technologies that ensure high feedstock material recovery and use.
(iii)
Environmental Product Declaration.
The product has a current Environmental Product Declaration as defined by International Standard ISO 14025, Environmental Labels and Declarations—Type III Environmental Declarations—Principles and Procedures.
(iv)
Raw material sourcing.
(A) The raw material used in the product is sourced from a Legal Source, a Responsible Source, or a Certified Source as designated by ASTM D7612-10, Standard Practice for Categorizing Wood and Wood-Based Products According to Their Fiber Sources; or
(B) The raw material used in the product is 100% resourced or recycled (such as material obtained from building deconstruction); or
(C) The raw material used in the product is from an urban environment and is acquired as a result of activities related to a natural disaster, land clearing, right-of-way maintenance, tree health improvement, or public safety.
(c)
Exclusions.
Motor vehicle fuels, heating oil, and electricity are excluded by statute from this program.
[79 FR 44655, Aug. 1, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 34029, June 15, 2015]
§ 3201.6
Providing product information to Federal agencies.
(a)
Informational Web site.
An informational USDA Web site implementing section 9002 of FSRIA can be found at:
http://www.biopreferred.gov.
USDA will maintain a voluntary Web-based information site for manufacturers and vendors of qualified biobased products and Federal agencies to exchange information, as described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1)
Product information.
The Web site will, as determined to be necessary by the Secretary based on the availability of data, provide information as to the availability, price, biobased content, performance and environmental and public health benefits of the designated product categories and designated intermediate ingredient or feedstock categories. USDA encourages manufacturers and vendors to provide product and business contact information for designated categories. Instructions for posting information are found on the Web site itself. USDA also encourages Federal agencies to utilize this Web site to obtain current information on designated categories, contact information on manufacturers and vendors, and access to information on product characteristics relevant to procurement decisions. In addition to any information provided on the Web site, manufacturers and vendors are expected to provide relevant information to Federal agencies, subject to the limitations specified in § 3201.8(a), with respect to product characteristics, including verification of such characteristics if requested.
(2)
National Testing Center Registry.
The Web site will include an electronic listing of recognized industry standard testing organizations that will serve biobased product manufacturers such as ASTM International, Society of Automotive Engineers, and the American Petroleum Institute. USDA encourages stakeholders to submit information on other possible testing resources to the BioPreferred program for inclusion.
(b)
Advertising, labeling and marketing claims.
Manufacturers and vendors are reminded that their advertising, labeling, and other marketing claims, including claims regarding health and environmental benefits of the product, must conform to the Federal Trade Commission “Guides for the Use of Environmental Marketing Claims,” 16 CFR part 260 (
see: http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/waisidx_08/16cfr260_08.html
). For further requirements, click on the link to the “Guidelines for Marketing the BioPreferred Program.”
[70 FR 1809, Jan. 11, 2005, as amended at 76 FR 6322, Feb. 4, 2011; 79 FR 44656, Aug. 1, 2014; 80 FR 34030, June 15, 2015]
§ 3201.7
Determining biobased content.
(a)
Certification requirements.
For any qualified biobased product offered for preferred procurement, manufacturers and vendors must certify that the product meets the biobased content requirements for the designated product category or designated intermediate ingredient or feedstock category within which the qualified biobased product falls. Paragraph (c) of this section addresses how to determine biobased content. Upon request, manufacturers and vendors must provide USDA and Federal agencies information to verify biobased content for products certified to qualify for preferred procurement.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
Unless specified otherwise in the designation of a particular product category or intermediate ingredient or feedstock category, the minimum biobased content requirements in a specific category designation refer to the organic carbon portion of the product, and not the entire product.
(c)
Determining biobased content.
Verification of biobased content must be based on third party ASTM/ISO compliant test facility testing using the ASTM Standard Method D6866, “Standard Test Methods for Determining the Biobased Content of Solid, Liquid, and Gaseous Samples Using Radiocarbon Analysis.” ASTM Standard Method D6866 determines biobased content based on the amount of biobased carbon in the material or product as percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the material or product.
(1)
Biobased products, intermediate ingredients or feedstocks.
Biobased content will be based on the amount of biobased carbon in the product or material as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the product or material.
(2)
Final products composed of designated intermediate ingredient or feedstock materials.
The biobased content of final products composed of designated intermediate ingredient or feedstock materials will be determined by calculating the percentage by weight (mass) that the biobased component of each designated intermediate ingredient or feedstock material represents of the total organic carbon content of the final product and summing the results (if more than one designated intermediate ingredient or feedstock is used). If the final product also contains biobased content from intermediate ingredient or feedstock material that is not designated, the percentage by weight that these biobased ingredients represent of the total organic carbon content should be included in the calculation.
(3)
Complex assemblies.
The biobased content of a complex assembly product, where the product has “n” components whose biobased and organic carbon content can be experimentally determined, will be calculated using the following equation:
ER01AU14.001
Where:
M
i
= mass of the nth component
BCC
i
= biobased carbon content of the nth component (%)
OCC
i
= organic carbon content of the nth component (%)
(d)
Products and intermediate ingredients or feedstocks with the same formulation.
In the case of products and intermediate ingredients or feedstocks that are essentially the same formulation, but marketed under more than one brand name, biobased content test data need not be brand-name specific.
[79 FR 44656, Aug. 1, 2014]
§ 3201.8
Determining price, environmental and health benefits, and performance.
(a)
Providing information on price and environmental and health benefits.
Federal agencies may not require manufacturers or vendors of qualified biobased products to provide to procuring agencies more data than would be required of other manufacturers or vendors offering products for sale to a procuring agency (aside from data confirming the biobased contents of the products) as a condition of the purchase of biobased products from the manufacturer or vendor. USDA will work with manufacturers and vendors to collect information needed to estimate the price of biobased products, complex assemblies, intermediate materials or feedstocks as part of the designation process, including application units, average unit cost, and application frequency. USDA encourages industry stakeholders to provide information on environmental and public health benefits based on industry accepted analytical approaches including, but not limited to: Material carbon footprint analysis, the ASTM D7075 standard for evaluating and reporting on environmental performance of biobased products, the International Standards Organization ISO 14040, the ASTM International life-cycle cost method (E917) and multi-attribute decision analysis (E1765), the British Standards Institution PAS 2050, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology BEES analytical tool. USDA will make such stakeholder-supplied information available on the BioPreferred Web site.
(b)
Performance test information.
In assessing performance of qualified biobased products, USDA requires that procuring agencies rely on results of performance tests using applicable ASTM, ISO, Federal or military specifications, or other similarly authoritative industry test standards. Such testing must be conducted by a laboratory compliant with the requirements of the standards body. The procuring official will decide whether performance data must be brand-name specific in the case of products that are essentially of the same formulation.
(c)
Biodegradability information.
If biodegradability is claimed by the manufacturer of a qualifying biobased product as a characteristic of that product, USDA requires that, if requested by procuring agencies, these claims be verified using the appropriate, product-specific ASTM biodegradability standard(s). Such testing must be conducted by an ASTM/ISO-compliant laboratory. The procuring official will decide whether biodegradability data must be brand-name specific in the case of products that are essentially of the same formulation. ASTM biodegradability standards include:
(1) D5338 “Standard Test Method for Determining Aerobic Biodegradation of Plastic Materials Under Controlled Composting Conditions”;
(2) D5864 “Standard Test Method for Determining the Aerobic Aquatic Biodegradation of Lubricants or Their Components”;
(3) D6006 “Standard Guide for Assessing Biodegradability of Hydraulic Fluids”;
(4) D6400 “Standard Specification for Compostable Plastics” and the standards cited therein;
(5) D6139 “Standard Test Method for Determining the Aerobic Aquatic Biodegradation of Lubricants or Their Components Using the Gledhill Shake Flask”;
(6) D6868 “Standard Specification for Biodegradable Plastics Used as Coatings on Paper and Other Compostable Substrates”; and
(7) D7081 “Standard Specification for Non-Floating Biodegradable Plastics in the Marine Environment.”
[70 FR 1809, Jan. 11, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 13704, Mar. 16, 2006; 71 FR 42575, July 27, 2006; 76 FR 6322, Feb. 4, 2011; 79 FR 44657, Aug. 1, 2014]
§ 3201.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Designated Product Categories and Intermediate Ingredients or Feedstocks

# Source:
71 FR 13705, Mar. 16, 2006, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 76 FR 53632, Aug. 29, 2011.
§ 3201.10
Mobile equipment hydraulic fluids.
(a)
Definition.
Hydraulic fluids formulated for general use in non-stationary equipment, such as tractors, end loaders, or backhoes.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content is 44 percent and shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference effective date.
No later than March 16, 2007, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased mobile equipment hydraulic fluids. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased mobile equipment hydraulic fluids.
(d)
Determining overlap with an EPA-designated recovered content product.
Qualifying biobased products that fall under this item may, in some cases, overlap with the following EPA-designated recovered content product: Re-refined Lubricating Oils. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information for the BioPreferred Web site of qualifying biobased products about the intended uses of the product, information on whether or not the product contains petroleum-based ingredients, re-refined oil, and/or any other recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether or not a qualifying biobased product overlaps with EPA-designated lubricating oils containing re-refined oil and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Mobile equipment hydraulic fluid products within this designated item can compete with similar lubricating oils containing re-refined oil. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency designated lubricating oils containing re-refined oil as items for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.11.
[71 FR 13705, Mar. 16, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 27953, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.11
Roof coatings.
(a)
Definition.
Coatings formulated for use in commercial roof deck systems to provide a single-coat monolith coating system.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content is 20 percent and shall be based on the entire product.
(c)
Preference effective date.
No later than March 16, 2007, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased roof coatings. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased roof coatings.
(d)
Determining overlap with an EPA-designated recovered content product.
Qualifying biobased products that fall under this item may, in some cases, overlap with the following EPA-designated recovered content product:
Roofing Materials. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information for the BioPreferred Web site of qualifying biobased products about the intended uses of the product, information on whether or not the product contains any type of recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether or not a qualifying biobased product overlaps with recovered content roofing materials and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Roof coating products within this designated item can compete with similar roofing material products. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency designated roofing material containing recycled material as items for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.12.
[71 FR 13705, Mar. 16, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 27953, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.12
Water tank coatings.
(a)
Definition.
Coatings formulated for use in potable water storage systems.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content is 59 percent and shall be based on the entire product.
(c)
Preference effective date.
No later than November 20, 2007, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased water tank coatings. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased water tank coatings.
[71 FR 13705, Mar. 16, 2006, as amended at 71 FR 67032, Nov. 20, 2006]
§ 3201.13
Diesel fuel additives.
(a)
Definition.
(1) Any substance, other than one composed solely of carbon and/or hydrogen, that is intentionally added to diesel fuel (including any added to a motor vehicle's fuel system) and that is not intentionally removed prior to sale or use.
(2) Neat biodiesel, also referred to as B100, when used as an additive. Diesel fuel additive does not mean neat biodiesel when used as a fuel or blended biodiesel fuel (e.g., B20).
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content is 90 percent and shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference effective date.
No later than March 16, 2007, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased diesel fuel additives. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased diesel fuel additives.
[71 FR 13705, Mar. 16, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 27953, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.14
Penetrating lubricants.
(a)
Definition.
Products formulated to provide light lubrication and corrosion resistance in close tolerant internal and external applications including frozen nuts and bolts, power tools, gears, valves, chains, and cables.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content is 68 percent and shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference effective date.
No later than March 16, 2007, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased penetrating lubricants. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased penetrating lubricants.
(d)
Determining overlap with an EPA-designated recovered content product.
Qualifying biobased products that fall under this item may, in some cases,
overlap with the following EPA-designated recovered content product: Re-refined Lubricating Oils. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information for the BioPreferred Web site of qualifying biobased products about the intended uses of the product, information on whether or not the product contains petroleum-based ingredients, re-refined oil, and/or any other recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether or not a qualifying biobased product overlaps with EPA-designated lubricating oils containing re-refined oil and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Penetrating lubricant products within this designated item can compete with similar re-refined lubricating oil products. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency designated re-refined lubricating oils containing recycled material as items for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.11.
[71 FR 13705, Mar. 16, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 27953, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.15
Bedding, bed linens, and towels.
(a)
Definition.
(1) Bedding is that group of woven cloth products used as coverings on a bed. Bedding includes products such as blankets, bedspreads, comforters, and quilts.
(2) Bed linens are woven cloth sheets and pillowcases used in bedding.
(3) Towels are woven cloth products used primarily for drying and wiping.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content is 12 percent and shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the finished product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product. The 12 percent biobased content must be of a qualifying biobased feedstock. Cotton, wool, linen, and silk are not qualifying biobased feedstocks for the purpose of determining the biobased content of bedding, bed linens, and towels.
(c)
Preference effective date.
No later than November 20, 2007, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased bedding, bed linens, and towels. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased bedding, bed linens, and towels.
[71 FR 13705, Mar. 16, 2006, as amended at 71 FR 67032, Nov. 20, 2006]
§ 3201.16
Adhesive and mastic removers.
(a)
Definition.
Solvent products formulated for use in removing asbestos, carpet, and tile mastics as well as adhesive materials, including glue, tape, and gum, from various surface types.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a biobased content of at least 58 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased adhesive and mastic removers. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased adhesive and mastic removers.
[73 FR 27953, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.17
Plastic insulating foam for residential and commercial construction.
(a)
Definition.
Spray-in-place plastic foam products designed to provide a sealed thermal barrier for residential or commercial construction applications.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a biobased content of at least 7 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon
in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased plastic insulating foam for residential and commercial construction. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased plastic insulating foam for residential and commercial construction.
(d)
Determining overlap with an EPA-designated recovered content product.
Qualifying biobased products that fall under this item may, in some cases, overlap with the EPA-designated recovered content product: Building Insulation. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information on the BioPreferred Web site of qualifying biobased products about the intended uses of the product, information on whether or not the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether or not a qualifying biobased product overlaps with EPA-designated building insulation and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Biobased insulating products within this designated item can compete with similar insulating products with recycled content. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency designated building insulation containing recovered materials as items for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.12. EPA provides recovered materials content recommendations for building insulation products in the Recovered Materials Advisory Notice (RMAN) published for these products. The RMAN recommendations can be found by accessing EPA's Web site
http://www.epa.gov/epaoswer/non-hw/procure/products.htm
and then clicking on the appropriate product name.
[73 FR 27953, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.18
Hand cleaners and sanitizers.
(a)
Definitions
—(1)
Hand cleaners.
Products formulated for personal care use in removing a variety of different soils, greases, and similar substances from human hands with or without the use of water.
(2)
Hand sanitizers.
Products formulated for personal care use in removing bacteria from human hands with or without the use of water. Personal care products that are formulated for use in removing a variety of different soils, greases and similar substances and bacteria from human hands with or without the use of water are classified as hand sanitizers for the purposes of this rule.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content requirement for all hand cleaners and/or sanitizers shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product. The applicable minimum biobased contents are:
(1) Hand cleaners—64 percent.
(2) Hand sanitizers (including hand cleaners and sanitizers)—73 percent.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased hand cleaners and sanitizers. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased hand cleaners and sanitizers.
[73 FR 27953, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.19
Composite panels.
(a)
Definitions
—(1)
Plastic lumber composite panels.
Engineered products suitable for non-structural outdoor needs such as exterior signs, trash can holders, and dimensional letters.
(2)
Acoustical composite panels.
Engineered products designed for use as
structural and sound deadening material suitable for office partitions and doors.
(3)
Interior panels.
Engineered products designed specifically for interior applications and providing a surface that is impact-, scratch-, and wear-resistant and that does not absorb or retain moisture.
(4)
Structural interior panels.
Engineered products designed for use in structural construction applications, including cabinetry, casework, paneling, and decorative panels.
(5)
Structural wall panels.
Engineered products designed for use in structural walls, curtain walls, floors and flat roofs in commercial buildings.
(6)
Countertops.
Engineered products designed to serve as horizontal work surfaces in locations such as kitchens, break rooms or other food preparation areas, bathrooms or lavatories, and workrooms.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content requirement for all composite panels shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product. The applicable minimum biobased contents are:
(1) Plastic lumber composite panels—23 percent.
(2) Acoustical composite panels—37 percent.
(3) Interior panels—55 percent.
(4) Structural interior panels—89 percent.
(5) Structural wall panels—94 percent.
(6) Countertops—89 percent.
(c)
Preference compliance dates.
(1) No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for those qualifying biobased composite panels specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased composite panels.
(2) No later than June 11, 2014, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for those qualifying biobased composite panels specified in paragraph (a)(6) of this section. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased composite panels.
(d)
Determining overlap with an EPA-designated recovered content product.
Qualifying biobased products that fall under this item may, in some cases, overlap with the following EPA-designated recovered content products: Laminated Paperboard and Structural Fiberboard; Shower and Restroom Dividers; and Signage. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information on the BioPreferred Web site of qualifying biobased products about the intended uses of the product, information on whether or not the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether or not a qualifying biobased product overlaps with EPA-designated laminated paperboard, structural fiberboard, shower and restroom dividers, and signage, and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Composite panel products within this designated item can be made with recycled material. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency designated laminated paperboard and structural fiberboard, shower and restroom dividers, and signage containing recovered materials as items for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.12. EPA provides recovered materials content recommendations for laminated paperboard and structural fiberboard, shower and restroom dividers, and signage in the Recovered Materials Advisory Notice (RMAN) published for these products. The RMAN recommendations can be found by accessing EPA's Web site
http://www.epa.gov/epaoswer/non-hw/procure/products.htm
and then clicking on the appropriate product name.
[73 FR 27953, May 14, 2008, as amended at 78 FR 34872, June 11, 2013]
§ 3201.20
Fluid-filled transformers.
(a)
Definition
—(1)
Synthetic ester-based fluid-filled transformers.
Electric power transformers that are designed to utilize a synthetic ester-based dielectric (non-conducting) fluid to provide insulating and cooling properties.
(2)
Vegetable oil-based fluid-filled transformers.
Electric power transformers that are designed to utilize a vegetable oil-based dielectric (non-conducting) fluid to provide insulating and cooling properties.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content requirement for all fluid-filled transformers shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product. The applicable minimum biobased contents are:
(1) Synthetic ester-based fluid-filled transformers—66 percent.
(2) Vegetable oil-based fluid-filled transformers—95 percent.
(c)
Preference compliance date
—(1)
Synthetic ester-based fluid-filled transformers.
Determination of the compliance date for synthetic ester-based fluid-filled transformers is deferred until USDA identifies two or more manufacturers of synthetic ester-based fluid-filled transformers. At that time, USDA will publish a document in the
Federal Register
announcing that Federal agencies have one year from the date of publication to give procurement preference to biobased synthetic ester-based fluid-filled transformers.
(2)
Vegetable oil-based fluid-filled transformers.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased vegetable oil-based fluid-filled transformers. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased vegetable oil-based fluid-filled transformers.
[73 FR 27953, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.21
Disposable containers.
(a)
Definition.
Products designed to be used for temporary storage or transportation of materials including, but not limited to, food items.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a biobased content of at least 72 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Biodegradability.
At the time a manufacturer offers a product under this item for Federal purchase under the BioPreferred Program, the preferred procurement product must be capable of meeting the current version of ASTM D6400 if disposed of in a non-marine environment, the current version of ASTM D7081 if disposed of in a marine environment, or other appropriate and applicable standard for biodegradability.
(d)
Determining overlap with an EPA-designated recovered content product.
Qualifying biobased products that fall under this item may, in some cases, overlap with the EPA-designated recovered content product: Paper and Paper Products. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information on the BioPreferred Web site of qualifying biobased products about the intended uses of the product, information on whether or not the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether or not a qualifying biobased product overlaps with EPA-designated paper and paper products and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Disposable containers can include boxes and packaging made from paper. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency designated paper and paper products containing recovered materials as items for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.10. EPA provides recovered materials content recommendations for paper and paper products in the Recovered Materials Advisory Notice (RMAN) published for these products. The
RMAN recommendations can be found on EPA's Web site
http://www.epa.gov/epaoswer/non-hw/procure/products.htm
and then clicking on the appropriate product name.
(e)
Preference compliance date.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased disposable containers. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased disposable containers.
[73 FR 27953, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.22
Fertilizers.
(a)
Definition.
Products formulated or processed to provide nutrients for plant growth and/or beneficial bacteria to convert nutrients into plant usable forms. Biobased fertilizers, which are likely to consist mostly of biobased components, may include both biobased and chemical components.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# ):
Biobased fertilizers, as well as other fertilizers, may be made with recycled hazardous waste. Such fertilizers need to meet applicable land disposal restriction standards for any hazardous constituents they contain, as required under 40 CFR 266.20(d).
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a biobased content of at least 71 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased fertilizers. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased fertilizers.
(d)
Determining overlap with an EPA-designated recovered content product.
Qualifying biobased products that fall under this item may, in some cases, overlap with the EPA-designated recovered content product: Fertilizer. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information on the BioPreferred Web site of qualifying biobased products about the intended uses of the product, information on whether or not the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether or not a qualifying biobased product overlaps with EPA-designated fertilizer product and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Fertilizers within this designated item can be made with recycled materials. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency designated fertilizers containing recovered materials as items for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.15. EPA provides recovered materials content recommendations for fertilizers in the Recovered Materials Advisory Notice (RMAN) published for these products. The RMAN recommendations can be found by accessing EPA's Web site
http://www.epa.gov/epaoswer/non-hw/procure/products.htm
and then clicking on the appropriate product name.
[73 FR 27953, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.23
Sorbents.
(a)
Definition.
Materials formulated for use in the cleanup and bioremediation of oil and chemical spills, the disposal of liquid materials, or the prevention of leakage or leaching in maintenance applications, shop floors, and fuel storage areas.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a biobased content of at least 89 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased sorbents. By that date, Federal agencies that have the
responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased sorbents.
(d)
Determining overlap with an EPA-designated recovered content product.
Qualifying biobased products that fall under this item may, in some cases, overlap with the EPA-designated recovered content product: Sorbents. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information on the BioPreferred Web site of qualifying biobased products about the intended uses of the product, information on whether or not the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether or not a qualifying biobased product overlaps with EPA-designated sorbents and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Sorbents within this designated item can be made with recycled materials. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency designated sorbents containing recovered materials as items for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.17. EPA provides recovered materials content recommendations for sorbents in the Recovered Materials Advisory Notice (RMAN) published for these products. The RMAN recommendations can be found by accessing EPA's Web site
http://www.epa.gov/epaoswer/non-hw/procure/products.htm
and then clicking on the appropriate product name.
[73 FR 27953, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.24
Graffiti and grease removers.
(a)
Definition.
Industrial solvent products formulated to remove automotive, industrial, or kitchen soils and oils, including grease, paint, and other coatings, from hard surfaces.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a biobased content of at least 34 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product. If the finished product is to be diluted before use, the biobased content of the remover must be determined before dilution.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying graffiti and grease removers. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased graffiti and grease removers.
[73 FR 27953, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.25
2-Cycle engine oils.
(a)
Definition.
Lubricants designed for use in 2-cycle engines to provide lubrication, decreased spark plug fouling, reduced deposit formation, and/or reduced engine wear.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a biobased content of at least 34 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased 2-cycle engine oils. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased 2-cycle engine oils.
[73 FR 27973, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.26
Lip care products.
(a)
Definition.
Personal care products formulated to replenish the moisture and/or prevent drying of the lips.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a biobased content of at least 82 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the
weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased lip care products. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased lip care products.
[73 FR 27973, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.27
Films.
(a)
Definition.
(1) Products that are used in packaging, wrappings, linings, and other similar applications.
(2) Films for which preferred procurement applies are:
(i)
Semi-durable films.
Films that are designed to resist water, ammonia, and other compounds, to be re-used, and to not readily biodegrade. Products in this item are typically used in the production of bags and packaging materials.
(ii)
Non-durable films.
Films that are intended for single use for short-term storage or protection before being discarded. Non-durable films that are designed to have longer lives when used are included in this item.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content for all films shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product. The applicable minimum biobased contents are:
(1) Semi-durable films—45 percent.
(2) Non-durable films—85 percent.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased semi-durable and non-durable films. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased semi-durable and non-durable films.
(d)
Determining overlap with an EPA-designated recovered content product.
Qualifying products within the semi-durable films subcategory may overlap with the EPA-designated recovered content product: Plastic trash bags. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information for the BioPreferred Web site of qualifying biobased products about the intended uses of the product, information on whether or not the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether or not a qualifying biobased product overlaps with EPA-designated plastic trash bags and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Biobased semi-durable film products within this designated item can compete with plastic trash bag products with recycled content. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency designated plastic trash bags containing recovered materials as items for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.16. EPA provides recovered materials content recommendations for plastic trash bags in the May 1, 1995, Recovered Materials Advisory Notice (RMAN I). The RMAN recommendations can be found on EPA's Web site
http://www.epa.gov/epaoswer/non-hw/procure/products.htm
and then clicking on the appropriate product name.
[73 FR 27973, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.28
Stationary equipment hydraulic fluids.
(a)
Definition.
Fluids formulated for use in stationary hydraulic equipment systems that have various mechanical parts, such as cylinders, pumps, valves, pistons, and gears, that are used for the transmission of power (and also for lubrication and/or wear, rust, and oxidation protection).
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a biobased content of at least 44 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased stationary equipment hydraulic fluids. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased stationary equipment hydraulic fluids.
(d)
Determining overlap with an EPA-designated recovered content product.
Qualifying biobased products that fall under this item may, in some cases, overlap with the EPA-designated recovered content product: Re-refined lubricating oils. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information for the BioPreferred Web site of qualifying biobased products about the intended uses of the product, information on whether or not the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether or not a qualifying biobased product overlaps with EPA-designated re-refined lubricating oils and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Stationary equipment hydraulic fluid products within this designated item can compete with hydraulic fluid products with recycled content. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency designated re-refined lubricating oils containing recovered materials as items for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.11. EPA provides recovered materials content recommendations for re-refined lubricating oils in the May 1, 1995, Recovered Materials Advisory Notice (RMAN I). The RMAN recommendations can be found by accessing EPA's Web site
http://www.epa.gov/epaoswer/non-hw/procure/products.htm
and then clicking on the appropriate product name.
[73 FR 27973, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.29
Disposable cutlery.
(a)
Definition.
Hand-held, disposable utensils designed for one-time use in eating food.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a biobased content of at least 48 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased disposable cutlery. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased disposable cutlery.
[73 FR 27973, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.30
Glass cleaners.
(a)
Definition.
Cleaning products designed specifically for use in cleaning glass surfaces, such as windows, mirrors, car windows, and computer monitors.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a biobased content of at least 49 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product. If the finished product is to be diluted before use, the biobased content of the cleaner must be determined before dilution.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased glass cleaners. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased glass cleaners.
[73 FR 27973, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.31
Greases.
(a)
Definitions.
(1) Lubricants composed of oils thickened to a semisolid
or solid consistency using soaps, polymers or other solids, or other thickeners.
(2) Greases for which preferred procurement applies are:
(i)
Food grade greases.
Lubricants that are designed for use on food-processing equipment as a protective anti-rust film, as a release agent on gaskets or seals of tank closures, or on machine parts and equipment in locations in which there is exposure of the lubricated part to food.
(ii)
Multipurpose greases.
Lubricants that are designed for general use.
(iii)
Rail track greases.
Lubricants that are designed for use on railroad tracks or heavy crane tracks.
(iv)
Truck greases.
Lubricants that are designed for use on the fifth wheel of tractor trailer trucks onto which the semi-trailer rests and pivots.
(v)
Greases not elsewhere specified.
Lubricants that meet the general definition of greases as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, but are not otherwise covered by paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content for all greases shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product. The applicable minimum biobased contents are:
(1) Food grade grease—42 percent.
(2) Multipurpose grease—72 percent.
(3) Rail track grease—30 percent.
(4) Truck grease—71 percent.
(5) Greases not elsewhere specified—75 percent.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased greases. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased greases.
[73 FR 27973, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.32
Dust suppressants.
(a)
Definition.
Products formulated to reduce or eliminate the spread of dust associated with gravel roads, dirt parking lots, or similar sources of dust, including products used in equivalent indoor applications.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a biobased content of at least 85 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product. If the finished product is to be diluted before use, the biobased content of the suppressant must be determined before dilution.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased dust suppressants. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased dust suppressants.
[73 FR 27973, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.33
Carpets.
(a)
Definition.
Floor coverings composed of woven, tufted, or knitted fiber and a backing system.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a biobased content of at least 7 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased carpet. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased carpet.
(d)
Determining overlap with an EPA-designated recovered content product.
Qualifying biobased products that fall under this item may, in some cases, overlap with the EPA-designated recovered content product: Carpets (polyester). USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased
products provide information for the BioPreferred Web site of qualifying biobased products about the intended uses of the product, information on whether or not the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether or not a qualifying biobased product overlaps with EPA-designated carpets (polyester) and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Biobased carpets within this designated item can compete with polyester carpet products with recycled content. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency designated carpets (polyester) containing recovered materials as items for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.12. EPA provides recovered materials content recommendations for carpets (polyester) in the May 1, 1995, Recovered Materials Advisory Notice (RMAN I). The RMAN recommendations can be found on EPA's Web site
http://www.epa.gov/epaoswer/non-hw/procure/products.htm
and then clicking on the appropriate product name.
[73 FR 27973, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.34
Carpet and upholstery cleaners.
(a)
Definition.
(1) Cleaning products formulated specifically for use in cleaning carpets and upholstery, through a dry or wet process, found in locations such as houses, cars, and workplaces.
(2) Carpet and upholstery cleaners for which preferred procurement applies are:
(i)
General purpose cleaners.
Carpet and upholstery cleaners formulated for use in cleaning large areas such as the carpet in an entire room or the upholstery on an entire piece of furniture.
(ii)
Spot removers.
Carpet and upholstery cleaners formulated for use in removing spots or stains in a small confined area.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content for all carpet and upholstery cleaners shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product. The applicable minimum biobased contents are:
(1) General purpose cleaners—54 percent.
(2) Spot removers—7 percent.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased carpet and upholstery cleaners. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased carpet and upholstery cleaners.
[73 FR 27973, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.35
Bathroom and spa cleaners.
(a)
Definition.
Products that are designed to clean and/or prevent deposits on surfaces found in bathrooms and spas including, but not necessarily limited to, bath tubs and spas, shower stalls, shower doors, shower curtains, and bathroom walls, floors, doors, and counter and sink tops. Products in this item may be designed to be applied to a specific type of surface or to multiple surface types. They are available both in concentrated and ready-to-use forms.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 74 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased bathroom and spa cleaners. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased bathroom and spa cleaners.
[73 FR 27994, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.36
Concrete and asphalt release fluids.
(a)
Definition.
Products that are designed to provide a lubricating barrier between the composite surface materials (e.g., concrete or asphalt) and the container (e.g., wood or metal forms, truck beds, roller surfaces).
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 87 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased concrete and asphalt release fluids. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased concrete and asphalt release fluids.
[73 FR 27994, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.37
De-Icers.
(a)
Definition.
Chemical products (
e.g.,
salts, fluids) that are designed to aid in the removal of snow and/or ice, and/or in the prevention of the buildup of snow and/or ice, by lowering the freezing point of water.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 93 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance dates.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased de-icers. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased de-icers.
[73 FR 27994, May 14, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 32020, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.38
Firearm cleaners, lubricants, and protectants.
(a)
Definition.
Products that are designed to care for firearms by cleaning, lubricating, protecting, or any combination thereof. Examples include products that are designed for use in firearms to reduce the friction and wear between the moving parts of a firearm, to keep the weapon clean, and/or to prevent the formation of deposits that could cause the weapon to jam.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 32 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance dates.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased firearm cleaners, lubricants, and protectants. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased firearm cleaners, lubricants, and protectants.
[84 FR 32020, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.39
Floor strippers.
(a)
Definition.
Products that are formulated to loosen waxes, resins, or varnishes from floor surfaces. They can be in either liquid or gel form, and may also be used with or without mechanical assistance.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 78 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased floor strippers. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant
specifications require the use of biobased floor strippers.
[73 FR 27994, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.40
Laundry products.
(a)
Definitions.
(1) Products that are designed to clean, condition, or otherwise affect the quality of the laundered material. Such products include but are not limited to laundry detergents, bleach, stain removers, and fabric softeners.
(2) Laundry products for which preferred procurement applies are:
(i)
Pretreatment/spot removers.
These are laundry products specifically used to pretreat laundry to assist in the removal of spots and stains during laundering.
(ii)
General purpose laundry products.
These are laundry products used for regular cleaning activities.
(iii)
Dryer sheets.
These are small sheets that are added to laundry in clothes dryers to eliminate static cling, soften fabrics, or otherwise improve the characteristics of the fabric.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product. The applicable minimum biobased contents for the preferred procurement product are:
(1) Pretreatment/spot removers—46 percent.
(2) General purpose laundry products—34 percent.
(3) Dryer sheets—90 percent.
(c)
Preference compliance dates.
(1) No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for those qualifying biobased laundry products specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased laundry products.
(2) No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for those qualifying biobased laundry products specified in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased laundry products.
[73 FR 27994, May 14, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 32020, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.41
Metalworking fluids.
(a)
Definition.
(1) Fluids that are designed to provide cooling, lubrication, corrosion prevention, and reduced wear on the contact parts of machinery used for metalworking operations such as cutting, drilling, grinding, machining, and tapping.
(2) Metalworking fluids for which preferred procurement applies are:
(i)
Straight oils.
Metalworking fluids that are not diluted with water prior to use and are generally used for metalworking processes that require lubrication rather than cooling.
(ii)
General purpose soluble, semi-synthetic, and synthetic oils.
Metalworking fluids formulated for use in a re-circulating fluid system to provide cooling, lubrication, and corrosion prevention when applied to metal feedstock during normal grinding and machining operations.
(iii)
High performance soluble, semi-synthetic, and synthetic oils.
Metalworking fluids formulated for use in a re-circulating fluid system to provide cooling, lubrication, and corrosion prevention when applied to metal feedstock during grinding and machining operations involving unusually high temperatures or corrosion potential.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product. The applicable minimum biobased contents for the preferred procurement product are:
(1) Straight oils—66 percent.
(2) General purpose soluble, semi-synthetic, and synthetic oils—57 percent.
(3) High performance soluble, semi-synthetic, and synthetic oils—40 percent.
(c)
Preference compliance date
—(1)
Straight oils.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with
this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased metalworking fluids—straight oils. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased metalworking fluids—straight oils.
(2)
General purpose soluble, semi-synthetic, and synthetic oils.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased metalworking fluids—general purpose soluble, semi-synthetic, and synthetic oils. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased metalworking fluids—general purpose soluble, semi-synthetic, and synthetic oils.
(3)
High performance soluble, semi-synthetic, and synthetic oils.
Determination of the preference compliance date for metalworking fluids—high performance soluble, semi-synthetic, and synthetic oils is deferred until USDA identifies two or more manufacturers of biobased products within this subcategory. At that time, USDA will publish a document in the
Federal Register
announcing that Federal agencies have one year from the date of publication to give procurement preference to biobased metalworking fluids—high performance soluble, semi-synthetic, and synthetic oils.
[73 FR 27994, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.42
Wood and concrete sealers.
(a)
Definition.
(1) Products that are penetrating liquids formulated to protect wood and/or concrete, including masonry and fiber cement siding, from damage caused by insects, moisture, and decaying fungi and to make surfaces water resistant.
(2) Wood and concrete sealers for which preferred procurement applies are:
(i)
Penetrating liquids.
Wood and concrete sealers that are formulated to penetrate the outer surface of the substrate.
(ii)
Membrane concrete sealers.
Concrete sealers that are formulated to form a protective layer on the surface of the substrate.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product. The applicable minimum biobased contents for the preferred procurement product are:
(1) Penetrating liquids—79 percent.
(2) Membrane concrete sealers—11 percent.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than May 14, 2009, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased wood and concrete sealers. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased wood and concrete sealers.
[73 FR 27994, May 14, 2008]
§ 3201.43
Chain and cable lubricants.
(a)
Definition.
Products designed to provide lubrication in such applications as bar and roller chains, sprockets, and wire ropes and cables. Products may also prevent rust and corrosion in these applications.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 77 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than October 27, 2010, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased chain and cable lubricants. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased chain and cable lubricants.
[74 FR 55093, Oct. 27, 2009]
§ 3201.44
Corrosion preventatives.
(a)
Definition.
Products designed to prevent the deterioration (corrosion) of metals.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 53 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than October 27, 2010, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased corrosion preventatives. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased corrosion preventatives.
[74 FR 55093, Oct. 27, 2009]
§ 3201.45
Food cleaners.
(a)
Definition.
Anti-microbial products designed to clean the outer layer of various food products, such as fruit, vegetables, and meats.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 53 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than October 27, 2010, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased food cleaners. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased food cleaners.
[74 FR 55093, Oct. 27, 2009]
§ 3201.46
Forming lubricants.
(a)
Definition.
Products designed to provide lubrication during metalworking applications that are performed under extreme pressure. Such metalworking applications include tube bending, stretch forming, press braking, and swaging.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 68 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than October 27, 2010, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased forming lubricants. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased forming lubricants.
[74 FR 55093, Oct. 27, 2009]
§ 3201.47
Gear lubricants.
(a)
Definition.
Products, such as greases or oils, that are designed to reduce friction when applied to a toothed machine part (such as a wheel or cylinder) that meshes with another toothed part to transmit motion or to change speed or direction.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 58 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than October 27, 2010, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased gear lubricants. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of gear lubricants.
(d)
Determining overlap with an EPA-designated recovered content product.
Qualifying biobased products that fall under this item may, in some cases, overlap with the following EPA-designated recovered content product: Lubricating oils containing re-refined oil.
USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information for the BioPreferred Web site of qualifying biobased products about the intended uses of the product, information on whether or not the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether or not a qualifying biobased product overlaps with EPA-designated re-refined lubricating oils and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Biobased gear lubricant products within this designated item can compete with similar gear lubricant products with recycled content. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency designated re-refined lubricating oils containing recovered materials as items for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.11.
[74 FR 55093, Oct. 27, 2009]
§ 3201.48
General purpose household cleaners.
(a)
Definition.
Products designed to clean multiple common household surfaces. This designated item does not include products that are formulated for use as disinfectants. Task-specific cleaning products, such as spot and stain removers, upholstery cleaners, bathroom cleaners, glass cleaners, etc., are not included in this item.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 39 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than October 27, 2010, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased general purpose household cleaners. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased general purpose household cleaners.
[74 FR 55093, Oct. 27, 2009]
§ 3201.49
Industrial cleaners.
(a)
Definition.
Products used to remove contaminants, such as adhesives, inks, paint, dirt, soil, and grease, from parts, products, tools, machinery, equipment, vessels, floors, walls, and other production-related work areas. The cleaning products within this item are usually solvents, but may take other forms. They may be used in either straight solution or diluted with water in pressure washers, or in hand wiping applications in industrial or manufacturing settings, such as inside vessels. Task-specific cleaners used in industrial settings, such as parts wash solutions, are not included in this definition.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 41 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than October 27, 2010, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased industrial cleaners. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased industrial cleaners.
[74 FR 55093, Oct. 27, 2009]
§ 3201.50
Multipurpose cleaners.
(a)
Definition.
Products used to clean dirt, grease, and grime from a variety of items in both industrial and domestic settings. This designated item does not include products that are formulated for use as disinfectants.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 56 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of
the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than October 27, 2010, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased multipurpose cleaners. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased multipurpose cleaners.
[74 FR 55093, Oct. 27, 2009]
§ 3201.51
Parts wash solutions.
(a)
Definition.
Products that are designed to clean parts in manual or automatic cleaning systems. Such systems include, but are not limited to, soak vats and tanks, cabinet washers, and ultrasonic cleaners.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 65 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than October 27, 2010, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased parts wash solutions. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased parts wash solutions.
[74 FR 55093, Oct. 27, 2009]
§ 3201.52
Disposable tableware.
(a)
Definition.
Products made from, or coated with, plastic resins and used in dining, such as drink ware and dishware, including but not limited to cups, plates, bowls, and serving platters, and that are designed for one-time use. This item does not include disposable cutlery, which is a separate item.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 72 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than October 18, 2011, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased disposable tableware. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased disposable tableware.
[75 FR 63701, Oct. 18, 2010]
§ 3201.53
Expanded polystyrene (EPS) foam recycling products.
(a)
Definition.
Products formulated to dissolve EPS foam to reduce the volume of recycled or discarded EPS items.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 90 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than October 18, 2011, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased EPS foam recycling products. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased EPS foam recycling products.
[75 FR 63701, Oct. 18, 2010]
§ 3201.54
Heat transfer fluids.
(a)
Definition.
Products with high thermal capacities used to facilitate the transfer of heat from one location to another, including coolants or refrigerants for use in HVAC applications, internal combustion engines, personal cooling devices, thermal energy storage, or other heating or cooling closed-loops.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 89 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased
carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than October 18, 2011, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased heat transfer fluids. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased heat transfer fluids.
[75 FR 63701, Oct. 18, 2010]
§ 3201.55
Ink removers and cleaners.
(a)
Definition.
Chemical products designed to remove ink, haze, glaze, and other residual ink contaminants from the surfaces of equipment, such as rollers, used in the textile and printing industries.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 79 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than October 18, 2011, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased ink removers and cleaners. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased ink removers and cleaners.
[75 FR 63701, Oct. 18, 2010]
§ 3201.56
Mulch and compost materials.
(a)
Definition.
Products designed to provide a protective covering placed over the soil, primarily to keep down weeds and to improve the appearance of landscaping. Compost is the aerobically decomposed remnants of organic materials used in gardening and agriculture as a soil amendment, and commercially by the landscaping and container nursery industries.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 95 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than October 18, 2011, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased mulch and compost materials. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased mulch and compost materials.
(d)
Determining overlap with an EPA-designated recovered content product.
Qualifying products within this item may overlap with the EPA-designated recovered content product: Landscaping products—“compost” and “hydraulic mulch”. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information on the USDA Web site of qualifying biobased products about the intended uses of the product, information on whether or not the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether or not a qualifying biobased product overlaps with EPA-designated landscaping products and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Biobased mulch and compost materials within this designated item can compete with similar landscaping products with recycled content. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency designated landscaping products containing recovered materials as items for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.15.
[75 FR 63701, Oct. 18, 2010]
§ 3201.57
Multipurpose lubricants.
(a)
Definition.
Products designed to provide lubrication under a variety of conditions and in a variety of industrial settings to prevent friction or rust. Greases, which are lubricants composed of oils thickened to a semisolid or solid consistency using soaps, polymers or other solids, or other thickeners, are not included in this item. In addition, task-specific lubricants, such as chain and cable lubricants and gear lubricants, are not included in this item.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 88 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than October 18, 2011, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased multipurpose lubricants. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased multipurpose lubricants.
(d)
Determining overlap with an EPA-designated recovered content product.
Qualifying products within this item may overlap with the EPA-designated recovered content product: Re-refined lubricating oils. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information on the BioPreferred Web site about the intended uses of the product, information on whether or not the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether or not a qualifying biobased product overlaps with EPA-designated re-refined lubricating oils and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Biobased multipurpose lubricant products within this designated item can compete with similar multipurpose lubricant products with recycled content. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency designated re-refined lubricating oils containing recovered materials as items for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.11.
[75 FR 63701, Oct. 18, 2010]
§ 3201.58
[Reserved]
§ 3201.59
Topical pain relief products.
(a)
Definition.
Products that can be balms, creams and other topical treatments used for the relief of muscle, joint, headache, and nerve pain, as well as sprains, bruises, swelling, and other aches.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 91 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than October 18, 2011, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased topical pain relief products. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased topical pain relief products.
[75 FR 63701, Oct. 18, 2010]
§ 3201.60
Turbine drip oils.
(a)
Definition.
Products that are lubricants for use in drip lubrication systems for water well line shaft bearings, water turbine bearings for irrigation pumps, and other turbine bearing applications.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 87 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than October 18, 2011, procuring
agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased turbine drip oils. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased turbine drip oils.
[75 FR 63701, Oct. 18, 2010]
§ 3201.61
Animal repellents.
(a)
Definition.
Products used to aid in deterring animals that cause destruction to plants and/or property.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 79 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 23, 2012, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased animal repellents. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased animal repellents.
[76 FR 43817, July 22, 2011]
§ 3201.62
Bath products.
(a)
Definition.
Personal hygiene products including bar soaps, liquids, or gels that are referred to as body washes, body shampoos, or cleansing lotions, but excluding products marketed as hand cleaners and/or hand sanitizers.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 61 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 23, 2012, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased bath products. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased bath products.
[76 FR 43817, July 22, 2011]
§ 3201.63
Bioremediation materials.
(a)
Definition.
Dry or liquid solutions (including those containing bacteria or other microbes but not including sorbent materials) used to clean oil, fuel, and other hazardous spill sites.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 86 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 23, 2012, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased bioremediation materials. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased bioremediation materials.
[76 FR 43817, July 22, 2011]
§ 3201.64
Compost activators and accelerators.
(a)
Definition.
Products in liquid or powder form designed to be applied to compost piles to aid in speeding up the composting process and to ensure successful compost that is ready for consumer use.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 95 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 23, 2012, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part,
will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased compost activators and accelerators. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased compost activators and accelerators.
[76 FR 43817, July 22, 2011]
§ 3201.65
Concrete and asphalt cleaners.
(a)
Definition.
Chemicals used in concrete etching as well as to remove petroleum-based soils, lubricants, paints, mastics, organic soils, rust, and dirt from concrete, asphalt, stone and other hard porous surfaces. Products within this item include only those marketed for use in commercial or residential construction or industrial applications.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 70 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 23, 2012, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased concrete and asphalt cleaners. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased concrete and asphalt cleaners.
[76 FR 43817, July 22, 2011]
§ 3201.66
Cuts, burns, and abrasions ointments.
(a)
Definition.
Products designed to aid in the healing and sanitizing of scratches, cuts, bruises, abrasions, sun damaged skin, tattoos, rashes and other skin conditions.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 84 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 23, 2012, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased cuts, burns, and abrasions ointments. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased cuts, burns, and abrasions ointments.
[76 FR 43817, July 22, 2011]
§ 3201.67
Dishwashing products.
(a)
Definition.
Soaps and detergents used for cleaning and clean rinsing of tableware in either hand washing or dishwashing.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 58 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 23, 2012, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased dishwashing products. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased dishwashing products.
[76 FR 43817, July 22, 2011]
§ 3201.68
Erosion control materials.
(a)
Definition.
Woven or non-woven fiber materials manufactured for use on construction, demolition, or other sites to prevent wind or water erosion of loose earth surfaces, which may be combined with seed and/or fertilizer to promote growth.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 77 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a
percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 23, 2012, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased erosion control materials. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased erosion control materials.
[76 FR 43817, July 22, 2011]
§ 3201.69
Floor cleaners and protectors.
(a)
Definition.
Cleaning solutions for either direct application or use in floor scrubbers for wood, vinyl, tile, or similar hard surface floors. Products within this item are marketed specifically for use on industrial, commercial, and/or residential flooring.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 77 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 23, 2012, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased floor cleaners and protectors. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased floor cleaners and protectors.
[76 FR 43817, July 22, 2011]
§ 3201.70
Hair care products.
(a)
Definitions.
(1) Personal hygiene products specifically formulated for hair cleaning and treating applications, including shampoos and conditioners.
(2) Hair care products for which Federal preferred procurement applies are:
(i)
Shampoos.
These are products whose primary purpose is cleaning hair. Products that contain both shampoos and conditioners are included in this subcategory because the primary purpose of these products is cleaning the hair.
(ii)
Conditioners.
These are products whose primary purpose is treating hair to improve the overall condition of hair.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content for all hair care products shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product. The applicable minimum biobased contents for the Federal preferred procurement products are:
(1) Shampoos—66 percent.
(2) Conditioners—78 percent.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 23, 2012, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased hair care products. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased hair care products.
[76 FR 43817, July 22, 2011]
§ 3201.71
Interior paints and coatings.
(a)
Definition.
(1) Pigmented liquids, formulated for use indoors, that dry to form a film and provide protection and added color to the objects or surfaces to which they are applied.
(2) Interior paints and coatings products for which Federal preferred procurement applies are:
(i) Interior latex and waterborne alkyd paints and coatings.
(ii) Interior oil-based and solventborne alkyd paints and coatings.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content for all interior paints and coatings products shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product. The applicable minimum
biobased contents for the Federal preferred procurement products are:
(1) Interior latex and waterborne alkyd paints and coatings—20 percent.
(2) Interior oil-based and solventborne alkyd paints and coatings—67 percent.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 23, 2012, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased interior paints and coatings. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased interior paints and coatings.
(d)
Determining overlap with an EPA-designated recovered content product.
Qualifying biobased products within the interior latex and waterborne alkyd paints and coatings subcategory may, in some cases, overlap with the EPA-designated recovered content products: Reprocessed latex paints and consolidated latex paints. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information on the USDA Web site of qualifying biobased products about the intended uses of the product, information on whether or not the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether or not a qualifying biobased product overlaps with EPA-designated reprocessed latex paints and consolidated latex paints and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Biobased interior latex and waterborne alkyd paints and coatings products within this subcategory can compete with similar reprocessed latex paint and consolidated latex paint products with recycled content. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency designated reprocessed latex paints and consolidated latex paints containing recovered materials as items for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.12.
[76 FR 43817, July 22, 2011]
§ 3201.72
Oven and grill cleaners.
(a)
Definition.
Liquid or gel cleaning agents used on high temperature cooking surfaces such as barbeques, smokers, grills, stoves, and ovens to soften and loosen charred food, grease, and residue.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 66 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 23, 2012, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased oven and grill cleaners. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased oven and grill cleaners.
[76 FR 43817, July 22, 2011]
§ 3201.73
Slide way lubricants.
(a)
Definition.
Products used to provide lubrication and eliminate stick-slip and table chatter by reducing friction between mating surfaces, or slides, found in machine tools.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 74 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 23, 2012, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased slide way lubricants. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for items to be procured shall ensure that
the relevant specifications require the use of biobased slide way lubricants.
[76 FR 43817, July 22, 2011]
§ 3201.74
Thermal shipping containers.
(a)
Definitions.
(1) Insulated containers designed for shipping temperature-sensitive materials.
(2) Thermal shipping containers for which Federal preferred procurement applies are:
(i)
Durable thermal shipping container.
These are thermal shipping containers that are designed to be reused over an extended period of time.
(ii)
Non-durable thermal shipping containers.
These are thermal shipping containers that are designed to be used once.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content for all thermal shipping container products shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product. The applicable minimum biobased contents for the Federal preferred procurement products are:
(1) Durable thermal shipping containers—21 percent.
(2) Non-durable thermal shipping containers—82 percent.
(c)
Preference compliance date
—(1)
Durable thermal shipping containers.
Determination of the preference compliance date for durable thermal shipping containers is deferred until USDA identifies two or more manufacturers of biobased durable thermal shipping containers. At that time, USDA will publish a document in the
Federal Register
announcing that Federal agencies have one year from the date of publication to give procurement preference to biobased durable thermal shipping containers.
(2)
Non-durable thermal shipping containers.
Determination of the preference compliance date for non-durable thermal shipping containers is deferred until USDA identifies two or more manufacturers of biobased non-durable thermal shipping containers. At that time, USDA will publish a document in the
Federal Register
announcing that Federal agencies have one year from the date of publication to give procurement preference to biobased non-durable thermal shipping containers.
[76 FR 43817, July 22, 2011]
§ 3201.75
Air fresheners and deodorizers.
(a)
Definition.
Products used to alleviate the experience of unpleasant odors by chemical neutralization, absorption, anesthetization, or masking.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 97 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than April 4, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased air fresheners and deodorizers. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased air fresheners and deodorizers.
[77 FR 20289, Apr. 4, 2012]
§ 3201.76
Asphalt and tar removers.
(a)
Definition.
Cleaning agents designed to remove asphalt or tar from equipment, roads, or other surfaces.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 80 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than April 4, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased asphalt and tar removers. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require
the use of biobased asphalt and tar removers.
[77 FR 20289, Apr. 4, 2012]
§ 3201.77
Asphalt restorers.
(a)
Definition.
Products designed to seal, protect, or restore poured asphalt and concrete surfaces.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 68 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than April 4, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased asphalt restorers. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased asphalt restorers.
[77 FR 20289, Apr. 4, 2012]
§ 3201.78
Blast media.
(a)
Definition.
Abrasive particles sprayed forcefully to clean, remove contaminants, or condition surfaces, often preceding coating.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 94 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than April 4, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased blast media. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased blast media.
(d)
Determining overlap with an EPA-designated recovered content product.
Qualifying products within this item may overlap with the EPA-designated recovered content product: Miscellaneous products—blasting grit. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information on the USDA Web site of qualifying biobased products about the intended uses of the product, information on whether or not the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether or not a qualifying biobased product overlaps with EPA-designated blasting grit products and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Biobased blast media within this designated product category can compete with similar blasting grit products with recycled content. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency designated blasting grit products containing recovered materials as products for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.17.
[77 FR 20289, Apr. 4, 2012]
§ 3201.79
Candles and wax melts.
(a)
Definition.
Products composed of a solid mass and either an embedded wick that is burned to provide light or aroma, or that are wickless and melt when heated to produce an aroma.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 88 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than April 4, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased candles and wax melts. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require
the use of biobased candles and wax melts.
[77 FR 20289, Apr. 4, 2012]
§ 3201.80
Electronic components cleaners.
(a)
Definition.
Products that are designed to wash or remove dirt or extraneous matter from electronic parts, devices, circuits, or systems.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 91 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than April 4, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased electronic components cleaners. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased electronic components cleaners.
[77 FR 20289, Apr. 4, 2012]
§ 3201.81
Floor coverings (non-carpet).
(a)
Definition.
Products, other than carpet products, that are designed for use as the top layer on a floor. Examples are bamboo, hardwood, and cork tiles.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 91 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than April 4, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased floor coverings (non-carpet). By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased floor coverings (non-carpet).
(d)
Determining overlap with an EPA-designated recovered content product.
Qualifying products within this item may overlap with the EPA-designated recovered content product: Construction Products—floor tiles. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information on the USDA Web site of qualifying biobased products about the intended uses of the product, information on whether or not the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether or not a qualifying biobased product overlaps with EPA-designated floor tile products and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Biobased floor coverings within this designated product category can compete with similar floor tile products with recycled content. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency designated floor tile products containing recovered materials as products for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.17.
[77 FR 20289, Apr. 4, 2012]
§ 3201.82
Foot care products.
(a)
Definition.
Products formulated to be used in the soothing or cleaning of feet.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 83 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than April 4, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased foot care products. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to
be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased foot care products.
[77 FR 20289, Apr. 4, 2012]
§ 3201.83
Furniture cleaners and protectors.
(a)
Definition.
Products designed to clean and provide protection to the surfaces of household furniture other than the upholstery.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 71 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than April 4, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased furniture cleaners and protectors. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased furniture cleaners and protectors.
[77 FR 20289, Apr. 4, 2012]
§ 3201.84
Inks.
(a)
Definitions.
(1) Inks are liquid or powdered materials that are available in several colors and that are used to create the visual image on a substrate when writing, printing, and copying.
(2) Inks for which Federal preferred procurement applies are:
(i)
Specialty inks.
Inks used by printers to add extra characteristics to their prints for special effects or functions. Specialty inks include, but are not limited to: CD printing, erasable, FDA compliant, invisible, magnetic, scratch and sniff, thermochromic, and tree marking inks.
(ii)
Inks (sheetfed—color).
Pigmented inks (other than black inks) used on coated and uncoated paper, paperboard, some plastic, and foil to print in color on annual reports, brochures, labels, and similar materials.
(iii)
Inks (sheetfed—black).
Black inks used on coated and uncoated paper, paperboard, some plastic, and foil to print in black on annual reports, brochures, labels, and similar materials.
(iv)
Inks (printer toner—
25 pages per minute (ppm)).
Inks that are a powdered chemical, used in photocopying machines and laser printers, which is transferred onto paper to form the printed image. These inks are formulated to be used in printers with standard fusing mechanisms and print speeds of less than 25 ppm.
(v)
Inks (printer toner—≥25 ppm).
Inks that are a powdered chemical, used in photocopying machines and laser printers, which is transferred onto paper to form the printed image. These inks are formulated to be used in printers with advanced fusing mechanisms and print speeds of 25 ppm or greater.
(vi)
Inks (news).
Inks used primarily to print newspapers.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content for all inks shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product. The applicable minimum biobased contents for the Federal preferred procurement products are:
(1)
Specialty inks
—66 percent.
(2)
Inks (sheetfed—color)
—67 percent.
(3)
Inks (sheetfed—black)
—49 percent.
(4)
Inks (printer toner—
25 ppm)
—34 percent.
(5)
Inks (printer toner—≥25 ppm)
—20 percent.
(6)
Inks (news)
—32 percent.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than April 4, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased inks. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased inks.
[77 FR 20289, Apr. 4, 2012]
§ 3201.85
Packing and insulating materials.
(a)
Definition.
Pre-formed and molded materials that are used to hold package contents in place during shipping or for insulating and sound proofing applications.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 74 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than April 4, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased packing and insulating materials. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased packing and insulating materials.
[77 FR 20289, Apr. 4, 2012]
§ 3201.86
Pneumatic equipment lubricants.
(a)
Definition.
Lubricants designed specifically for pneumatic equipment, including air compressors, vacuum pumps, in-line lubricators, rock drills, jackhammers, etc.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 67 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than April 4, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased pneumatic equipment lubricants. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased pneumatic equipment lubricants.
(d)
Determining overlap with an EPA-designated recovered content product.
Qualifying products within this item may overlap with the EPA-designated recovered content product: Vehicular Products—re-refined lubricating oils. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information on the USDA Web site of qualifying biobased products about the intended uses of the product, information on whether or not the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether or not a qualifying biobased product overlaps with EPA-designated re-refined lubricating oil products and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Biobased pneumatic equipment lubricants within this designated product category can compete with similar re-refined lubricating oil products with recycled content. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency designated re-refined lubricating oil products containing recovered materials as products for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.17.
[77 FR 20289, Apr. 4, 2012]
§ 3201.87
Wood and concrete stains.
(a)
Definition.
Products that are designed to be applied as a finish for concrete and wood surfaces and that contain dyes or pigments to change the color without concealing the grain pattern or surface texture.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 39 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than April 4, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased wood and concrete stains. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require
the use of biobased wood and concrete stains.
[77 FR 20289, Apr. 4, 2012]
§ 3201.88
Agricultural spray adjuvants.
(a)
Definition.
Products mixed in the spray tank with the herbicide, pesticide, or fertilizer formulas that will improve the efficiency and the effectiveness of the chemicals, including sticking agents, wetting agents, etc.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 50 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than November 19, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased agricultural spray adjuvants. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased agricultural spray adjuvants.
[77 FR 69386, Nov. 19, 2012]
§ 3201.89
Animal cleaning products.
(a)
Definition.
Products designed to clean, condition, or remove substances from animal hair or other parts of an animal.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 57 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than November 19, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased animal cleaning products. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased animal cleaning products.
[77 FR 69386, Nov. 19, 2012]
§ 3201.90
Deodorants.
(a)
Definition.
Products that are designed for inhibiting or masking perspiration and other body odors and that are often combined with an antiperspirant.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 73 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than November 19, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased deodorants. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased deodorants.
[77 FR 69386, Nov. 19, 2012]
§ 3201.91
Dethatcher products.
(a)
Definition.
Products used to remove non-decomposed plant material accumulated in grassy areas.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 87 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than November 19, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased dethatchers. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased dethatchers.
[77 FR 69386, Nov. 19, 2012]
§ 3201.92
Fuel conditioners.
(a)
Definition.
Products formulated to improve the performance and efficiency of engines by providing benefits such as removing accumulated deposits, increasing lubricity, removing moisture, increasing the cetane number, and/or preventing microbial growths within the fuel system.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 64 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than November 19, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased fuel conditioners. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased fuel conditioners.
[77 FR 69386, Nov. 19, 2012]
§ 3201.93
Leather, vinyl, and rubber care products.
(a)
Definition.
Products that help clean, nourish, protect, and restore leather, vinyl, and rubber surfaces, including cleaners, conditioners, protectants, polishes, waxes, etc.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 55 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than November 19, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased leather, vinyl, and rubber care products. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased leather, vinyl, and rubber care products.
[77 FR 69386, Nov. 19, 2012]
§ 3201.94
Lotions and moisturizers.
(a)
Definition.
Creams and oils used to soften and treat damaged skin.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 59 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than November 19, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased lotions and moisturizers. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased lotions and moisturizers.
[77 FR 69386, Nov. 19, 2012]
§ 3201.95
Shaving products.
(a)
Definition.
Products designed for every step of the shaving process, including shaving creams, gels, soaps, lotions, and aftershave balms.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 92 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than November 19, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased shaving products. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased shaving products.
[77 FR 69386, Nov. 19, 2012]
§ 3201.96
Specialty precision cleaners and solvents.
(a)
Definition.
Cleaners and solvents used in specialty applications. These materials may be used in neat solution, diluted with water, or in hand wiping applications.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 56 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than November 19, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased specialty precision cleaners and solvents. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased specialty precision cleaners and solvents.
[77 FR 69386, Nov. 19, 2012]
§ 3201.97
Sun care products.
(a)
Definition.
Products including sunscreens, sun blocks, and suntan lotions that are topical products that absorb or reflect the sun's ultraviolet radiation to protect the skin.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 53 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than November 19, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased sun care products. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased sun care products.
[77 FR 69386, Nov. 19, 2012]
§ 3201.98
Wastewater systems coatings.
(a)
Definition.
Coatings that protect wastewater containment tanks, liners, roofing, flooring, joint caulking, manholes and related structures from corrosion. Protective coatings may cover the entire system or be used to fill cracks in systems.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 47 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than November 19, 2013, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased wastewater systems coatings. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased wastewater systems coatings.
[77 FR 69386, Nov. 19, 2012]
§ 3201.99
Water and wastewater treatment chemicals.
(a)
Definition.
Chemicals that are specifically formulated to purify raw water or to treat and purify wastewater from residential, commercial, industrial, and agricultural systems. Examples include coagulants, flocculants, neutralizing agents, activated carbon, or defoamers. This category excludes microbial cleaning products.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 87 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased water and wastewater treatment chemicals. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for
products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased water and wastewater treatment chemicals.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.100
Aircraft and boat cleaners.
(a)
Definition.
(1) Aircraft and boat cleaners are products designed to remove built-on grease, oil, dirt, pollution, insect reside, or impact soils on both interior and exterior of aircraft and/or boats.
(2) Aircraft and boat cleaners for which Federal preferred procurement applies are:
(i)
Aircraft cleaners.
Cleaning products designed to remove built-on grease, oil, dirt, pollution, insect reside, or impact soils on both interior and exterior of aircraft.
(ii)
Boat cleaners.
Cleaning products designed to remove built-on grease, oil, dirt, pollution, insect reside, or impact soils on both interior and exterior of boats.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content for all aircraft and boat cleaners shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product. The applicable minimum biobased contents for the Federal preferred procurement products are:
(1)
Aircraft cleaners
—48 percent.
(2)
Boat cleaners
—38 percent.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than June 11, 2014, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased aircraft and boat cleaners. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased aircraft and boat cleaners.
[78 FR 34872, June 11, 2013]
§ 3201.101
Automotive care products.
(a)
Definition.
Products such as waxes, buffing compounds, polishes, degreasers, soaps, wheel and tire cleaners, leather care products, interior cleaners, and fragrances that are formulated for cleaning and protecting automotive surfaces.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 75 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than June 11, 2014, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased automotive care products. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased automotive care products.
[78 FR 34872, June 11, 2013]
§ 3201.102
Engine crankcase oils.
(a)
Definition.
Lubricating products formulated to provide lubrication and wear protection for four-cycle gasoline or diesel engines.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 25 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than June 11, 2014, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased engine crankcase oils. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased engine crankcase oils.
(d)
Determining overlap with an EPA-designated recovered content product.
Qualifying products within this item may overlap with the EPA-designated recovered content product: Re-refined lubricating oils. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information
on the USDA Web site of qualifying biobased products about the intended uses of the product, information on whether or not the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether or not a qualifying biobased product overlaps with EPA-designated re-refined lubricating oil products and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note to paragraph (
d

# ):
Engine crankcase oils within this designated product category can compete with similar re-refined lubricating oil products with recycled content. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency designated re-refined lubricating oil products containing recovered materials as products for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.17.
[78 FR 34872, June 11, 2013]
§ 3201.103
Gasoline fuel additives.
(a)
Definition.
Chemical agents added to gasoline to increase octane levels, improve lubricity, and provide engine cleaning properties to gasoline-fired engines.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 92 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than June 11, 2014, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased gasoline fuel additives. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased gasoline fuel additives.
[78 FR 34872, June 11, 2013]
§ 3201.104
Metal cleaners and corrosion removers.
(a)
Definition.
(1) Products that are designed to clean and remove grease, oil, dirt, stains, soils, and rust from metal surfaces.
(2) Metal cleaners and corrosion removers for which Federal preferred procurement applies are:
(i)
Corrosion removers.
Products that are designed to remove rust from metal surfaces through chemical action.
(ii)
Stainless steel cleaners.
Products that are designed to clean and remove grease, oil, dirt, stains, and soils from stainless steel surfaces.
(iii)
Other metal cleaners.
Products that are designed to clean and remove grease, oil, dirt, stains, and soils from metal surfaces other than stainless steel.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content for all metal cleaners and corrosion removers shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product. The applicable minimum biobased contents for the Federal preferred procurement products are:
(1)
Corrosion removers
—71 percent.
(2)
Stainless steel cleaners
—75 percent.
(3)
Other metal cleaners
—56 percent.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than June 11, 2014, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased metal cleaners and corrosion removers. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased metal cleaners and corrosion removers.
[78 FR 34872, June 11, 2013]
§ 3201.105
Microbial cleaning products.
(a)
Definition.
(1) Cleaning agents that use microscopic organisms to treat or eliminate waste materials within drains, plumbing fixtures, sewage systems, wastewater treatment systems, or on a variety of other surfaces. These products typically include organisms that digest protein, starch, fat, and cellulose.
(2) Microbial cleaning products for which Federal preferred procurement applies are:
(i)
Drain maintenance products.
Products containing microbial agents that are intended for use in plumbing systems such as sinks, showers, and tubs.
(ii)
Wastewater maintenance products.
Products containing microbial agents that are intended for use in wastewater systems such as sewer lines and septic tanks.
(iii)
General cleaners.
Products containing microbial agents that are intended for multi-purpose cleaning in locations such as residential and commercial kitchens and bathrooms.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content for all microbial cleaning products shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product. The applicable minimum biobased contents for the Federal preferred procurement products are:
(1)
Drain maintenance products
—45 percent.
(2)
Wastewater maintenance products
—44 percent.
(3)
General cleaners
—50 percent.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than June 11, 2014, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased microbial cleaning products. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased microbial cleaning products.
[78 FR 34872, June 11, 2013]
§ 3201.106
Paint removers.
(a)
Definition.
Products formulated to loosen and remove paint from painted surfaces.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 41 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than June 11, 2014, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased paint removers. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased paint removers.
[78 FR 34872, June 11, 2013]
§ 3201.107
Water turbine bearing oils.
(a)
Definition.
Lubricants that are specifically formulated for use in the bearings found in water turbines for electric power generation. Previously designated turbine drip oils are used to lubricate bearings of shaft driven water well turbine pumps.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 46 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than June 11, 2014, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased water turbine bearing oils. By that date, Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased water turbine bearing oils.
[78 FR 34872, June 11, 2013]
§ 3201.108
Intermediates—Plastic Resins.
(a)
Definition.
Intermediates—Plastic Resins are materials that are typically viscous liquids with the ability to harden permanently and may exist in liquid or solid (powder or pellets) states. Intermediates—Plastic Resins may be used in a variety of finished products neat, consisting of a single resin or polymer, or a homogeneous blend of two or more neat resins or polymers, or a composite, containing two or more distinct materials such as
fiber-reinforced resins. Additionally, Intermediates—Plastic Resins may be used in finished products as additives such as plasticizers, pigments, thermal stability agents, or impact modifiers.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 22 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 10, 2019, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased Intermediates—Plastic Resins. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased Intermediates—Plastic Resins.
[83 FR 31848, July 10, 2018]
§ 3201.109
Intermediates—Chemicals.
(a)
Definition.
Intermediates—Chemicals are those used as reactants for organic synthesis reactions rather than for their functional properties in a chemical mixture; those used as building block chemicals and secondary chemicals such as glycerol, succinic acid, propanediol, and monomers such as lactic acid and propylene; those used for specific functional properties during manufacturing of other products such as pH regulators, flocculants, precipitants, neutralizing agents, emulsifiers, viscosity reducers, rheology modifiers, adhesion agents, detergents, wetting agents, foaming agents, or dispersants; those that are added to end-use products for their specific functional properties including polyols, polymers, and solvents for thinning and drying applications but excluding solvents used for cleaning; and those used for dyes, pigments, and scents including flavorings for non-food products such as lip balm.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 22 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 10, 2019, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased Intermediates—Chemicals. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased Intermediates—Chemicals.
[83 FR 31848, July 10, 2018]
§ 3201.110
Intermediates—Paint and Coating Components.
(a)
Definition.
Intermediates—Paint and Coating Components are ingredients used to formulate finished waterborne or solvent borne paint and coating products. Examples of Intermediates—Paint and Coating Components include binders, pigments, thickeners, curing agents, modifiers, humectants, open time additives, alkyd latex resins, polymers, polyols, reactive oligomers, or reactive diluents.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 22 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 10, 2019, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased Intermediates—Paint and Coating Components. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased Intermediates—Paint and Coating Components.
[83 FR 31848, July 10, 2018]
§ 3201.111
Intermediates—Textile Processing Materials.
(a)
Definition.
Intermediates—Textile Processing Materials are used to treat
or finish textiles for the purposes of altering textile characteristics such as color, fading, wrinkle resistance, texture, or moisture management.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 22 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 10, 2019, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased Intermediates—Textile Processing Materials. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased Intermediates—Textile Processing Materials.
[83 FR 31848, July 10, 2018]
§ 3201.112
Intermediates—Foams.
(a)
Definition.
Intermediates—Foams are dry polymer foams used for non-construction purposes, such as cushions for furniture.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 22 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 10, 2019, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased Intermediates—Foams. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased Intermediates—Foams.
[83 FR 31848, July 10, 2018]
§ 3201.113
Intermediates—Fibers and Fabrics.
(a)
Definition.
Intermediates—Fibers and Fabrics encompasses plant and animal fibers, fibers made from plant-derived polymers that are not yet formed into more complex products such as carpet or fabrics, fabrics made from natural fibers, fabrics made from synthetic fibers, or fabrics made from a blend of the two. These materials are used to manufacture finished products such as clothing, upholstery, or drapes.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 25 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 10, 2019, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased Intermediates—Fibers and Fabrics. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased Intermediates—Fibers and Fabrics.
[83 FR 31848, July 10, 2018]
§ 3201.114
Intermediates—Lubricant Components.
(a)
Definition.
Intermediates—Lubricant Components are ingredients that used specifically to formulate finished lubricant products. Examples of Intermediates—Lubricant Components include base oils, base fluids, additives, or friction modifiers.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 44 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 10, 2019, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased Intermediates—Lubricant Components. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure
that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased Intermediates—Lubricant Components.
[83 FR 31848, July 10, 2018]
§ 3201.115
Intermediates—Binders.
(a)
Definition.
Intermediates—Binders are materials used to provide cohesiveness throughout an entire finished product. Binders are generally polymers or polymer precursors (such as epoxies) and include the polymeric materials used to formulate coatings, adhesives, sealants, and elastomers. The product category does not include adhesives and glues that are finished products used to attach the surfaces of two or more distinct and separate components to one another.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 47 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 10, 2019, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased Intermediates—Binders. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased Intermediates—Binders.
[83 FR 31848, July 10, 2018]
§ 3201.116
Intermediates—Cleaner Components.
(a)
Definition.
Intermediates—Cleaner Components are intermediate ingredients used specifically for formulating finished cleaning products. Examples of Intermediates—Cleaner Components include chelating agents, surfactants, hydrotropes, fatty acids, or solvents.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 55 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 10, 2019, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased Intermediates—Cleaner Components. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased Intermediates—Cleaner Components.
[83 FR 31848, July 10, 2018]
§ 3201.117
Intermediates—Personal Care Product Components.
(a)
Definition.
Intermediates—Personal Care Product Components are ingredients used to formulate finished personal care products. Examples of Intermediates—Personal Care Product Components include surfactants, oils, humectants, emollients, or emulsifiers.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 62 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 10, 2019, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased Intermediates—Personal Care Product Components. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased Intermediates—Personal Care Product Components.
[83 FR 31848, July 10, 2018]
§ 3201.118
Intermediates—Oils, Fats, and Waxes.
(a)
Definition.
Intermediates—Oils, Fats, and Waxes include raw or modified fats and oils derived from plants or animals.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product
must have a minimum biobased content of at least 65 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 10, 2019, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased Intermediates—Oils, Fats, and Waxes. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased Intermediates—Oils, Fats, and Waxes.
[83 FR 31848, July 10, 2018]
§ 3201.119
Intermediates—Rubber Materials.
(a)
Definition.
Intermediates—Rubber Materials are used in finished products such as rubber gloves, vehicle tires, footwear, sports apparel and equipment, bedding and pillow foams, tubing, catheters, gasketing, or cosmetic adhesives and bases.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 96 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 10, 2019, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased Intermediates—Rubber Materials. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased Intermediates—Rubber Materials.
[83 FR 31848, July 10, 2018]
§ 3201.120
Adhesives.
(a)
Definition.
Adhesives are compounds that temporarily or permanently bind two item surfaces together. These products include glues and sticky tapes used in construction, household, flooring, and industrial settings. This category excludes epoxy systems.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 24 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased adhesives. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased adhesives.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.121
Animal habitat care products.
(a)
Definition.
Animal habitat care products are products that are intended to improve the quality of animal habitats such as cleaning supplies, sanitizers, feeders, and products that control, mask, or suppress pet odors. This category excludes animal bedding or litter products and animal cleaning products.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 22 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased animal habitat care products. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased animal habitat care products.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.122
Cleaning tools.
(a)
Definition.
Cleaning tools are objects that are used to clean a variety of surfaces or items and can be used multiple times. This category includes tools such as brushes, scrapers, abrasive pads, and gloves that are used for cleaning. The expendable materials used in cleaning, such as glass cleaners, single-use wipes, and all-purpose cleaners, are excluded from this category, as these materials better fit in other categories.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 22 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased cleaning tools. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased cleaning tools.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.123
Concrete curing agents.
(a)
Definition.
Concrete curing agents are products that are designed to enhance and control the curing process of concrete.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 59 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased concrete curing agents. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased concrete curing agents.
(d)
Determining overlap with a designated product category in the EPA's Comprehensive Procurement Guideline (CPG) program.
Qualifying products within this product category may overlap with the EPA's CPG-designated recovered content product category of Construction Products: Cement and Concrete. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information on the BioPreferred Program's website about the intended uses of the product, information on whether the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether a qualifying biobased product overlaps with the EPA's CPG-designated product category of Construction Products: Cement and Concrete and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note 1 to Paragraph (
d

# ):
Concrete curing agents within this designated product category can compete with similar concrete curing agents with recycled content. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency CPG-designated Construction Products: Cement and Concrete containing recovered materials as products for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.12.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.124
Concrete repair materials.
(a)
Definition.
(1) Products that are designed to repair cracks and other damage to concrete.
(2) Concrete repair materials for which preferred procurement applies are:
(i)
Concrete repair materials—concrete leveling.
Concrete repair materials—concrete leveling are products that are designed to repair cracks and other damage to concrete by raising or stabilizing concrete.
(ii)
Concrete repair materials—concrete patching.
Concrete repair materials—concrete patching are products that are designed to repair cracks and other damage to concrete by filling and patching the concrete.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The minimum biobased content for all concrete repair materials shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product. The applicable minimum biobased contents are:
(1) Concrete repair materials—concrete leveling—23 percent.
(2) Concrete repair materials—concrete patching—69 percent.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased concrete repair materials. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased concrete repair materials.
(d)
Determining overlap with a designated product category in the EPA's CPG program.
Qualifying products within this product category may overlap with the EPA's CPG-designated recovered content product category of Construction Products: Cement and Concrete. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information on the BioPreferred Program's website about the intended uses of the product, information on whether the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether a qualifying biobased product overlaps with the EPA's CPG-designated product category of Construction Products: Cement and Concrete and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note 1 to Paragraph (
d

# ):
Concrete repair materials within this designated product category can compete with similar concrete repair materials with recycled content. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency CPG-designated Construction Products: Cement and Concrete containing recovered materials as products for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.12.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.125
Durable cutlery.
(a)
Definition.
Durable cutlery consists of dining utensils that are designed to be used multiple times.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 28 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased durable cutlery. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased durable cutlery.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.126
Durable tableware.
(a)
Definition.
Durable tableware consists of multiple-use drinkware and dishware including cups, plates, bowls, and serving platters.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 28 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased durable tableware. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased durable tableware.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.127
Epoxy systems.
(a)
Definition.
Epoxy systems are two-component systems that are epoxy-
based and are used as coatings, adhesives, surface fillers, and composite matrices.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 23 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased epoxy systems. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased epoxy systems.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.128
Exterior paints and coatings.
(a)
Definition.
Exterior paints and coatings are pigmented liquid products that typically contain pigments to add color and are formulated for use on outdoor surfaces. When these products dry, they typically form a protective layer and provide a coat of color to the applied surface. This category includes paint and primers but excludes wood and concrete sealers and stains and specialty coatings such as roof coatings, wastewater system coatings, and water tank coatings.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 83 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased exterior paints and coatings. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased exterior paints and coatings.
(d)
Determining overlap with a designated product category in the EPA's CPG program.
Qualifying products within this product category may overlap with the EPA's CPG-designated recovered content product category of Construction Products: Consolidated and Reprocessed Latex Paint for Specified Uses. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information on the BioPreferred Program's website about the intended uses of the product, information on whether the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether a qualifying biobased product overlaps with the EPA's CPG-designated product category of Construction Products: Consolidated and Reprocessed Latex Paint for Specified Uses and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note 1 to Paragraph (
d

# ):
Exterior paints and coatings within this designated product category can compete with similar exterior paints and coatings with recycled content. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency CPG-designated Construction Products: Consolidated and Reprocessed Latex Paint for Specified Uses containing recovered materials as products for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.12.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.129
Facial care products.
(a)
Definition.
Facial care products are cleansers, moisturizers, and treatments specifically designed for the face. These products are used to care for the condition of the face by supporting skin integrity, enhancing its appearance, and relieving skin conditions. This category does not include tools and applicators, such as those used to apply facial care products.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 88 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a
percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased facial care products. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased facial care products.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.130
Feminine care products.
(a)
Definition.
Feminine care products are products that are designed for maintaining feminine health and hygiene. This category includes sanitary napkins, panty liners, and tampons.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 65 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased feminine care products. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased feminine care products.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.131
Fire logs and fire starters.
(a)
Definition.
Fire logs and fire starters are devices or substances that are used to start a fire intended for uses such as comfort heat, decoration, or cooking. Examples include fire logs and lighter fluid. This category excludes heating fuels for chafing dishes, beverage urns, warming boxes, and wick lamps.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 92 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased fire logs and fire starters. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased fire logs and fire starters.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.132
Folders and filing products.
(a)
Definition.
Folders and filing products are products that are designed to hold together items such as loose sheets of paper, documents, and photographs with clasps, fasteners, rings, or folders. This category includes binders, folders, and document covers.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 56 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased folders and filing products. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased folders and filing products.
(d)
Determining overlap with a designated product category in the EPA's CPG program.
Qualifying products within this product category may overlap with the EPA's CPG-designated recovered content product categories of Non-Paper Office Products: Binders, Clipboards, File Folders, Clip Portfolios, and Presentation Folders and Non-Paper Office Products: Plastic Envelopes. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information on the BioPreferred Program's website about
the intended uses of the product, information on whether the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether a qualifying biobased product overlaps with the EPA's CPG-designated product categories of Non-Paper Office Products: Binders, Clipboards, File Folders, Clip Portfolios, and Presentation Folders and Non-Paper Office Products: Plastic Envelopes and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note 1 to Paragraph (
d

# ):
Biobased folders and filing products within this designated product category can compete with similar folders and filing products with recycled content. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency CPG-designated Non-Paper Office Products: Binders, Clipboards, File Folders, Clip Portfolios, and Presentation Folders and Non-Paper Office Products: Plastic Envelopes containing recovered materials as products for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.16.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.133
Foliar sprays.
(a)
Definition.
Foliar sprays are products that are applied to the leaves of plants and provide plants with nutrients. These products may also repair plants from previous pest attacks. Examples include liquid fertilizers, foliar feeds, and micronutrient solutions.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 50 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased foliar sprays. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased foliar sprays.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.134
Gardening supplies and accessories.
(a)
Definition.
Gardening supplies and accessories are products that are used to grow plants in outdoor and indoor settings. Examples include seedling starter trays, nonwoven mats or substrates for hydroponics, and flower or plant pots. This category excludes compost activators and accelerators; erosion control materials; fertilizers, including soil inoculants; foliar sprays; mulch and compost materials; and soil amendments.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 43 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased gardening supplies and accessories. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased gardening supplies and accessories.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.135
Heating fuels and wick lamps.
(a)
Definition.
Heating fuels and wick lamps are products that create controlled sources of heat or sustain controlled open flames that are used for warming food, portable stoves, beverage urns, or fondue pots. This category also includes wick lamps and their fuels that create controlled sources of light indoors and in camping or emergency preparedness situations. This category excludes fire logs and fire starters and candles and wax melts.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product
must have a minimum biobased content of at least 75 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased heating fuels and wick lamps. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased heating fuels and wick lamps.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.136
Kitchenware and accessories.
(a)
Definition.
Kitchenware and accessories are products designed for food or drink preparation. These products include cookware and bakeware, such as baking cups, cookie sheets, parchment paper, and roasting bags or pans; cooking utensils, such as brushes, tongs, spatulas, and ladles; and food preparation items, such as cutting boards, measuring cups, mixing bowls, coffee filters, food preparation gloves, and sandwich and snack bags. These products exclude kitchen appliances, such as toasters, blenders, and coffee makers; disposable tableware; disposable cutlery; disposable containers; durable tableware; durable cutlery; and cleaning tools.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 22 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased kitchenware and accessories. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased kitchenware and accessories.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.137
Other lubricants.
(a)
Definition.
Other lubricants are lubricant products that do not fit into any of the BioPreferred Program's specific lubricant categories. This category includes lubricants that are formulated for specialized uses. Examples of other lubricants include lubricants used for sporting or exercise gear and equipment, musical instruments, and specialized equipment such as tree shakers. This category excludes lubricants that are covered by the specific lubricant categories such as chain and cable lubricants, firearm lubricants, forming lubricants, gear lubricants, multi-purpose lubricants, penetrating lubricants, pneumatic equipment lubricants, and slide way lubricants.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 39 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased other lubricants. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased other lubricants.
(d)
Determining overlap with a designated product category in the EPA's CPG program.
Qualifying products within this product category may overlap with the EPA's CPG-designated recovered content product category of Vehicular Products: Re-Refined Lubricating Oil. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information on the BioPreferred Program's website about the intended uses of the product, information on whether the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the
product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether a qualifying biobased product overlaps with the EPA's CPG-designated product category of Vehicular Products: Re-Refined Lubricating Oil and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note 1 to Paragraph (
d

# ):
Other lubricants within this designated product category can compete with similar other lubricants with recycled content. According to the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's CPG-designated Vehicular Products: Re-Refined Lubricating Oil containing recovered materials as products. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.11.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.138
Phase change materials.
(a)
Definition.
Phase change materials are products that are capable of absorbing and releasing large amounts of thermal energy by freezing and thawing at certain temperatures. Heat is absorbed or released when the material changes from solid to liquid and vice versa. Applications may include, but are not limited to, conditioning of buildings, medical applications, thermal energy storage, or cooling of food. Materials such as animal fats and plant oils that melt at desirable temperatures are typically used to make products in this category.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 71 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased phase change materials. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased phase change materials.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.139
Playground and athletic surface materials.
(a)
Definition.
Playground and athletic surface materials are products that are designed for use on playgrounds and athletic surfaces. Examples include materials that are applied to the surfaces of playgrounds, athletic fields, and other sports surfaces to enhance or change the color or general appearance of the surface and to provide safety and/or performance benefits. Such materials include, but are not limited to, top coatings, primers, line marking paints, and rubberized pellets that are used on athletic courts, tracks, natural or artificial turf, and other playing surfaces. This category does not include the artificial turf or surface itself, as that is included in the carpets product category.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 22 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased playground and athletic surface materials. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased playground and athletic surface materials.
(d)
Determining overlap with a designated product category in the EPA's CPG program.
Qualifying products within this product category may overlap with the EPA's CPG-designated recovered content product categories of Parks and Recreation Products: Playground Surfaces and Running Tracks. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information on the BioPreferred Program's website about the intended uses of the product, information on whether the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will
assist Federal agencies in determining whether a qualifying biobased product overlaps with the EPA's CPG-designated product categories of Parks and Recreation Products: Playground Surfaces and Running Tracks and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note 1 to Paragraph (
d

# ):
Playground and athletic surface materials within this designated product category can compete with similar playground and athletic surface materials with recycled content. According to the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's CPG-designated product categories of Parks and Recreation Products: Playground Surfaces and Running Tracks containing recovered materials as products. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.10.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.140
Powder coatings.
(a)
Definition.
Powder coatings are polymer resin systems that are combined with stabilizers, curatives, pigments, and other additives and ground into a powder. These coatings are applied electrostatically to metallic surfaces and then cured under heat. Powder coatings are typically used for coating metals, such as vehicle and bicycle parts, household appliances, and aluminum extrusions.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 34 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased powder coatings. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased powder coatings.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.141
Product packaging.
(a)
Definition.
Product packaging items are used to protect, handle, and retain a product during activities related but not limited to its storage, distribution, sale, and use. These containers are typically designed to be used once. This category excludes packing and insulating materials and shopping and trash bags.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 25 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased product packaging. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased product packaging.
(d)
Determining overlap with a designated product category in the EPA's CPG program.
Qualifying products within this product category may overlap with the EPA's CPG-designated recovered content product category of Paper Products: Paperboard and Packaging. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information on the BioPreferred Program's website about the intended uses of the product, information on whether the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether a qualifying biobased product overlaps with the EPA's CPG-designated product category of Paper Products: Paperboard and Packaging and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note 1 to Paragraph (
d

# ):
Product packaging within this designated product category can compete with similar product packaging with recycled content. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency CPG-designated Paper Products: Paperboard and Packaging containing recovered materials as products for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.10.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.142
Rugs and floor mats.
(a)
Definition.
Rugs or floor mats are floor coverings that are used for decorative or ergonomic purposes and that are not attached to the floor. This category includes items such as area rugs, rug runners, chair mats, and bathroom and kitchen mats. This category excludes products composed of woven, tufted, or knitted fiber and a backing system because these products fall under the “Carpets” product category.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 23 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased rugs and floor mats. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased rugs and floor mats.
(d)
Determining overlap with a designated product category in the EPA's CPG program.
Qualifying products within this product category may overlap with the EPA's CPG-designated recovered content product category of Miscellaneous Products: Mats. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information on the BioPreferred Program's website about the intended uses of the product, information on whether the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether a qualifying biobased product overlaps with the EPA's CPG-designated product category of Miscellaneous Products: Mats and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note 1 to Paragraph (
d

# ):
Rugs and floor mats within this designated product category can compete with similar rugs or floor mats with recycled content. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency CPG-designated Miscellaneous Products: Mats containing recovered materials as products for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.17.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.143
Shopping and trash bags.
(a)
Definition.
Shopping and trash bags are open-ended bags that are typically made of thin, flexible film and are used for containing and transporting items such as consumer goods and waste. Examples include trash bags, can liners, shopping or grocery bags, pet waste bags, compost bags, and yard waste bags. This category does not include product packaging, disposable containers, or semi-durable and non-durable films.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 22 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased shopping and trash bags. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased shopping and trash bags.
(d)
Determining overlap with a designated product category in the EPA's CPG program.
Qualifying products within this product category may overlap with the EPA's CPG-designated recovered content product category of Non-Paper Office Products: Plastic Trash Bags. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased
products provide information on the BioPreferred Program's website about the intended uses of the product, information on whether the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether a qualifying biobased product overlaps with the EPA's CPG-designated product category of Non-Paper Office Products: Trash Bags and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note 1 to Paragraph (
d

# ):
Shopping and trash bags within this designated product category can compete with similar shopping and trash bags with recycled content. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency CPG-designated Non-Paper Office Products: Trash Bags containing recovered materials as products for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.17.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.144
Soil amendments.
(a)
Definition.
Soil amendments are materials that enhance the physical characteristics of soil through improving water retention or drainage, improving nutrient cycling, promoting microbial growth, or changing the soil's pH. This category excludes foliar sprays and chemical fertilizers.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 72 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased soil amendments. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased soil amendments.
(d)
Determining overlap with a designated product category in the EPA's CPG program.
Qualifying products within this product category may overlap with the EPA's CPG-designated recovered content product categories of Landscaping Products: Compost Made From Recovered Organic Materials and Landscaping Products: Fertilizer Made From Recovered Organic Materials. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying biobased products provide information on the BioPreferred Program's website about the intended uses of the product, information on whether the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether a qualifying biobased product overlaps with the EPA's CPG-designated product categories Landscaping Products: Compost Made From Recovered Organic Materials and Landscaping Products: Fertilizer Made From Recovered Organic Materials and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note 1 to Paragraph (
d

# ):
Soil amendments within this designated product category can compete with similar soil amendments with recycled content. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency CPG-designated Landscaping Products: Compost Made From Recovered Organic Materials and Landscaping Products: Fertilizer Made From Recovered Organic Materials containing recovered materials as products for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.15.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.145
Surface guards, molding, and trim.
(a)
Definition.
Surface guards, molding, and trim products are typically used during construction or manufacturing. These products are designed to protect surfaces, such as walls and floors, from damage or to cover the exposed edges of furniture or floors.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 26 percent, which shall
be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased surface guards, molding, and trim. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased surface guards, molding, and trim.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.146
Toys and sporting gear.
(a)
Definition.
Toys and sporting gear are products that are designed for indoor or outdoor recreational use including, but not limited to, toys; games; and sporting equipment and accessories such as balls, bats, racquets, nets, and bicycle seats. This category does not include products such as cleaners, lubricants, and oils that are used to maintain or clean toys and sporting gear.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 32 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased toys and sporting gear. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased toys and sporting gear.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.147
Traffic and zone marking paints.
(a)
Definition.
Traffic and zone marking paints are products that are formulated and marketed for marking and striping parking lots, roads, streets, highways, or other traffic surfaces including, but not limited to, curbs, crosswalks, driveways, sidewalks, and airport runways.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 30 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased traffic and zone marking paints. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased traffic and zone marking paints.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.148
Transmission fluids.
(a)
Definition.
Transmission fluids are liquids that lubricate and cool the moving parts in a transmission to prevent wearing and to ensure smooth performance.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 60 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased transmission fluids. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased transmission fluids.
(d)
Determining overlap with a designated product category in the EPA's CPG program.
Qualifying products within this product category may overlap with the EPA's CPG-designated recovered content product category of Vehicular Products: Re-refined Lubricating Oil. USDA is requesting that manufacturers of these qualifying
biobased products provide information on the BioPreferred Program's website about the intended uses of the product, information on whether the product contains any recovered material, in addition to biobased ingredients, and performance standards against which the product has been tested. This information will assist Federal agencies in determining whether a qualifying biobased product overlaps with the EPA's CPG-designated Vehicular Products: Re-Refined Lubricating Oil and which product should be afforded the preference in purchasing.

# Note 1 to Paragraph (
d

# ):
Transmission fluids within this designated product category can compete with similar transmission fluids with recycled content. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, section 6002, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency CPG-designated product categories Vehicular Products: Re-Refined Lubricating Oil containing recovered materials as products for which Federal agencies must give preference in their purchasing programs. The designation can be found in the Comprehensive Procurement Guideline, 40 CFR 247.11.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
§ 3201.149
Wall coverings.
(a)
Definition.
Wall coverings are materials that are applied to walls using an adhesive. This category includes, but is not limited to, wallpaper, vinyl wall coverings, and wall fabrics. This category excludes all types of paints or coatings.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The Federal preferred procurement product must have a minimum biobased content of at least 62 percent, which shall be based on the amount of qualifying biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the total organic carbon in the finished product.
(c)
Preference compliance date.
No later than July 6, 2020, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for qualifying biobased wall coverings. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for drafting or reviewing specifications for products to be procured shall ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of biobased wall coverings.
[84 FR 32021, July 5, 2019]
Pt. 3202

# PART 3202—VOLUNTARY LABELING PROGRAM FOR BIOBASED PRODUCTS
Sec.
3202.1
Purpose and scope.
3202.2
Definitions.
3202.3
Applicability.
3202.4
Criteria for product eligibility to use the certification mark.
3202.5
Initial approval process.
3202.6
Appeal processes.
3202.7
Requirement associated with the certification mark.
3202.8
Violations.
3202.9
Recordkeeping requirements.
3202.10
Oversight and monitoring.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 8102.

# Source:
76 FR 3806, Jan. 20, 2011, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 76 FR 53632, Aug. 29, 2011.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 97465, Dec. 9, 2024, Part 3202 was removed and reserved, effective Jan. 8, 2025.
§ 3202.1
Purpose and scope.
The purpose of this part is to set forth the terms and conditions for voluntary use of the “USDA Certified Biobased Product” certification mark. This part establishes the criteria that biobased products must meet in order to be eligible to become certified biobased products to which the “USDA Certified Biobased Product” mark can be affixed, the process manufacturers and vendors must use to obtain and maintain USDA certification, and the recordkeeping requirements for manufacturers and vendors who obtain certification. In addition, this part establishes specifications for the correct and incorrect uses of the certification mark, which apply to manufacturers, vendors, and other entities. Finally, this part establishes actions that constitute voluntary labeling program violations.
§ 3202.2
Definitions.
Applicable minimum biobased content.
The biobased content at or above the level set by USDA to qualify for use of the certification mark.
ASTM International (ASTM).
American Society for Testing and Materials is a nonprofit organization that provides an international forum for the
development and publication of voluntary consensus standards for materials, products, systems, and services.
Biobased content.
The amount of biobased carbon in the material or product expressed as a percent of weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the material or product. For BioPreferred Products (products that have been identified for Federal preferred procurement), the biobased content shall be defined and determined as specified in the applicable section of subpart B of part 3201. For all other products, the biobased content is to be determined using ASTM Method D6866, Standard Test Methods for Determining the Biobased Content of Solid, Liquid, and Gaseous Samples Using Radiocarbon Analysis.
Biobased product.
(1) A product determined by USDA to be a commercial or industrial product (other than food or feed) that is:
(i) Composed, in whole or in significant part, of biological products, including renewable domestic agricultural materials and forestry materials; or
(ii) An intermediate ingredient or feedstock.
(2) The term “biobased product” includes, with respect to forestry materials, forest products that meet biobased content requirements, notwithstanding the market share the product holds, the age of the product, or whether the market for the product is new or emerging.
Certification mark.
A combination of the certification mark artwork (as defined in this subpart); one of three statements identifying whether the USDA certification applies to the product, the package, or both the product and package; and, where applicable, the letters “FP” to indicate that the product is within a designated product category and eligible for Federal preferred procurement. The certification mark is owned, and its use is managed by, USDA (standard trademark law definition applies).
Certification mark artwork.
The distinctive image, as shown in Figures 1-3, that identifies products as USDA Certified.
ER15JN15.000
Certified biobased product.
A biobased product for which the manufacturer or vendor of the product has received approval from USDA to affix to the product the “USDA Certified Biobased Product” certification mark.
Days.
As used in this part means calendar days.
Designated product category.
A generic grouping of biobased products, including those final products made from designated intermediate ingredients or feedstocks, or complex assemblies identified in subpart B of 7 CFR part 3201, that is eligible for the procurement preference established under section 9002 of FSRIA.
Designated representative.
An entity authorized by a manufacturer or vendor to affix the USDA certification mark to the manufacturer's or vendor's certified biobased product or its packaging.
Forest product.
A product made from materials derived from the practice of forestry or the management of growing timber. The term “forest product” includes:
(1) Pulp, paper, paperboard, pellets, lumber, and other wood products; and
(2) Any recycled products derived from forest materials.
Intermediate ingredient or feedstock.
A material or compound made in whole or in significant part from biological products, including renewable agricultural materials (including plant, animal, and marine materials) or forestry materials that have undergone value added processing (including thermal, chemical, biological, or a significant amount of mechanical processing), excluding harvesting operations, offered for sale by a manufacturer or vendor and that is subsequently used to make a more complex compound or product.
ISO.
The International Organization for Standardization, a network of national standards institutes working in partnership with international organizations, governments, industries, business, and consumer representatives.
ISO 9001 conformant.
An entity that meets all of the requirements of the ISO 9001 standard, but that is not required to be ISO 9001 certified. ISO 9001 refers to the International Organization for Standardization's standards and guidelines relating to “quality management” systems. “Quality management” is defined as what the manufacturer does to ensure that its products or services satisfy the customer's quality requirements and comply with any regulations applicable to those products or services.
Manufacturer.
An entity that performs the necessary chemical and/or mechanical processes to make a final marketable product.
Other entity.
Any person, group, public or private organization, or business other than USDA, or manufacturers or vendors of biobased products that may wish to use the “USDA Certified Biobased Product” certification mark in informational or promotional material related to a certified biobased product.
Program Manager.
The manager of the BioPreferred Program.
Qualified biobased product.
A product that is eligible for federal preferred procurement because it meets the definition and minimum biobased content criteria for one or more designated product categories, or one or more designated intermediate ingredient or feedstock categories, as specified in subpart B of 7 CFR part 3201.
Renewable chemical.
A monomer, polymer, plastic, formulated product, or chemical substance produced from renewable biomass.
USDA.
The United States Department of Agriculture.
Vendor.
An entity that offers for sale final marketable biobased products that are produced by manufacturers.
[76 FR 3806, Jan. 20, 2011. Redesignated and amended at 76 FR 53632, Aug. 29, 2011; 80 FR 34036, June 15, 2015]
§ 3202.3
Applicability.
(a)
Manufacturers, vendors, and designated representatives.
The requirements in this part apply to all manufacturers and vendors, and their designated representatives, who wish to participate in the USDA voluntary labeling program for biobased products. Manufacturers and vendors wishing to participate in the voluntary labeling program are required to obtain and maintain product certification.
(b)
Other entities.
The requirements in this part apply to other entities who wish to use the certification mark in promoting the sales or the public awareness of certified biobased products.
§ 3202.4
Criteria for product eligibility to use the certification mark.
A product must meet each of the criteria specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section in order to be eligible to receive biobased product certification.
A product must meet each of the criteria specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section in order to be eligible to receive biobased product certification.
(a)
Biobased product.
The product for which certification is sought must be a biobased product as defined in § 3202.2 of this part.
(b)
Minimum biobased content.
The biobased content of the product must be equal to or greater than the applicable minimum biobased content, as described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section.
(1)
Qualified Biobased Products
—(i)
Product is within a single product category.
If the product is within a single product category that, at the time the application for certification is submitted, has been designated by USDA for Federal preferred procurement, the applicable minimum biobased content is the minimum biobased content specified for the item as found in subpart B of 7 CFR part 3201.
(ii)
Product is within multiple product categories.
If a biobased product is marketed within more than one product category identified for preferred Federal purchasing, uses the same packaging for each product, and the applicant seeks certification of the product, the product's biobased content must meet or exceed the specified minimum biobased content for each of the applicable product categories in order to use the certification mark on the product. However, if the manufacturer packages the product differently for each product category, then the applicable minimum biobased contents are those established under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section for each product category for which the applicant seeks to use the certification mark.
(2)
Finished biobased products that are not Qualified Biobased Products.
(i) If the product is not an intermediate ingredient or feedstock, and is not within a product category eligible for Federal preferred procurement at the time the application for certification is submitted, the applicable minimum biobased content is 25 percent. Manufacturers, vendors, groups of manufacturers and/or vendors, and trade associations may propose an alternative applicable minimum biobased content for the product by developing, in consultation with USDA, and conducting an analysis to support the proposed alternative applicable minimum biobased content. If approved by USDA, the proposed alternative applicable minimum biobased content would become the applicable minimum biobased content for the product to be labeled.
(ii) If a product certified under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section is within a product category that USDA subsequently designates for Federal preferred procurement, the applicable minimum biobased content shall become, as of the effective date of the final designation rule, the minimum biobased content specified for the item as found in subpart B of 7 CFR part 3201.
(3)
Products that are intermediate ingredients or feedstocks.
(i) If the product is an intermediate ingredient or feedstock that is not eligible for Federal preferred procurement at the time the application for certification is submitted, the applicable minimum biobased content is 25 percent. Manufacturers, vendors, groups of manufacturers and/or vendors, and trade associations may propose an alternative applicable minimum biobased content for the product by developing, in consultation with USDA, and conducting an analysis to support the proposed alternative applicable minimum biobased content. If approved by USDA, the proposed alternative applicable minimum biobased content would become the applicable minimum biobased content for the intermediate ingredient or feedstock product to be labeled.
(ii) If a product certified under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section is within a category that USDA subsequently designates for Federal preferred procurement, the applicable minimum biobased content shall become, as of the effective date of the final designation rule, the minimum biobased content specified for the item as found in subpart B of 7 CFR part 3201.
(4)
Finished products that are complex assemblies.
(i) If the product is a complex assembly, as defined in subpart A of 7 CFR part 3201, that is not eligible for federal preferred procurement at the time the application for certification is submitted, the applicable minimum biobased content is 25 percent. The biobased content shall be determined using the procedures specified in § 3201.7(c)(3) of this chapter. Manufacturers, vendors, groups of manufacturers and/or vendors, and trade associations may propose an alternative applicable minimum biobased content for the product by developing, in consultation with USDA, and conducting an analysis to support the proposed alternative applicable minimum biobased content. If approved by USDA, the proposed alternative applicable minimum biobased content would become the applicable minimum biobased content for the complex assembly to be labeled.
(ii) If a product certified under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section is within a category that USDA subsequently designates for federal preferred procurement, the applicable minimum biobased content shall become, as of the effective date of the final designation rule, the minimum biobased content specified for the item as found in subpart B of 7 CFR part 3201.
(c)
Innovative approach.
In determining eligibility for certification under the BioPreferred Program, USDA will consider as eligible only those products that use innovative approaches in the growing, harvesting, sourcing, procuring, processing, manufacturing, or application of the biobased product. USDA will consider products that meet one or more of the criteria in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section to be eligible for certification. USDA will also consider other documentation of innovative approaches in the growing, harvesting, sourcing, procuring, processing, manufacturing, or application of biobased products on a case by case basis. USDA may deny certification for any products whose manufacturers are unable to provide USDA with the documentation necessary to verify claims that innovative approaches are used in the growing, harvesting, sourcing, procuring, processing, manufacturing, or application of their biobased products.
(1)
Product applications.
(i) The biobased product or material is used or applied in applications that differ from historical applications; or
(ii) The biobased product or material is grown, harvested, manufactured, processed, sourced, or applied in other innovative ways; or
(iii) The biobased content of the product or material makes its composition different from products or material used for the same historical uses or applications.
(2)
Manufacturing and processing.
(i) The biobased product or material is manufactured or processed using renewable, biomass energy or using technology that is demonstrated to increase energy efficiency or reduce reliance on fossil-fuel based energy sources; or
(ii) The biobased product or material is manufactured or processed with technologies that ensure high feedstock material recovery and use.
(3)
Environmental Product Declaration.
The product has a current Environmental Product Declaration as defined by International Standard ISO 14025, Environmental Labels and Declarations—Type III Environmental Declarations—Principles and Procedures.
(4)
Raw material sourcing.
(i) The raw material used in the product is sourced from a Legal Source, a Responsible Source, or a Certified Source as designated by ASTM D7612—10, Standard Practice for Categorizing Wood and Wood-Based Products According to Their Fiber Sources; or
(ii) The raw material used in the product is 100% resourced or recycled (such as material obtained from building deconstruction); or
(iii) The raw material used in the product is from an urban environment and is acquired as a result of activities related to a natural disaster, land clearing, right-of-way maintenance, tree health improvement, or public safety.
[76 FR 3806, Jan. 20, 2011. Redesignated and amended at 76 FR 53632, Aug. 29, 2011; 80 FR 34038, June 15, 2015]
§ 3202.5
Initial approval process.
(a)
Application.
Manufacturers and vendors seeking USDA approval to use the certification mark for an eligible biobased product must submit a USDA-approved application for each biobased product. A standardized application form and instructions are available on the USDA BioPreferred Program Web site (
http://www.biopreferred.gov
). The contents of an acceptable application are as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section.
(1)
General content.
The applicant must provide contact information and product information including all brand names or other identifying information, intended uses of the product, information to document that one or more of the innovative approach criteria specified in section 3202.4(c) has been met, and, if applicable, the corresponding product category classification for federal preferred procurement. The applicant must also provide a sample of the product to be analyzed by a third-party, ISO 9001 conformant, testing entity for determination of the biobased content. In situations where a new product for which certification is sought is composed of the same biobased ingredients and has the same biobased content as a product that has already been certified, the manufacturer may, in lieu of having the new product tested, self-declare the biobased content of the new product by referencing the tested biobased content of the original certified product. Certification of the original product must have been obtained by either the manufacturer of the new product or by the supplier of the biobased ingredients used in the new product.
(2)
Certifications.
The applicant must certify in the application that the product for which use of the certification mark is sought is a biobased product as defined in § 3202.2 of this part.
(3)
Commitments.
The applicant must sign a statement in the application that commits the applicant to submitting to USDA the information specified in paragraph (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section, which USDA will post to the USDA BioPreferred Program Web site, and to providing USDA with up-to-date information for posting on this Web site.
(4)
Application fee.
Effective (date to be added after authority to collect fee is granted), applicants must submit an application fee of $500 with each completed application for certification. Instructions for submitting the application fee are available on the USDA BioPreferred Program Web site (
http://www.biopreferred.gov
), along with the application form and instructions.
(b)
Evaluation of applications.
(1) USDA will evaluate each application to determine if it contains the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section. If USDA determines that the application is not complete, USDA will return the application to the applicant with an explanation of its deficiencies. Once the deficiencies have been addressed, the applicant may resubmit the application, along with a cover letter explaining the changes made, for re-evaluation by USDA. USDA will evaluate resubmitted applications separately from first-time applications, and those with the earliest original application submittal date will be given first priority.
(2)(i) USDA will evaluate each complete application to determine compliance with the criteria specified in § 3202.4. USDA will provide a written response to each applicant within 60 days after the receipt of a complete application, informing the applicant of whether the application has been conditionally approved or has been disapproved.
(ii) For those applications that are conditionally approved, a notice of certification, as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, must be issued before the use of the certification mark can begin.
(iii) For those applications that are disapproved, USDA will issue a notice of denial of certification and will inform the applicant in writing of each criterion not met. Applicants who receive a notice of denial of certification may appeal using the procedures specified in § 3202.6.
(c)
Notice of certification.
After notification that its application has been conditionally approved, the applicant must provide to USDA (for posting by
USDA on the USDA BioPreferred Program Web site) the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section. Once USDA confirms that the information is received and complete, USDA will issue a notice of certification to the applicant. Upon receipt of a notice of certification, the applicant may begin using the certification mark on the certified biobased product. Paragraph (c)(5) of this section presents the procedures for revising the information provided under paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section after a notice of certification has been issued.
(1) The product's brand name(s), or other identifying information.
(2) Contact information, including the name, mailing address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant.
(3) The biobased content of the product.
(4) A hot link directly to the applicant's Web site (if available).
(5) If at any time, during the application process or after a product has been certified, any of the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section changes, the applicant must notify USDA of the change within 30 days. Such notification must be provided in writing to USDA.
(d)
Term of certification.
(1) The effective date of certification is the date on which the applicant receives a notice of certification from USDA. Except as specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (d)(2)(v) of this section, certifications will remain in effect as long as the product is manufactured and marketed in accordance with the approved application and the requirements of this subpart.
(2)(i) If the product formulation of a certified product is changed such that the biobased content of the product is reduced to a level below that reported in the approved application, the existing certification will not be valid for the product under the revised conditions and the manufacturer or vendor, as applicable, and its designated representatives must discontinue affixing the certification mark to the product and must not initiate any further advertising of the product using the certification mark. USDA will consider a product under such revised conditions to be a reformulated product, and the manufacturer or vendor, as applicable, must submit a new application for certification using the procedures specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(ii) If the product formulation of a certified product is changed such that the biobased content of the product is increased from the level reported in the approved application, the existing certification will continue to be valid for the product.
(iii) If the applicable required minimum biobased content for a product to be eligible to display the certification mark is revised by USDA, manufacturers and vendors may continue to label their previously certified product only if it meets the new minimum biobased content level. In those cases where the biobased content of a certified product fails to meet the new minimum biobased content level, USDA will notify the manufacturer or vendor that their certification is no longer valid. Such manufacturers and vendors must increase the biobased content of their product to a level at or above the new minimum biobased content level and must re-apply for certification within 60 days if they wish to continue to use the certification mark. Manufacturers and vendors who have re-applied for certification may continue using the existing certification mark until they receive notification from USDA on the results of their re-application for certification.
(iv) All certifications are subject to USDA periodic auditing activities, as described in § 3202.10(d). If a manufacturer or vendor of a certified biobased product fails to participate in such audit activities or if such audit activities reveal biobased content violations, as specified in § 3202.8(b)(1), the certification will be subject to suspension and revocation according to the procedures specified in § 3202.8(c).
(v) If USDA discovers that a certification has been issued for an ineligible biobased product as a result of errors on the part of USDA during the approval process, USDA will notify the product's manufacturer or vendor in
writing that the certification is revoked effective 30 days from the date of the notice.
[76 FR 3806, Jan. 20, 2011. Redesignated and amended at 76 FR 53632, Aug. 29, 2011; 80 FR 34038, June 15, 2015]
§ 3202.6
Appeal processes.
An applicant for certification may appeal a notice of denial of certification to the Program Manager. Entities that have received a notice of violation, and manufacturers and vendors of certified biobased products who have received a notice of suspension or revocation, may appeal to the Program Manager.
(a)(1) Appeals to the Program Manager must be filed within 30 days of receipt by the appellant of a notice of denial of certification, a notice of violation, a notice of suspension, or a notice of revocation. Appeals must be filed in writing and addressed to: Program Manager, USDA Voluntary Labeling Program for Biobased Products, Room 361, Reporters Building, 300 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20024.
(2) All appeals must include a copy of the adverse decision and a statement of the appellant's reasons for believing that the decision was not made in accordance with applicable program regulations, policies, or procedures, or otherwise was not proper.
(b)(1) If the Program Manager sustains an applicant's appeal of a notice of denial of certification, USDA will issue a notice of certification to the applicant for its biobased product.
(2) If the Program Manager sustains a manufacturer's or vendor's appeal of a notice of violation, USDA will rescind the notice and no further action will be taken by USDA.
(3) If the Program Manager sustains a manufacturer's or vendor's appeal of a notice of suspension, the manufacturer, vendor, and their designated representative(s) may immediately resume affixing the certification mark to the certified biobased product and USDA will reinstate the product's information to the USDA BioPreferred Program Web site.
(4) If the Program Manager sustains a manufacturer's or vendor's appeal of a notice of revocation, the manufacturer or vendor, and its designated representatives may immediately resume affixing the certification mark to the certified biobased product and sell and distribute the certified biobased product with the certification mark. In addition, USDA will reinstate the product's information to the USDA BioPreferred Program Web site.
(c) If the Program Manager sustains a manufacturer's or vendor's appeal of its product's exclusion from the program, the manufacturers or vendors may then apply for certification to use the certification mark on that product, as specified in § 3202.5(a) of this part.
(d) Appeals of any of the Program Manager's decisions may be made to the USDA Assistant Secretary for Administration. Appeals must be made, in writing, within 30 days of receipt of the Program Manager's decision and addressed to: Assistant Secretary for Administration, Room 209A, Whitten Building, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20250-0103. If the Assistant Secretary for Administration sustains an appeal, the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section will apply.
[76 FR 3806, Jan. 20, 2011. Redesignated and amended at 76 FR 53632, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 3202.7
Requirements associated with the certification mark.
(a)
Who may use the certification mark?
(1)
Manufacturers and vendors.
Only manufacturers and vendors who have received a notice of certification, or designated representatives of the manufacturer or vendor, may affix the official certification mark (in one of the three variations, as applicable) to the product or its packaging. A manufacturer or vendor who has received a notice of certification for a product under this part:
(i) May use the certification mark on the product, its packaging, and other related materials including, but not limited to, advertisements, catalogs, specification sheets, procurement databases, promotional material, Web sites, or user manuals for that product, according to the requirements set forth in this section; and
(ii) Is responsible for the manner in which the mark is used by its companies, as well as its designated representatives, including advertising
agencies, marketing and public relations firms and subcontractors.
(2)
Other entities.
(i) Other entities may use the mark to advertise or promote certified biobased products in materials including, but not limited to, advertisements, catalogs, procurement databases, Web sites, and promotional and educational materials, as long as the manufacturer or vendor of the product, or one of their designated representatives, has affixed the mark to the product or its packaging.
(ii) Other entities may use the certification mark; the phrase “USDA Certified Biobased Product/Package/Product
Package,” as applicable; and the BioPreferred Program name in general statements as described in paragraph (b) of this section, as long as the statements do not imply that a non-certified biobased product is certified.
(b)
Correct usage of the certification mark.
(1) The certification mark can be affixed only to certified biobased products and their associated packaging.
(2) The certification mark may be used in material including, but not limited to, advertisements, catalogs, procurement databases, Web sites, and promotional and educational materials to distinguish products that are certified for use of the label from those that are not certified. The certification mark may be used in advertisements for both certified biobased products and non-certified/labeled products if the advertisement clearly indicates which products are certified/labeled. Care must be taken to avoid implying that any non-certified products are certified.
(3) The certification mark may be used without reference to a specific certified biobased product only when informing the public about the purpose of the certification mark. For example, the following or similar claim is acceptable: “Look for the ‘USDA Certified Biobased Product’ certification mark. It means that the product meets USDA standards for the amount of biobased content and the manufacturer or vendor has provided relevant information on the product to be posted on the USDA BioPreferred Program Web site.” This exception allows manufacturers, vendors, and other entities to use the certification mark in documents such as corporate reports, but only in an informative manner, not as a statement of product certification.
(4) The certification mark may appear next to a picture of the product(s) or text describing it.
(5) The certification mark must stand alone and not be incorporated into any other certification mark or logo designs.
(6) The certification mark may be used as a watermark provided the use does not violate any usage restrictions specified in this part.
(7) The text portion of the certification mark must be written in English and may not be translated, even when the certification mark is used outside of the United States.
(c)
Incorrect usage of the certification mark.
(1) The certification mark shall not be used on any product that has not been certified by USDA as a “USDA Certified Biobased Product.”
(2) The certification mark shall not be used on any advertisements or informational materials where both certified biobased products and non-certified products are shown unless it is clear that the certification mark applies to only the certified biobased product(s).
(3) The certification mark shall not be used to imply endorsement by USDA or the BioPreferred Program of any particular product, service, or company.
(4) The certification mark shall not be used in any form that could be misleading to the consumer.
(5) The certification mark shall not be used by manufacturers or vendors of certified products in a manner disparaging to USDA or any other government body.
(6) The certification mark shall not be used with an altered certification mark or incorporated into other label or logo designs.
(7) The certification mark shall not be used on business cards, company letterhead, or company stationery.
(8) The certification mark shall not be used in, or as part of, any company name, logo, product name, service, or Web site, except as may be provided for in this part.
(9) The certification mark shall not be used in a manner that violates any
of the applicable requirements contained in this part.
(d)
Imported products.
The certification mark can be used only with a product that is certified by USDA under this part. The certification mark cannot be used to imply that a product meets or exceeds the requirements of biobased programs in other countries. Products imported for sale in the U.S. must adhere to the same guidelines as U.S.-sourced biobased products. Any product sold in the U.S. as a “USDA Certified Biobased Product/Package/Product
Package” must have received certification from USDA.
(e)
Contents of the certification mark.
The certification mark shall consist of the certification mark artwork, the biobased content percentage, and one of the three variations of text specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section, as applicable.
(1) USDA Certified Biobased Product.
(2) USDA Certified Biobased Product: Package.
(3) USDA Certified Biobased Product
Package.
(f)
Physical aspects of the certification mark.
The certification mark artwork may not be altered, cut, separated into components, or distorted in appearance or perspective. Certification marks that are applied to biobased products that have been designated for preferred Federal procurement will include the letters “FP” as part of the certification mark artwork. The certification mark must appear only in the colors specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(3) of this section, unless approval is given by USDA for an exception.
(1) A multi-color version of the certification mark is preferred. The certification mark colors to be applied will be stipulated in the “Marketing Guides” document available on the USDA BioPreferred Program Web site (
http://www.biopreferred.gov
).
(2) A one-color version of the certification mark may be substituted for the multi-color version as long as the one color used is one of the multi-color choices reapplied without modification. Further guidance on the one-color certification mark application will also be detailed in the “Marketing Guides.”
(3) A black and white version of the certification mark is acceptable.
(g)
Placement of the certification mark.
(1) The certification mark can appear directly on a product, its associated packaging, in user manuals, and in other materials including, but not limited to, advertisements, catalogs, procurement databases, and promotional and educational materials.
(2) The certification mark shall not be placed in a manner that is ambiguous about which product is a certified biobased product or that could indicate certification of a non-certified product.
(3) When used to distinguish a certified biobased product in material including, but not limited to, advertisements, catalogs, procurement databases, Web sites, and promotional and educational materials, the certification mark must appear near a picture of the product or the text describing it.
(i) If all products on a page are certified biobased products, the certification mark may be placed anywhere on the page.
(ii) If a page contains a mix of certified biobased products and non-certified products, the certification mark shall be placed in close proximity to the certified biobased products. An individual certification mark near each certified biobased product may be necessary to avoid confusion.
(h)
Minimum size and clear space recommendations for the certification mark
—(1) The certification mark may be sized to fit the individual application as long as the correct proportions are maintained and the certification mark remains legible.
(2) A border of clear space must surround the certification mark and must be of sufficient width to offset it from surrounding images and text and to avoid confusion. If the certification mark's color is similar to the background color of the product or packaging, the certification mark in a contrasting (
i.e.
, black, white) color may be used.
(i)
Where to obtain copies of the certification mark artwork.
The certification mark artwork is available at the USDA BioPreferred Program Web site
http://www.biopreferred.gov.
§ 3202.8
Violations.
This section identifies the types of actions that USDA considers violations under this part and the penalties (e.g., the suspension or revocation of certification) associated with such violations.
(a)
General.
Violations under this section occur on a per product basis and the penalties are to be applied on a per product basis. Entities cited for a violation under this section may appeal using the provisions in § 3202.6. If certification for a product is revoked, the manufacturer or vendor whose certification has been revoked may seek re-certification for the product using the procedures specified under the provisions in § 3202.5.
(b)
Types of violations.
Actions that will be considered violations of this part include, but are not limited to, the following specific examples:
(1)
Biobased content violations.
The Program Manager will utilize occasional random testing of certified biobased products to compare the biobased content of the tested product with the product's applicable minimum biobased content and the biobased content reported by the manufacturer or vendor in its approved application. Such testing will be conducted using ASTM Method D6866. USDA will provide a copy of the results of its testing to the applicable manufacturer or vendor.
(i) If USDA testing shows that the biobased content of a certified biobased product is less than its applicable minimum biobased content, then a violation of this part will have occurred.
(ii) If USDA testing shows that the biobased content is less than that reported by the manufacturer or vendor in its approved application, but is still equal to or greater than its applicable minimum biobased content(s), USDA will provide written notification to the manufacturer or vendor. The manufacturer or vendor must submit, within 90 days from receipt of USDA written notification, a new application for the lower biobased content. Failure to submit a new application within 90 days will be considered a violation of this part.
(A) The manufacturer or vendor can submit in the new application the biobased content reported to it by USDA in the written notification.
(B) Alternatively, the manufacturer or vendor may elect to retest the product in question and submit the results of the retest in the new application. If the manufacturer or vendor elects to retest the product, it must test a sample of the current product.
(2)
Certification mark violations.
(i) Any usage or display of the certification mark that does not conform to the requirements specified in § 3202.7.
(ii) Affixing the certification mark to any product prior to issuance of a notice of certification from USDA.
(iii) Affixing the certification mark to a certified biobased product during periods when certification has been suspended or revoked.
(3)
Application violations.
Knowingly providing false or misleading information in any application for certification of a biobased product constitutes a violation of this part.
(4)
USDA BioPreferred Program Web site violations.
Failure to provide to USDA updated information when the information for a certified biobased product becomes outdated or when new information for a certified biobased product becomes available constitutes a violation of this part.
(c)
Notice of violations and associated actions.
USDA will provide the applicable manufacturer or vendor or their designated representatives and any involved other entity known to USDA written notification of any violations identified by USDA. USDA will first issue a preliminary notice that apparent violations have been identified. If satisfactory resolution of the apparent violation is not reached within 30 days from receipt of the preliminary notice, USDA will issue a notice of violation. Entities who receive a notice of violation for a biobased content violation must correct the violation(s) within 90 days from receipt of the notice of violation. Entities who receive a notice of violation for other types of violations also must correct the violation(s) within 90 days from receipt of the notice of violation. If the entity receiving a notice of violation is a manufacturer, a vendor, or a designated representative of a manufacturer or vendor, USDA will pursue notices of suspensions and
revocation, as discussed in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section. USDA reserves the right to further pursue action against these entities as provided for in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. If the entity receiving a notice of violation is an “other entity” (
i.e.,
not a manufacturer, vendor, or designated representative), then USDA will pursue action according to paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Entities that receive notices of suspension or revocation may appeal such notices using the procedures specified in § 3202.6.
(1)
Suspension.
(i) If a violation is applicable to a manufacturer, vendor, or designated representative and the applicable entity fails to make the required corrections within 90 days of receipt of a notice of violation, USDA will notify the manufacturer or vendor, as appropriate, of the continuing violation, and the USDA certification for that product will be suspended. As of the date that the manufacturer or vendor receives a notice of suspension, the manufacturer or vendor and their designated representatives must not affix the certification mark to any of that product, or associated packaging, not already labeled and must not distribute any additional products bearing the certification mark. USDA will both remove the product information from the USDA BioPreferred Program Web site and actively communicate the product suspension to buyers in a timely and overt manner.
(ii) If, within 30 days from receipt of the notice of suspension, the manufacturer or vendor whose USDA product certification has been suspended makes the required corrections and notifies USDA that the corrections have been made, the manufacturer or vendor and their designated representatives may, upon receipt of USDA approval of the corrections, resume use of the certification mark. USDA will also restore the product information to the USDA BioPreferred Program Web site.
(2)
Revocation.
(i) If a manufacturer or vendor whose USDA product certification has been suspended fails to make the required corrections and notify USDA of the corrections within 30 days of the date of the suspension, USDA will notify the manufacturer or vendor that the certification for that product is revoked.
(ii) As of the date that the manufacturer or vendor receives the notice revoking USDA certification, the manufacturer or vendor and their designated representatives must not affix the certification mark to any of that product not already labeled. In addition, the manufacturer or vendor and their designated representatives are prohibited from further sales of product to which the certification mark is affixed.
(iii) If a manufacturer or vendor whose product certification has been revoked wishes to use the certification mark, the manufacturer or vendor must follow the procedures required for original certification.
(3)
Other remedies.
In addition to the suspension or revocation of the certification to use the label, depending on the nature of the violation, USDA may pursue suspension or debarment of the entities involved in accordance with 2 CFR part 417 and 48 CFR subpart 9.4. USDA further reserves the right to pursue any other remedies available by law, including any civil or criminal remedies, against any entity that violates the provisions of this part.
[76 FR 3806, Jan. 20, 2011. Redesignated and amended at 76 FR 53632, Aug. 29, 2011; 80 FR 34039, June 15, 2015]
§ 3202.9
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a)
Records.
Manufacturers and vendors shall maintain records documenting compliance with this part for each product that has received certification to use the label, as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section.
(1) The results of all tests, and any associated calculations, performed to determine the biobased content of the product.
(2) The date the applicant receives certification from USDA, the dates of changes in formulation that affect the biobased content of certified biobased products, and the dates when the biobased content of certified biobased products was tested.
(3) Documentation of analyses performed by manufacturers to support claims of environmental or human
health benefits, life cycle cost, sustainability benefits, and product performance made by the manufacturer.
(b)
Record retention.
For each certified biobased product, records kept under paragraph (a) of this section must be maintained for at least three years beyond the end of the label certification period (
i.e.,
three years beyond the period of time when manufacturers and vendors cease using the certification mark). Records may be kept in either electronic format or hard copy format. All records kept in electronic format must be readily accessible, and/or provided by request during a USDA audit.
§ 3202.10
Oversight and monitoring.
(a)
General.
USDA will conduct oversight and monitoring of manufacturers, vendors, designated representatives, and other entities involved with the voluntary product labeling program to ensure compliance with this part. This oversight will include, but not be limited to, conducting facility visits of manufacturers and vendors who have certified biobased products, and of their designated representatives. Manufacturers, vendors, and their designated representatives are required to cooperate fully with all USDA audit efforts for the enforcement of the voluntary labeling program.
(b)
Biobased content testing.
USDA will conduct biobased content testing of certified biobased products, as described in § 3202.8(b)(1) to ensure compliance with this part.
(c)
Inspection of records.
Manufacturers, vendors, and their designated representatives must allow Federal representatives access to the records required under § 3202.9 for inspection and copying during normal Federal business hours.
(d)
Audits.
USDA expects to conduct audits of the voluntary labeling program on an ongoing basis with audit activities conducted every other calendar year (bi-annually). Audit activities will include three stages and will be conducted in sequential order as follows:
(1) Stage 1 auditing includes contacting all participants via email and requesting that they complete a “Declaration of Conformance Form.” Program participants are asked to confirm that they still manufacture the product and that the formulation and manufacturing processes remain the same. Participants are also asked to list all active products and advise the USDA of any complaints regarding the claim of the biobased content. The first Stage 1 auditing activity was completed in 2012 and the second Stage 1 audit will be conducted in 2018.
(2) Stage 2 auditing consists of a random sampling of certified products to confirm the accuracy of biobased content percentages claimed. The participants whose products are selected will be required to submit product samples to be tested by independent testing labs at USDA expense. The first Stage 2 auditing activity began in 2014 and is scheduled to be completed during 2015 and the second Stage 2 audit will be conducted in 2020.
(3) Stage 3 auditing requires manufacturers of products that have been certified for 5 years or more to have their products re-tested at their expense to confirm that the biobased content remains at or above the level at which the product was originally certified. The first Stage 3 auditing activity is scheduled to be completed during 2016 and the second Stage 3 audit will be conducted in 2022.
[76 FR 3806, Jan. 20, 2011. Redesignated and amended at 76 FR 53632, Aug. 29, 2011; 80 FR 34039, June 15, 2015]
Pt. 3203

# PART 3203—GUIDELINES FOR THE TRANSFER OF EXCESS COMPUTERS OR OTHER TECHNICAL EQUIPMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 14220 OF THE 2008 FARM BILL
Sec.
3203.1
Purpose.
3203.2
Eligibility.
3203.3
Definitions.
3203.4
Procedures.
3203.5
Dollar limitation.
3203.6
Restrictions.
3203.7
Title.
3203.8
Costs.
3203.9
Accountability and recordkeeping.
3203.10
Disposal.
3203.11
Liabilities and losses.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2206b.

# Source:
77 FR 26661, May 7, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3203.1
Purpose.
This part sets forth the procedures to be utilized by USDA when transferring excess USDA computers or other technical equipment to an organization for the purposes of distribution to a city, town, or local government entity in a rural area as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 2206b.
§ 3203.2
Eligibility.
To be eligible under this part:
(a) A city, town, or local government entity must be located in a rural area as defined in 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(A).
(b) A designated organization must:
(1) Have the documented capability to refurbish and distribute excess computers or other technical equipment;
(2) Serve the interest of cities, towns, or local government entities in rural areas; and
(3) Have been designated by an official of a city, town, or local government entity in a rural area to receive excess computers or other technical equipment under this part.
§ 3203.3
Definitions.
Cannibalization
means to remove serviceable parts from one item of equipment in order to install them on another item of equipment in order to repair or enhance its operability.
City, town, or local government entity in a rural area
as defined in 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(A) means any area other than:
(1) A city or town that has a population of greater than 50,000 inhabitants; and
(2) Any urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to such a city or town described in paragraph (1) of this definition.
Computers or other technical equipment
means central processing units, laptops, desktops, computer mouses, keyboards, monitors, related peripheral tools (e.g., printers, modems, routers, servers, multimedia projectors, multifunctional devices, external hard drives) and fax machines. This term may also include computer software where the transfer of a license is permitted.
Designated organization
means an organization that has been selected by an official of a city, town, or local government entity in a rural area to provide refurbishing services on donated computer and technical equipment.
Excess
means any property under the control of a USDA agency that is no longer required for that agency's or another USDA agency's needs, as determined by the agency head or designee.
Property Management Officer (PMO)
is an eligible recipient's designated point of contact, responsible for adherence to procedures described in this part.
Recipient
means a city, town, or local government entity located in a rural area as defined in 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(A) that may receive excess computers or other technical equipment under this part.
Refurbish
means to make ‘like new’ by the process of major maintenance or minor repair of an item, either aesthetically or mechanically.
§ 3203.4
Procedures.
(a) Each agency head will designate, in writing, an authorized official to approve transfers of excess computers or other technical equipment under this part consistent with the Department's policies on personal property management.
(b) Excess computers or other technical equipment must first be internally screened to ensure it is not needed elsewhere in the Department.
(c) To receive information concerning the availability of USDA excess computers or other technical equipment, an eligible recipient's PMO should contact any USDA office near to its location.
(d) The USDA employee responsible for personal property, at the office contacted, will review the request for eligibility of the recipient and the availability of excess computers or other technical equipment. The USDA employee will inform the requestor of the outcome of the review (e.g. eligibility, the availability of excess computers or other technical equipment).
(e) Eligible recipients will express their interest in receiving property under this part by submitting a request, on letterhead paper (electronic
copy is acceptable), to a USDA authorized official. All requests must originate from, and be signed by, a representative of an eligible recipient city, town, or local government entity. Requests must include:
(1) Type of excess computers or other technical equipment requested (should include specifications);
(2) Justification for eligibility (see § 3203.2);
(3) Contact information of the requestor;
(4) Logistical information such as when and how the property will be picked up; and
(5) Information on the recipient's designated organization (company name, contact person and phone number) that is designated to receive and refurbish the property for the eligible recipient along with a copy of the agreement between the recipient and its designated organization.
(f) Excess computers or other technical equipment should be inspected before the property is transferred or the USDA agency should be contacted to verify the condition of the property.
(g) If the condition of the property is acceptable, the recipient or its designated organization will coordinate with the USDA contact for transfer of the property. Since the USDA agency office may have several requests for property, it is critical that the recipient or its designated organization contact USDA as soon as possible. Property will usually be allocated on a first-come, first-served basis, taking into account fair and equitable distribution of excess computers or other technical equipment to all eligible recipients.
(h) Transfers will be accomplished using the appropriate USDA property transfer form. The transfer form must contain the following statement: “Property listed on this form is being transferred pursuant to the provisions in 7 CFR Part 3203.” The form must be signed by an authorized official of the USDA agency and an official of the recipient organization.
(i) A copy of the request that transferred the property must be attached to the transfer order and kept in the USDA agency's files.
(j) When property is transferred to a designated organization, a copy of the completed transfer document will be sent to the eligible recipient government entity for its records. Eligible recipients are responsible for following up with the designated organization they have designated for the final receipt of the property.
(k) In cases where an agency receives competing requests for excess computers or other technical equipment, to the extent permitted by law, the agency shall give full consideration to such factors as national defense requirements, emergency needs, energy conservation, preclusion of new procurement, fair and equitable distribution, transportation costs, and retention of title in the Government.
(l) Prior to transferring any property pursuant to this Act, the transferring agency must remove data from the excess computers or other technical equipment (memory or any kind of data storage device) according to accepted sanitization procedures. To the maximum extent practicable, the transferring agency must remove data using a means that does not remove, disable, destroy, or otherwise render unusable the excess computers or other technical equipment or components. It is imperative that agencies take the necessary steps to ensure that no personal computer, server, external storage device, or related electronic component is transferred that might contain sensitive or confidential information. See Departmental Manual 3575-001, Security Controls in the System Life Cycle/System Development Life Cycle, for additional guidance.
§ 3203.5
Dollar limitation.
There is no dollar limitation on excess computers or other technical equipment obtained under this part.
§ 3203.6
Restrictions.
(a) Only an authorized USDA official may approve the transfer of excess computers or other technical equipment under this part.
(b) Excess computers or other technical equipment may be transferred for the purpose of cannibalization, provided that the requestor submits a
statement clearly indicating that cannibalization of the requested property will have greater benefit than utilization of the item in its existing form. Cannibalization is a secondary use of equipment and, therefore, these requests are considered subordinate to requests for primary use.
(c) Designated organizations will only receive property for cannibalization when it has been specifically requested by the recipient and the cannibalized parts must only be used in computers or other technical equipment destined for eligible recipients.
§ 3203.7
Title.
Title of ownership to excess computers or other technical equipment transferred under this part shall automatically pass to the recipient once the transferring agency and recipient or designated organization sign the transfer form indicating that the designated organization has received the property.
§ 3203.8
Costs.
The designated organization must pay any costs associated with packaging and transportation of the property unless it has made other arrangements. The designated organization must remove property from the USDA agency's premises within 15 calendar days after being notified that the property is available for pickup, unless otherwise coordinated with the USDA agency. If the recipient decides prior to picking up or removing the property that it no longer wants the property, it must notify the USDA agency that approved the transfer request that the property is no longer needed.
§ 3203.9
Accountability and recordkeeping.
(a) USDA requires all excess computers or other technical equipment received by an eligible recipient pursuant to this part be placed into use within one year of receipt of the property and used for at least one year thereafter. The recipient's PMO must maintain accountable records for such property during this time period.
(b) GSA requires that all excess personal property given to non-federal recipients be reported each fiscal year. USDA agencies that transfer property under this part must report the transfers in their annual reports to OPPM and include both the recipient and organization names. OPPM will review the reports for accuracy, as well as fair and equitable distribution of the excess computers or other technical equipment, before submitting to GSA.
§ 3203.10
Disposal.
When property received under this part is no longer needed by the recipient, it must be disposed of in an environmentally sound manner that is not detrimental or dangerous to public health or safety and in accordance with all Federal, State and local laws.
§ 3203.11
Liabilities and losses.
USDA assumes no liability with respect to accidents, bodily injury, illness, or any other damages or loss related to excess computers or other technical equipment transferred under this part. The recipient/designated organization is advised to insure or otherwise protect itself and others as appropriate.
PARTS 3204-3299 [RESERVED]
7 CFR Ch. XXXIII (1-1-25 Edition)
Office of Transportation, USDA

# CHAPTER XXXIII—OFFICE OF TRANSPORTATION, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Part
Page
3300
Agreement on the international carriage of perishable foodstuffs and on the special equipment to be used for such carriage (ATP); inspection, testing, and certification of special equipment
175
3301-3399
[Reserved]
Pt. 3300

# PART 3300—AGREEMENT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CARRIAGE OF PERISHABLE FOODSTUFFS AND ON THE SPECIAL EQUIPMENT TO BE USED FOR SUCH CARRIAGE (ATP); INSPECTION, TESTING, AND CERTIFICATION OF SPECIAL EQUIPMENT

# Subpart A—Introduction
Sec.
3300.1
Scope of authority and purpose.
3300.4
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Procedures for Testing of Equipment
3300.7
General.
3300.10
Measurement of the K-coefficient of an insulated body.
3300.13
Determination of the efficiency of the thermal appliances as installed in the insulated body.

# Subpart C—Approval of Testing Stations
3300.16
General.
3300.19
Application for approval.
3300.22
Response to application for approval.
3300.25
Application for renewal of approval.
3300.28
Response to application for renewal of approval.
3300.31
Termination of approval.

# Subpart D—Procedures for Separate Testing of Mechanical Refrigerating Appliances
3300.34
General.
3300.37
Testing of a mechanical refrigerating appliance.

# Subpart E—Approval of Testing Laboratories
3300.40
General.
3300.43
Application for approval.
3300.46
Response to application for approval.
3300.49
Application for renewal of approval.
3300.52
Response to application for renewal of approval.
3300.55
Termination of approval.

# Subpart F—Certification of New Equipment
3300.58
General.
3300.61
Testing and verification requirements.
3300.64
Application for certificate for new equipment produced or assembled in the United States or in a foreign country which is not a contracting party to the ATP.
3300.67
Application for certificate for new equipment produced or assembled in a foreign country which is a contracting party to the ATP.
3300.70
Issuance of certificate.
3300.73
Period of validity of certificates.

# Subpart G—Certification of Equipment in Service
3300.76
General.
3300.79
Application for certificate.
3300.82
Issuance of certificate.
3300.85
Period of validity of certificates.

# Subpart H—Other Provisions
3300.88
Fees for U.S. ATP certificates.
3300.91
List of approved testing stations, approved testing laboratories, and fees for certificates.
3300.94
Appeals.

# Authority:
Sec. 4, Pub. L. 97-325, International Carriage of Perishable Foodstuffs Act (7 U.S.C. 4403).

# Source:
51 FR 33879, Sept. 24, 1986, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Introduction
§ 3300.1
Scope of authority and purpose.
The International Carriage of Perishable Foodstuffs Act assigns to the Secretary of Agriculture the responsibility for implementation of the Agreement on the International Carriage of Perishable Foodstuffs and on the Special Equipment to be Used for Such Carriage (ATP). The purpose of this rule is to establish procedures for the inspection, testing, and certification of insulated, refrigerated, mechanically refrigerated, and heated transport equipment in accordance with the Act and the standards specified in the Agreement. In the process, the intent is to utilize existing industry organizations and facilities for testing and inspection of equipment. The Secretary is the sole authority to issue certificates of compliance.
§ 3300.4
Definitions.
Administrator
means the Administrator, Office of Transportation, U.S. Department of Agriculture, whose address is: 1405 Auditors Building, 201 14th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20250.
ATP
means the Agreement on the International Carriage of Perishable Foodstuffs and on the Special Equipment to be Used for Such Carriage (ATP), and the annexes and appendices thereto, done at Geneva, September 1, 1970, under the auspices of the Economic Commission for Europe, and any subsequent amendments thereto.
1
1
A copy of the agreement can be obtained by request to the ATP Manager, Office of Transportation, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1405 Auditors Building, 201 14th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20250.
ATP manager
means the person designated by the Administrator to manage the program established by this rule, whose address is: ATP Manager, Office of Transportation, U.S Department of Agriculture, 1405 Auditors Building, 201 14th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20250.
Contracting party
means a country which is signatory to the ATP.
Domestic owner
means an organization incorporated or chartered under the laws of, and with principal office in, the United States, and to which one of the following applies:
(a) The organization owns and operates the equipment directly.
(b) The organization owns and operates the equipment through a wholly owned subsidiary in a foreign country.
(c) The organization is a lessee or bailee of the equipment, and a written lease or bailment provides that the organization is responsible for any inspection, testing, and certification of the equipment with respect to the ATP rule.
Equipment
means the special transport equipment that meets the definitions and standards set forth in ATP, Annex 1, including, but not limited to, railcars, trucks, trailers, semitrailers, and intermodal freight containers that have an insulated body only, or an insulated body equipped with a refrigerating, mechanically refrigerating, or heating appliance.
Equipment manufacturer
means an organization which producers or assembles the complete unit of equipment, that is, the insulated body with the thermal appliance installed.
Foreign owner
means an organization registered under the laws of, or with principal office in, a country outside the United States, and which owns or operates the equipment.
Foreign-ATP certificate
means a certificate issued by a foreign country which is a contracting party to the ATP, attesting that the equipment listed in the certificate complies with pertinent standards in the ATP.
Identical mechanical refrigerating appliance
means an appliance which is of the same model number and design as the reference mechanical refrigerating appliance.
Insulated body
means the six-sided structural component of equipment, consisting of insulated doors, sidewalls, roof, floor, and endwall, inside which perishable foodstuffs are carried.
International carriage
means transportation of perishable foodstuffs if such foodstuffs are loaded in equipment or the equipment containing them is loaded onto a rail or road vehicle, in the territory of any country and such foodstuffs are, or the equipment containing them is, unloaded in the territory of another country that is a contracting party, where such transportation is by:
(a) Rail,
(b) Road,
(c) Any combination of rail and road, or
(d) Any sea crossing of less than one hundred and fifty kilometers, if preceded or followed by one or more land journeys as referred to in clauses (a), (b), and (c) of this definition, and the perishable foodstuffs are shipped in the same equipment used for such land journeys without transloading of such foodstuffs.
In the case of any transportation that involves one or more sea crossings other than as specified in clause (d) of this definition, each land journey shall be considered separately.
New equipment
means equipment produced or assembled on or after the effective date of this rule.
Perishable foodstuffs
means the quick deep-frozen and frozen food products listed in Annex 2, and the chilled food products listed in Annex 3 to the ATP.
Reference equipment
means a unit of equipment which has passed a test in an approved testing station, and can thereby serve as a basis for certification of related serially-produced equipment.
Reference insulated body
means an insulated body which has passed a test in an approved testing station for measurement of the K-coefficient of the body, and can thereby serve as the basis for approval of serially-produced bodies in the case in which the body and the mechanical refrigerating appliance of the equipment are tested separately.
Reference mechanical refrigerating appliance
means an appliance which has passed a test in an approved testing laboratory, and can thereby serve as the basis for approval of identical mechanical refrigerating appliances in the case in which the appliance and the insulated body of the equipment are tested separately.
Serially-produced bodies
means insulated bodies which meet the definition in ATP, Annex 1 Appendix 1, paragraph 2(c)(i).
Serially-produced equipment
means equipment of a specific type (container, semi-trailer, trailer, truck, or container), which meets the definition in ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 1, paragraphs 2(c), (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv).
Thermal appliance
means the refrigerating, mechanical refrigerating, or heating appliance which is installed in the insulated body of the equipment.
United States
means the fifty States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands of the United States, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
U.S. ATP certificate
means a certificate issued by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, attesting that the equipment listed in the certificate complies with pertinent standards in the ATP.
U.S. ATP testing laboratory
means a facility in the United States which has been approved by the Administrator to conduct tests of mechanical refrigerating appliances.
U.S. ATP testing station
means a facility in the United States which has been approved by the Administrator to conduct tests of equipment.

# Subpart B—Procedures for Testing of Equipment
§ 3300.7
General.
Testing of equipment according to the ATP is basically done in two phases:
(a) Measurement of the insulating capacity, that is, the K-coefficient, of the insulated body.
(b) Determination of the efficiency of the thermal appliance as installed in the insulated body. In the case of mechanically refrigerated equipment, the mechanical refrigerating appliance may be tested separate from the body.
§ 3300.10
Measurement of the K-coefficient of an insulated body.
The K-coefficient shall be measured according to the procedures in ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 2, paragraphs 1-28, and the following shall apply:
(a) The internal heating method shall be used.
(b) In ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 2, paragraph 8, last line, “about + 20 °C for the mean temperature of the walls of the body shall be interpreted to mean between +19 °C (+66 °F) and 21 °C (+70 °F).
(c) A report of each test shall be completed on a form corresponding to the pertinent test report model prescribed in ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 2. Report forms may be obtained by a request to the ATP manager.
§ 3300.13
Determination of the efficiency of the thermal appliances as installed in the insulated body.
In determining the efficiency of a thermal appliance with respect to maintaining a prescribed temperature inside the body, the procedures in ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 2, paragraphs 31-40 and 43-47 shall be used. A report of each test shall be completed on a form corresponding to the pertinent test report model prescribed in ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 2. Report forms may be obtained by a request to the ATP manager.

# Subpart C—Approval of Testing Stations
§ 3300.16
General.
Any public or private organization incorporated or chartered under the laws of, and with principal office in, the United States may apply to have one or more of its facilities in the United States designated as a U.S. ATP testing station.
§ 3300.19
Application for approval.
An application by an officer of the organization shall be submitted to the Administrator for each facility for which approval is sought. Copies of the Form, Application for Approval as a U.S. ATP Testing Station, may be obtained by a request to the ATP manager. The following information must be supplied in the application:
(a) A statement that the organization is incorporated or chartered under the laws of, and that it has its principal office in, the United States, including the name, address, and telephone number of the principal office.
(b) The address and telephone number of the testing station, and name and title of person in charge of the station.
(c) A summary of experience at the facility which would indicate the capability to conduct tests of equipment according to Subpart B of this rule.
(d) A general description of the station, including drawings on letter size (8
1/2
× 11 inches) paper to show the floor plan and cross-sections of the test chamber, basic dimensions, location of heat exchangers and instruments, and any other pertinent information.
(e) An indication of which of the following types of equipment, as defined in ATP, Annex 1, that the station is capable of testing: intermodal freight containers, semi-trailers, trailers, railcars, and trucks.
(f) A statement that the ATP manager or other representative of the Administrator may, before a decision is made concerning the application, observe a test at the station of a Class “C” mechanically refrigerated container or semi-trailer, with Class “C” being defined as in ATP, Annex 1, paragraph 3.
(g) A statement that the station will be open to public use, that is, to manufacturers and owners of equipment which may apply to have equipment tested.
(h) A statement that the fees to be charged by the organization for testing will be reasonable with respect to costs involved, and that such fees will be payable directly to the organization by those who seek testing of their equipment.
(i) A statement that the station will maintain records of basic data developed in each test conducted under this rule, such records to be available for review by the ATP manager or other representative of the Administrator upon request. The record for each test shall be maintained for a period of three years.
(j) A statement that the organization will advise the ATP manager as soon as practicable of its intent to conduct a test under this rule and that it will, as soon as possible, advise when a firm test date has been set so that the ATP manager or other representative of the Administrator may observe the test.
(k) A statement that the organization will send to the ATP manager a copy of each test report for equipment tested at the station according to this rule, within 30 days after completion of the test.
(l) A statement that, should any significant change occur in the facility with respect to structure or test equipment as a result of redesign or other cause during the period of approval, the organization will so advise the ATP manager within 30 days after such change.
(m) Any other pertinent information.
§ 3300.22
Response to application for approval.
The Administrator will, within 30 days of receipt of the application and any relevant information required, advise the applicant whether or not the facility is approved as a testing station. Approval is for a 5-year period.
§ 3300.25
Application for renewal of approval.
If an organization wishes to have an approval renewed at the end of a 5-year
period, it shall submit a request for renewal to the Administrator 90 days before expiration of the existing approval. The request for renewal shall contain the same type of information as required in the original application, that is, the information called for in § 3300.19 of subpart C.
§ 3300.28
Response to application for renewal of approval.
The Administrator will, within 30 days of receipt of application and any relevant information required, advise the applicant whether or not approval is renewed. A renewal is good for 5 years.
§ 3300.31
Termination of approval.
An approved testing station may at any time withdraw as an approved testing station by written notice to the Administrator. Similarly, the Administrator may suspend or terminate for cause the approved status of a testing station by written notice to the organization, setting forth the reasons for such action. Examples of causes for suspension or termination of approval of a testing station would be a change in equipment or operations at the station which would render the station incapable of performing tests according to the standards in the ATP, or noncompliance of the station with pertinent portions of this rule.

# Subpart D—Procedures for Separate Testing of Mechanical Refrigerating Appliances
§ 3300.34
General.
ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 2, paragraph 41, provides that approval of mechanically refrigerated equipment may be done on the basis of separate testing of the mechanical refrigerating appliance.
§ 3300.37
Testing of a mechanical refrigerating appliance.
For separate testing of a mechanical refrigerating appliance, the following shall pertain:
(a) The calibrated-box method shall be used, as set forth in ARI Standard 1110, Standard for Mechanical Refrigeration Units, of the Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute.
(b) The appliance shall be rated according to the class, or classes, of service for which the appliance is intended, with classes being defined as in ATP, Annex 1, paragraph 3.
(c) A report of each test shall be completed on a form corresponding to the pertinent test report model prescribed in ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 2. Report forms may be obtained by a request to the ATP manager.

# Subpart E—Approval of Testing Laboratories
§ 3300.40
General.
Any public or private organization incorporated or chartered under the laws of, and with principal office in, the United States may apply to have one or more of its facilities in the United States designated as a U.S. ATP testing laboratory.
§ 3300.43
Application for approval.
An application by an officer of the organization shall be submitted to the Administrator for each facility for which approval is sought. Copies of the Form, Application for Approval as a U.S. ATP Testing Laboratory, may be obtained by a request to the ATP manager. The following information must be supplied in the application:
(a) A statement that the organization is incorporated or chartered under the laws of, and that it has its principal office in, the United States, including the address and telephone number of the principal office.
(b) The address and telephone number of the testing laboratory, and name and title of person in charge of the laboratory.
(c) A summary of the experience at the facility which would indicate a capability to conduct tests of mechanical refrigerating appliances according to subpart D of this rule.
(d) A general description of the laboratory, including drawings on letter size (8
1/2
× 11 inches) paper to show the floor plan and cross-section of the test chamber, basic dimensions, location of heat exchangers and instruments, and any other pertinent information.
(e) A statement that the ATP manager or other representative of the Administrator may, before a decision is
made concerning the application, observe a test at the laboratory of a mechanical refrigerating appliance for a Class “C” mechanically refrigerated container or trailer, with Class “C” as defined in ATP, Annex 1, paragraph 3.
(f) A statement that the laboratory will maintain records of basic data developed in each test conducted under this rule, such records to be available for review by the ATP manager or other representative of the Administrator, upon request. The record for each test shall be maintained for a period of three years.
(g) A statement that the organization will advise the ATP manager as soon as practicable of its intent to conduct a test under this rule and that it will, as soon as possible, advise when a firm test has been set so that the ATP manager or other representative of the Administrator may observe the test.
(h) A statement that the organization will send to the ATP manager a copy of each test report for an appliance tested at the laboratory according to this rule, within 30 days after completion of the test.
(i) A statement that, should any significant change occur in the facility with respect to structure or test equipment as a result of redesign or other cause during the period of approval, the organization will so advise the ATP manager within 30 days after such change.
(j) Any other pertinent information.
§ 3300.46
Response to application for approval.
The Administrator will, within 30 days of receipt of an application and any relevant information required, advise the applicant whether or not the facility is approved as a testing laboratory. Approval is for a 5-year period from date of approval.
§ 3300.49
Application for renewal of approval.
If an organization wishes to have an approval renewed at the end of a 5-year period, it shall submit a request for renewal to the Administrator 90 days before expiration of the existing approval. The request for renewal shall contain the same type of information as required in the original application, that is, the information called for in § 3300.43 of subpart E.
§ 3300.52
Response to application for renewal of approval.
The Administrator will, within 30 days of receipt of application and any relevant information required, advise the applicant whether or not approval is renewed. A renewal extends the period of approval for 5 years.
§ 3300.55
Termination of approval.
An approved testing laboratory may at any time withdraw as an approved testing laboratory by written notice to the Administrator. Similarly, the Administrator may suspend or terminate for cause the approved status of a testing laboratory by written notice to the organization, setting forth the reasons for such action. Examples of causes for suspension or termination of approval would be a change in equipment or operations at the laboratory which would render it incapable of performing tests according to the standards in the ATP, or noncompliance of the laboratory with pertinent portions of this rule.

# Subpart F—Certification of New Equipment
§ 3300.58
General.
The following shall apply for certification of new equipment:
(a) Domestic owners are eligible to receive U.S. ATP certificates for equipment produced or assembled in the United States or in a foreign country.
(b) Foreign owners are eligible to receive U.S. ATP certificates only for equipment produced or assembled in the United States.
(c) For equipment manufactured (
i.e.
, produced or assembled) in the United States:
(1) When the complete unit of equipment is tested, the test shall be performed in a U.S. ATP testing station.
(2) When the mechanical refrigerating appliance and the insulated body are tested separately, such tests shall be performed in approved testing facilities in the United States or in test facilities located in, and approved by, a foreign country which is a Contracting Party.
(d) For equipment manufactured in a foreign country which is a Contracting Party, a domestic owner may receive a U.S. ATP certiticate in exchange for the Foreign-ATP certificate issued by the country of manufacture.
(e) For equipment manufactured in a foreign country which is not a Contracting Party, tests shall be performed in approved testing facilities in the United States or in facilities located in and approved by a foreign country which is a Contracting Party.
(f) In accordance with ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 1, paragraphs 2(a) and (d), the validity of a test report for a reference equipment shall expire at the end of a period of 3 years or at the end of the manufacture of 1,000 units of serially-produced equipment, whichever occurs first.
(g) The validity of a test report for a reference mechanical refrigerating appliance shall expire at the end of a period of three years, or at the end of the manufacture of 1,000 identical mechanical refrigerating appliances, whichever occurs first.
(h) The validity of a test report for a reference insulated body shall expire at the end of a period of three years, or at the end of the manufacture of 1,000 serially-produced bodies, whichever occurs first.
(i) Serially-produced equipment shall be produced or assembled by the same manufacturer and at the same manufacturing plant as the reference equipment.
(j) Identical mechanical refrigerating appliances shall be manufactured by the same manufacturer and at the same manufacturing plant as the reference mechanical refrigerating appliance.
(k) Serially-produced bodies shall be manufactured by the same manufacturer and at the same manufacturing plant as the reference insulated body.
(l) Equipment manufacturers shall notify the ATP manager 30 days before start of manufacture so that the ATP manager or other representative of the Administrator may observe the manufacturing operation.
(m) Owners who receive a U.S. ATP certificate have the responsibility to manitain the equipment in good repair and operating condition with the understanding that the certificate is valid only so long as:
(1) The insulated body and the thermal appliance are maintained in good condition;
(2) No material alteration is made to the thermal appliance which decreases its refrigerating capacity, and;
(3) If the thermal appliance is replaced, it is replaced by an appliance of equal or greater refrigerating capacity.
§ 3300.61
Testing and verification requirements.
In accordance with ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 1, paragraphs 1, 1(a), 2(a), 2(b), 2(c) and 3, and Appendix 2, paragraph 41, certification of new equipment is based upon the following:
(a) For a unit of equipment, a test of the equipment in an approved testing station.
(b) For serially-produced equipment:
(1) A test of one unit of equipment in an approved testing station, such unit to serve as the reference equipment.
(2) Verification that production of other units of equipment is in conformity with the reference equipment.
(c) For mechanically refrigerated equipment, certification may be based upon a separate test of the mechanical refrigerating appliance and a separate test of the insulated body.
§ 3300.64
Application for certificate for new equipment produced or assembled in the United States or in a foreign country which is not a contracting party to the ATP.
Application for certification shall be submitted to the ATP manager by an officer in the organization of the owner of the equipment. In the case of equipment manufactured in the United States, application may be made by an officer in the organization of the equipment manufacturer, acting on behalf of the owner. Copies of the Form, Application for U.S. ATP Certificate for New Equipment Produced or Assembled in the United States or in a Foreign Country Which is not a Contracting Party to the ATP, may be obtained by a request to the ATP manager. The following information must be supplied in the application:
(a) A statement whether the owner is a domestic owner or a foreign owner, with the name, address and telephone
number of its principal office, and the name and title of person to contact.
(b) If the operator of the equipment is different from the owner, the name and address of the operator.
(c) Type of equipment (intermodal freight container, semi-trailer, trailer, railcar, or truck).
(d) Total number of units of equipment.
(e) Definition and distinguishing mark of the equipment for which certification is sought, referring to ATP, Annex 1, paragraph 3 and Appendix 4.
(f) Name, address, and telephone number of the principal office of the equipment manufacturer, and name and title of the person to contact.
(g) Name and address of the plant at which the equipment was manufactured.
(h) In the case of a unit of equipment (
i.e.
, the insulated body with its mechanical refrigerating appliance installed) that has been tested to serve as the reference equipment for serially-produced equipment:
(1) The original or certified true copy of the test report for the reference equipment.
(2) For the serially-produced equipment:
(i) The manufacturer's make and model number for the equipment, including a brief description of the equipment and enclosure of any brochure on the equipment which might be available.
(ii) The basis upon which the equipment meets the definition of serially-produced equipment, with respect to the reference equipment.
(iii) A statement that the equipment was manufactured at the same plant at which the reference equipment was manufactured.
(iv) A statement that production of the equipment was in conformity with the reference equipment.
(i) In the case where the mechanical refrigerating appliance and the insulated body have been tested separately:
(1) For the reference mechanical refrigerating appliance:
(i) The original or certified true copy of the test report.
(ii) From the test report, the effective refrigerating capacity, W, in watts, of the appliance at an outside temperature of + 30 °C and the inside temperature (
see
ATP, Annex 1, paragraph 3 and Appendix 4) for the class of equipment for which certification is sought. “W” must be equal to, or greater than, the increased heat transfer rate, H
i
, for the reference insulated body. See paragraph (3)(iii) below.
(2) For the identical mechanical refrigerating appliances:
(i) Name and address of the plant at which the identical appliances and reference appliance were manufactured.
(ii) The manufacturer's make, model number, and a brief description of the appliances with enclosure of any brochure on the appliances which might be available.
(iii) A statement that the appliances meet the definition of identical mechanical refrigerating appliances.
(3) For the reference insulated body:
(i) The original or certified true copy of the test report.
(ii) The total heat transfer rate of the body, H
t
= S × K × Δ T, in watts, where: “S” is the mean surface area of the body, from the test report; “K” is the heat transfer coefficient of the body, from the test report; and, “Δ T” is the difference in degrees Kelvin between an outside temperature of + 30 °C and the inside temperature for the class of equipment for which certification is sought.
(iii) The increased beat transfer rate, H
i
, obtained by multiplying the total heat transfer rate H
t
, by the factor of 1.75.
(4) For the serially-produced insulated bodies:
(i) Name and address of the plant at which the serially-produced bodies and reference body were manufactured.
(ii) The manufacturer's make, model number, and a brief description of the bodies, with any brochure on the bodies which might be available.
(iii) The basis upon which the bodies meet the definition of serially-produced bodies, with respect to the reference insulated body.
(iv) A statement that production of the bodies was in conformity with the reference insulated body.
(j) Information on the equipment after manufacture:
(1) A statement that each mechanical refrigerating appliance, after it was installed in the body, was operated and thoroughly checked and that each appliance functioned properly.
(2) A statement that each body and each appliance has affixed to it a manufacturer's plate or other means of identification which shows the items of information required by ATP, Annex 1, paragraph 6.
(3) A statement that each unit of equipment, before it is put into service, will have affixed to it a certification plate and distinguishing mark as specified in ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 1, paragraphs 4 and 5, and Appendixes 3 and 4.
(4) A list showing, for each unit of equipment, the serial number of the body and the corresponding owner's equipment identification number.
§ 3300.67
Application for certificate for new equipment produced or assembled in a foreign country which is a contracting party to the ATP.
An application for certification of equipment shall be submitted to the ATP manager by an officer in the organization of the owner of the equipment. Copies of the Form, Application for U.S. ATP Certificate for New Equipment Produced or Assembled in a Foreign Country Which is a Contracting Party, may be obtained by a request to the ATP manager. The following information must be submitted in the application:
(a) A statement that the owner is a domestic owner, with the name, address and telephone number of its principal office, and the name and title of the person to contact.
(b) If the operator of the equipment is different from the owner, the name and address of the operator.
(c) The type of equipment (intermodal freight container, trailer, semi-trailer, railcar, or truck.)
(d) Total number of units of equipment.
(e) Definition of the equipment for which certification is sought, referring to ATP, Annex 1, paragraph 3, and Appendix 4.
(f) Name, address, and telephone number of the manufacturer of the equipment, and the name and title of the person to contact.
(g) The manufacturer's make and model number for the equipment, including a brief description of the equipment and any brochure on the equipment which might be available.
(h) The original or certified true copy of the test report for the reference equipment.
(i) The original or certified true copy of the Foreign-ATP certificate issued for the equipment.
(j) A statement that each unit of equipment, before it is put into service, will have affixed to it a certification plate and distinguishing mark as specified in ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 1, paragraphs 4 and 5, and Appendixes 3 and 4.
(k) A list showing, for each unit of equipment, the serial number of the body and the corresponding owner's equipment identification number.
§ 3300.70
Issuance of certificate.
The ATP manager will evaluate the documents received and, for equipment deemed qualified, will issue a U.S. ATP certificate to the applicant within 30 days of the receipt of an application and any relevant information required. The certificate will be in the format prescribed in ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 3. For equipment deemed not qualified, the applicant will be advised of the reasons for non-qualification within 30 days of the receipt of an application and any relevant information required.
§ 3300.73
Period of validity of certificates.
In accordance with ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 1, paragraphs 1(a) and 1(b), certificates issued for new equipment are valid for a period of 6 years from date of issue.

# Subpart G—Certification of Equipment in Service
§ 3300.76
General.
Only domestic owners are eligible to receive U.S. ATP certificates for equipment in service, with certification based upon the following:
(a) For equipment which has not previously been certified:
(1) For each unit of equipment, a test in a U.S. ATP testing station or in a testing station located in and approved by a country which is a Contracting
Party, to measure the K-coefficient of the insulated body and the efficiency of the thermal appliance in accordance with § 3300.10 and § 3300.13 of this rule.
(2) If the equipment consists of serially-produced equipment manufactured by a particular equipment manufacturer, and belonging to one owner, certification may be based upon the following:
(i) A test of 1 percent of the units of equipment as prescribed in preceding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the units tested to serve as reference equipment.
(ii) An inspection of each unit of equipment, using the procedures set forth in ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 2, paragraphs 29 and 49. The inspections shall be performed by one of the following, at the choice of the owner:
(A) Persons in the owner's organization whom the owner deems qualified to perform inspections, or;
(B) By an independent inspection agency which the owner deems competent to perform inspections. Fees charged by such inspection agency shall be payable directly to the agency by the owner.
(iii) A report of each inspection shall be completed on a form corresponding to the pertinent test report model in ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 2. Report forms may be obtained by a request to the ATP manager.
(b) For renewal of a U.S. ATP certificate which is nearing its expiration date, any of the following three procedures:
(1) For each unit of equipment, a test as prescribed in preceding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, or;
(2) If the equipment is serially-produced by a particular manufacturer and belongs to one owner, test and inspection of the equipment according to the procedures prescribed in preceding paragraphs (a)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section, or;
(3) An inspection of each unit of equipment as prescribed in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section.
(c) For equipment which is currently certified according to a U.S. ATP certificate, and which has been transferred from one domestic owner to another, the new owner may obtain a U.S. ATP certificate by submitting the original or certified true copy of the certificate issued to the previous owner, and by performing an inspection and submitting an inspection report for each unit of equipment.
(d) For equipment which is currently certified according to a Foreign-ATP certificate, and which has been transferred from a foreign owner to a domestic owner, the domestic owner may obtain a U.S. ATP certificate by submitting the original or certified true copy of the test report for the reference equipment and the original or certified true copy of the foreign certificate, and by performing an inspection and submitting an inspection report for each unit of equipment.
(e) Owners who receive a U.S. ATP certificate have the responsibility to maintain equipment in good repair and operating condition with the understanding that the certificate is valid only so long as:
(1) The insulated body and the thermal appliance are maintained in good condition;
(2) No material alteration is made to the thermal appliance which decreases its refrigeration capacity, and;
(3) If the thermal appliance is replaced, it is replaced by an appliance of equal or greater refrigerating capacity.
§ 3300.79
Application for certificate.
An application shall be submitted to the ATP manager by an officer in the organization of the owner of the equipment. Copies of the Form, Application for U.S. ATP Certificate for Equipment in Service, may be obtained by a request to the ATP manager. The following information is requested in the application:
(a) A statement that the owner is a domestic owner, with the name, address, and telephone number of its principal office, and name and title of person to contact.
(b) If the operator of the equipment is different from the owner, the name and address of the operator.
(c) The type of equipment (intermodal freight container, trailer, semi-trailer, railcar, or truck).
(d) The total number of units of equipment.
(e) The definition of the equipment for which certification is sought, referring to ATP, Annex 1, paragraph 3 and Appendix 4.
(f) For equipment which has not been previously certified, one of the following:
(1) For each unit of equipment, the original or certified true copy of the test report, or;
(2) If the equipment is serially-produced by one manufacturer:
(i) Name of manufacturer.
(ii) The original or certified true copy of the test report(s) of 1 percent of the equipment which was tested to serve as reference equipment.
(iii) A report of inspection for each unit of equipment.
(g) For renewal of a U.S. ATP Certificate which is nearing its expiration date:
(1) The original or certified true copy of that certificate, and;
(2) One of the following, (i) (ii), or (iii):
(i) For each unit of equipment, the original or certified true copy of the test report.
(ii) If the equipment is serially-produced by one manufacturer:
(A) Name of manufacturer.
(B) The original or certified true copy of the test report(s) of 1 percent of the equipment which was tested to serve as reference equipment.
(C) A report of inspection from each unit of equipment.
(iii) A report of inspection for each unit of equipment.
(h) For equipment which is currently certified according to a U.S. ATP certificate, and which has been transferred from one domestic owner to another:
(1) The original or certified true copy of that certificate.
(2) A report of inspection for each unit of equipment.
(i) For equipment which is currently certified according to a Foreign-ATP certificate, and which has been transferred from a foreign owner to a domestic owner:
(1) The original or certified true copy of the test report for the reference equipment.
(2) The original or certified true copy of the Foreign-ATP certificate.
(3) A report of inspection for each unit of equipment.
(j) A statement that each unit of equipment has, or will have, affixed to it a certification plate and distinguishing mark as prescribed in ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 1, paragraphs 4 and 5, and Appendices 3 and 4.
(k) A list showing, for each unit of equipment, the serial number of the body and the corresponding owner's equipment identification number.
§ 3300.82
Issuance of certificate.
The ATP manager will evaluate documents received and, for equipment deemed qualified, will issue a U.S. ATP certificate to the applicant within 30 days of receipt of the application and any relevant information required. The certificate will be in the format prescribed in ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 3. For equipment deemed not qualified, the applicant will be advised of reasons for non-qualification within 30 days of receipt of an application and any relevant information required.
§ 3300.85
Period of validity of certificates.
In accordance with ATP, Annex 1, Appendix 1, paragraphs 1(b), and Appendix 2, paragraphs 29(c) and 49(b) and (d), considered in combination, certificates will be valid for periods as follows:
(a) For equipment which passes a test, 6 years.
(b) For serially-produced equipment of which 1 percent have passed a test, and all units have been inspected and passed such inspection, 6 years.
(c) For renewal of a U.S. ATP certificate which is nearing its expiration date, where the equipment has passed an inspection but has not been tested, 3 years.
(d) For equipment currently certified according to a U.S. ATP certificate, where the equipment has been transferred from one domestic owner to another and the equipment has passed an inspection, 3 years or the date of expiration of the current U.S. ATP certificate, whichever gives the later expiration date on the new U.S. ATP certificate.
(e) For equipment currently certified according to a Foreign-ATP certificate, where the equipment has been transferred from a foreign owner to a domestic owner and the equipment has passed an inspection, 3 years or the date of expiration of the foreign certificate, whichever gives the later expiration date on the newly issued U.S. ATP certificate.

# Subpart H—Other Provisions
§ 3300.88
Fees for U.S. ATP certificates.
The fee schedule for issuance of U.S. ATP certificates by the U.S. Department of Agriculture will be calculated according to the criteria in Circular A-25
2
, issued by the Office of Management and Budget. Fees may be revised as required on an annual basis.
2
A copy of Circular A-25 can be obtained by a request to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), 17th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20503.
§ 3300.91
List of approved testing stations, approved testing laboratories, and fees for certificates.
A current list of U.S. ATP testing stations, U.S. ATP testing laboratories, and fees for issuance of U.S. ATP certificates may be obtained by request to the ATP manager.
§ 3300.94
Appeals.
Any organization aggrieved by an action in connection with this rule may obtain a review of such action by submitting pertinent information by letter to the Administrator. The decision of the Administrator is the final agency action.
PARTS 3301-3399 [RESERVED]
7 CFR Ch. XXXIV (1-1-25 Edition)
National Institute of Food and Agriculture

# CHAPTER XXXIV—NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE
Part
Page
3400
Special Research Grants Program
189
3401
Rangeland Research Grants Program
199
3402
Food and Agricultural Sciences National Needs Graduate and Postgraduate Fellowship Grants Program
209
3403
Small Business Innovation Research Grants Program
218
3404
Public information
233
3405
Higher Education Challenge Grants Program
234
3406
1890 Institution Capacity Building Grants Program
250
3407
Implementation of National Environmental Policy Act
280
3411
National Research Initiative Competition Grants Program [Reserved]
3415
Biotechnology Risk Assessment Research Grants Program
285
3418
Stakeholder input requirements for recipients of agricultural research, education, and extension formula funds
296
3419
Matching funds requirement for agricultural research and extension capacity funds at 1890 land-grant institutions, including Central State University, Tuskegee University, and West Virginia State University and at 1862 land-grant institutions in insular areas
297
3430
Competitive and noncompetitive non-formula Federal assistance programs—general award administrative provisions
299
3431
Veterinary Medicine Loan Repayment Program
354
3434
Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities certification process
363
3435-3499
[Reserved]
Pt. 3400

# PART 3400—SPECIAL RESEARCH GRANTS PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
3400.1
Applicability of regulations.
3400.2
Definitions.
3400.3
Eligibility requirements.
3400.4
How to apply for a grant.
3400.5
Evaluation and disposition of applications.
3400.6
Grant awards.
3400.7
Use of funds; changes.
3400.8
Other Federal statutes and regulations that apply.
3400.9
Other conditions.

# Subpart B—Scientific Peer Review of Research Grant Applications
3400.10
Establishment and operation of peer review groups.
3400.11
Composition of peer review groups.
3400.12
Conflicts of interest.
3400.13
Availability of information.
3400.14
Proposal review.
3400.15
Review criteria.

# Subpart C—Peer and Merit Review Arranged by Grantees
3400.20
Grantee review prior to award.
3400.21
Scientific peer review for research activities.
3400.22
Merit review for education and extension activities.

# Subpart D—Annual Reports
3400.23
Annual reports.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 450i(c).

# Source:
56 FR 58147, Nov 15, 1991, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 3400 appear at 76 FR 4806, Jan. 27, 2011.

# Subpart A—General
§ 3400.1
Applicability of regulations.
(a) The regulations of this part apply to special research grants awarded under the authority of subsection (c) of the Competitive, Special, and Facilities Research Grant Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 450i (c)), to facilitate or expand promising breakthroughs in areas of the food and agricultural sciences of importance to the United States. Subparts A and B, excepting this section, apply only to special research grants awarded under subsection (c)(1)(A). Subpart C, Peer and Merit Review Arranged by Grantees, and Subpart D, Annual Reports, apply to all grants awarded under subsection (c).
(b) Each year the Director of NIFA shall determine and announce through publication of a Notice in such publications as the
Federal Register,
professional trade journals, agency or program handbooks, the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance, or any other appropriate means, research program areas for which proposals will be solicited competitively, to the extent that funds are available.
(c) The regulations of this part do not apply to research, extension or education grants awarded by the Department of Agriculture under any other authority.
[64 FR 34103, June 24, 1999]
§ 3400.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Director
means the Director of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) and any other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom the authority involved may be delegated.
(b)
Department
means the Department of Agriculture.
(c)
Principal investigator
means a single individual designated by the grantee in the grant application and approved by the Director who is responsible for the scientific and technical direction of the project.
(d)
Grantee
means the entity designated in the grant award document as the responsible legal entity to whom a grant is awarded under this part.
(e)
Research project grant
means the award by the Director of funds to a grantee to assist in meeting the costs of conducting, for the benefit of the public, an identified project which is intended and designed to establish, discover, elucidate, or confirm information or the underlying mechanisms relating to a research program area identified in the annual solicitation of applications.
(f)
Project
means the particular activity within the scope of one or more of the research program areas identified in the annual solicitation of applications, which is supported by a grant award under this part.
(g)
Project period
means the total length of time that is approved by the Director for conducting the research project as outlined in an approved grant application.
(h)
Budget period
means the interval of time (usually 12 months) into which the project period is divided for budgetary and reporting purposes.
(i)
Awarding official
means the Director and any other officer or employee of the Department to whom the authority to issue or modify research project grant instruments has been delegated.
(j)
Peer review group
means an assembled group of experts or consultants qualified by training and experience in particular scientific or technical fields to give expert advice, in accordance with the provisions of this part, on the scientific and technical merit of grant applications in those fields.
(k)
Ad hoc reviewers
means experts or consultants qualified by training and experience in particular scientific or technical fields to render special expert advice, whose written evaluations of grant applications are designed to complement the expertise of the peer review group, in accordance with the provisions of this part, on the scientific or technical merit of grant applications in those fields.
(l)
Research
means any systematic study directed toward new or fuller knowledge and understanding of the subject studied.
(m)
Methodology
means the project approach to be followed and the resources needed to carry out the project.
[56 FR 58147, Nov. 15, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 4806, Jan. 27, 2011]
§ 3400.3
Eligibility requirements.
(a) Except where otherwise prohibited by law, any State agricultural experiment station, all colleges and universities, other research institutions and organizations, Federal agencies, private organizations or corporations, and individuals, shall be eligible to apply for and to receive a special research project grant under this part, provided that the applicant qualifies as a responsible grantee under the criteria set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) To qualify as responsible, an applicant must meet the following standards as they relate to a particular project:
(1) Have adequate financial resources for performance, the necessary experience, organizational and technical qualifications, and facilities, or a firm commitment, arrangement, or ability to obtain such (including proposed subagreements);
(2) Be able to comply with the proposed or required completion schedule for the project;
(3) Have a satisfactory record of integrity, judgment, and performance, including, in particular, any prior performance under grants and contracts from the Federal Government;
(4) Have an adequate financial management system and audit procedure which provides efficient and effective accountability and control of all property, funds, and other assets; and
(5) Be otherwise qualified and eligible to receive a research project grant under applicable laws and regulations.
(c) Any applicant who is determined to be not responsible will be notified in writing of such findings and the basis therefor.
§ 3400.4
How to apply for a grant.
(a) A request for proposals will be prepared and announced through publications such as the
Federal Register,
professional trade journals, agency or program handbooks, the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance, or any other appropriate means of solicitation, as early as practicable each fiscal year. It will contain information sufficient to enable all eligible applicants to prepare special research grant proposals and will be as complete as possible with respect to:
(1) Descriptions of specific research program areas which the Department proposes to support during the fiscal year involved, including anticipated funds to be awarded;
(2) Deadline dates for having proposal packages postmarked;
(3) Name and address where proposals should be mailed;
(4) Number of copies to be submitted;
(5) Forms required to be used when submitting proposals; and
(6) Special requirements.
(b)
Grant Application Kit.
A Grant Application Kit will be made available to any potential grant applicant who requests a copy. This kit contains required forms, certifications, and instructions applicable to the submission of grant proposals.
(c)
Format for research grant proposals.
Unless otherwise stated in the specific program solicitation, the following applies:
(1)
Grant Application.
All research grant proposals submitted by eligible applicants should contain a Grant Application form, which must be signed by the proposing principal investigator(s) and endorsed by the cognizant authorized organizational representative who possesses the necessary authority to commit the applicant's time and other relevant resources.
(2)
Title of Project.
The title of the project must be brief (80-character maximum), yet represent the major thrust of the research. This title will be used to provide information to the Congress and other interested parties who may be unfamiliar with scientific terms; therefore, highly technical words or phraseology should be avoided where possible. In addition, phrases such as “investigation of” or “research on” should not be used.
(3)
Objectives.
Clear, concise, complete, enumerated, and logically arranged statement(s) of the specific aims of the research must be included in all proposals.
(4)
Procedures.
The procedures or methodology to be applied to the proposed research plan should be explicitly stated. This section should include but not necessarily be limited to:
(i) A description of the proposed investigations and/or experiments in the sequence in which it is planned to carry them out;
(ii) Techniques to be employed, including their feasibility;
(iii) Kinds of results expected;
(iv) Means by which data will be analyzed or interpreted;
(v) Pitfalls which might be encountered; and
(vi) Limitations to proposed procedures.
(5)
Justification.
This section should describe:
(i) The importance of the problem to the needs of the Department and to the Nation, including estimates of the magnitude of the problem.
(ii) The importance of starting the work during the current fiscal year, and
(iii) Reasons for having the work performed by the proposing organization.
(6)
Literature review.
A summary of pertinent publications with emphasis on their relationship to the research should be provided and should include all important and recent publications. The citations should be accurate, complete, written in acceptable journal format, and be appended to the proposal.
(7)
Current research.
The relevancy of the proposed research to ongoing and, as yet, unpublished research of both the applicant and any other institutions should be described.
(8)
Facilities and equipment.
All facilities, including laboratories, which are available for use or assignment to the proposed research project during the requested period of support, should be reported and described. Any materials, procedures, situations, or activities, whether or not directly related to a particular phase of the proposed research, and which may be hazardous to personnel, must be fully explained, along with an outline of precautions to be exercised. All items of major instrumentation available for use or assignment to the proposed research project during the requested period of support should be itemized. In addition, items of nonexpendable equipment needed to conduct and bring the proposed project to a successful conclusion should be listed.
(9)
Collaborative arrangements.
If the proposed project requires collaboration with other research scientists, corporations, organizations, agencies, or entities, such collaboration must be fully explained and justified. Evidence should be provided to assure peer reviewers that the collaborators involved agree with the arrangements. It should be specifically indicated whether or not such collaborative arrangements have the potential for any conflict(s) of interest. Proposals which indicate collaborative involvement must state
which proposer is to receive any resulting grant award, since only one eligible applicant, as provided in § 3400.3 of this part, may be the recipient of a research project grant under one proposal.
(10)
Research timetable.
The applicant should outline all important research phases as a function of time, year by year.
(11)
Personnel support.
All personnel who will be involved in the research effort must be clearly identified. For each scientist involved, the following should be included:
(i) An estimate of the time commitments necessary;
(ii) Vitae of the principal investigator(s), senior associate(s), and other professional personnel to assist reviewers in evaluating the competence and experience of the project staff. This section should include curricula vitae of
all
key persons who will work on the proposed research project, whether or not Federal funds are sought for their support. The vitae are to be no more than two pages each in length, excluding publications listings; and
(iii) A chronological listing of the most representative publications during the past five years shall be provided for each professional project member for whom a curriculum vitae appears under this section. Authors should be listed in the same order as they appear on each paper cited, along with the title and complete reference as these usually appear in journals.
(12)
Budget.
A detailed budget is required for each year of requested support. In addition, a summary budget is required detailing requested support for the overall project period. A copy of the form which must be used for this purpose, along with instructions for completion, is included in the Grant Application Kit identified under § 3400.4(b) of this part and may be reproduced as needed by applicants. Funds may be requested under any of the categories listed, provided that the item or service for which support is requested is allowable under applicable Federal cost principles and can be identified as necessary for successful conduct of the proposed research project. No funds will be awarded for the renovation or refurbishment of research spaces; purchases or installation of fixed equipment in such spaces; or for the planning, repair, rehabilitation, acquisition, or construction of a building or facility. All research project grants awarded under this part shall be issued without regard to matching funds or cost sharing.
(13)
Research involving special considerations.
A number of situations encountered in the conduct of research require special information and supporting documentation before funding can be approved for the project. If such situations are anticipated, the proposal must so indicate. It is expected that a significant number of special research grant proposals will involve the following:
(i)
Recombinant DNA molecules.
All key personnel identified in a proposal and all endorsing officials of a proposed performing entity are required to comply with the guidelines established by the National Institutes of Health entitled, “Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules,” as revised. The Grant Application Kit, identified above in § 3400.4(b), contains forms which are suitable for such certification of compliance.
(ii)
Human subjects at risk.
Responsibility for safeguarding the rights and welfare of human subjects used in any research project supported with grant funds provided by the Department rests with the performing entity. Regulations have been issued by the Department under 7 CFR Part 1c, Protection of Human Subjects. In the event that a project involving human subjects at risk is recommended for award, the applicant will be required to submit a statement certifying that the research plan has been reviewed and approved by the Institutional Review Board at the proposing organization or institution. The Grant Application Kit, identified above in § 3400.4(b), contains forms which are suitable for such certification.
(iii)
Laboratory animal care.
The responsibility for the humane care and treatment of any laboratory animal, which has the same meaning as “animal” in section 2(g) of the Animal Welfare Act of 1966, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2132(g)), used in any research project supported with Special Research Grants Program funds rests with the
performing organization. In this regard, all key personnel identified in a proposal and all endorsing officials of the proposed performing entity are required to comply with applicable provisions of the Animal Welfare Act of 1966, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2131
et. seq.
) and the regulation promulgated thereunder by the Secretary of Agriculture in 9 CFR parts 1, 2, 3, and 4. In the event that a project involving the use of a laboratory animal is recommended for award, the applicant will be required to submit a statement certifying such compliance. The Grant Application Kit, identified above in § 3400.4(b), contains forms which are suitable of such certification.
(14)
Current and pending support.
All proposals must list any other current public or private research support, in addition to the proposed project, to which key personnel listed in the proposal under consideration have committed portions of their time, whether or not salary support for the person(s) involved is included in the budgets of the various projects. This section must also contain analogous information for all projects underway and for pending research proposals which are currently being considered by, or which will be submitted in the near future to, other possible sponsors, including other Departmental programs or agencies. Concurrent submission of identical or similar projects to other possible sponsors will not prejudice its review or evaluation by the Director or experts or consultants engaged by the Director for this purpose. The Grant Application Kit, identified above in § 3400.4(b), contains a form which is suitable for listing current and pending support.
(15)
Additions to project description.
Each project description is expected by the Director, members of peer review groups, and the relevant program staff to be complete in itself. However, in those instances in which the inclusion of additional information is necessary, the number of copies submitted should match the number of copies of the application requested in the annual solicitation of proposals as indicated in § 3400.4(a)(4). Each set of such materials must be identified with the title of the research project as it appears in the Grant Application and the name(s) of the principal investigator(s). Examples of additional materials may include photographs which do not reproduce well, reprints, and other pertinent materials which are deemed to be unsuitable for inclusion in the proposal.
(16)
Organizational management information.
Specific management information relating to an applicant shall be submitted on a one-time basis prior to the award of a research project grant identified under this part if such information has not been provided previously under this or another program for which the sponsoring agency is responsible. Copies of forms recommended for use in fulfilling the requirements contained in this section will be provided by the agency specified in this part once a research project grant has been recommended for funding.
[56 FR 58147, Nov 15, 1991, as amended at 80 FR 81738, Dec. 31, 2015]
§ 3400.5
Evaluation and disposition of applications.
(a)
Evaluation.
All proposals received from eligible applicants in accordance with eligible research problem or program areas and deadlines established in the applicable request for proposals shall be evaluated by the Director through such officers, employees, and others as the Director determines are uniquely qualified in the areas of research represented by particular projects. To assist in equitably and objectively evaluating proposals and to obtain the best possible balance of viewpoints, the Director shall solicit the advice of peer scientists,
ad hoc
reviewers, or others who are recognized specialists in the research program areas covered by the applications received and whose general roles are defined in §§ 3400.2(j) and 3400.2(k). Specific evaluations will be based upon the criteria established in subpart B § 3400.15, unless NIFA determines that different criteria are necessary for the proper evaluation of proposals in one or more specific program areas, and announces such criteria and their relative importance in the annual program solicitation. The overriding purpose of such evaluations is to provide information upon which the Director can make
informed judgments in selecting proposals for ultimate support. Incomplete, unclear, or poorly organized applications will work to the detriment of applicants during the peer evaluation process. To ensure a comprehensive evaluation, all applications should be written with the care and thoroughness accorded papers for publication.
(b)
Disposition.
On the basis of the Director's evaluation of an application in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, the Director will
(1) Approve support using currently available funds,
(2) Defer support due to lack of funds or a need for further evaluations, or
(3) Disapprove support for the proposed project in whole or in part.
With respect to approved projects, the Director will determine the project period (subject to extension as provided in § 3400.7(c)) during which the project may be supported. Any deferral or disapproval of an application will not preclude its reconsideration or a reapplication during subsequent fiscal years.
§ 3400.6
Grant awards.
(a)
General.
Within the limit of funds available for such purpose, the awarding official shall make research project grants to those responsible, eligible applicants whose proposals are judged most meritorious in the announced program areas under the evaluation criteria and procedures set forth in this part. The date specified by the Director as the beginning of the project period shall be no later than September 30 of the Federal fiscal year in which the project is approved for support and funds are appropriated for such purpose, unless otherwise permitted by law. All funds granted under this part shall be expended solely for the purpose for which the funds are granted in accordance with the approved application and budget, the regulations of this part, the terms and conditions of the award, the applicable Federal cost principles, and 2 CFR part 20 (part 3015 of this title).
(b)
Grant award document and notice of grant award
—(1)
Grant award document.
The grant award document shall include at a minimum the following:
(i) Legal name and address of performing organization or institution to whom the Director has awarded a special research project grant under the terms of this part;
(ii) Title of project;
(iii) Name(s) and address(es) of principal investigator(s) chosen to direct and control approved activities;
(iv) Identifying grant number assigned by the Department;
(v) Project period, which specifies how long the Department intends to support the effort without requiring recompetition for funds;
(vi) Total amount of Departmental financial assistance approved by the Director during the project period;
(vii) Legal authority(ies) under which the research project grant is awarded to accomplish the purpose of the law;
(viii) Approved budget plan for categorizing allocable project funds to accomplish the stated purpose of the research project grant award; and
(ix) Other information or provisions deemed necessary by the Department to carry out its granting activities or to accomplish the purpose of a particular research project grant.
(2)
Notice of grant award.
The notice of grant award, in the form of a letter, will be prepared and will provide pertinent instructions or information to the grantee that is not included in the grant award document.
(c)
Categories of grant instruments.
The major categories of grant instruments shall be as follows:
(1)
Standard grant.
This is a grant instrument by which the Department agrees to support a specified level of research effort for a predetermined project period without the announced intention of providing additional support at a future date. This type of research project grant is approved on the basis of peer review and recommendation and is funded for the entire project period at the time of award.
(2)
Renewal grant.
This is a document by which the Department agrees to provide additional funding under a standard grant as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for a project period beyond that approved in an original or amended award, provided that the cumulative period does not exceed the statutory limitation. When a
renewal application is submitted, it should include a summary of progress to date under the previous grant instrument. Such a renewal shall be based upon new application,
de novo
peer review and staff evaluation, new recommendation and approval, and a new award instrument.
(3)
Continuation grant.
This is a grant instrument by which the Department agrees to support a specified level of effort for a predetermined period of time with a statement of intention to provide additional support at a future date, provided that performance has been satisfactory, appropriations are available for this purpose, and continued support would be in the best interests of the Federal Government and the public. It involves a long-term research project that is considered by peer reviewers and Departmental officers to have an unusually high degree of scientific merit, the results of which are expected to have a significant impact on the food and agricultural sciences, and it supports the efforts of experienced scientists with records of outstanding research accomplishments. This kind of document will normally be awarded for an initial one-year period and any subsequent continuation research project grants will also be awarded in one-year increments. The award of a continuation research project grant to fund an initial or succeeding budget period does not constitute an obligation to fund any subsequent budget period. A grantee must submit a separate application for continued support for each subsequent fiscal year. Requests for such continued support must be submitted in duplicate at least three months prior to the expiration date of the budget period currently being funded. Such requests must include: an interim progress report detailing all work performed to date; a Grant Application; a proposed budget for the ensuing period, including an estimate of funds anticipated to remain unobligated at the end of the current budget period; and current information regarding other extramural support for senior personnel. Decisions regarding continued support and the actual funding levels of such support in future years will usually be made administratively after consideration of such factors as the grantee's progress and management practices and within the context of available funds. Since initial peer reviews were based upon the full term and scope of the original special research grant application, additional evaluations of this type generally are not required prior to successive years' support. However, in unusual cases (e.g., when the nature of the project or key personnel change or when the amount of future support requested substantially exceeds the grant application originally reviewed and approved), additional reviews may be required prior to approving continued funding.
(4)
Supplemental grant.
This is an instrument by which the Department agrees to provide small amounts of additional funding under a standard, renewal, or continuation grant as specified in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(3) of this section and may involve a short-term (usually six months or less) extension of the project period beyond that approved in an original or amended award, but in no case may the cumulative period of the project, including short term extensions, exceed the statutory time limitation. A supplement is awarded only if required to assure adequate completion of the original scope of work and if there is sufficient justification of need to warrant such action. A request of this nature normally does not require additional peer review.
(d)
Obligation of the Federal Government.
Neither the approval of any application nor the award of any research project grant shall commit or obligate the United States in any way to make any renewal, supplemental, continuation, or other award with respect to any approved application or portion of an approved application.
[56 FR 58147, Nov. 15, 1991, as amended at 79 FR 75997, Dec. 26, 2014]
§ 3400.7
Use of funds; changes.
(a)
Delegation of fiscal responsibility.
The grantee may not delegate or transfer in whole or in part, to another person, institution, or organization the responsibility for use or expenditure of grant funds.
(b)
Change in project plans.
(1) The permissible changes by the grantee,
principal investigator(s), or other key project personnel in the approved research project grant shall be limited to changes in methodology, techniques, or other aspects of the project to expedite achievement of the projects' approved goals. If the grantee or the principal investigator(s) is uncertain as to whether a change complies with this provision, the question must be referred to the Director for a final determination.
(2) Changes in approved goals, or objectives, shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the Department prior to effecting such changes. In no event shall requests for such changes be approved which are outside the scope of the original approved project.
(3) Changes in approved project leadership or the replacement or reassignment of other key project personnel shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the Department prior to effecting such changes.
(4) Transfers of actual performance of the substantive programmatic work in whole or in part and provisions for payment of funds, whether or not Federal funds are involved, shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the Department prior to effecting such changes, except as may be allowed in the terms and conditions of the grant award.
(c)
Changes in project period.
The project period determined pursuant to § 3400.5(b) may be extended by the Director without additional financial support for such additional period(s) as the Director determines may be necessary to complete or fulfill the purposes of an approved project. Any extension, when combined with the originally approved or amended project period shall not exceed three (3) years (the limitation established by statute) and shall be further conditioned upon prior request by the grantee and approval in writing by the Department, unless prescribed otherwise in the terms and conditions of a grant award.
(d)
Changes in approved budget.
The terms and conditions of a grant will prescribe circumstances under which written Departmental approval will be requested and obtained prior to instituting changes in an approved budget.
[56 FR 58147, Nov. 15, 1991, as amended at 64 FR 34103, June 24, 1999]
§ 3400.8
Other Federal statutes and regulations that apply.
(a) The Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) issued guidance on Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards at 2 CFR part 200 on December 26, 2013. In 2 CFR 400.1, the Department adopted OMB's guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400, as the Department's policies and procedures for uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for federal awards. As a result, this regulation contains references to 2 CFR part 200 as it has regulatory effect for the Department's programs and activities.”
(b) Several other Federal statutes and/or regulations apply to grant proposals considered for review or to research project grants awarded under this part. These include but are not limited to:
2 CFR part 200—Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards.
2 CFR part 180 and Part 417—OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Government-Wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and USDA Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension.
7 CFR part 1c—USDA Implementation of the Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects.
7 CFR 1.1—USDA Implementation of Freedom of Information Act.
7 CFR part 3—USDA Implementation of OMB Circular A-129 Regarding Debt Collection.
7 CFR part 15, subpart A—USDA Implementation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
7 CFR part 3407—NIFA procedures to implement the National Environmental Policy Act.
29 U.S.C. 794, section 504—Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and 7 CFR part 15B (USDA implementation of statute), prohibiting discrimination based upon physical or mental handicap in Federally assisted programs.
35 U.S.C. 200
et seq.
—Bayh-Dole Act, controlling allocation of rights to inventions made by employees of small business firms and domestic nonprofit organizations, including universities, in Federally assisted
programs (implementing regulations are contained in 37 CFR part 401).
[79 FR 75997, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 3400.9
Other conditions.
The Director may, with respect to any research project grant or to any class of awards, impose additional conditions prior to or at the time of any award when, in the Director's judgment, such conditions are necessary to assure or protect advancement of the approved project, the interests of the public, or the conservation of grant funds.

# Subpart B—Scientific Peer Review of Research Grant Applications
§ 3400.10
Establishment and operation of peer review groups.
Subject to § 3400.5, the Director will adopt procedures for the conduct of peer reviews and the formulation of recommendations under § 3400.14.
§ 3400.11
Composition of peer review groups.
(a) Peer review group members will be selected based upon their training and experience in relevant scientific or technical fields, taking into account the following factors:
(1) The level of formal scientific or technical education by the individual;
(2) The extent to which the individual has engaged in relevant research, the capacities in which the individual has done so (e.g., principal investigator, assistant), and the quality of such research;
(3) Professional recognition as reflected by awards and other honors received from scientific and professional organizations outside of the Department;
(4) The need of the group to include within its membership experts from various areas of specialization within relevant scientific or technical fields;
(5) The need of the group to include within its membership experts from a variety of organizational types (e.g., universities, industry, private consultant(s)) and geographic locations; and
(6) The need of the group to maintain a balanced membership, e.g., minority and female representation and an equitable age distribution.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 3400.12
Conflicts of interest.
Members of peer review groups covered by this part are subject to relevant provisions contained in Title 18 of the United States Code relating to criminal activity, Department regulations governing employee responsibilities and conduct (part O of this title), and Executive Order 11222, as amended.
§ 3400.13
Availability of information.
Information regarding the peer review process will be made available to the extent permitted under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a), and implementing Departmental regulations (part 1 of this title).
§ 3400.14
Proposal review.
(a) All research grant applications will be acknowledged. Prior to technical examination, a preliminary review will be made for responsiveness to the request for proposals (e.g., relationship of application to research program area). Proposals which do not fall within the guidelines as stated in the annual request for proposals will be eliminated from competition and will be returned to the applicant. Proposals whose budgets exceed the maximum allowable amount for a particular program area as announced in the request for proposals may be considered as lying outside the guidelines.
(b) All applications will be carefully reviewed by the Director, qualified officers or employees of the Department, the respective peer review group, and
ad hoc
reviewers, as required. Written comments will be solicited from
ad hoc
reviewers when required, and individual written comments and in-depth discussions will be provided by peer review group members prior to recommending applications for funding. Applications will be ranked and support levels recommended within the limitation of total available funding for each research program area as announced in the applicable request for proposals.
(c) No awarding official will make a research project grant based upon an application covered by this part unless the application has been reviewed by a
peer review group and/or
ad hoc
reviewers in accordance with the provisions of this part and said reviewers have made recommendations concerning the scientific merit of such application.
(d) Except to the extent otherwise provided by law, such recommendations are advisory only and are not binding on program officers or on the awarding official.
§ 3400.15
Review criteria.
(a) Subject to the varying conditions and needs of States, Federal funded agricultural research supported under these provisions shall be designed to, among other things, accomplish one or more of the following purposes:
(1) Continue to satisfy human food and fiber needs;
(2) Enhance the long-term viability and competitiveness of the food production and agricultural system of the United States within the global economy;
(3) Expand economic opportunities in rural America and enhance the quality of life for farmers, rural citizens, and society as a whole;
(4) Improve the productivity of the American agricultural system and develop new agricultural crops and new uses for agricultural commodities;
(5) Develop information and systems to enhance the environment and the natural resource base upon which a sustainable agricultural economy depends; or
(6) Enhance human health.
In carrying out its review under § 3400.14, the peer review group will use the following form upon which the evaluation criteria to be used are enumerated, unless pursuant to § 3400.5(a), different evaluation criteria are specified in the annual solicitation of proposals for a particular program.

# Peer Panel Scoring Form
Proposal Identification No.
Institution and Project Title

# I. Basic Requirement:
Proposal falls within guidelines? __________ Yes __________ No. If no, explain why proposal does not meet guidelines under comment section of this form.

# II. Selection Criteria:
Score 1-10
Weight factor
Score X weight factor
Comments
1. Overall scientific and technical quality of proposal
10
2. Scientific and technical quality of the approach
10
3. Relevance and importance of proposed research to solution of specific areas of inquiry
6
4. Feasibility of attaining objectives; adequacy of professional training and experience, facilities and equipment
5
Score
Summary Comments
(b) Proposals satisfactorily meeting the guidelines will be evaluated and scored by the peer review panel for each criterion utilizing a scale of 1 through 10. A score of one (1) will be considered low and a score of ten (10) will be considered high for each selection criterion. A weighted factor is used for each criterion.

# Subpart C—Peer and Merit Review Arranged by Grantees

# Source:
64 FR 34104, June 24, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3400.20
Grantee review prior to award.
(a)
Review requirement.
Prior to the award of a standard or continuation grant by NIFA, any proposed project shall have undergone a review arranged by the grantee as specified in this subpart. For research projects, such review must be a scientific peer review conducted in accordance with § 3400.21. For education and extension projects, such review must be a merit review conducted in accordance with § 3400.22.
(b)
Credible and independent.
Review arranged by the grantee must provide for a credible and independent assessment of the proposed project. A credible review is one that provides an appraisal of technical quality and relevance sufficient for an organizational representative to make an informed judgment as to whether the proposal is
appropriate for submission for Federal support. To provide for an independent review, such review may include USDA employees, but should not be conducted solely by USDA employees.
(c)
Notice of completion and retention of records.
A notice of completion of review shall be conveyed in writing to NIFA either as part of the submitted proposal or prior to the issuance of an award, at the option of NIFA. The written notice constitutes certification by the applicant that a review in compliance with these regulations has occurred. Applicants are not required to submit results of the review to NIFA; however, proper documentation of the review process and results should be retained by the applicant.
(d)
Renewal and supplemental grants.
Review by the grantee is not automatically required for renewal or supplemental grants as defined in § 3400.6. A subsequent grant award will require a new review if, according to NIFA, either the funded project has changed significantly, other scientific discoveries have affected the project, or the need for the project has changed. Note that a new review is necessary when applying for another standard or continuation grant after expiration of the grant term.
§ 3400.21
Scientific peer review for research activities.
Scientific peer review is an evaluation of a proposed project for technical quality and relevance to regional or national goals performed by experts with the scientific knowledge and technical skills to conduct the proposed research work. Peer reviewers may be selected from an applicant organization or from outside the organization, but shall not include principals, collaborators or others involved in the preparation of the application under review.
§ 3400.22
Merit review for education and extension activities.
Merit review is an evaluation of a proposed project or elements of a proposed program whereby the technical quality and relevance to regional or national goals are assessed. The merit review shall be performed by peers and other individuals with expertise appropriate to evaluate the proposed project. Merit reviewers may not include principals, collaborators or others involved in the preparation of the application under review.

# Subpart D—Annual Reports
§ 3400.23
Annual reports.
(a)
Reporting requirement.
The recipient shall submit an annual report describing the results of the research, extension, or education activity and the merit of the results.
(b)
Report type and content.
Unless otherwise stipulated, grant recipients will have met the reporting requirement under this subpart by complying with the reporting requirements as set forth in the terms and conditions of the grant at the time of award.
[64 FR 34104, June 24, 1999]
Pt. 3401

# PART 3401—RANGELAND RESEARCH GRANTS PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
3401.1
Applicability of regulations of this part.
3401.2
Definitions.
3401.3
Eligibility requirements.
3401.4
Matching funds requirement.
3401.5
Indirect costs and tuition remission costs.
3401.6
How to apply for a grant.
3401.7
Evaluation and disposition of applications.
3401.8
Grant awards.
3401.9
Use of funds; changes.
3401.10
Other Federal statutes and regulations that apply.
3401.11
Other conditions.

# Subpart B—Scientific Peer Review of Research Applications for Funding
3401.12
Establishment and operation of peer review groups.
3401.13
Composition of peer review groups.
3401.14
Conflicts of interest.
3401.15
Availability of information.
3401.16
Proposal review.
3401.17
Review criteria.

# Authority:
Section 1470 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3316).

# Source:
61 FR 27753, May 31, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 3401 appear at 76 FR 4806, Jan. 27, 2011.

# Subpart A—General
§ 3401.1
Applicability of regulations of this part.
(a) The regulations of this part apply to rangeland research grants awarded under the authority of section 1480 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3333) to land-grant colleges and universities, State agricultural experiment stations, and colleges, universities, and Federal laboratories having a demonstrable capacity in rangeland research, as determined by the Secretary, to carry out rangeland research. The Director of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) shall determine and announce, through publication each year of a Notice in the
Federal Register,
professional trade journals, agency or program handbooks, the catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance or any other appropriate means, research program areas for which proposals will be solicited, to the extent that funds are available.
(b) The regulations of this part do not apply to research grants awarded by the Department of Agriculture under any other authority.
§ 3401.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Director
means the Director of NIFA and any other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom the authority involved may be delegated.
(b)
Department
means the Department of Agriculture.
(c)
Principal investigator
means a single individual designated by the grantee in the application for funding and approved by the Director who is responsible for the scientific and technical direction of the project.
(d)
Grantee
means the entity designated in the grant award document as the responsible legal entity to whom a grant is awarded under this part.
(e)
Research project grant
means the award by the Director of funds to a grantee to assist in meeting the costs of conducting, for the benefit of the public, an identified project which is intended and designed to establish, discover, elucidate, or confirm information or the underlying mechanisms relating to a research program area identified in the annual solicitation of applications.
(f)
Project
means the particular activity within the scope of one or more of the research program areas identified in the annual solicitation of applications, which is supported by a grant award under this part.
(g)
Project period
means the total length of time that is approved by the Director for conducting the research project as outlined in an approved application for funding.
(h)
Budget period
means the interval of time (usually 12 months) into which the project period is divided for budgetary and reporting purposes.
(i)
Awarding official
means the Director and any other officer or employee of the Department to whom the authority to issue or modify research project grant instruments has been delegated.
(j)
Peer review group
means an assembled group of experts or consultants qualified by training or experience in particular scientific or technical fields to give expert advice, in accordance with the provisions of this part, on the scientific and technical merit of applications for funding in those fields.
(k)
Ad hoc reviewers
means experts or consultants qualified by training or experience in particular scientific or technical fields to render special expert advice, whose written evaluations of applications for funding are designed to complement the expertise of the peer review group, in accordance with the provisions of this part, on the scientific or technical merit of applications for Funding in those fields.
(l)
Research
means any systematic study directed toward new or fuller knowledge and understanding of the subject studied.
(m)
Methodology
means the project approach to be followed and the resources needed to carry out the project.
§ 3401.3
Eligibility requirements.
(a) Except where otherwise prohibited by law, any land-grant college and university, State agricultural experiment station, and college, university,
and Federal laboratory having a demonstrable capacity in rangeland research, as determined by the Secretary, shall be eligible to apply for and to receive a project grant under this part, provided that the applicant qualifies as a responsible grantee under the criteria set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) To qualify as responsible, an applicant must meet the following standards as they relate to a particular project:
(1) Have adequate financial resources for performance, the necessary experience, organizational and technical qualifications, and facilities, or a firm commitment, arrangement, or ability to obtain such (including proposed subagreements);
(2) Be able to comply with the proposed or required completion schedule for the project;
(3) Have a satisfactory record of integrity, judgment, and performance, including, in particular, any prior performance under grants and contracts from the Federal government;
(4) Have an adequate financial management system and audit procedure which provides efficient and effective accountability and control of all property, funds, and other assets; and
(5) Be otherwise qualified and eligible to receive a research project grant under applicable laws and regulations.
(c) Any applicant who is determined to be not responsible will be notified in writing of such findings and the basis therefor.
§ 3401.4
Matching funds requirement.
In accordance with section 1480 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3333), except in the case of Federal laboratories, each grant recipient must match the Federal funds expended on a research project based on a formula of 50 percent Federal and 50 percent non-Federal funding.
§ 3401.5
Indirect costs and tuition remission costs.
Pursuant to section 1473 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3319), funds made available under this program to recipients other than Federal laboratories shall not be subject to reduction for indirect costs or tuition remission costs. Since indirect costs and tuition remission costs, except in the case of Federal laboratories, are not allowable costs for purposes of this program, such costs may not be used to satisfy the matching requirement set forth in § 3401.4.
§ 3401.6
How to apply for a grant.
(a)
General.
After consultation with the Rangeland Research Advisory Board, established pursuant to section 1482 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3335), a request for proposals will be prepared and announced through publications such as the
Federal Register,
professional trade journals, agency or program handbooks, the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance, or any other appropriate means of solicitation, as early as practicable each fiscal year. It will contain information sufficient to enable all eligible applicants to prepare rangeland research grant proposals and will be as complete as possible with respect to:
(1) Descriptions of specific research program areas which the Department proposes to support during the fiscal year involved, including anticipated funds to be awarded;
(2) Deadline dates for having proposal packages postmarked;
(3) Name and address where proposals should be mailed;
(4) Number of copies to be submitted;
(5) Forms required to be used when submitting proposals; and
(6) Special requirements.
(b)
Application kit.
An Application Kit will be made available to any potential grant applicant who requests a copy. This kit contains required forms, certifications, and instructions applicable to the submission of grant proposals.
(c)
Format for research grant proposals.
Unless otherwise stated in the specific program solicitation, the following format applies:
(1)
Application for funding.
All research grant proposals submitted by eligible applicants should contain an Application for Funding form, which must
be signed by the proposing principal investigator(s) and endorsed by the cognizant authorized organizational representative who possesses the necessary authority to commit the applicant's time and other relevant resources.
(2)
Title of project.
The title of the project must be brief (80-character maximum), yet represent the major thrust of the research. This title will be used to provide information to the Congress and other interested parties who may be unfamiliar with scientific terms; therefore, highly technical words or phraseology should be avoided where possible. In addition, phrases such as “investigation of” or “research on” should not be used.
(3)
Objectives.
Clear, concise, complete, enumerated, and logically arranged statement(s) of the specific aims of the research must be included in all proposals.
(4)
Procedures.
The procedures of methodology to be applied to the proposed research plan should be stated explicitly. This section should include but not necessarily be limited to:
(i) A description of the proposed investigations and/or experiments in the sequence in which it is planned to carry them out;
(ii) Techniques to be employed, including their feasibility;
(iii) Kinds of results expected;
(iv) Means by which data will be analyzed or interpreted;
(v) Pitfalls which might be encountered; and
(vi) Limitations to proposed procedures.
(5)
Justification.
This section of the grant proposal should describe:
(i) The importance of the problem to the needs of the Department and to the Nation, including estimates of the magnitude of the problem;
(ii) The importance of starting the work during the current fiscal year; and
(iii) Reasons for having the work performed by the proposing organization.
(6)
Literature review.
A summary of pertinent publications with emphasis on their relationship to the research should be provided and should include all important and recent publications. The citations should be accurate, complete, written in acceptable journal format, and be appended to the proposal.
(7)
Current research.
The relevancy of the proposed research to ongoing and, as yet, unpublished research of both the applicant and any other institutions should be described.
(8)
Facilities and equipment.
All facilities, including laboratories, that are available for use or assignment to the proposed research project during the requested period of support, should be reported and described. Any materials, procedures, situations, or activities, whether or nor directly related to a particular phase of the proposed research, and which may be hazardous to personnel, must be explained fully, along with an outline of precautions to be exercised. All items of major instrumentation available for use or assignment to the proposed research project during the requested period of support should be itemized. In addition, items of nonexpendable equipment needed to conduct and bring the proposed project to a successful conclusion should be listed.
(9)
Collaborative arrangements.
If the proposed project requires collaboration with other research scientists, corporations, organizations, agencies, or entities, such collaboration must be explained fully and justified. Evidence should be provided to assure peer reviewers that the collaborators involved agree with the arrangements. It should be specifically indicated whether or not such collaborative arrangements have the potential for any conflict(s) of interest. Proposals which indicate collaborative involvements must state which applicant is to receive any resulting grant award, since only one eligible applicant, as provided in § 3401.3 may be the recipient of a research project grant under one proposal.
(10)
Research timetable.
The applicant should outline all important research phases as a function of time, year by year.
(11)
Personnel support.
All personnel who will be involved in the research effort must be identified clearly. For each scientist involved, the following should be included:
(i) An estimate of the time commitments necessary;
(ii) Vitae of the principal investigator(s), senior associate(s), and other professional personnel to assist reviewers in evaluating the competence and experience of the project staff. This section should include curricula vitae of
all
key persons who will work on the proposed research project, whether or not Federal funds are sought for their support. The vitae are to be no more than two pages each in length, excluding publication listings; and
(iii) A chronological listing of the most representative publications during the past five years shall be provided for each professional project member of whom a curriculum vitae appears under this section. Authors should be listed in the same order as they appear on each paper cited, along with the title and complete reference as these usually appear in journals.
(12)
Budget.
A detailed budget is required for each year of requested support. In addition, a summary budget is required detailing requested support for the overall project period. A copy of the form which must be used for this purpose, along with instructions for completion, is included in the Application Kit identified under § 3401.6(b) and may be reproduced as needed by applicants. Funds may be requested under any of the categories listed, provided that the item or service for which support is requested is allowable under applicable Federal cost principles and can be identified as necessary for successful conduct of the proposed research project. As stated in § 3401.4 each grant recipient must match the Federal funds expended on a research project based on a formula of 50 percent Federal and 50 percent non-Federal funding. As stated in § 3401.5, indirect costs and tuition remission costs are not allowable costs for purposes of this program and , thus, may not be used to satisfy the matching requirement set forth in § 3401.4.
(13)
Research involving special considerations.
A number of situations encountered in the conduct of research require special information and supporting documentation before funding can be approved for the project. If such situations are anticipated, the proposal must so indicate. It is expected that a significant number of rangeland grant proposals will involve the following:
(i)
Recombinant DNA molecules.
All key personnel identified in a proposal and all endorsing officials of a proposed performing entity are required to comply with the guidelines establishing by the National Institutes of Health entitled, “Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules,” as revised. The Application Kit, identified above in § 3401.6(b), contains a form which is suitable for such certification of compliance. In the event a project involving recombinant DNA and RNA molecules results in a grant award, the Institutional Biosafety Committee must approve the research before NIFA funds will be released.
(ii)
Human subjects at risk.
Responsibility for safeguarding the rights and welfare of human subjects used in any research project supported with grant funds provided by the Department rests with the performing entity. Regulations have been issued by the Department under 7 CFR part 1c, Protection of Human Subjects. In the event that a project involving human subjects at risk is recommended for award, the applicant will be required to submit a statement certifying that the research plan has been reviewed and approved by the Institutional Review Board at the proposing organization or institution. The Application Kit, identified above in § 3401.6(b), contains a form which is suitable for such certification. In the event a project involving human subjects results in a grant award, funds will be released only after the Institutional Committee has approved the project.
(iii)
Laboratory animal care.
The responsibility for the humane care and treatment of any laboratory animal, which has the same meaning as “animal” in section 2(g) of the Animal Welfare Act of 1966, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2132(g)), used in any research project supported with Rangeland Research Grant Program funds rests with the performing organization. In this regard, all key personnel identified in a proposal and all endorsing officials of the proposed performing entity are required to comply with the applicable provisions of the Animal Welfare Act of 1966, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2131
et seq.
)
and the regulations promulgated thereunder by the Secretary of Agriculture in 9 CFR parts 1, 2, 3, and 4. In the event that a project involving the use of a laboratory animal is recommended for award, the applicant will be required to submit a statement certifying such compliance. The Application Kit, identified above in § 3401.6(b), contains a form which is suitable for such certification. In the event a project involving the use of living vertebrate animals results in a grant award, funds will be released only after the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee has approved the project.
(14)
Current and pending support.
All proposals must list any other current public or private research support, in addition to the proposed project, to which key personnel listed in the proposal under consideration have committed portions of their time, whether or not salary support for the person(s) involved is included in the budgets of the various projects. This section must also contain analogous information for all projects underway and for pending research proposals which are currently being considered by, or which will be submitted in the near future to, other possible sponsors, including other Departmental programs or agencies. Concurrent submission of identical or similar projects to other possible sponsors will not prejudice its review or evaluation by the Director or experts or consultants engaged by the Director for this purpose. The Application Kit, identified above in § 3401.6(b), contains a form which is suitable for listing current and pending support.
(15)
Additions to project description.
Each project description is expected by the Director, members of peer review groups, and the relevant program staff to be complete in itself. However, in those instances in which the inclusion of additional information is necessary, the number of copies submitted should match the number of copies of the application requested in the annual solicitation of proposals as indicated in § 3401.6(a)(4). Each set of such materials must be identified with the title of the research project as it appears in the Application for Funding and the name(s) of the principal investigator(s). Examples of additional materials may include photographs which do not reproduce well, reprints, and other pertinent materials which are deemed to be unsuitable for inclusion in the proposal.
(16)
National Environmental Policy Act.
As outlined in NIFA's implementing regulations of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) at 7 CFR part 3407, environmental data or documentation for the proposed project is to be provided to NIFA in order to assist NIFA in carrying out its responsibilities under NEPA. These responsibilities include determining whether the project requires an Environmental Assessment or an Environmental Impact Statement or whether it can be excluded from this requirement on the basis of several categorical exclusions listed in 7 CFR part 3407. In this regard, the applicant should review the categories defined for exclusion to ascertain whether the proposed project may fall within one or more of the exclusions, and should indicate if it does so on the National Environmental Policy Act Exclusions Form (Form NIFA—1234) provided in the Application Kit. Even though the applicant considers that a proposed project may fall within a categorical exclusion, NIFA may determine that an Environmental Assessment or an Environmental Impact Statement is necessary for a proposed project should substantial controversy on environmental grounds exist or if other extraordinary conditions or circumstances are present that may cause such activity to have a significant environmental effect.
(17)
Organizational management information.
Specific management information relating to an applicant shall be submitted on an
one-time basis prior to the award of a research project grant
identified under this part if such information has not been provided previously under this or another program for which the sponsoring agency is responsible. Copies of forms recommended for use in fulfilling the requirements contained in this section will be provided by the agency specified in this part once a research project grant has been recommended for funding.
§ 3401.7
Evaluation and disposition of applications.
(a)
Evaluation.
All proposals received from eligible applicants in accordance with eligible research problem or program areas and deadlines established in the applicable request for proposals shall be evaluated by the Director through such officers, employees, and others as the Director determines are particularly qualified in the areas of research represented by particular projects. To assist in equitably and objectively evaluating proposals and to obtain the best possible balance of viewpoints, the Director may solicit the advice of peer scientists,
ad hoc
reviewers, or others who are recognized specialists in the research program areas covered by the applications received. Specific evaluations will be based upon the criteria established in subpart B of this part, § 3401.17, unless NIFA determines that different criteria are necessary for the proper evaluation of proposals in one or more specific program areas, and announces such criteria and their relative importance in the annual program solicitation. The overriding purpose of such evaluations is to provide information upon which the Director can make informed judgments in selecting proposals for ultimate support. Incomplete, unclear, or poorly organized applications will work to the detriment of applicants during the peer evaluation process. To ensure a comprehensive evaluation, all applications should be written with the care and thoroughness accorded papers for publication.
(b)
Disposition.
On the basis of the Director's evaluation of an application in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, the Director will approve using currently available funds, defer support due to lack of funds or a need for further evaluations, or disapprove support for the proposed project in whole or in part. With respect to approved projects, the Director will determine the project period (subject to extension as provided in § 3401.9(c)) during which the project may be supported. Any deferral or disapproval of an application will not preclude its reconsideration or a reapplication during subsequent fiscal years.
§ 3401.8
Grant awards.
(a)
General.
Within the limit of funds available for such purpose, the awarding official shall make research project grants to those responsible, eligible applicants whose proposals are judged most meritorious in the announced program areas under the evaluation criteria and procedures set forth in this part. The date specified by the Director as the beginning of the project period shall be no later than September 30 of the Federal fiscal year in which the project is approved for support and funds are appropriated for such purpose, unless otherwise permitted by law. All funds granted under this part shall be expended solely for the purpose for which the funds are granted in accordance with the approved application and budget, the regulations of this part, the terms and conditions of the award, the applicable Federal cost principles, and 2 CFR part 200 (parts 3015 and 3019 of this title).
(b)
Grant award document and notice of grant award
—(1)
Grant award documents.
The grant award document shall include at a minimum the following:
(i) Legal name and address of performing organization or institution to whom the Director has awarded a rangeland research project grant under the terms of this part;
(ii) Title of project;
(iii) Name(s) and address(es) of principal investigator(s) chosen to direct and control approved activities;
(iv) Identifying grant number assigned by the Department;
(v) Project period, which specifies how long the Department intends to support the effort without requiring recompetition for funds;
(vi) Total amount of Departmental financial assistance approved by the Director during the project period;
(vii) Legal authority(ies) under which the research project grant is awarded to accomplish the purpose of the law;
(viii) Approved budget plan for categorizing allocable project funds to accomplish the stated purpose of the research project grant award; and
(ix) Other information or provisions deemed necessary by the Department to carry out its granting activities or to accomplish the purpose of a particular research project grant.
(2)
Notice of grant award.
The notice of grant award, in the form of a letter, will be prepared and will provide pertinent instructions or information to the grantee that is not included in the grant award document.
(c)
Categories of grant instruments.
The major categories of grant instruments by which the Department may provide support are as follows:
(1)
Standard grant.
This is a grant instrument by which the Department agrees to support a specified level of research effort for a predetermined project period without the announced intention of providing additional support at a future date. This type of research project grant is approved on the basis of peer review and recommendation and is funded for the entire project period at the time of award.
(2)
Renewal grant.
This is a document by which the Department agrees to provide additional funding under a standard grant as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for a project period beyond that approved in an original or amended award, provided that the cumulative period does not exceed the statutory limitation. When a renewal application is submitted, it should include a summary of progress to date under the previous grant instrument. Such a renewal shall be based upon new application,
de novo
peer review and staff evaluation, new recommendation and approval, and a new award instrument.
(3)
Continuation grant.
This is a grant instrument by which the Department agrees to support a specified level of effort for a predetermined period of time with a statement of intention to provide additional support at a future date, provided that performance has been satisfactory, appropriations are available for this purpose, and continued support would be in the best interests of the Federal government and the public. It involves a long-term research project that is considered by peer reviewers and Departmental officers to have an unusually high degree of scientific merit, the results of which are expected to have a significant impact on the productivity of the Nation's rangelands, and it supports the efforts of experienced scientists with records of outstanding research accomplishments. This kind of document normally will be awarded for an initial one-year period and any subsequent continuation research project grants also will be awarded in one-year increments, but in no case may the cumulative period of the project exceed the statutory limit. The award of a continuation research project grant to fund an initial or succeeding budget period does not constitute an obligation to fund any subsequent budget period. A grantee must submit a separate application for continued support for each subsequent fiscal year. Requests for such continued support must be submitted in duplicate at least three months prior to the expiration date of the budget period currently being funded. Such requests must include: an interim progress report detailing all work performed to date; an Application for Funding; a proposed budget for the enuring period, including an estimate of funds anticipated to remain unobligated at the end of the current budget period; and current information regarding other extramural support for senior personnel. Decisions regarding continued support and the actual funding levels of such support in future years usually will be made administratively after consideration of such factors as the grantee's progress and management practices and within the context of available funds. Since initial peer reviews were based upon the full term and scope of the original rangeland research application for funding, additional evaluations of this type generally are not required prior to successive years' support. However, in unusual cases (e.g., when the nature of the project or key personnel change or when the amount of future support requested substantially exceeds the application for funding originally reviewed and approved), additional reviews may be required prior to approval of continued funding.
(4)
Supplemental grant.
This is an instrument by which the Department agrees to provide small amounts of additional funding under a standard, renewal, or continuation grant as specified in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(3) of this section and may involve a short-term (usually six months or less) extension of the project period beyond
that approved in an original or amended award, but in no case may the cumulative period of the project, including short term extensions, exceed the statutory time limitation. A supplement is awarded only if required to assure adequate completion of the original scope of work and if there is sufficient justification of need to warrant such action. A request of this nature normally does not require additional peer review.
(d)
Obligation of the Federal government.
Neither the approval of any application nor the award of any research project grant shall commit or obligate the United States in any way to make any renewal, supplemental, continuation, or other award with respect to any approved application or portion of an approved application.
[61 FR 27753, May 31, 1996, as amended at 79 FR 75998, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 3401.9
Use of funds; changes.
(a)
Delegation of fiscal responsibility.
The grantee may not delegate or transfer in whole or in part, to another person, institution, or organization the responsibility for use or expenditure of grant funds.
(b)
Change in project plans.
(1) The permissible changes by the grantee, principal investigator(s), or other key project personnel in the approved research project grant shall be limited to changes in methodology, techniques, or other aspects of the project to expedite achievement of the projects' approved goals. If the grantee or the principal investigator(s) is uncertain as to whether a change complies with this provision, the question shall be referred to the Director for a final determination.
(2) Changes in approved goals, or objectives, shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the Department prior to effecting such changes. In no event shall requests for such changes be approved which are outside the scope of the original approved project.
(3) Changes in approved project leadership or the replacement or reassignment of other key project personnel shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the Department prior to effecting such changes.
(4) Transfers of actual performance of the substantive programmatic work in whole or in part and provisions for payment of funds, whether or not Federal funds are involved, shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the Department prior to effecting such changes, except as may be allowed in the terms and conditions of a grant award.
(c)
Changes in project period.
The project period determined pursuant to § 3401.7(b) may be extended by the Director without additional financial support, for such additional period(s) as the Director determines may be necessary to complete, or fulfill the purposes of, an approved project. Any extension, when combined with the originally approved or amended project period, shall be conditioned upon prior request by the grantee and approval in writing by the Department, unless prescribed otherwise in the terms and conditions of a grant award.
(d)
Changes in approved budget.
The terms and conditions of a grant will prescribe circumstances under which written Departmental approval will be requested and obtained prior to instituting changes in an approved budget.
§ 3401.10
Other Federal statutes and regulations that apply.
(a) The Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) issued guidance on Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards at 2 CFR part 200 on December 26, 2013. In 2 CFR 400.1, the Department adopted OMB's guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400, as the Department's policies and procedures for uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for federal awards. As a result, this regulation contains references to 2 CFR part 200 as it has regulatory effect for the Department's programs and activities.”
(b) Several other Federal statutes and/or regulations apply to grant proposals considered for review or to research project grants awarded under this part. These include but are not limited to:
2 CFR part 200—Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, And Audit Requirements For Federal Awards.
2 CFR part 180 and Part 417—OMB Guidelines To Agencies On Government-Wide Debarment And Suspension (Nonprocurement) And USDA Nonprocurement Debarment And Suspension
7 CFR part 1c—USDA implementation of the Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects.
7 CFR 1.1—USDA implementation of Freedom of Information Act.
7 CFR part 3—USDA implementation of OMB Circular A-129 regarding debt collection.
7 CFR part 15, subpart A—USDA implementation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
7 CFR part 3407—NIFA procedures to implement the National Environmental Policy Act;
29 U.S.C. 794 (section 504, Rehabilitation Act of 1973) and 7 CFR part 15B (USDA implementation of statute)—prohibiting discrimination based upon physical or mental handicap in Federally assisted programs; and
35 U.S.C. 200
et seq.
—Bayh-Dole Act, controlling allocation of rights to inventions made by employees of small business firms and domestic nonprofit organizations, including universities, in Federally assisted programs (implementing regulations are contained in 37 CFR part 401).
[79 FR 75998, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 3401.11
Other conditions.
The Director may, with respect to any research project grant or to any class of awards, impose additional conditions prior to or at the time of any award when, in the Director's judgment, such conditions are necessary to assure or protect advancement of the approved project, the interests of the public, or the conservation of grant funds.

# Subpart B—Scientific Peer Review of Research Applications for Funding
§ 3401.12
Establishment and operation of peer review groups.
Subject to § 3401.7, the Director will adopt procedures for the conduct of peer reviews and the formulation of recommendations under § 3401.16.
§ 3401.13
Composition of peer review groups.
Peer review group members will be selected based upon their training or experience in relevant scientific or technical fields, taking into account the following factors:
(a) The level of formal scientific or technical education by the individual;
(b) The extent to which the individual has engaged in relevant research, the capacities in which the individual has done so (e.g., principal investigator, assistant), and the quality of such research;
(c) Professional recognition as reflected by awards and other honors received from scientific and professional organizations outside of the Department;
(d) The need of the group to include within its membership experts from various areas of specialization within relevant scientific or technical fields;
(e) The need of the group to include within its membership experts from a variety of organizational types (e.g., universities, industry, private consultant(s)) and geographic locations; and
(f) The need of the group to maintain a balanced membership, e.g., minority and female representation and an equitable age distribution.
§ 3401.14
Conflicts of interest.
Members of peer review groups covered by this part are subject to relevant provisions contained in Title 18 of the United States Code relating to criminal activity, Department regulations governing employee responsibilities and conduct (part 0 of this title), and Executive Order 11222 (3 CFR, 1964-1965 Comp., p. 306), as amended. Administration of the peer review group must be in accordance with the Department's conflict of interest policy, 2 CFR 400.2.
[61 FR 27753, May 31, 1996, as amended at 79 FR 75998, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 3401.15
Availability of information.
Information regarding the peer review process will be made available to the extent permitted under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a.), and
implementing Departmental regulations (part 1 of this title).
§ 3401.16
Proposal review.
(a) All research Applications for Funding will be acknowledged. Prior to technical examination, a preliminary review will be made for responsiveness to the request for proposals (e.g., relationship of application to research program area). Proposals that do not fall within the guidelines as stated in the annual request for proposals will be eliminated from competition and will be returned to the applicant. Proposals whose budgets exceed the maximum allowable amount for a particular program area as announced in the request for proposals may be considered as lying outside the guidelines.
(b) All applications will be reviewed carefully by the Director , qualified officers or employees of the Department, the respective merit review panel, and ad hoc reviewers, as required. Written comments will be solicited from ad hoc reviewers, when required, and individual written comments and in-depth discussions will be provided by peer review group members prior to recommending applications for funding. Applications will be ranked and support levels recommended within the limitation of total available funding for each research program area as announced in the applicable request for proposals.
(c) Except to the extent otherwise provided by law, such recommendations are advisory only and are not binding on program officers or on the awarding official.
§ 3401.17
Review criteria.
(a) Federally funded research supported under these provisions shall be designed to, among other things, accomplish one or more of the following purposes:
(1) Improve management of rangelands as an integrated system and/or watershed;
(2) Remedy unstable or unsatisfactory rangeland conditions;
(3) Increase revegetation and/or rehabilitation of rangelands;
(4) Examine the health of rangelands; and
(5) Define economic parameters associated with rangelands.
(b) In carrying out its review under § 3401.16, the peer review panel will use the following form upon which the evaluation criteria to be used are enumerated, unless, pursuant to § 3401.7(a), different evaluation criteria are specified in the annual solicitation of proposals for a particular program:

# Peer Panel Scoring Form
Proposal Identification No.
Institution and Project Title

# I. Basic Requirement:
Proposal falls within guidelines? __________ Yes __________ No. If no, explain why proposal does not meet guidelines under comment section of this form.

# II. Selection Criteria:
Score 1-10
Weight factor
Score X weight factor
Comments
1. Overall scientific and technical quality of proposal
10
2. Scientific and technical quality of the approach
10
3. Relevance and importance of proposed research to solution of specific areas of inquiry
6
4. Feasibility of attaining objectives; adequacy of professional training and experience, facilities and equipment
5
Score
Summary Comments
(c) Proposals satisfactorily meeting the guidelines will be evaluated and scored by the peer review panel for each criterion utilizing a scale of 1 through 10. A score of one (1) will be considered low and a score of ten (10) will be considered high for each selection criterion. A weighted factor is used for each criterion.
Pt. 3402

# PART 3402—FOOD AND AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES NATIONAL NEEDS GRADUATE AND POSTGRADUATE FELLOWSHIP GRANTS PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Introduction
Sec.
3402.1
Applicability of regulations.
3402.2
Definitions.
3402.3
Institutional eligibility.

# Subpart B—Program Description
3402.4
Food and agricultural sciences areas targeted for National Needs Graduate and Postdoctoral Fellowship Grants Program support.
3402.5
Overview of National Needs Graduate and Postdoctoral Fellowship Grants Program.
3402.6
Overview of the special international study and/or thesis/dissertation research travel allowance.
3402.7
Fellowship appointments.
3402.8
Fellowship activities.
3402.9
Financial provisions.

# Subpart C—Preparation of an Application
3402.10
Application package.
3402.11
Proposal cover page.
3402.12
Project summary.
3402.13
National need narrative.
3402.14
Budget and budget narrative.
3402.15
Faculty vitae.
3402.16
Appendix.

# Subpart D—Submission and Evaluation of an Application
3402.17
Where to submit an application.
3402.18
Evaluation criteria.

# Subpart E—Supplementary Information
3402.19
Terms and conditions of grant awards.
3402.20
Other Federal statutes and regulations that apply.
3402.21
Confidential aspects of applications and awards.
3402.22
Access to peer review information.
3402.23
Documentation of progress on funded projects.
3402.24
Evaluation of program.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 3316.

# Source:
69 FR 62537, Oct. 26, 2004, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 3402 appear at 76 FR 4807, Jan. 27, 2011.

# Subpart A—General Introduction
§ 3402.1
Applicability of regulations.
(a) The regulations of this part apply to competitive grants awarded under the provisions of section 1417(b)(6) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(6). The Act designates the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) as the lead Federal agency for agricultural research, extension, and teaching in the food and agricultural sciences. Section 1417(b)(6) authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture, who has delegated the authority to theNational Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA), to make competitive grants to land-grant colleges and universities, colleges and universities having significant minority enrollments and a demonstrable capacity to carry out the teaching of food and agricultural sciences, and to other colleges and universities having a demonstrable capacity to carry out the teaching of food and agricultural sciences, to administer and conduct graduate and postdoctoral fellowship programs to help meet the Nation's needs for development of scientific and professional expertise in the food and agricultural sciences. The Graduate Fellowships are intended to encourage outstanding students to pursue and complete graduate degrees in the areas of food and agricultural sciences designated by NIFA through the Office of Higher Education Programs (HEP) as national needs. The postdoctoral Fellowships are intended to provide additional mentoring and training to outstanding USDA Graduate Fellows who completed their doctoral degrees no more than five (5) years before they begin the postdoctoral Fellowships.
(b) The regulations of this part do not apply to grants awarded by the Department of Agriculture under any other authority.
§ 3402.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Citizen or national of the United States
means—
(1) A citizen or native resident of a State; or,
(2) A person defined in the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22), who, though not a citizen of the United States, owes permanent allegiance to the United States.
College and university
means an educational institution in any State which—
(1) Admits as regular students only persons having a certificate of graduation from a school providing secondary education, or the recognized equivalent of such a certificate,
(2) Is legally authorized within such State to provide a program of education beyond secondary education,
(3) Provides an educational program for which a bachelor's degree or any other higher degree is awarded,
(4) Is a public or other nonprofit institution, and
(5) Is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association.
Food and agricultural sciences
means basic, applied, and developmental research, extension, and teaching activities in the food, agricultural, renewable natural resources, forestry, and physical and social sciences in the broadest sense of these terms including but not limited to research, extension and teaching activities concerned with the production, processing, marketing, distribution, conservation, consumption, research, and development of food and agriculturally related products and services, inclusive of programs in agriculture, natural resources, aquaculture, forestry, veterinary medicine, home economics, rural development, and closely allied fields.
Graduate degree
means a master's or doctoral degree.
State
means any one of the fifty States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and the District of Columbia.
Teaching activities
means formal classroom instruction, laboratory instruction, and practicum experience specific to the food and agricultural sciences and matters relating thereto conducted by colleges and universities offering baccalaureate or higher degrees.
§ 3402.3
Institutional eligibility.
Applications may be submitted by land-grant colleges and universities, by colleges and universities having significant minority enrollments and a demonstrable capacity to carry out the teaching of food and agricultural sciences, and by other colleges and universities having a demonstrable capacity to carry out the teaching of food and agricultural sciences. All applicants must be institutions that confer a graduate degree in at least one area of the food and agricultural sciences targeted for National Needs Fellowships, that have a significant on-going commitment to the food and agricultural sciences generally, and that have a significant ongoing commitment to the specific subject area for which a grant application is made. It is the objective to award grants to colleges and universities which have notable teaching and research competencies in the food and agricultural sciences. The Graduate Fellowships are specifically intended to support programs that encourage outstanding students to pursue and complete a graduate degree at such institutions in an area of the food and agricultural sciences for which there is a national need for the development of scientific and professional expertise. The postdoctoral Fellowships are designed to support academic programs that provide additional training and mentoring to USDA Graduate Fellows and have notable teaching and research competencies in the NIFA designated national need areas. Institutions which currently have excellent programs of graduate study and training in the food and agricultural sciences dealing with targeted national needs are particularly encouraged to apply for all National Needs Fellowships.

# Subpart B—Program Description
§ 3402.4
Food and agricultural sciences areas targeted for National Needs Graduate and Postdoctoral Fellowship Grants Program support.
Areas of the food and agricultural sciences, including multidisciplinary studies, appropriate for Fellowship grant applications are those in which developing shortages of expertise have been determined and targeted by HEP for National Needs Graduate and Postdoctoral Fellowship Grants Program support. When funds are available and HEP determines that a new competition is warranted, the specific areas and funds per area will be identified in a funding opportunity announcement announcing the program and soliciting program applications.
§ 3402.5
Overview of National Needs Graduate and Postdoctoral Fellowship Grants Program.
(a) The program will provide funds for a limited number of grants to support graduate student stipends and cost-of-education institutional allowances. These grants will be awarded competitively to eligible institutions. In order to encourage the development of special activities that are expected to contribute to Fellows' advanced degree objectives, the program will also provide competitive, special international study or thesis/dissertation research travel allowances for a limited number of USDA Graduate Fellows. To encourage academic institutions to provide additional training/mentoring to outstanding USDA Graduate Fellows who have completed their doctoral degrees, the program will also provide postdoctoral Fellowship grants to a limited number of USDA Graduate Fellows.
(b) Based on the amount of funds appropriated in any fiscal year, HEP will determine:
(1) Whether new competitions for graduate Fellowships, postdoctoral Fellowships, and/or special international study or thesis/dissertation research travel allowances will be held during that fiscal year;
(2) The degree level(s) to be supported—master's, doctoral and/or postdoctoral;
(3) The proportion of appropriations to be targeted for Fellowship stipends for each respective degree level supported;
(4) The proportion of appropriations to be targeted for the cost-of-education institutional allowances for each respective degree level supported;
(5) The proportion of appropriations to be targeted for the special international study or thesis/dissertation research travel allowances for each respective degree level supported;
(6) The allowable stipend amount for each respective degree level supported, the cost-of-education institutional allowance for each respective degree level supported, and the maximum funds available for each special international study or thesis/dissertation research travel allowance for each respective degree level supported;
(7) The activities for which the cost-of-education allowance may be used for awards made in that year; and
(8) The maximum total funds that may be awarded to an institution under the program in a given fiscal year.
(c) HEP will also determine:
(1) The maximum number of national needs areas for which funding may be requested in a single application;
(2) The degree levels for which funding may be requested in a single application;
(3) The minimum and maximum number of fellowships for which an institution may apply in a single application; and
(4) The limits on the total number of applications that can be submitted by an institution, college, school, or other administrative unit.
(d) These determinations will be published as a part of the solicitation, which will be available at
http://www.grants.gov.
§ 3402.6
Overview of the special international study and/or thesis/dissertation research travel allowance.
(a) For each USDA Graduate Fellow who desires to be considered for a special international study or thesis/dissertation research travel allowance, the Project Director must apply to HEP for a supplemental grant in accordance with instructions published in the solicitation. Postdoctoral Fellows are not eligible to receive the special international study or thesis/dissertation research travel allowance. Each application must include a “Proposal Cover Page” (Form NIFA-2002), “Project Summary” (Form NIFA-2003), “Budget” (Form NIFA-2004) and National Environmental Policy Act Exclusions Form (Form NIFA—2006).
(1) To provide HEP with sufficient information upon which to evaluate the merits of the requests for a special international study or thesis/dissertation research travel allowance, each application for a supplemental grant must contain a narrative which provides the following:
(i) The specific destination(s) and duration of the travel;
(ii) The specific study or thesis/dissertation research activities in which the Fellow will be engaged;
(iii) How the international experience will contribute to the Fellow's program of study;
(iv) A budget narrative specifying and justifying the dollar amount requested for the travel;
(v) Summary credentials of the faculty or other professionals with whom the Fellow will be working during the international experience (summary credentials must not exceed three pages per person);
(vi) A letter from the dean of the Fellow's college or equivalent administrative unit supporting the Fellow's travel request and certifying that the travel experience will not jeopardize the Fellow's satisfactory progress toward degree completion; and
(vii) A letter from the fellowship grant Project Director certifying the Fellow's eligibility, the accuracy of the Fellow's travel request, and the relevance of the travel to the Fellow's advanced degree objectives.
(2) The narrative portion of the application must not exceed the page limitation included in the program solicitation.
(b) All complete requests will be evaluated by professional staff from USDA or other Federal agencies, as appropriate. Evaluation criteria will be published in the solicitation. HEP will award grants in accordance with evaluation criteria and to the extent possible based on availability of funds.
(c) Any current Fellow with sufficient time to complete the international experience before the termination date of the grant under which he/she is supported is eligible for a special international study or thesis/dissertation research travel allowance. Before the international study or thesis/dissertation research travel may commence, a Fellow must have completed one academic year of full-time study, as defined by the institution, under the Fellowship appointment and arrangements must have been formalized for the Fellow to study and/or conduct research in the foreign location(s).
§ 3402.7
Fellowship appointments.
(a)(1) Fellows must be identified and Fellowships must be awarded within 18 months of the effective date of a grant. Institutions failing to meet this deadline will be required to refund monies associated with any unawarded Fellowship(s). Graduate Fellowship appointments may be held only by persons who enroll and pursue full-time study in a graduate degree program in the national need area and at the degree level supported by the grant. Postdoctoral Fellowship appointments may be held only by persons who pursue full-time traineeship in research, teaching or extension in the national need area and are supervised by the mentor indicated in the grant application.
(2) It will be the responsibility of the grantee institution to award fellowships to students of superior academic ability.
(3) Graduate Fellows:
(i) Must be appointed before completing two semesters or equivalent hours of full-time study, as defined by the institution, or immediately after passing of candidacy/qualifying examinations, whichever is later;
(ii) Must be citizens or nationals of the United States as determined in accordance with Federal law; and
(iii) Must have strong interest, as judged by the institution, in pursuing a degree in a targeted national need area and in preparing for a career as a food or agricultural scientist or professional.
(4) Postdoctoral Fellows:
(i) Must have been USDA Graduate Fellows who successfully completed their doctoral degrees in areas of the food and agricultural sciences designated by NIFA as national need areas;
(ii) Must not have obtained their doctoral degrees more than five years prior to beginning their postdoctoral Fellowships;
(iii) Must have strong interest, as judged by the institution, in preparing for a career in agricultural research, teaching or extension.
(5)(i) A doctoral level Graduate Fellow who maintains satisfactory progress in his or her course of study is eligible for support for a maximum of 36 months within a 42-month period. A
master's level Fellow who maintains satisfactory progress in his or her course of study is eligible for support for a maximum of 24 months during a 30-month period. A postdoctoral Fellow who achieves his or her training objectives is eligible for support for a maximum of 36 months during a 60-month period. It is the intent of this program that Graduate Fellows pursue full-time uninterrupted study or thesis/dissertation research, including time spent pursuing USDA-funded special international study or thesis/dissertation research activities.
(ii) Postdoctoral Fellowship appointments may be held only by persons who pursue full-time traineeship in research, teaching, or extension in the national need area and are supervised by the mentor indicated in the grant application.
However, during the period of support, USDA Graduate and Postdoctoral Fellows are permitted, at the discretion of their institutions, to accept additional supplemental employment that would positively contribute to their training or research and provide eligibility for tuition waivers (e.g., full or partial tuition waivers with research or teaching assignments).
(iii) For graduate Fellows requiring additional time to complete a degree, it is expected that the institution will endeavor to continue supporting individuals originally appointed to Fellowships through such other institutional means as teaching assistantships and research assistantships. For postdoctoral Fellows who terminate the Fellowships prematurely, the institution must return all unexpended monies to USDA. For USDA Graduate Fellows who complete the program of study early (less than 24 months for master's degree or 36 months for doctoral degree) or terminate their Fellowships prematurely, the institution may use any unexpended monies, within the time remaining on the project grant, to support pursuit of a doctoral degree in a discipline in the food and agricultural sciences by a master's degree level Fellow at the grantee institution; or a replacement Graduate Fellow. Where less than one semester/quarter remains before the expiration date of the Graduate Fellowship grant, the institution must refund any unexpended monies to the granting agency. Such funds cannot be used to increase the annual stipend amounts for current USDA Graduate or Postdoctoral Fellows.
(b) Within the framework of the regulations in this part, all decisions with respect to the appointment of Fellows will be made by the institution. However, institutions are urged to take maximum advantage of opportunities for awarding Fellowships to members of underrepresented groups at the graduate and postdoctoral level in the food and agricultural sciences, particularly minorities and women. Throughout a USDA Graduate Fellow's tenure, the institution should satisfy itself that the Fellow is making satisfactory academic progress, and carrying out, or planning to carry out, national needs related research. If an institution finds it necessary to terminate support of a USDA Graduate Fellow or a postdoctoral Fellow for insufficient progress or by decision on the part of the Fellow, the Fellow may no longer receive funds from the active grant. However, termination does not automatically disqualify a Fellow from receiving future grant support under this program. If a graduate or postdoctoral Fellow finds it necessary to interrupt his or her program of study because of health, personal reasons, or outside employment, the institution must reserve the funds for the purpose of allowing the Fellow to resume funded training any time within a six (6) month period. However, a USDA Graduate or Postdoctoral Fellow who finds it necessary to interrupt his/her program of training more than one time cannot exceed a total of six (6) months' cumulative leave status without forfeiting eligibility. For a USDA Graduate Fellowship terminated because of insufficient progress, by decision on the part of the Fellow, or reserved due to an interrupted program but not resumed within the required time period, the institution may use any unexpended monies to support, within the time remaining on the project grant, and subject to the limitations above, a replacement Fellow at the same master's or doctoral levels. For postdoctoral Fellowships terminated
because of insufficient progress, by decision on the part of the Fellow, or reserved due to an interrupted program but not resumed within the required time period, the institution must return all the unexpended monies to NIFA.
(c) Only Fellows enrolled in master's programs of study may be supported under master's Fellowship grants. Master's degree level Fellows who complete their degree early may be supported under master's Fellowship grants, if they are enrolled in Ph.D. programs in areas of the food and agricultural sciences designated as national need areas. Only Fellows enrolled in doctoral programs of study may be supported under doctoral degree Fellowship grants. Only USDA Graduate Fellows who have completed their doctoral degrees may be supported under postdoctoral Fellowship grants.
§ 3402.8
Fellowship activities.
A USDA Graduate Fellow shall be enrolled as a full-time graduate student, as defined by the institution, at all times during the tenure of the Fellowship in the national need area and at the degree level supported by the grant. This includes the time used for special international study or thesis/dissertation research, if the international travel is funded through a special international study or thesis/dissertation research travel allowance under this grant program. However, the normal requirement for formal registration during part of this tenure may be waived if permitted by the policy of the Fellowship institution, provided that the Graduate Fellow is making satisfactory progress toward degree completion and remains engaged in appropriate full-time Fellowship activities such as thesis/dissertation research. Postdoctoral Fellowship appointments may be held only by persons who pursue full-time traineeship in research, teaching, or extension in the national need area and are supervised by the mentor indicated in the grant application. Graduate and postdoctoral Fellows in academic institutions are not entitled to vacations as such. They are entitled to the short normal student holidays observed by the institution. The time between academic semesters or quarters is to be utilized as an active part of the grant period. During the period of support, USDA Graduate and Postdoctoral Fellows are permitted, at the discretion of their institutions, to accept additional supplemental employment that would positively contribute to their training or research and provide eligibility for tuition waivers (e.g., full or partial tuition waivers provided with research or teaching assignments). A Fellow may accept from any other entity a grant supporting the Fellow's research costs.
§ 3402.9
Financial provisions.
An institution may elect to apply the cost-of-education/training institutional allowance to a Fellow's tuition, fees and laboratory expenses and to defray other program expenses (e.g., recruitment, travel, publications, or salaries of project personnel), unless stated otherwise in the solicitation. Tuition and fees are the responsibility of the Fellow unless an institution elects to use its cost-of-education institutional allowance for this purpose or elects to pay such costs out of non-USDA monies. No dependency allowances are provided to any USDA Graduate or Postdoctoral Fellows. Stipend payments and special international study or thesis/dissertation research travel allowances may be made to Fellows by the institution, in accordance with standard institutional procedures for graduate and postdoctoral fellowships and assistantships.

# Subpart C—Preparation of an Application
§ 3402.10
Application package.
Applications will be available at
http://www.grants.gov
and through the NIFA Web site. An application package will be made available to any potential grant applicant upon request. This package will include all necessary forms and instructions to apply for a grant under this program.
§ 3402.11
Proposal cover page.
The Proposal Cover Page, Form NIFA-2002, must be completed in its
entirety, including all authorizing signatures. One copy of each grant application must contain the original pen-and-ink signatures, or approved electronic equivalent, of:
(a) The Project Director(s); and
(b) The Authorized Organizational Representative for the institution.
§ 3402.12
Project summary.
Using the Project Summary, Form NIFA-2003, applicants must summarize the proposed graduate program of study and/or the academic and research strengths of the institution in the national need area for which funding is requested. To the extent possible, applicants should emphasize the uniqueness of the proposed program of training. The summary should not include any reference to the specific number of fellowships requested. The information on Form NIFA-2003 will be used in assigning the most appropriate panelists to review an application. If an application is supported, this Form may be used in program publications.
§ 3402.13
National need narrative.
HEP will determine the composition of the narrative for each competition, including page limits, font size, the number and the order of sections, and other supporting information that may be required. Detailed instructions for preparing the narrative will be published in the solicitation.
§ 3402.14
Budget and budget narrative.
Applicants must prepare the Budget, Form NIFA-2004, and a budget narrative identifying all costs associated with the application. Instructions for completing the Budget are provided with the form.
§ 3402.15
Faculty vitae.
This section should include a Summary Vita, no more than 2 pages excluding publications listing, for each faculty member contributing significantly to institutional competence at the level of graduate study for the national need area addressed in the application. Applicants should arrange the faculty vitae with the Project Director(s) first, followed by the remaining faculty, in alphabetical order.
§ 3402.16
Appendix.
Any additional supporting information deemed essential to enhancing the application should be included in an Appendix and referenced in the national need narrative.

# Subpart D—Submission and Evaluation of an Application
§ 3402.17
Where to submit an application.
The solicitation will indicate the date for submission of applications and the number of application copies required to apply for a grant. In addition, the solicitation will provide the address to which the application, the required number of accompanying duplicate copies, and any other required forms and materials should be sent.
§ 3402.18
Evaluation criteria.
Applications addressing a particular national need area at a particular Fellowship level (master's, doctoral or postdoctoral) will be evaluated in competition with other applications addressing the same national need area at the same level. Both USDA internal staff and the panelists will evaluate applications on the basis of the criteria published in the solicitation.

# Subpart E—Supplementary Information
§ 3402.19
Terms and conditions of grant awards.
Within the limit of funds available for such purpose, the awarding official shall make project grants to those responsible, eligible applicants whose applications are judged most meritorious according to evaluation criteria stated in the solicitation. The beginning of the project period shall be no later than September 30 of the Federal fiscal year in which the project is approved for support. All funds granted under this part shall be expended solely for the purpose for which the funds are granted in accordance with the approved application and budget, the regulations of this part, the terms and conditions of the award, the applicable Federal cost principles, and 2 CFR part 200.
§ 3402.20
Other Federal statutes and regulations that apply.
(a) The Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) issued guidance on Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards at 2 CFR part 200 on December 26, 2013. In 2 CFR 400.1, the Department adopted OMB's guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400, as the Department's policies and procedures for uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for federal awards. As a result, this regulation contains references to 2 CFR part 200 as it has regulatory effect for the Department's programs and activities.
(b) Several other Federal statutes and/or regulations apply to grant proposals considered for review or to research project grants awarded under this part. These include but are not limited to:
2 CFR part 200—Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards.
2 CFR part 180 and Part 417—OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Government-Wide Debarment And Suspension (Nonprocurement) And USDA Nonprocurement Debarment And Suspension
7 CFR part 1c—USDA Implementation of the Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects.
7 CFR 1.1—USDA Implementation of Freedom of Information Act.
7 CFR part 3—USDA Implementation of OMB Circular A-129 Regarding Debt Collection.
7 CFR part 15, subpart A—USDA Implementation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
7 CFR part 3407—NIFA procedures to implement the National Environmental Policy Act;
29 U.S.C. 794 (section 504, Rehabilitation Act of 1973) and 7 CFR part 15B (USDA implementation of statute)—prohibiting discrimination based upon physical or mental handicap in Federally assisted programs; and
35 U.S.C. 200
et seq.
—Bayh-Dole Act, controlling allocation of rights to inventions made by employees of small business firms and domestic nonprofit organizations, including universities, in Federally assisted programs (implementing regulations are contained in 37 CFR part 401).
[79 FR 75998, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 3402.21
Confidential aspects of applications and awards.
When an application results in a grant, the application and supporting information become part of the record of NIFA transactions, and available to the public upon specific request. Information that the Secretary determines to be of a confidential, privileged, or proprietary nature will be held in confidence to the extent permitted by law. Therefore, any information that the applicant wishes to have considered as confidential, privileged, or proprietary should be clearly marked within the application. The original copy of an application that does not result in a grant will be retained by the Agency for a period of one year. Other copies will be destroyed. Such an application will be released only with the consent of the applicant or to the extent required by law. An application may be withdrawn at any time prior to the final action thereon.
§ 3402.22
Access to peer review information.
After final decisions have been announced, HEP will, upon request, inform the PD of the reasons for its decision on an application. Verbatim copies of summary reviews, not including the identity of the reviewers, will be made available to respective PDs upon specific request.
§ 3402.23
Documentation of progress on funded projects.
(a) Fellowships/Scholarships Entry/Exit Forms (Form NIFA-2010) are available from NIFA upon request. Upon request by HEP, Project Directors awarded Graduate Fellowship (excluding supplemental international and postdoctoral) grants under the program shall complete and submit this form.
(1) Appointment Information shall be submitted to HEP within 3 months of appointment of a Fellow;
(2) The Project Director shall submit an annual update of each Fellow's progress to HEP by September 30 each year. Additional progress reports may be needed to assess continuing progress of Fellows supported by any special
international study or thesis/dissertation research allowance and/or institutional adherence to program guidelines.
(3) Exit Information shall be completed and submitted to HEP by the Project Director for each Fellow supported by a grant as soon as a Fellow either: Graduates; is officially terminated from the Fellowship or the academic program due to unsatisfactory academic progress; or voluntarily withdraws from the Fellowship or the academic program. If a Fellow has not completed all degree requirements at the end of the five-year grant duration, HEP may request a preliminary exit report. In such a case, a final exit report shall be required at a later date. When a final exit report for each Fellow supported by a grant has been accepted by HEP, the grantee will have satisfied the requirement of a final performance report for the grant. Additional follow-up reports to track Fellows' career patterns may be requested.
(b) All grantees (supplemental international, graduate, and postdoctoral) shall submit initial project information and annual and summary reports to NIFA' Current Research Information System (CRIS). The CRIS database contains narrative project information, progress/impact statements, and final technical reports that are made available to the public. For applications recommended for funding, instructions on preparation and submission of project documentation will be provided to the applicant by the agency contact. Documentation must be submitted to CRIS before NIFA funds will be released. Project reports will be requested by the CRIS office when required. For more information about CRIS, visit
http://cris.nifa.usda.gov.
§ 3402.24
Evaluation of program.
Grantees should be aware that HEP may, as a part of its own program evaluation activities, carry out in-depth evaluations of assisted activities through independent third parties. Thus, grantees should be prepared to cooperate with evaluators retained by HEP to analyze both the institutional context and the impact of any supported project.
Pt. 3403

# PART 3403—SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION RESEARCH GRANTS PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Information
Sec.
3403.1
Applicability of regulations.
3403.2
Definitions.
3403.3
Eligibility requirements.

# Subpart B—Program Description
3403.4
Three-phase program.

# Subpart C—Preparation of Proposals
3403.5
Program solicitation.
3403.6
Content of proposals.
3403.7
Proposal format for phase I applications.
3403.8
Proposal format for phase II applications.

# Subpart D—Submission and Evaluation of Proposals
3403.9
Submission of proposals.
3403.10
Proposal review.
3403.11
Availability of information.

# Subpart E—Supplementary Information
3403.12
Terms and conditions of grant awards.
3403.13
Notice of grant awards.
3403.14
Use of funds; changes.
3403.15
Other Federal statutes and regulations that apply.
3403.16
Other considerations.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 638.

# Source:
72 FR 20703, Apr. 26, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 3403 appear at 76 FR 4807, Jan. 27, 2011.

# Subpart A—General Information
§ 3403.1
Applicability of regulations.
(a) The regulations of this part apply to small business innovation research grants awarded under the general authority of section 630 of the Act making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, and Related Agencies' programs for fiscal year ending 1987, and for other purposes as made applicable by section 101(a) of Pub. L. 99-591, 100 Stat. 3341, and the provisions of the Small Business Innovation Development Act of 1982, as amended (15
U.S.C. 638), and the Small Business Innovation Research Program Reauthorization Act of 2000, Pub. L. 106-554, which extends the SBIR Program through September 30, 2008. The Small Business Innovation Development Act of 1982, as amended, mandates that each Federal agency with an annual extramural budget for research or research and development in excess of $100 million participate in a Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program by reserving a statutory percentage of its annual extramural budget for award to small business concerns for research or research and development in order to stimulate technological innovation, use small business to meet Federal research and development needs, increase private sector commercialization of innovations derived from Federal research and development, and foster and encourage the participation of socially and economically disadvantaged small business concerns and women-owned small business concerns in technological innovation. The Department will participate in this program through the issuance of competitive research grants which will be administered by NIFA.
(b) The regulations of this part do not apply to research grants awarded by the Department under any other authority.
[72 FR 20703, Apr. 26, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 75998, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 3403.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Ad hoc reviewers
means experts or consultants, qualified by training and experience in particular scientific or technical fields to render expert advice on the scientific technical merit of the grant applications in those fields, who review on an individual basis one or several of the eligible proposals submitted to this program in their area of expertise and who submit to the Department written evaluations of such proposals.
Applicant
is the organizational entity that, at the time of award, will qualify as a small business concern and that submits a grant application for a funding agreement under the SBIR Program.
Authorized departmental officer
(ADO) means the Secretary or any employee of the Department who has the authority to issue or modify grant instruments on behalf of the Secretary. The ADO is also referred to as the Funding Agreement Officer.
Authorized organizational representative
(AOR) means the president, director, or chief executive officer or other designated official of the applicant organization who has the authority to commit the resources of the organization.
Budget Period
means the interval of time into which the project period is divided for budgetary and reporting purposes.
Commercialization
is the process of developing marketable products or services and producing and delivering products or services for sale (whether by the originating party or by others) to Government or commercial markets.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Essentially equivalent work
occurs when:
(1) Substantially the same research is proposed for funding in more than one grant application submitted to the same Federal agency;
(2) Substantially the same research is submitted to two or more different Federal agencies for review and funding consideration; or
(3) A specific research objective and the research design for accomplishing an objective are the same or closely related in two or more proposals or awards, regardless of the funding source.
Funding agreement
is any contract, grant, or cooperative agreement entered into between any Federal agency and any small business concern for the performance of experimental, developmental, or research work, including products or services funded in whole or in part by the Federal Government.
A grant
is a financial assistance mechanism providing money, property, or both to an eligible entity to carry out the approved project or activity, and substantial programmatic involvement by Government is not anticipated.
Grantee
means the small business concern designated in the grant award
document as the responsible legal entity to whom the grant is awarded under this part.
Innovation
is something new or improved, having marketable potential including:
(1) Development of new technologies;
(2) Refinement of existing technologies; or
(3) Development of new applications for existing technologies.
Intellectual property
means the separate and distinct types of intangible property that are referred to collectively as “intellectual property,” including but not limited to: Patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, SBIR technical data (as defined in this section), ideas, designs, know-how, business, technical and research methods, other types of intangible business assets, and all types of intangible assets either proposed or generated by a small business concern as a result of its participation in the SBIR Program.
Joint venture
is an association of concerns with interests in any degree or proportion by way of contract, express or implied, consorting to engage in and carry out a single specific business venture for joint profit, for which purpose they combine their efforts, property, money, skill, or knowledge, but not on a continuing or permanent basis for conducting business generally. A joint venture is viewed as a business entity in determining power to control its management.
NIFA
means the National Institute of Food and Agriculture.
Outcomes
are the measure of long-term, eventual, program impact.
Outputs
are the measures of near-term program impact.
Peer review group
means experts or consultants, qualified by training and experience in particular scientific or technical fields to give expert advice on the scientific and technical merit of grant applications to those fields, who assemble as a group to discuss and evaluate all of the eligible proposals submitted to this program in their area of expertise.
Principal investigator/project director
is the one individual designated by the applicant to provide the scientific and technical direction to a project supported by the funding agreement.
Professional Employer Organization
is an organization that provides an integrated approach to the management and administration of the human resources and employer risk of its clients, by contractually assuming substantial employer rights, responsibilities, and risk, through the establishment and maintenance of an employer relationship with the workers assigned to its clients.
Program solicitation
is a formal request for proposals whereby an agency notifies the small business community of its research or research and development needs and interests in broad and selected areas, as appropriate to the agency, and requests proposals from small business concerns in response to these needs and interests.
Project period
means the total length of time that is approved by the Department for conducting the research project as outlined in an approved grant application.
Prototype
is a model of something to be further developed, which includes designs, protocols, questionnaires, software, and devices.
Research or research and development
(R/R
D) means any activity which is:
(1) A systematic, intensive study directed toward greater knowledge or understanding of the subject studied;
(2) A systematic study directed specifically toward applying new knowledge to meet a recognized need; or
(3) A systematic application of knowledge toward the production of useful materials, devices, and systems or methods, including design, development, and improvement of prototypes and new processes to meet specific requirements.
Research project grant
means the award by the Department of funds to a grantee to assist in meeting the costs of conducting for the benefit of the public an identified project which is intended and designed to establish, discover, elucidate, or confirm information or the underlying mechanisms relating to a research topic area identified in the annual solicitation of applications.
SBIR Participants
are business concerns that have received SBIR awards or that have submitted SBIR proposals/applications.
SBIR Technical Data
is defined as all data generated during the performance of an SBIR award.
SBIR Technical Data Rights
are the rights a small business concern obtains in data generated during the performance of any SBIR award that an awardee delivers to the Government during or upon completion of a Federally-funded project, and to which the government receives a license.
Small business concern
(SBC) means a concern that, on the date of award for both Phase I and Phase II funding agreements:
(1) Is organized for profit, with a place of business located in the United States, which operates primarily within the United States, or which makes a significant contribution to the United States economy through the payment of taxes or use of American products, materials or labor;
(2) Is in the legal form of an individual proprietorship, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, joint venture, association, trust or cooperative, except that where the form is a joint venture, there can be no more than 49 percent participation by foreign business entities in the joint venture;
(3) Is at least 51 percent owned and controlled by one or more individuals who are citizens of, or permanent resident aliens in, the United States, except in the case of a joint venture, where each entity in the venture must be 51 percent owned and controlled by one or more individuals who are citizens of, or permanent resident aliens in the United States; and
(4) Has, including its affiliates, not more than 500 employees. The term “affiliates” is defined in greater detail in 13 CFR 121.103. The term “number of employees” is defined in 13 CFR 121.106.
Socially and economically disadvantaged small business concern
is defined in 13 CFR part 124-8(A) Business Development/Small Disadvantaged Business Status Determinations, § 124.103 (Who is socially disadvantaged?) and § 124.104 (Who is economically disadvantaged?).
United States
means the 50 states, the territories and possessions of the Federal Government, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of Palau.
Women-owned small business concern
means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women, or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock is owned by women, and women control the management and daily business operations.
[72 FR 20703, Apr. 26, 2007, as amended at 76 FR 4808, Jan. 27, 2011]
§ 3403.3
Eligibility requirements.
(a)
Eligibility of organization.
(1) To receive SBIR funds, each awardee of a SBIR Phase I or Phase II must qualify as a small business concern.
(2) For Phase I, a minimum of two-thirds of the research or analytical effort, as measured by the budget, must be performed by the awardee. Occasionally, deviations from this requirement may occur, and must be approved in writing by the ADO after consultation with the agency SBIR National Program Leader.
(3) For Phase II, a minimum of one-half of the research or analytical effort, as measured by the budget, must be performed by the awardee. Occasionally, deviations from this requirement may occur, and must be approved in writing by the ADO after consultation with the agency SBIR National Program Leader.
(4) For both Phase I and Phase II, the primary employment of the principal investigator must be with the SBC at the time of award and during the conduct of the proposed project. Primary employment means that more than one-half of the principal investigator's time is spent in the employ of the SBC. This precludes full-time employment with another organization. Occasionally, deviations from this requirement may occur, and must be approved in writing by the ADO after consultation with the agency SBIR National Program Leader. Further, an SBC may replace the principal investigator on an SBIR Phase I or Phase II award, subject to approval in writing by the ADO after consultation with the SBIR National Program Leader. For purposes of the SBIR Program, personnel obtained through a Professional Employer Organization or other similar personnel
leasing company must be considered employees of the awardee. This is consistent with SBA's size regulations, 13 CFR 121.106—Small Business Size Regulations.
(5) For both Phase I and Phase II, the R/R
D must be performed in the United States. However, based on a rare and unique circumstance, ADO approval may be granted to perform a particular portion of the research or research and development work outside of the United States, for example, if a supply of material or other item or project requirement is not available in the United States. The ADO, after consultation with the agency SBIR National Program Leader, must approve each such specific condition in writing.
(b) [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Program Description
§ 3403.4
Three-phase program.
The Small Business Innovation Research Grants Program is carried out in three separate phases described in this section. The first two phases are designed to assist USDA in meeting its research or research and development objectives and will be supported with SBIR Program funds. The purpose of the third phase is to pursue the commercial applications or objectives of the research carried out in Phases I and II through the use of private or Federal non-SBIR funds.
(a)
Phase I.
Phase I involves a solicitation of grant applications (hereinafter referred to as proposals) to conduct feasibility-related experimental research and development related to described agency requirements. These requirements, as defined by agency topics contained in the solicitation, may be general or narrow in scope, depending on USDA needs. The object of this phase is to determine the scientific and technical merit and feasibility of the proposed effort and the quality of performance of the small business concern with a relatively small agency investment before consideration of further Federal support in Phase II.
(b)
Phase II
is the principal research or research and development effort in which the results from Phase I are expanded upon and further pursued, normally for a period not to exceed 24 months. Only SBIR awardees in Phase I are eligible to participate in Phase II. This includes those awardees identified via a “novated” or “successor in interest” or similarly-revised funding agreement, or those that have reorganized with the same key staff, regardless of whether they have been assigned a different tax identification number. For each Phase I project funded, the awardee may apply for a Phase II award only once. Phase I awardees who for valid reasons cannot apply for Phase II support in the next fiscal year funding cycle may normally apply for support no later than the second fiscal year funding cycle.
(c)
Phase III
refers to work that derives from, extends, or logically concludes effort(s) performed under prior SBIR funding agreements, but is funded by sources other than the SBIR Program. Phase III work is typically oriented towards commercialization of SBIR research or technology. This portion of a project is funded by a non-SBIR source through the use of a follow-on funding commitment. A follow-on funding commitment is an agreement between the small business concern and a provider of the follow-on capital for a specified amount of funds to be made available to the small business concern for future development of their effort upon achieving certain mutually agreed upon technical objectives.

# Subpart C—Preparation of Proposals
§ 3403.5
Program solicitation.
(a)
Phase I.
A program solicitation requesting Phase I proposals will be prepared each fiscal year in which funds are made available for this purpose. This solicitation will contain information sufficient to enable eligible applicants to prepare grant proposals and will include descriptions of specific research topic areas which the Department will support during the fiscal year involved. A notice of solicitation, and the entire contents of the program solicitation will be published, at a minimum, on the agency's Web site.
(b)
Phase II.
For each fiscal year in which funds are made available for this
purpose, the Department will send correspondence requesting Phase II proposals from the Phase I grantees eligible to apply for Phase II funding in that fiscal year. The correspondence will contain information sufficient to enable eligible applicants to prepare grant proposals.
§ 3403.6
Content of proposals.
(a) The proposed research must be responsive to one of the USDA program interests stated in the research topic descriptions of the program solicitation.
(b) Proposals must cover only scientific/technological research activities. A small business concern must not propose product development, technical assistance, demonstration projects, classified research, or patent applications. Many of the research projects supported by the SBIR program lead to the development of new products based upon the research results obtained during the project. However, projects that seek funding solely for product development where no research is involved,
i.e.
, funds are needed to permit the development of a project based on previously completed research, will not be accepted. Literature surveys should be conducted prior to preparing proposals for submission and must not be proposed as a part of the SBIR Phase I or Phase II effort. Proposals principally for the development of proven concepts toward commercialization or for market research should not be submitted since such efforts are considered the responsibility of the private sector and therefore are not supported by USDA.
(c) A proposal must be limited to only one topic. The same proposal may not be submitted under more than one topic as defined in the solicitation. However, an organization may submit separate proposals on the same topic. Where similar research is discussed under more than one topic, the proposer should choose that topic whose description appears most relevant to the proposer's research concept. USDA will not consider funding duplicate (essentially equivalent work) proposals. In addition, essentially equivalent work funded by another entity will be returned to the applicant without review.
§ 3403.7
Proposal format for phase I applications.
(a) The following items relate to Phase I applications. Further instructions or descriptions for these items as well as any additional items to be included will be provided in the annual solicitation, as necessary.
(1)
SF-424 R
R Cover.
Applicants must submit basic proposal identification information on the first page of the proposals. Applicants must also certify on the first page of the proposals that they meet the definition of a small business concern as stated in the solicitation, and must certify as to whether or not they qualify as socially and economically disadvantaged small business concerns, or women-owned small business concerns.
(2)
Project Summary/Abstract.
The technical abstract should include a brief description of the problem or opportunity, project objectives, and a description of the effort. Anticipated results and potential commercial applications of the proposed research also should be summarized in the space provided. Keywords should characterize the most important aspects of the project. The project summary of successful proposals may be published by USDA and therefore should not contain proprietary information.
(3)
Project Narrative.
The main body of the proposal should include:
(i) Identification and significance of the problem or opportunity.
(ii) Background and rationale.
(iii) Relationship with future research or research and development.
(iv) Phase I technical objectives.
(v) Phase I work plan.
(vi) Related research or research and development.
(vii) References. For each reference cited in the Proposal, provide the complete name for each author, the date of publication, the full title of the article, name of the journal, etc.
(4)
Key personnel and bibliography.
Identify key personnel involved in the effort, including information on their directly related education and experience. For each key person, provide a chronological list of the most recent
representative publications in the topic area.
(5)
Facilities and equipment.
Describe the types, location, and availability of instrumentation and physical facilities necessary to carry out the work proposed. Items of equipment to be purchased must be fully justified under this section.
(6)
Outside services.
Involvement of university or other consultants in the planning and research stages of the project as consultants or through subcontracting arrangements is permitted and may be particularly helpful to small business concerns that have not previously received Federal research awards. If such involvement is intended, it should be described in detail.
(7)
Satisfying the public interest.
Specify how the proposed research will satisfy one or more of the following objectives:
(i) Develops sustainable agriculture production systems;
(ii) Protects natural resources and the environment;
(iii) Creates a safe, nutritious and affordable food supply;
(iv) Develops value-added food and non-food products from agricultural materials;
(v) Enhances global competitiveness; and
(vi) Enhances economic opportunity and quality of life, especially for people in rural areas.
(8)
Potential post applications.
Briefly describe the commercialization potential of the proposed research. Indicate whether and by what means there appears to be a potential for the Federal Government to use the proposed research. Include a brief description of the proposing company (e.g., date founded, number of employees) and its field of interest. What are the major competitive products in this field, and what advantages will the proposed research have over existing technology (in application, performance, technique, efficiency or cost)?
(9)
Similar Proposals or Awards.
(i) WARNING—While it is permissible with proposal notification to submit identical proposals containing a significant amount of essentially equivalent work for consideration under numerous Federal program solicitations, it is unlawful to enter into funding agreements requiring essentially equivalent work. If there is any question concerning this, it must be disclosed to the soliciting agency or agencies before award. If an applicant elects to submit identical proposals or proposals containing a significant amount of essentially equivalent work under other Federal program solicitations, a statement must be included in each such proposal indicating:
(A) Name and address of the agency(ies) to which the proposal was submitted, or will be submitted, or from which an award is expected or has been received.
(B) Date of actual or anticipated proposal submission or date of award, as appropriate.
(C) Title of proposal or award, identifying number assigned to the solicitation or proposal by the agency involved, and the date the proposal(s) were submitted or the award was received.
(D) Applicable research topic area for each proposal submitted or award received.
(E) Titles of research projects.
(F) Name and title of principal investigator for each proposal submitted or award received.
(ii)
USDA will not make awards that duplicate research funded (or to be funded) by other Federal agencies.
(10)
Cost breakdown on proposal budget.
Complete a budget form for the phase under which you are currently applying. (An applicant for Phase I funding should not submit both Phase I and Phase II budgets.) A budget narrative with supporting detail for each budget category must be included.
(11)
Special Considerations.
If the proposed research will include laboratory animals or human subjects at risk, the applicant may be required to have the research plan reviewed and approved by an Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) or Institutional Review Board (IRB) prior to commencing actual substantive work. If such approval is required, USDA may not release funds for the award until proper documentation is submitted and accepted by USDA. It is suggested that applicants contact local universities,
colleges, or nonprofit research organizations which have established reviewing mechanisms to have this service performed.
(12)
Proprietary information.
(i) If proprietary information is provided by an applicant in a proposal which constitutes a trade secret, proprietary commercial or financial information, confidential personal information, or data affecting the national security, it will be treated in confidence to the extent permitted by law. This information must be clearly marked by the applicant with the term “confidential proprietary information” and the following legend must appear on the title page of the proposal: “These data shall not be disclosed outside the Government and shall not be duplicated, used, or disclosed in whole or in part for any purpose other than evaluation of this proposal. If a funding agreement is awarded to this applicant as a result of or in connection with the submission of these data, the Government shall have the right to duplicate, use, or disclose the data to the extent provided in the funding agreement and pursuant to applicable law. This restriction does not limit the Government's right to use information contained in the data if it is obtained from another source without restriction. The data subject to this restriction are contained on pages ____ of this proposal.”
(ii) USDA, by law, is required to make the final decision as to whether the information is required to be kept in confidence. Information contained in unsuccessful proposals will remain the property of the applicant. However, USDA will retain for three years one copy of all proposals received; extra copies will be destroyed. Public release of information for any proposal submitted will be subject to existing statutory and regulatory requirements. Any proposal which is funded will be considered an integral part of the award and normally will be made available to the public upon request through the Freedom of Information Act, except for designated proprietary information.
(iii) The inclusion of proprietary information is discouraged unless it is necessary for the proper evaluation of the proposal. If proprietary information is to be included, it should be limited, set apart from other text on a separate page, and keyed to the text by numbers. It should be confined to a few critical technical items which, if disclosed, could jeopardize the obtaining of foreign or domestic patents. Trade secrets, salaries, or other information which could jeopardize commercial competitiveness should be similarly keyed and presented on a separate page. Proposals or reports which attempt to restrict dissemination of large amounts of information may be found unacceptable by USDA.
(13)
Rights in data developed under SBIR funding agreement.
The legend (or statements) in the SBIR datarights clause included in the SBIR award must be affixed to any submissions of technical data. Where such legend is affixed, rights in technical data, including software developed under the terms of any funding agreement resulting from a proposal submitted in response to the program solicitation shall remain with the grantee. The Government may not use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose technical data or computer software marked with this legend for 4 years. After expiration of the 4-year period, the Government has a royalty-free license to use, and to authorize others to use on its behalf, these data for Government purposes, and is relieved of all disclosure prohibitions and assumes no liability for unauthorized use of these data by third parties, except that any such data that is also protected and referenced under a subsequent SBIR award shall remain protected through the protection of that subsequent SBIR award.
(14)
Patents and Inventions.
Allocation of rights to inventions shall be in accordance with 35 U.S.C. 202 through 206 and the Department of Commerce implementing regulations entitled “Rights to Inventions Made by Nonprofit Organizations and Small Business Firms under Government Grants, Contracts and Cooperative Agreements” at 37 CFR part 401. These regulations provide that small businesses normally may retain the principal worldwide patent rights to any invention developed with USDA support. USDA receives a royalty-free license
for Federal Government use, reserves the right to require the patentee to license others in certain circumstances, and requires that anyone exclusively licensed to sell the invention in the United States must normally manufacture it domestically. To the extent authorized by 35 U.S.C. 205, USDA will not make public any information disclosing a USDA-supported invention for a four-year period. SBIR awardees must report inventions to the awarding agency within two months of the inventor's report to the awardee. The reporting of inventions shall be made through submission to Interagency Edison as specified in the terms and conditions of the grant.
(15)
Organizational management information.
Before the award of an SBIR funding agreement, USDA requires the submission of certain organizational management, personnel, and financial information to assure responsibility of the applicant. This information is not required unless a project is recommended for funding, and then it is submitted on a one-time basis only. However, new information should be submitted if a small business concern has undergone significant changes in organization, personnel, finance or policies, including those relating to civil rights.
(16)
Documentation of commercialization record of firms with multiple phase II awards.
A small business concern submitting a proposal for a Phase I award that has received more than 15 Phase II SBIR awards during the preceding five fiscal years must document the extent to which it was able to secure Phase III funding to develop concepts resulting from previous Phase II SBIR awards.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 3403.8
Proposal format for phase II applications.
(a) The following items relate to Phase II applications. Further instructions or descriptions for these items as well as any additional items to be included will be identified in the annual program solicitation as necessary. See § 3403.9.
(1)
SF-424 R
R cover sheet.
Follow instructions found in § 3403.7(a)(1).
(2)
Project summary.
Follow instructions found at § 3403.7(a)(2).
(3)
Phase I results.
The proposal should contain an extensive section that lists Phase I objectives and makes detailed presentation of the Phase I results. This section should establish the degree to which Phase I objectives were met and feasibility of the proposed research project was established.
(4)
Proposal.
Since Phase II is the principal research and development effort, proposals should be more comprehensive than those submitted under Phase I. However, the outline and information contained in § 3403.7(a)(3)-(9) and § 3403.7(a)(11)-(14) should be followed, tailoring the information requested to the Phase II project.
(5)
Cost breakdown on proposal budget.
For Phase II, a detailed budget is required for each year of requested support. In addition, a summary budget is required detailing the requested support for the overall project period. A budget narrative, with supporting budget detail for each budget category must be included.
(6)
Organizational management information.
Each Phase II awardee will be asked to submit an updated statement of financial condition (such as the latest audit report, financial statements or balance sheet) and report any changes in management or principals.
(7)
Commercialization Plan.
A succinct commercialization plan must be included in each SBIR Phase II proposal moving toward commercialization. Elements of a commercialization plan may include the following:
(i)
Company information.
Focused objectives/core competencies; size; specialization area(s); products with significant sales; and history of previous Federal and non-Federal funding; regulatory experience; and subsequent commercialization.
(ii)
Customer and competition.
Clear description of key technology objectives, current competition, and advantages compared to competing products or services; description of hurdles to acceptance of the innovation.
(iii)
Market.
Milestone, target dates, analyses of market size, and estimated market share after first year sales and after five years; explanation of plan to obtain market share.
(iv)
Intellectual property.
Patent status, technology lead, trade secrets or
other demonstration of a plan to achieve sufficient protection to realize the commercialization state and attain at least a temporary competitive advantage.
(v)
Financing.
Plans for securing necessary funding in Phase III.
(vi)
Assistance and mentoring.
Plans for securing needed technical or business assistance through mentoring, partnering, or through arrangements with state assistance programs, Small Business Development Centers, Federally-funded research laboratories, manufacturing extension Partnership Centers, or other assistance providers.
(8)
Data Collection.
Each Phase II applicant will be required to provide information to the Tech-Net Database System (
http://technet.sba.gov
) per OMB No. 3245-03356. The following are examples of the data to be entered by applicants into Tech-Net:
(i) Any business concern or subsidiary established for the commercial application of a product or service for which an SBIR award is made;
(ii) Revenue from the sale of new products or services resulting from the research conducted under each Phase II award;
(iii) Additional investment from any source, other than Phase I or Phase II awards, to further the research and development conducted under each Phase II award; and
(iv) Updates to information in the Tech-Net database for any prior Phase II award received by the small business concern.
(b) [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Submission and Evaluation of Proposals
§ 3403.9
Submission of proposals.
The SBIR program solicitation for Phase I proposals and the correspondence requesting Phase II proposals will provide the deadline date for submitting proposals, and instructions for submitting the proposal to NIFA for funding consideration.
§ 3403.10
Proposal review.
(a) The receipt of all proposals will be acknowledged.
(b) All Phase I and II proposals will be evaluated and judged on a competitive basis. Proposals will be initially screened to determine responsiveness. Proposals passing this initial screening will be technically evaluated by scientists to determine the most promising technical and scientific approaches. Each proposal will be judged on its own merit. USDA is under no obligation to fund any proposal or any specific number of proposals in a given topic. It also may elect to fund several or none of the proposed approaches to the same topic or subtopic.
(c) Phase I and II proposal evaluation criteria will be published in the “Method of Selection and Evaluation Criteria” section of the program solicitation.
(d) External peer reviewers may be used during the technical evaluation stage of this process. Selections will be made from among recognized specialists who are uniquely qualified by training and experience in their respective fields to render expert advice on the merit of proposals received. It is anticipated that such experts will include those located in universities, government, and nonprofit research organizations. If possible, USDA intends that peer review groups shall be balanced with minority and female representation and with an equitable age distribution.
(e) Reviewers will base their conclusions and recommendations on information contained in the Phase I or Phase II proposal. It cannot be assumed that reviewers are acquainted with any experiments referred to within a proposal, with key individuals, or with the firm itself. Therefore, the proposals should be self-contained and written with the care and thoroughness accorded papers for publication.
(f) Final decisions will be made by USDA based upon the rating assigned by reviewers in consideration of the technical and commercial potential of the application, duplication of research, any critical USDA requirements, resubmission and budget limitation. In the event that two or more proposals are of approximately equal merit, the existence of a cooperative research and development agreement (CRADA) with a USDA laboratory will
be an important consideration. The existence of a follow-on funding commitment for continued development in Phase III will also be an important consideration. The value of any commitment will depend upon the degree of financial commitment made by investors, with the maximum value resulting from a signed agreement with reasonable terms for an amount at least equal to funding requested from USDA in Phase II.
§ 3403.11
Availability of information.
Information regarding the peer review process will be made available to the extent permitted under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a), the SBIR Policy Directive, and implementing Departmental and other Federal regulations. Implementing Departmental regulations are found at 7 CFR part 1.

# Subpart E—Supplementary Information
§ 3403.12
Terms and conditions of grant awards.
Within the limit of funds available for such purposes, the Authorized Departmental Officer shall make research project grants to those responsible, eligible applicants whose proposals are judged most meritorious in the announced program areas under the evaluation criteria and procedures set forth in the annual program solicitation. The beginning of the project period shall be no later than September 30 of the Federal fiscal year in which the project is approved for support. All funds granted under this part shall be expended solely for the purpose for which funds are granted in accordance with the approved application and budget, the regulations of this part, the terms and conditions of award, the Federal Acquisition Regulations (48 CFR part 31), and 2 CFR part 200.
[72 FR 20703, Apr. 26, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 75998, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 3403.13
Notice of grant awards.
(a) The grant award document may include the following:
(1) Legal name and address of performing organization or institution;
(2) Title of project;
(3) Name and institution of Project Director's chosen to direct and control approved activities;
(4) Identifying grant number assigned by the Department;
(5) Project period, specifying the amount of time the Department intends to support the project;
(6) Total amount of Departmental financial assistance approved for the project period;
(7) Legal authority(ies) under which the grant is awarded;
(8) Appropriate Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) number;
(9) Applicable award terms and conditions;
(10) Approved budget plan for categorizing allocable project funds to accomplish the stated purpose of the grant award; and
(11) Other information or provisions deemed necessary by NIFA to carry out its respective granting activities or to accomplish the purpose of a particular grant.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 3403.14
Use of funds; changes.
(a)
Delegation of fiscal responsibility.
Unless the terms and conditions of the grant state otherwise, the grantee may not in whole or in part delegate or transfer to another person, institution, or organization the responsibility for use or expenditure of grant funds.
(b)
Changes in Project Plans.
(1) The permissible changes by the grantee, Project Director, or other key project personnel in the approved project grant shall be limited to changes in methodology, techniques, or other similar aspects of the project to expedite achievement of the project's approved goals. If the grantee or the Project Director (PD) is uncertain as to whether a change complies with this provision, the question must be referred to the Authorized Departmental Officer (ADO) for a final determination. The signatory of the award document is the ADO, not the program contact.
(2) Changes in approved goals or objectives shall be requested by the grantee and, in consultation with the NIFA SBIR National Program Leader,
approved in writing by the ADO prior to effecting such changes. In no event shall requests for such changes be approved which are outside the scope of the original approved project.
(3) Changes in approved project leadership or the replacement or reassignment of other key project personnel shall be requested by the grantee and, in consultation with the NIFA SBIR National Program Leader, approved in writing by the ADO prior to effecting such changes.
(4) Transfers of actual performance of the substantive programmatic work in whole or in part and provisions for payment of funds, whether or not Federal funds are involved, shall be requested by the grantee and, in consultation with the NIFA SBIR National Program Leader, approved in writing by the ADO prior to effecting such transfers, unless prescribed otherwise in the terms and conditions of the grant.
(c)
Changes in Project Period.
The project period may be extended by NIFA without additional financial support, for such additional period(s) as the ADO determines may be necessary to complete or fulfill the purposes of an approved project provided Federal funds remain. Any extension of time shall be conditioned upon prior request by the grantee and approval in writing by the ADO unless otherwise noted in the award terms and conditions. In such cases the extension will not normally exceed 12 months. The Phase I award will still be limited to the approved award amount, and the submission of a Phase II proposal will normally be delayed by no more than one year. The extension allows the grantee to continue expending the remaining Federal funds for the intended purpose over the extension period. In instances where no Federal funds remain, it is unnecessary to approve an extension since the purpose of the extension is to continue using Federal funds. The grantee may opt to continue the Phase I project after the grant's termination and closeout, however, the grantee would have to do so without additional Federal funds. In the latter case, no communication with USDA is necessary.
(d)
Changes in approved budget.
Changes in an approved budget must be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the ADO prior to instituting such changes if the revision will involve transfers or expenditures of amounts requiring prior approval as set forth in the applicable Federal cost principles, Departmental regulations, or grant award.
(e)
Use of Change of Name and Novation Agreement.
(1) Occasionally, after an award has been made the name of the Awardee may change. NIFA requires execution of a “Change of Name Agreement” in such instances. The specific circumstances of each situation will determine which kind of agreement should be executed. This decision will be determined by the ADO.
(i) A Change of Name Agreement is a legal instrument executed by the Awardee and the Government that recognizes a change of the legal name of the Awardee without disturbing the original rights and obligations of the parties. If only a change of the Awardee's name is involved and the Government's and Awardee's rights and obligations remain unaffected, the parties should execute an agreement to reflect the name change.
(ii) In order to execute the actual Change of Name Agreement with USDA, the Awardee is required to submit the following information:
(A) The document effecting the name change, authenticated by a proper official of the State having jurisdiction;
(B) The opinion of the Grantee's legal counsel stating that the change of name was properly effected under applicable law and showing the effective date;
(C) A list of all affected awards between the Grantee and NIFA.
(iii) When NIFA is notified that a change of name has taken place, the ADO will request the aforementioned information from the Grantee. Upon receipt and review of this information, parties will properly execute a Change of Name Agreement and the appropriate changes will be made to the Agency's records. The following suggested format for an agreement may be adapted for specific cases:
CHANGE OF NAME AGREEMENT
THE ABC CORPORATION (Grantee), a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of ____________ (insert State), and theNATIONAL INSTITUTE OF FOOD AND
AGRICULTURE, USDA (Government) enter into this Agreement as of ____________ (insert date when the change of name became effective under applicable State law).

# (a) THE PARTIES AGREE TO THE FOLLOWING FACTS:
1. The Government, represented by the ADO, has entered into certain awards with XYZ CORPORATION, namely ____________ (insert award number or delete “namely” and insert “as shown in the attached list marked ‘Exhibit A’ and incorporated in this Agreement by reference.”) The term “the awards,” as used in this Agreement, means the above awards and all other awards, including all modifications, made by the Government and the Grantee before the effective date of this Agreement (whether or not performance and payment have been completed and releases executed if the Government or the Grantee has any remaining rights, duties, or obligations under these awards.)
2. The XYZ CORPORATION, by an amendment to its certificate of incorporation, dated ________, 20____, has changed its corporate name to ABC CORPORATION.
3. This amendment accomplishes a change of corporate name only and all rights and obligations of the Government and of the Grantee under the awards are unaffected by this change.
4. Documentary evidence of this change of corporate name has been filed with the Government.

# (b) IN CONSIDERATION OF THESE FACTS, THE PARTIES AGREE THAT:
1. The awards covered by this Agreement are amended by substituting the name “ABC CORPORATION” for the name “XYZ CORPORATION” wherever it appears in the awards; and
2. Each party has executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE, USDA
BY:
TITLE:
ABC CORPORATION
BY:
TITLE:
CERTIFICATE
I, ____________, certify that I am the Secretary of ABC CORPORATION, that ____________ , who signed this Agreement for this corporation, was then ____________ of this corporation; and that this Agreement was duly signed for and on behalf of this corporation by authority of its governing body and within the scope of its corporation powers.
WITNESS MY HAND, and the seal of this corporation, this ______ day of ____________, 20____.
BY:
(CORPORATE SEAL)
(2) From time to time the legal entity performing the research under the award may have to be changed. In such instances, USDA will ensure that all parties properly execute a Novation Agreement (Successor in Interest Agreement).
(i) A Novation Agreement is a legal instrument executed by the Grantee (transferor), the successor in interest (transferee), and the Government by which, among other things, the transferor guarantees performance of the award, the transferee assumes all obligations under the award, and the Government recognizes the transfer of the award and related assets. This occurs when the third party's interest in the award arises out of the transfer of all the Grantee's assets or the entire portion of the assets involved in performing the award. Examples include, but are not limited to: the sale of these assets with a provision for assuming liabilities; the transfer of these assets incident to a merger or corporate consolidation; and the incorporation of a proprietorship or partnership, or the formation of a partnership.
(ii) When a Grantee asks the Government to recognize a successor in interest, the responsible ADO shall obtain the following from the Grantee:
(A) An authenticated copy of the instrument effecting the transfer of assets; e.g., bill of sale, certificate of merger, contract, deed, agreement, or court decree;
(B) A list of all affected awards;
(C) A certified copy of each resolution of the corporate parties' boards of directors authorizing the transfer of assets;
(D) A certified copy of the minutes of each corporate party's stockholder meeting necessary to approve the transfer of assets;
(E) The opinion of legal counsel for the transferor and transferee stating that the transfer was properly effected under applicable law and the effective date of transfer;
(F) An authenticated copy of the transferee's certificate and articles of incorporation, if a corporation was formed for the purpose of receiving the
assets involved in performing the Government award;
(G) Evidence of transferee's capability to perform the award; and
(H) Balance sheets of the transferor and transferee as of the dates immediately before and after the transfer of assets, certified for accuracy by independent accountants.
(iii) The ADO will review the Agency's financial records concerning the correct cash-on-hand balances held by the transferor to ensure that they are properly accounted for in the transfer process. If recognizing a successor in interest to a Government award is consistent with the Government's interest, the ADO will prepare a Novation Agreement for execution by all three parties. The agreement will provide that:
(A) The transferee assumes all the transferor's obligations under the award(s);
(B) The transferor waives all rights under the award against the Government;
(C) The transferor guarantees performance of the award by the transferee (a satisfactory performance bond may be accepted instead of the guarantee); and
(D) Nothing in the agreement shall relieve the transferor or transferee from compliance with any Federal law.
(E) The following suggested format for an agreement may be adapted for specific cases:
NOVATION AGREEMENT (SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST AGREEMENT)
THE ABC CORPORATION (Transferor), a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of ____________ (insert state) with its principal office in ____________ (insert city); the XYZ CORPORATION (Transferee), a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of ____________ (insert state) with its principal office in ____________ (insert city); and theNATIONAL INSTITUTE OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE, USDA (Government) enter into this Agreement as of ____________ (insert the date transfer of assets became effective under applicable State law).

# (a) THE PARTIES AGREE TO THE FOLLOWING FACTS:
1. The Government, represented by the ADO has entered into certain awards with the Transferor, namely: ____________ (insert award number or delete “namely” and insert “as shown in the attached list marked ‘Exhibit A’ and incorporated in this Agreement by reference.”) The term “the awards,” as used in this Agreement, means the above awards and all other awards, including all modifications, made between the Government and Transferor before the effective date of this Agreement (whether or not performance and payment have been completed and releases executed if the Government or the Transferor has any remaining rights, duties, or obligations under these awards.) Included in the term “award” are also all modifications made under the terms and conditions of these awards between the Government and the Transferor, on or after the effective date of this Agreement.
2. As of ____________, 20____, the Transferor has transferred to the Transferee all the assets of the Transferor by virtue of a ____________ (insert terms or legal transaction involved) between the Transferor and the Transferee.
3. The Transferee has acquired all the assets of the Transferor by virtue of the above transfer.
4. The Transferee has assumed all obligations and liabilities of the Transferor under the awards by virtue of the above transfer.
5. The Transferee is in a position to fully perform all obligations that may exist under the awards.
6. It is consistent with the Government's interest to recognize the Transferee as the successor party to the awards.
7. Evidence of the above transfer has been filed with the Government.

# (b) IN CONSIDERATION OF THESE FACTS, THE PARTIES AGREE THAT BY THIS AGREEMENT:
1. The Transferor confirms the transfer to the Transferee, and waives any claims and rights against the Government that it now has or may have in the future in connection with the awards.
2. The Transferee agrees to be bound by and to perform each award in accordance with the conditions contained in the awards. The Transferee also assumes all obligations and liabilities of, and all claims against, the Transferor under the awards as if the Transferee were the original party to the awards.
3. The Transferee ratifies all previous actions taken by the Transferor with respect to the awards, with the same force and effect as if the action had been taken by the Transferee.
4. The Government recognizes the Transferee as the Transferor's successor in interest in and to the awards. The Transferee by this Agreement becomes entitled to all rights, titles, and interests of the Transferor in and to the awards as if the Transferee were the original party to the awards. Following the effective date of this Agreement, the term Grantee, as used in the awards, shall refer to the Transferee.
5. Except as expressly provided in this Agreement, nothing in it shall be construed as a waiver of any rights of the Government against the Transferor.
6. All payments and reimbursements previously made by the Government to the Transferor, and all other previous actions taken by the Government under the awards, shall be considered to have discharged those parts of the Government's obligations under the awards. All payments and reimbursements made by the Government after the date of this Agreement in the name of or to the Transferor shall have the same force and effect as if made to the Transferee, and shall constitute a complete discharge of the Government's obligations under the awards, to the extent of the amounts paid or reimbursed.
7. The Transferor and the Transferee agree that the Government is not obligated to pay or reimburse either of them for, or otherwise give effect to, any costs, taxes, or other expenses, or any related increases, directly or indirectly arising out of or resulting from the transfer or this Agreement, other than those that the Government in the absence of this transfer or Agreement would have been obligated to pay or reimburse under the terms of the awards.
8. The Transferor guarantees payment of all liabilities and the performance of all obligations that the Transferee (i) assumes under this Agreement or (ii) may undertake in the future should these awards be modified under their terms and conditions. The Transferor waives notice of, and consents to, any such future modifications.
9. The awards shall remain in full force and effect, except as modified by this Agreement. Each party has executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE, USDA
BY:
TITLE:
ABC CORPORATION
BY:
TITLE:
XYZ CORPORATION
BY:
TITLE:
CERTIFICATE
I, ____________, certify that I am the Secretary of ABC CORPORATION, that ____________, who signed this Agreement for this corporation, was then____________ of this corporation; and that this Agreement was duly signed for and on behalf of this corporation by authority of its governing body and within the scope of its corporation powers. WITNESS MY HAND, and the seal of this corporation, this ____________day of ____________, 20____
BY:
(CORPORATE SEAL)
CERTIFICATE
I, ____________, certify that I am the Secretary of XYZ CORPORATION, that ____________, who signed this Agreement for this corporation, was then____________ of this corporation; and that this Agreement was duly signed for and on behalf of this corporation by authority of its governing body and within the scope of its corporation powers. WITNESS MY HAND, and the seal of this corporation, this ____________day of ____________, 20____
BY:
(CORPORATE SEAL)
§ 3403.15
Other Federal statutes and regulations that apply.
(a) The Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) issued guidance on Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards at 2 CFR part 200 on December 26, 2013. In 2 CFR 400.1, the Department adopted OMB's guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400, as the Department's policies and procedures for uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for federal awards. As a result, this regulation contains references to 2 CFR part 200 as it has regulatory effect for the Department's programs and activities.”
(b) Several other Federal statutes and/or regulations apply to grant proposals considered for review or to research project grants awarded under this part. These include but are not limited to:
2 CFR part 200—Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards.
2 CFR part 180 and Part 417—OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Government-Wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and USDA Nonprocurement Debarment And Suspension
7 CFR part 1c—USDA Implementation of the Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects.
7 CFR 1.1—USDA Implementation of Freedom of Information Act.
7 CFR part 3—USDA Implementation of OMB Circular A-129 Regarding Debt Collection.
7 CFR part 15, subpart A—USDA Implementation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
7 CFR part 3407—NIFA Procedures to Implement the National Environmental Policy Act;
29 U.S.C. 794 (section 504, Rehabilitation Act of 1973) and 7 CFR part 15B (USDA implementation of statute)—prohibiting discrimination based upon physical or mental handicap in Federally assisted programs; and
35 U.S.C. 200
et seq.
—Bayh-Dole Act, controlling allocation of rights to inventions made by employees of small business firms and domestic nonprofit organizations, including universities, in Federally assisted programs (implementing regulations are contained in 37 CFR part 401).
[79 FR 75998, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 3403.16
Other considerations.
The Department may, with respect to any research project grant, impose additional conditions prior to or at the time of any award when, in the Department's judgment, such conditions are necessary to assure or protect advancement of the approved project, the interests of the public, or the conservation of grant funds.
Pt. 3404

# PART 3404—PUBLIC INFORMATION
Sec.
3404.1
General statement.
3404.2
Public inspection, copying, and indexing.
3404.3
Requests for records.
3404.4
Multitrack processing.
3404.5
Denials.
3404.6
Appeals.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 552; 7 CFR part 1, subpart A and appendix A thereto.

# Source:
66 FR 57842, Nov. 19, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 3404 appear at 76 FR 4808, Jan. 27, 2011.
§ 3404.1
General statement.
This part is issued in accordance with the regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture in part 1, subpart A of this title and appendix A thereto, implementing the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552). The Secretary's regulations, as implemented by the regulations in this part, govern the availability of records of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) to the public.
§ 3404.2
Public inspection, copying, and indexing.
5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) requires that certain materials be made available for public inspection and copying and that a current index of these materials be published quarterly or otherwise be made available. Members of the public may request access to such materials maintained by NIFA at the following office: Information Staff, ARS, REE, USDA, Room 1-2248, Mail Stop 5128, 5601 Sunnyside Avenue, Beltsville, MD 20705-5128; Telephone (301) 504-1640 or (301) 504-1655; TTY-VOICE (301) 504-1743. Office hours are 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Information maintained in our electronic reading room can be accessed at
http://www.ars.usda.gov/is/foia/#Electronic.
§ 3404.3
Requests for records.
Requests for records of NIFA under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3) shall be made in accordance with § 1.5 of this title and submitted to the FOIA Coordinator, Information Staff, ARS, REE, USDA, Room 1-2248, Mail Stop 5128, 5601 Sunnyside Avenue, Beltsville, MD 20705-5128; Telephone (301) 504-1640 or (301) 504-1655; TTY-VOICE (301) 504-1743; Facsimile (301) 504-1648; or E-mail
shutchison@ars.usda.gov.
The FOIA Coordinator is delegated authority to make determinations regarding such requests in accordance with § 1.3(c) of this title.
[66 FR 57842, Nov. 19, 2001, as amended at 76 FR 4808, Jan. 27, 2011]
§ 3404.4
Multitrack processing.
(a) When NIFA has a significant number of requests, the nature of which precludes a determination within 20 working days, the requests may be processed in a multitrack processing system, based on the date of receipt, the amount of work and time involved in processing the request, and whether the request qualifies for expedited processing.
(b) NIFA may establish as many processing tracks as appropriate; processing within each track shall be based on a first-in, first-out concept, and rank-ordered by the date of receipt of the request.
(c) A requester whose request does not qualify for the fastest track may
be given an opportunity to limit the scope of the request in order to qualify for the fastest track. This multitrack processing system does not lessen agency responsibility to exercise due diligence in processing requests in the most expeditious manner possible.
(d) NIFA shall process requests in each track on a “first-in, first-out” basis, unless there are unusual circumstances as set forth in § 1.16 of this title, or the requester is entitled to expedited processing as set forth in § 1.9 of this title.
§ 3404.5
Denials.
If the FOIA Coordinator determines that a requested record is exempt from mandatory disclosure and that discretionary release would be improper, the FOIA Coordinator shall give written notice of denial in accordance with § 1.7(a) of this title.
§ 3404.6
Appeals.
Any person whose request is denied shall have the right to appeal such denial. Appeals shall be made in accordance with § 1.14 of this title and should be addressed as follows: Director, NIFA, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.
Pt. 3405

# PART 3405—HIGHER EDUCATION CHALLENGE GRANTS PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Information
Sec.
3405.1
Applicability of regulations.
3405.2
Definitions.
3405.3
Institutional eligibility.

# Subpart B—Program Description
3405.4
Purpose of the program.
3405.5
Matching funds.
3405.6
Scope of program.
3405.7
Joint project proposals.
3405.8
Complementary project proposals.
3405.9
Use of funds for facilities.

# Subpart C—Preparation of a Proposal
3405.10
Program application materials.
3405.11
Content of a proposal.

# Subpart D—Submission of a Proposal
3405.12
Intent to submit a proposal.
3405.13
When and where to submit a proposal.

# Subpart E—Proposal Review and Evaluation
3405.14
Proposal review.
3405.15
Evaluation criteria.

# Subpart F—Supplementary Information
3405.16
Access to peer review information.
3405.17
Grant awards.
3405.18
Use of funds; changes.
3405.19
Monitoring progress of funded projects.
3405.20
Other Federal statutes and regulations that apply.
3405.21
Confidential aspects of proposals and awards.
3405.22
Evaluation of program.

# Authority:
Sec. 1470, National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3316).

# Source:
62 FR 39317, July 22, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 3405 appear at 76 FR 4808, Jan. 27, 2011.

# Subpart A—General Information
§ 3405.1
Applicability of regulations.
(a) The regulations of this part only apply to competitive Higher Education Challenge Grants awarded under the provisions of section 1417(b)(1) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (NARETPA)(7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(1)), to strengthen institutional capacities, including curriculum, faculty, scientific instrumentation, instruction delivery systems, and student recruitment and retention. Section 1405 of NARETPA (7 U.S.C. 3121) designates the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) as the lead Federal agency for agricultural research, extension, and teaching in the food and agricultural sciences. Section 1417 of NARETPA (7 U.S.C. 3152) authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture, who has delegated the authority to theDirector of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA), to make competitive grants to land-grant colleges and universities, to colleges and universities having significant minority enrollments and a demonstrable capacity to carry out the teaching of food and agricultural sciences, and to other colleges and universities having a demonstrable capacity to carry out the teaching of food and agricultural sciences,
for a period not to exceed 5 years, to administer and conduct programs to respond to identified State, regional, national, or international educational needs in the food and agricultural sciences.
(b) To the extent that funds are available, each year NIFA will publish a
Federal Register
notice announcing the program and soliciting grant applications.
(c)(1) Based on the amount of funds appropriated in any fiscal year, NIFA will determine and cite in the program announcement:
(i) The targeted need area(s) to be supported or, if the entire scope of a particular targeted need area is not to be supported, the specific special interest(s) within that targeted need area to be supported;
(ii) The degree level(s) to be supported;
(iii) The maximum project period a proposal may request;
(iv) The maximum amount of funds that may be requested by an institution under a regular, complementary, or joint project proposal; and
(v) The maximum total funds that may be awarded to an institution under the program in a given fiscal year, including how funds awarded for complementary and for joint project proposals will be counted toward the institutional maximum.
(2) The program announcement will also specify the deadline date for proposal submission, the number of copies of each proposal that must be submitted, the address to which a proposal must be submitted, and whether or not Form NIFA-711, “Intent to Submit a Proposal,” is requested.
(d)(1) If it is deemed by NIFA that, for a given fiscal year, additional determinations are necessary, each, as relevant, will be stated in the program announcement. Such determinations may include:
(i) Limits on the subject matter/emphasis areas to be supported;
(ii) The maximum number of proposals that may be submitted on behalf of the same school, college, or equivalent administrative unit within an institution;
(iii) The maximum total number of proposals that may be submitted by an institution;
(iv) The minimum project period a proposal may request;
(v) The minimum amount of funds that may be requested by an institution under a regular, complementary, or joint project proposal;
(vi) The proportion of the appropriation reserved for, or available to, regular, complementary, and joint project proposals;
(vii) The proportion of the appropriation reserved for, or available to, projects in each announced targeted need area;
(viii) The proportion of the appropriation reserved for, or available to, each subject matter/emphasis area;
(ix) The maximum number of grants that may be awarded to an institution under the program in a given fiscal year; and
(x) Limits on the use of grant funds for travel or to purchase equipment, if any.
(2) The program announcement also will contain any other limitations deemed necessary by NIFA for proper conduct of the program in the applicable year.
(e) The regulations of this part do not apply to grants awarded by the Department of Agriculture under any other authority.
§ 3405.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Authorized departmental officer
means the Secretary or any employee of the Department who has the authority to issue or modify grant instruments on behalf of the Secretary.
(b)
Authorized organizational representative
means the president of the institution or the official, designated by the president of the institution, who has the authority to commit the resources of the institution.
(c)
Budget period
means the interval of time (usually 12 months) into which the project period is divided for budgetary and reporting purposes.
(d)
Cash contributions
means the applicant's cash outlay, including the outlay of money contributed to the applicant by non-Federal third parties.
(e)
Citizen or national of the United States means:
(1) A citizen or native resident of a State; or,
(2) A person defined in the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22), who, though not a citizen of the United States, owes permanent allegiance to the United States.
(f)
College
or
University
means an educational institution in any State which:
(1) Admits as regular students only persons having a certificate of graduation from a school providing secondary education, or the recognized equivalent of such a certificate;
(2) Is legally authorized within such State to provide a program of education beyond secondary education;
(3) Provides an educational program for which a baccalaureate degree or any other higher degree is awarded;
(4) Is a public or other nonprofit institution; and
(5) Is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association.
(g)
Complementary project proposal
means a proposal for a project which involves coordination with one or more other projects for which funding was awarded under this program in a previous fiscal year, or for which funding is requested under this program in the current fiscal year.
(h)
Department
or
USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
(i)
Eligible institution
means a land-grant or other U.S. college or university offering a baccalaureate or first professional degree in at least one discipline or area of the food and agricultural sciences. The definition includes a research foundation maintained by an eligible college or university.
(j)
Eligible participant
means, for purposes of § 3405.6(b), Faculty Preparation and Enhancement for Teaching, and § 3405.6(f), Student Recruitment and Retention, an individual who: Is a citizen or national of the United States, as defined in § 3405.2(e); or is a citizen of the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the Republic of Palau. Where eligibility is claimed under § 3405.2(e)(2), documentary evidence from the Immigration and Naturalization Service as to such eligibility must be made available to NIFA upon request.
(k)
Food and agricultural sciences
means basic, applied, and developmental research, extension, and teaching activities in the food, agricultural, renewable natural resources, forestry, and physical and social sciences, in the broadest sense of these terms, including but not limited to, activities concerned with the production, processing, marketing, distribution, conservation, consumption, research, and development of food and agriculturally related products and services, and inclusive of programs in agriculture, natural resources, aquaculture, forestry, veterinary medicine, home economics, rural development, and closely allied disciplines.
(l)
Grantee
means the eligible institution designated in the grant award document as the responsible legal entity to which a grant is awarded.
(m)
Joint project proposal
means a proposal for a project, which will involve the applicant institution and two or more other colleges, universities, community colleges, junior colleges, or other institutions, each of which will assume a major role in the conduct of the proposed project, and for which the applicant institution will transfer at least one-half of the awarded funds to the other institutions participating in the project. Only the applicant institution must meet the definition of “eligible institution” as specified in § 3405.2(i); the other institutions participating in a joint project proposal are not required to meet the definition of “eligible institution” as specified in § 3405.2(i), nor required to meet the definition of “college” or “university” as specified in § 3405.2(f).
(n)
Land-grant colleges and universities
means those institutions eligible to receive funds under the Act of July 2, 1862 (12 Stat. 503-505, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 301-305, 307 and 308), or the Act of August 30, 1890 (26 Stat. 417-419, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 321-326 and 328), including Tuskegee University.
(o)
Matching
or
Cost-sharing
means that portion of project costs not borne by the Federal Government, including the value of in-kind contributions.
(p)
Peer review panel
means a group of experts or consultants, qualified by training and experience in particular fields of science, education, or technology to give expert advice on the merit of grant applications in such fields, who evaluate eligible proposals submitted to this program in their personal area(s) of expertise.
(q)
Prior approval
means written approval evidencing prior consent by an authorized departmental officer as defined in § 3405.2(a) of this part.
(r)
Project
means the particular activity within the scope of one or more of the targeted areas supported by a grant awarded under this program.
(s)
Project director
means the single individual designated by the grantee in the grant application and approved by the Secretary who is responsible for the direction and management of the project.
(t)
Project period
means the period, as stated in the award document and modifications thereto, if any, during which Federal sponsorship begins and ends.
(u)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture and any other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom the authority involved may be delegated.
(v)
State
means any one of the fifty States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and the District of Columbia.
(w)
Teaching
means formal classroom instruction, laboratory instruction, and practicum experience in the food and agricultural sciences and matters related thereto (such as faculty development, student recruitment and services, curriculum development, instructional materials and equipment, and innovative teaching methodologies) conducted by colleges and universities offering baccalaureate or higher degrees.
(x)
Third party in-kind contributions
means non-cash contributions of property or services provided by non-Federal third parties, including real property, equipment, supplies and other expendable property, directly benefiting and specifically identifiable to a funded project or program.
(y)
United States
means the several States, the territories and possessions of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and the District of Columbia.
§ 3405.3
Institutional eligibility.
Proposals may be submitted by land-grant and other U.S. colleges and universities offering a baccalaureate or first professional degree in at least one discipline or area of the food and agricultural sciences. Each applicant must have a demonstrable capacity for, and a significant ongoing commitment to, the teaching of food and agricultural sciences generally and to the specific need and/or subject area(s) for which a grant is requested. Awards may be made only to eligible institutions as defined in § 3405.2(i).

# Subpart B—Program Description
§ 3405.4
Purpose of the program.
The Department of Agriculture is designated as the lead Federal agency for higher education in the food and agricultural sciences. In this context, NIFA has specific responsibility to initiate and support projects to strengthen college and university teaching programs in the food and agricultural sciences. One national initiative for carrying out this responsibility is the competitive Higher Education Challenge Grants Program. A primary goal of the program is to attract and ensure a continual flow of outstanding students into food and agricultural sciences higher education programs and to provide them with an education of the highest quality available anywhere in the world and which reflects the unique needs of the Nation. It is designed to stimulate and enable colleges and universities to provide the quality of education necessary to produce baccalaureate or higher degree level graduates capable of strengthening the Nation's food and agricultural scientific and professional work force. It is intended that projects supported by the program will:
(a) Address a State, regional, national, or international educational need;
(b) Involve a creative or nontraditional approach toward addressing that need which can serve as a model to others;
(c) Encourage and facilitate better working relationships in the university science and education community, as well as between universities and the private sector, to enhance program quality and supplement available resources; and
(d) Result in benefits which will likely transcend the project duration and USDA support.
§ 3405.5
Matching funds.
Each application must provide for matching support from a non-Federal source. NIFA will cite in the program announcement the required percentage of institutional cost sharing.
§ 3405.6
Scope of program.
This program supports projects related to strengthening undergraduate or graduate teaching programs as specified in the annual program announcement. Only proposals addressing one or more of the specific targeted need areas(s) identified in the program announcement will be funded. Proposals may focus on any subject matter area(s) in the food and agricultural sciences unless limited by determinations as specified in the annual program announcement. A proposal may address a single targeted need area or multiple targeted need areas, and may be focused on a single subject matter area or multiple subject matter areas, in any combination (e.g., curriculum development in horticulture; curriculum development, faculty enhancement, and student experiential learning in animal science; faculty enhancement in food science and agribusiness management; or instruction delivery systems and student experiential learning in plant science, horticulture, and entomology). Targeted need areas will consist of one or more of the following:
(a)
Curricula design and materials development.
(1) The purpose of this initiative is to promote new and improved curricula and materials to increase the quality of, and continuously renew, the Nation's academic programs in the food and agricultural sciences. The overall objective is to stimulate the development and facilitate the use of exemplary education models and materials that incorporate the most recent advances in subject matter, research on teaching and learning theory, and instructional technology. Proposals may emphasize: the development of courses of study, degree programs, and instructional materials; the use of new approaches to the study of traditional subjects; or the introduction of new subjects, or new applications of knowledge, pertaining to the food and agricultural sciences.
(2) Examples include, but are not limited to, curricula and materials that promote:
(i) Raising the level of scholastic achievement of the Nation's graduates in the food and agricultural sciences.
(ii) Addressing the special needs of particular groups of students, such as minorities, gifted and talented, or those with educational backgrounds that warrant enrichment.
(iii) Using alternative instructional strategies or methodologies, including computer-assisted instruction or simulation modeling, media programs that reach large audiences efficiently and effectively, activities that provide hands-on learning experiences, and educational programs that extend learning beyond the classroom.
(iv) Using sound pedagogy, particularly with regard to recent research on how to motivate students to learn, retain, apply, and transfer knowledge, skills, and competencies.
(v) Building student competencies to integrate and synthesize knowledge from several disciplines.
(b)
Faculty preparation and enhancement for teaching.
(1) The purpose of this initiative is to advance faculty development in the areas of teaching competency, subject matter expertise, or student recruitment and advising skills. Teachers are central to education. They serve as models, motivators, and mentors—the catalysts of the learning process. Moreover, teachers are agents for developing, replicating, and exchanging effective teaching materials and methods. For these reasons, education can be
strengthened only when teachers are adequately prepared, highly motivated, and appropriately recognized and rewarded.
(2) Each faculty recipient of support for developmental activities under § 3405.6(b) must be an “eligible participant” as defined in § 3405.2(j) of this part.
(3) Examples of developmental activities include, but are not limited to, those which enable teaching faculty to:
(i) Gain experience with recent developments or innovative technology relevant to their teaching responsibilities.
(ii) Work under the guidance and direction of experts who have substantial expertise in an area related to the developmental goals of the project.
(iii) Work with scientists or professionals in government, industry, or other colleges or universities to learn new applications in a field.
(iv) Obtain personal experience working with new ideas and techniques.
(v) Expand competence with new methods of information delivery, such as computer-assisted or televised instruction.
(vi) Increase understanding of the special needs of non-traditional students or students from groups that are underrepresented in the food and agricultural sciences workforce.
(c)
Instruction delivery systems.
(1) The purpose of this initiative is to encourage the use of alternative methods of delivering instruction to enhance the quality, effectiveness, and cost efficiency of teaching programs. The importance of this initiative is evidenced by advances in educational research which have substantiated the theory that differences in the learning styles of students often require alternative instructional methodologies. Also, the rising costs of higher education strongly suggest that colleges and universities undertake more efforts of a collaborative nature in order to deliver instruction which maximizes program quality and reduces unnecessary duplication. At the same time, advancements in knowledge and technology continue to introduce new subject matter areas which warrant consideration and implementation of innovative instruction techniques, methodologies, and delivery systems.
(2) Examples include, but are not limited to:
(i) Use of computers.
(ii) Teleconferencing.
(iii) Networking via satellite communications.
(iv) Regionalization of academic programs.
(v) Mobile classrooms and laboratories.
(vi) Individualized learning centers.
(vii) Symposia, forums, regional or national workshops, etc.
(d)
Scientific instrumentation for teaching.
(1) The purpose of this initiative is to provide students in science-oriented courses the necessary experience with suitable, up-to-date equipment in order to involve them in work central to scientific understanding and progress. This program initiative will support the acquisition of instructional laboratory and classroom equipment to assure the achievement and maintenance of outstanding food and agricultural sciences higher education programs. A proposal may request support for acquiring new, state-of-the-art instructional scientific equipment, upgrading existing equipment, or replacing non-functional or clearly obsolete equipment.
(2) Examples include, but are not limited to:
(i) Rental or purchase of modern instruments to improve student learning experiences in courses, laboratories, and field work.
(ii) Development of new ways of using instrumentation to extend instructional capabilities.
(iii) Establishment of equipment-sharing capability via consortia or centers that develop innovative opportunities, such as mobile laboratories or satellite access to industry or government laboratories.
(e)
Student experiential learning.
(1) The purpose of this initiative is to further the development of student scientific and professional competencies through experiential learning programs which provide students with opportunities to solve complex problems in the context of real-world situations. Effective experiential learning is essential
in preparing future graduates to advance knowledge and technology, enhance quality of life, conserve resources, and revitalize the Nation's economic competitiveness. Such experiential learning opportunities are most effective when they serve to advance decision-making and communication skills as well as technological expertise.
(2) Examples include, but are not limited to, projects which:
(i) Provide opportunities for students to participate in research projects, either as a part of an ongoing research project or in a project designed especially for this program.
(ii) Provide opportunities for students to complete apprenticeships, internships, or similar participatory learning experiences.
(iii) Expand and enrich courses which are of a practicum nature.
(iv) Provide career mentoring experiences that link students with outstanding professionals.
(f)
Student recruitment and retention.
(1) The purpose of this initiative is to strengthen student recruitment and retention programs in order to promote the future strength of the Nation's scientific and professional work force. The Nation's economic competitiveness and quality of life rest upon the availability of a cadre of outstanding research scientists, university faculty, and other professionals in the food and agricultural sciences. A substantial need exists to supplement efforts to attract increased numbers of academically outstanding students to prepare for careers as food and agricultural scientists and professionals. It is particularly important to augment the racial, ethnic, and gender diversity of the student body in order to promote a robust exchange of ideas and a more effective use of the full breadth of the Nation's intellectual resources.
(2) Each student recipient of monetary support for education costs or developmental purposes under § 3405.6(f) must be enrolled at an eligible institution and meet the requirement of an “eligible participant” as defined in § 3405.2(j) of this part.
(3) Examples include, but are not limited to:
(i) Special outreach programs for elementary and secondary students as well as parents, counselors, and the general public to broaden awareness of the extensive nature and diversity of career opportunities for graduates in the food and agricultural sciences.
(ii) Special activities and materials to establish more effective linkages with high school science classes.
(iii) Unique or innovative student recruitment activities, materials, and personnel.
(iv) Special retention programs to assure student progression through and completion of an educational program.
(v) Development and dissemination of stimulating career information materials.
(vi) Use of regional or national media to promote food and agricultural sciences higher education.
(vii) Providing financial incentives to enable and encourage students to pursue and complete an undergraduate or graduate degree in an area of the food and agricultural sciences.
(viii) Special recruitment programs to increase the participation of students from non-traditional or underrepresented groups in courses of study in the food and agricultural sciences.
§ 3405.7
Joint project proposals.
Applicants are encouraged to submit joint project proposals as defined in § 3405.2(m), which address regional or national problems and which will result overall in strengthening higher education in the food and agricultural sciences. The goals of such joint initiatives should include maximizing the use of limited resources by generating a critical mass of expertise and activity focused on a targeted need area(s), increasing cost-effectiveness through achieving economies of scale, strengthening the scope and quality of a project's impact, and promoting coalition building likely to transcend the project's lifetime and lead to future ventures.
§ 3405.8
Complementary project proposals.
Institutions may submit proposals that are complementary in nature as
defined in § 3405.2(g). Such complementary project proposals may be submitted by the same or by different eligible institutions.
§ 3405.9
Use of funds for facilities.
Under the Higher Education Challenge Grants Program, the use of grant funds to plan, acquire, or construct a building or facility is not allowed. With prior approval, in accordance with the cost principles set forth in 2 CFR part 200, some grant funds may be used for minor alterations, renovations, or repairs deemed necessary to retrofit existing teaching spaces in order to carry out a funded project. However, requests to use grant funds for such purposes must demonstrate that the alterations, renovations, or repairs are incidental to the major purpose for which a grant is made.
[62 FR 39317, July 22, 1997, as amended at 79 FR 75999, Dec. 19, 2014]

# Subpart C—Preparation of a Proposal
§ 3405.10
Program application materials.
Program application materials in an application package will be made available to eligible institutions upon request. These materials include the program announcement, the administrative provisions for the program, and the forms needed to prepare and submit grant applications under the program.
§ 3405.11
Content of a proposal.
(a)
Proposal cover page.
(1) Form NIFA-712, “Higher Education Proposal Cover Page,” must be completed in its entirety. Note that providing a Social Security Number is voluntary, but is an integral part of the NIFA information system and will assist in the processing of the proposal.
(2) One copy of the Form NIFA-712 must contain the pen-and-ink signatures of the Project Director(s) and authorized organizational representative for the applicant institution.
(3) The title of the project shown on the “Higher Education Proposal Cover Page” must be brief (80-character maximum) yet represent the major thrust of the project. This information will be used by the Department to provide information to the Congress and other interested parties.
(4) In block 7. of Form NIFA-712, enter “Higher Education Challenge Grants Program.”
(5) In block 8.a. of Form NIFA-712, enter “Teaching.” In block 8.b. identify the code for the targeted need area(s) as found on the reverse of the form. If a proposal focuses on multiple targeted need areas, enter each code associated with the project and place an asterisk (*) immediately following the code for the primary targeted need area. In block 8.c. identify the major area(s) of emphasis as found on the reverse of the form. If a proposal focuses on multiple areas of emphasis, enter each code associated with the project. This information will be used by program staff for the proper assignment of proposals to peer reviewers.
(6) In block 9. of Form NIFA-712, indicate if the proposal is a complementary project proposal or a joint project proposal as defined in § 3405.2(g) and § 3405.2(m), respectively, of this part. If it is not a complementary project proposal or a joint project proposal, identify it as a regular project proposal.
(7) In block 13. of Form NIFA-712, indicate if the proposal is a new, first-time submission or if the proposal is a resubmission of a proposal that has been submitted to, but not funded under, the Higher Education Challenge Grants Program in a previous competition.
(b)
Table of contents.
For ease in locating information, each proposal must contain a detailed table of contents just after the Proposal Cover Page. The Table of Contents should include page numbers for each component of the proposal. Pagination should begin immediately following the Table of Contents.
(c)
Project summary.
(1) A Project Summary should immediately follow the Table of Contents. The information provided in the Project Summary may be used by the program staff for a variety of purposes, including the proper assignment of proposals to peer reviewers and providing information to peer reviewers prior to the peer panel meeting. The name of the institution, the targeted need area(s), and the title of
the proposal must be identified exactly as shown on the “Higher Education Proposal Cover Page.”
(2) If the proposal is a complementary project proposal, as defined in § 3405.2(g) of this part, indicate such and identify the other complementary project(s) by citing the name of the submitting institution, the title of the project, the project director, and the grant number (if funded in a previous year) exactly as shown on the cover page of the complementary project so that appropriate consideration can be given to the interrelatedness of the proposals in the evaluation process.
(3) If the proposal is a joint project proposal, as defined in § 3405.2(m) of this part, indicate such and identify the other participating institutions and the key faculty member or other individual responsible for coordinating the project at each institution.
(4) The Project Summary should be a concise description of the proposed activity suitable for publication by the Department to inform the general public about awards under the program. The text must not exceed one page, single-spaced. The Project Summary should be a self-contained description of the activity which would result if the proposal is funded by USDA. It should include: The objectives of the project; a synopsis of the plan of operation; a description of how the project will strengthen higher education in the food and agricultural sciences in the United States; and the plans for disseminating project results. The Project Summary should be written so that a technically literate reader can evaluate the use of Federal funds in support of the project.
(d)
Resubmission of a proposal
—(1)
Resubmission of previously unfunded proposals.
If a proposal has been submitted previously, but was not funded, such should be indicated in block 13. on Form NIFA-712, “Higher Education Proposal Cover Page,” and the following information should be included in the proposal: The fiscal year(s) in which the proposal was submitted previously; a summary of the peer reviewers' comments; and how these comments have been addressed in the current proposal, including the page numbers in the current proposal where the peer reviewers' comments have been addressed. This information may be provided as a section of the proposal following the Project Summary and preceding the proposal narrative or it may be placed in the Appendix (see § 3405.11(i)). In either case, the location of this information should be indicated in the Table of Contents. Further, when possible, the information should be presented in tabular format. Applicants who choose to resubmit proposals that were previously submitted, but not funded, should note that resubmitted proposals must compete equally with newly submitted proposals. Submitting a proposal that has been revised based on a previous peer review panel's critique of the proposal does not guarantee the success of the resubmitted proposal.
(2)
Resubmission of previously funded proposals.
The Higher Education Challenge Grants Program is not designed to support activities that essentially are repetitive in nature over multiple grant awards. Project directors who have had their projects funded previously are discouraged from resubmitting relatively identical proposals for further funding. Proposals that are sequential continuations or new stages of previously funded Challenge Grants Program projects must compete with first-time proposals. Therefore, project directors should thoroughly demonstrate how the project proposed in the current application expands substantially upon a previously funded project (
i.e.
, demonstrate how the new project will advance the former project to the next level of attainment or will achieve expanded goals). The proposal must also show the degree to which the new phase promotes innovativeness and creativity beyond the scope of the previously funded project.
(e)
Narrative of a proposal.
The narrative portion of the proposal is limited to 20 pages in length. The one-page Project Summary is not included in the 20-page limitation. The narrative must be typed on one side of the page only, using a font no smaller than 12 point, and double-spaced. All margins must be at least one inch. All pages following the Table of Contents must be paginated. It should be noted that peer reviewers will not be required to read
beyond 20 pages of the narrative to evaluate the proposal. The narrative should contain the following sections:
(1)
Potential for advancing the quality of education
—(i)
Impact.
(A) Identify the targeted need area(s).
(B) Clearly state the specific instructional problem or opportunity to be addressed.
(C) Describe how and by whom the focus and scope of the project were determined. Summarize the body of knowledge which substantiates the need for the proposed project.
(D) Describe ongoing or recently completed significant activities related to the proposed project for which previous funding was received under this program.
(E) Discuss how the project will be of value at the State, regional, national, or international level(s).
(F) Discuss how the benefits to be derived from the project will transcend the applicant institution or the grant period. Also discuss the probabilities of the project being adapted by other institutions. For example, can the project serve as a model for others?
(ii)
Continuation plans.
Discuss the likelihood of, or plans for, continuation or expansion of the project beyond USDA support. For example, does the institution's long-range budget or academic plan provide for the realistic continuation or expansion of the initiative undertaken by this project after the end of the grant period, are plans for eventual self-support built into the project, are plans being made to institutionalize the program if it meets with success, and are there indications of other continuing non-Federal support?
(iii)
Innovation.
Describe the degree to which the proposal reflects an innovative or non-traditional approach to solving a higher education problem or strengthening the quality of higher education in the food and agricultural sciences.
(iv)
Products and results.
Explain the expected products and results and their potential impact on strengthening food and agricultural sciences higher education in the United States.
(2)
Overall approach and cooperative linkages
—(i)
Proposed approach
—(A)
bjectives.
Cite and discuss the specific objectives to be accomplished under the project.
(B)
Plan of operation.
(
1
) Describe procedures for accomplishing the objectives of the project.
(
2
) Describe plans for management of the project to ensure its proper and efficient administration.
(
3
) Describe the way in which resources and personnel will be used to conduct the project.
(C)
Timetable.
Provide a timetable for conducting the project. Identify all important project milestones and dates as they relate to project start-up, execution, evaluation, dissemination, and close-out.
(ii)
Evaluation plans.
(A) Provide a plan for evaluating the accomplishment of stated objectives during the conduct of the project. Indicate the criteria, and corresponding weight of each, to be used in the evaluation process, describe any data to be collected and analyzed, and explain the methodology that will be used to determine the extent to which the needs underlying the project are met.
(B) Provide a plan for evaluating the effectiveness of the end results upon conclusion of the project. Include the same kinds of information requested in § 3405.11(e)(2)(ii)(A).
(iii)
Dissemination plans.
Discuss plans to disseminate project results and products. Identify target audiences and explain methods of communication.
(iv)
Partnerships and collaborative efforts.
(A) Explain how the project will maximize partnership ventures and collaborative efforts to strengthen food and agricultural sciences higher education (e.g., involvement of faculty in related disciplines at the same institution, joint projects with other colleges or universities, or cooperative activities with business or industry). Also explain how it will stimulate academia, the States, or the private sector to join with the Federal partner in enhancing food and agricultural sciences higher education.
(B) Provide evidence, via letters from the parties involved, that arrangements necessary for collaborative partnerships or joint initiatives have been discussed and realistically can be expected to come to fruition, or actually
have been finalized contingent on an award under this program. Letters must be signed by an official who has the authority to commit the resources of the organization. Such letters should be referenced in the plan of operation, but the actual letters should be included in the Appendix section of the proposal. Any potential conflict(s) of interest that might result from the proposed collaborative arrangements must be discussed in detail.
(3)
Institutional commitment and resources
—(i)
Institutional commitment.
Discuss the institution's commitment to the project. For example, substantiate that the institution attributes a high priority to the project, discuss how the project will contribute to the achievement of the institution's long-term (five-to ten-year) goals, explain how the project will help satisfy the institution's high-priority objectives, or show how this project is linked to and supported by the institution's strategic plan.
(ii)
Institutional resources.
Document the commitment of institutional resources to the project, and show that the institutional resources to be made available to the project, when combined with the support requested from USDA, will be adequate to carry out the activities of the project. Discuss institutional facilities, equipment, computer services, and other appropriate resources available to the project.
(f)
Key personnel.
A Form NIFA-708, “Summary Vita—Teaching Proposal,” should be included for each key person associated with the project.
(g)
Budget and cost-effectiveness
—(1)
Budget form.
(i) Prepare Form NIFA-713, “Higher Education Budget,” in accordance with instructions provided with the form. Proposals may request support for a period to be identified in each year's program announcement. A budget form is required for each year of requested support. In addition, a summary budget is required detailing the requested total support for the overall project period. Form NIFA-713 may be reproduced as needed by proposers. Funds may be requested under any of the categories listed on the form, provided that the item or service for which support is requested is allowable under the authorizing legislation, the applicable Federal cost principles, and these administrative provisions, and can be justified as necessary for the successful conduct of the proposed project.
(ii) The approved negotiated instruction rate or the rate allowed by law should be used when computing indirect costs. If a reduced rate of indirect costs is voluntarily requested from USDA, the remaining allowable indirect costs may be used as matching funds.
(2)
Matching funds.
When documenting matching contributions, use the following guidelines:
(i) When preparing the column of Form NIFA-713 entitled “Applicant Contributions to Matching Funds,” only those costs to be contributed by the applicant for the purposes of matching should be shown. The total amount of this column should be indicated in item M.
(ii) In item N of Form NIFA-713, show a total dollar amount for Cash Contributions from both the applicant and any third parties; also show a total dollar amount (based on current fair market value) for Non-cash Contributions from both the applicant and any third parties.
(iii) To be counted toward the matching requirements stated in § 3405.5 of this part, proposals must include written verification of any actual commitments of matching support (including both cash and non-cash contributions) from third parties. Written verification means—
(A) For any third party cash contributions, a separate pledge agreement for each donation, signed by the authorized organizational representative(s) of the donor organization and the applicant institution, which must include:
(
1
) The name, address, and telephone number of the donor;
(
2
) The name of the applicant institution;
(
3
) The title of the project for which the donation is made;
(
4
) The dollar amount of the cash donation; and
(
5
) A statement that the donor will pay the cash contribution during the grant period; and
(B) For any third party non-cash contributions, a separate pledge agreement for each contribution, signed by the authorized organizational representative(s) of the donor organization and the applicant institution, which must include:
(
1
) The name, address, and telephone number of the donor;
(
2
) The name of the applicant institution;
(
3
) The title of the project for which the donation is made;
(
4
) A good faith estimate of the current fair market value of the non-cash contribution; and
(
5
) A statement that the donor will make the contribution during the grant period.
(iv) All pledge agreements referenced in § 3405.11(g)(2)(iii) (A) and (B) must be placed in the proposal immediately following Form NIFA-713. The sources and amounts of all matching support from outside the applicant institution should be summarized in the Budget Narrative section of the proposal.
(v) Applicants should refer to 2 CFR part 200 and part 400 for further guidance and other requirements relating to matching and allowable costs.
(3)
Chart on shared budget for joint project proposal.
For a joint project proposal, a plan must be provided indicating how funds will be distributed to the participating institutions. The budget section of a joint project proposal should include a chart indicating: The names of the participating institutions; the amount of funds to be disbursed to those institutions; and the way in which such funds will be used in accordance with items A through L of Form NIFA-713, “Higher Education Budget.” If a proposal is not for a joint project, such a chart is not required.
(4)
Budget narrative.
(i) Discuss how the budget specifically supports the proposed project activities. Explain how such budget items as professional or technical staff, travel, equipment, etc., are essential to achieving project objectives.
(ii) Justify that the total budget, including funds requested from USDA and any matching support provided, will be adequate to carry out the activities of the project. Provide a summary of sources and amounts of all third party matching support.
(iii) Justify the project's cost-effectiveness. Show how the project maximizes the use of limited resources, optimizes educational value for the dollar, achieves economies of scale, or leverages additional funds. For example, discuss how the project has the potential to generate a critical mass of expertise and activity focused on a targeted need area, or to promote coalition building that could lead to future ventures.
(iv) Include the percentage of time key personnel will work on the project, both during the academic year and summer. When salaries of university personnel will be paid by a combination of USDA and institutional funds, the total compensation must not exceed the faculty member's regular annual compensation. In addition, the total commitment of time devoted to the project, when combined with time for teaching and research duties, other sponsored agreements, and other employment obligations to the institution, must not exceed 100 percent of the normal workload for which the employee is compensated, in accordance with established university policies and applicable Federal cost principles.
(v) If the proposal addresses more than one targeted need area (e.g., student experiential learning and instruction delivery systems), estimate the proportion of the funds requested from USDA that will support each respective targeted need area.
(h)
Current and pending support.
Each applicant must complete Form NIFA-663, “Current and Pending Support,” identifying any other current public- or private-sponsored projects, in addition to the proposed project, to which key personnel listed in the proposal under consideration have committed portions of their time, whether or not salary support for the person(s) involved is included in the budgets of the various projects. This information should also be provided for any pending proposals which are currently being considered by, or which will be submitted in the near future to other possible sponsors, including other USDA programs or agencies. Concurrent submission of identical or similar projects
to other possible sponsors will not prejudice the review or evaluation of a project under this program.
(i)
Appendix.
Each project narrative is expected to be complete in itself and to meet the 20-page limitation. Inclusion of material in an Appendix should not be used to circumvent the 20-page limitation of the proposal narrative. However, in those instances where inclusion of supplemental information is necessary to guarantee the peer review panel's complete understanding of a proposal or to illustrate the integrity of the design or a main thesis of the proposal, such information may be included in an Appendix. Examples of supplemental material are photographs, journal reprints, brochures and other pertinent materials which are deemed to be illustrative of major points in the narrative but unsuitable for inclusion in the proposal narrative itself. Information on previously submitted proposals may also be presented in the Appendix (refer to § 3405.11(d)). When possible, information in the Appendix should be presented in tabular format. A complete set of the Appendix material must be attached to each copy of the grant application submitted. The Appendix must be identified with the title of the project as it appears on Form NIFA-712 of the proposal and the name(s) of the project director(s). The Appendix must be referenced in the proposal narrative.
[62 FR 39317, July 22, 1997, as amended at 79 FR 75999, Dec. 19, 2014]

# Subpart D—Submission of a Proposal
§ 3405.12
Intent to submit a proposal.
To assist NIFA in preparing for the review of proposals, institutions planning to submit proposals may be requested to complete Form NIFA-711, “Intent to Submit a Proposal,” provided in the application package. NIFA will determine each year if Intent to Submit a Proposal forms will be requested and provide such information in the program announcement. If Intent to Submit a Proposal forms are required, one form should be completed and returned for each proposal an institution anticipates submitting. Submitting this form does not commit an institution to any course of action, nor does failure to send this form prohibit an institution from submitting a proposal.
§ 3405.13
When and where to submit a proposal.
The program announcement will provide the deadline date for submitting a proposal, the number of copies of each proposal that must be submitted, and the address to which proposals must be submitted.

# Subpart E—Proposal Review and Evaluation
§ 3405.14
Proposal review.
The proposal evaluation process includes both internal staff review and merit evaluation by peer review panels comprised of scientists, educators, business representatives, and Government officials. Peer review panels will be selected and structured to provide optimum expertise and objective judgment in the evaluation of proposals.
§ 3405.15
Evaluation criteria.
The maximum score a proposal can receive is 200 points. Unless otherwise stated in the annual solicitation published in the
Federal Register,
the peer review panel will consider the following criteria and weights to evaluate proposals submitted:
Evaluation Criterion
Weight
(a)
Potential for advancing the quality of education:
This criterion is used to assess the likelihood that the project will have a substantial impact upon and advance the quality of food and agricultural sciences higher education by strengthening institutional capacities through promoting education reform to meet clearly delineated needs.
(1) Impact—Does the project address a targeted need area(s)? Is the problem or opportunity clearly documented? Does the project address a State, regional, national, or international problem or opportunity? Will the benefits to be derived from the project transcend the applicant institution and/or the grant period? Is it probable that other institutions will adapt this project for their own use? Can the project serve as a model for others?
20 points.
(2) Continuation plans—Are there plans for continuation or expansion of the project beyond USDA support? Are there indications of external, non-Federal support? Are there realistic plans for making the project self-supporting?
10 points.
(3) Innovation—Are significant aspects of the project based on an innovative or a non-traditional approach toward solving a higher education problem or strengthening the quality of higher education in the food and agricultural sciences? If successful, is the project likely to lead to education reform?
20 points.
(4) Products and results—Are the expected products and results of the project clearly explained? Do they have the potential to strengthen food and agricultural sciences higher education? Are the products likely to be of high quality? Will the project contribute to a better understanding of or improvement in the quality, distribution, effectiveness, or racial, ethnic, or gender diversity of the Nation's food and agricultural scientific and professional expertise base?
20 points.
(b)
Overall approach and cooperative linkages:
This criterion relates to the soundness of the proposed approach and the quality of the partnerships likely to evolve as a result of the project.
(1) Proposed approach—Do the objectives and plan of operation appear to be sound and appropriate relative to the targeted need area(s) and the impact anticipated? Are the procedures managerially, educationally, and/or scientifically sound? Is the overall plan integrated with or does it expand upon other major efforts to improve the quality of food and agricultural sciences higher education? Does the timetable appear to be readily achievable?
20 points.
(2) Evaluation—Are the evaluation plans adequate and reasonable? Do they allow for continuous and/or frequent feedback during the life of the project? Are the individuals involved in project evaluation skilled in evaluation strategies and procedures? Can they provide an objective evaluation? Do evaluation plans facilitate the measurement of project progress and outcomes?
10 points.
(3) Dissemination—Does the proposed project include clearly outlined and realistic mechanisms that will lead to widespread dissemination of project results, including national electronic communication systems, publications, presentations at professional conferences, and/or use by faculty development or research/teaching skills workshops
10 points.
(4) Partnerships and collaborative efforts—Will the project expand partnership ventures among disciplines at a university, between colleges and universities, or with the private sector? Will the project lead to long-term relationships or cooperative partnerships that are likely to enhance program quality or supplement resources available to food and agricultural sciences higher education?
20 points.
(c)
Institutional commitment and resources:
This criterion relates to the institution's commitment to the project and the adequacy of institutional resources available to carry out the project.
(1) Institutional commitment—Is there evidence to substantiate that the institution attributes a high-priority to the project, that the project is linked to the achievement of the institution's long-term goals, that it will help satisfy the institution's high-priority objectives, or that the project is supported by the institution's strategic plans?
10 points.
(2) Institutional resources—Will the project have adequate support to carry out the proposed activities? Will the project have reasonable access to needed resources such as instructional instrumentation, facilities, computer services, library and other instruction support resources?
10 points.
(d)
Key personnel:
20 points.
This criterion relates to the number and qualifications of the key persons who will carry out the project. Are designated project personnel qualified to carry out a successful project? Are there sufficient numbers of personnel associated with the project to achieve the stated objectives and the anticipated outcomes?
(e)
Budget and cost-effectiveness:
This criterion relates to the extent to which the total budget adequately supports the project and is cost-effective.
(1) Budget—Is the budget request justifiable? Are costs reasonable and necessary? Will the total budget be adequate to carry out project activities? Are the source(s) and amount(s) of non-Federal matching support clearly identified and appropriately documented? For a joint project proposal, is the shared budget explained clearly and in sufficient detail?
10 points.
(2) Cost-effectiveness—Is the proposed project cost-effective? Does it demonstrate a creative use of limited resources, maximize educational value per dollar of USDA support, achieve economies of scale, leverage additional funds or have the potential to do so, focus expertise and activity on a targeted need area, or promote coalition building for current or future ventures?
10 points.
(f)
Overall quality of proposal:
10 points.
This criterion relates to the degree to which the proposal complies with the application guidelines and is of high quality. Is the proposal enhanced by its adherence to instructions (table of contents, organization, pagination, margin and font size, the 20-page limitation, appendices, etc.); accuracy of forms; clarity of budget narrative; well prepared vitae for all key personnel associated with the project; and presentation (are ideas effectively presented, clearly articulated, and thoroughly explained, etc.)?

# Subpart F—Supplementary Information
§ 3405.16
Access to peer review information.
After final decisions have been announced, NIFA will, upon request, inform the project director of the reasons for its decision on a proposal. Verbatim copies of summary reviews, not including the identity of the peer reviewers, will be made available to respective project directors upon specific request.
§ 3405.17
Grant awards.
(a)
General.
Within the limit of funds available for such purpose, the authorized departmental officer shall make project grants to those responsible, eligible applicants whose proposals are judged most meritorious in the announced targeted need areas under the evaluation criteria and procedures set forth in this part. The beginning of the project period shall be no later than September 30 of the Federal fiscal year in which the project is approved for support. All funds granted under this part shall be expended solely for the purpose for which the funds are granted in accordance with the approved application and budget, the regulations of this part, the terms and conditions of the award, the applicable Federal cost principles, and 2 CFR part 200.
(b)
Organizational management information.
Specific management information relating to a proposing institution shall be submitted on a one-time basis prior to the award of a project grant identified under this part if such information has not been provided previously under this or another program for which the sponsoring agency is responsible. Copies of the forms used to fulfill this requirement will be sent to the proposing institution by the sponsoring agency as part of the pre-award process.
(c)
Notice of grant award.
The grant award document shall include at a minimum the following:
(1) Legal name and address of performing organization.
(2) Title of project.
(3) Name(s) and address(es) of project director(s).
(4) Identifying grant number assigned by the Department.
(5) Project period, which specifies how long the Department intends to support the effort without requiring reapplication for funds.
(6) Total amount of Federal financial assistance approved during the project period.
(7) Legal authority(ies) under which the grant is awarded.
(8) Approved budget plan for categorizing allocable project funds to accomplish the stated purpose of the grant award.
(9) Other information or provisions deemed necessary by the Department to carry out its granting activities or to accomplish the purpose of this particular project grant.
(d)
Obligation of the Federal Government.
Neither the approval of any application nor the award of any project grant shall legally commit or obligate NIFA or the United States to provide further support of a project or any portion thereof.
[62 FR 39317, July 22, 1997, as amended at 79 FR 75999, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 3405.18
Use of funds; changes.
(a)
Delegation of fiscal responsibility.
The grantee may not in whole or in part delegate or transfer to another person, institution, or organization the responsibility for use or expenditure of grant funds.
(b)
Change in project plans.
(1) The permissible changes by the grantee, project director(s), or other key project personnel in the approved project grant shall be limited to changes in methodology, techniques, or other aspects of the project to expedite achievement of the project's approved goals. If the grantee or the project director(s) are uncertain as to whether a change complies with this provision, the question must be referred to the Department for a final determination.
(2) Changes in approved goals, or objectives, shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the authorized departmental officer prior to effecting such changes. In no event shall requests for such changes be approved that are outside the scope of the approved project.
(3) Changes in approved project leadership or the replacement or reassignment of other key project personnel
shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the authorized departmental officer prior to effecting such changes.
(4) Transfers of actual performance of the substantive programmatic work in whole or in part and provisions for payment of funds, whether or not Federal funds are involved, shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the authorized departmental officer prior to effecting such transfers.
(c)
Changes in project period.
The project period may be extended by the authorized departmental officer without additional financial support for such additional period(s) as the authorized departmental officer determines may be necessary to complete or fulfill the purposes of an approved project. However, due to statutory restriction, no grant may be extended beyond five years from the original start date of the grant, or pre-award date, if applicable. Grant extensions shall be conditioned upon prior request by the grantee and approval in writing by the authorized departmental officer, unless prescribed otherwise in the terms and conditions of a grant.
(d)
Changes in approved budget.
Changes in an approved budget shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the authorized departmental officer prior to instituting such changes if the revision will:
(1) Involve transfers of amounts budgeted for indirect costs to absorb an increase in direct costs;
(2) Involve transfers of amounts budgeted for direct costs to accommodate changes in indirect cost rates negotiated during a budget period and not approved when a grant was awarded; or
(3) Involve transfers or expenditures of amounts requiring prior approval as set forth in the applicable Federal cost principles, Departmental regulations, or in the grant award.
§ 3405.19
Monitoring progress of funded projects.
(a) During the tenure of a grant, project directors must attend at least one national project directors meeting, if offered, in Washington, DC or any other announced location. The purpose of the meeting will be to discuss project and grant management opportunities for collaborative efforts, future directions for education reform, and opportunities to enhance dissemination of exemplary end products/results.
(b) An Annual Performance Report must be submitted to the USDA program contact person within 90 days after the completion of the first year of the project and annually thereafter during the life of the grant. Generally, the Annual Performance Reports should include a summary of the overall progress toward project objectives, current problems or unusual developments, the next year's activities, and any other information that is pertinent to the ongoing project or which may be specified in the terms and conditions of the award.
(c) A Final Performance Report must be submitted to the USDA program contact person within 90 days after the expiration date of the project. The expiration date is specified in the award documents and modifications thereto, if any. Generally, the Final Performance Report should be a summary of the completed project, including: A review of project objectives and accomplishments; a description of any products and outcomes resulting from the project; activities undertaken to disseminate products and outcomes; partnerships and collaborative ventures that resulted from the project; future initiatives that are planned as a result of the project; the impact of the project on the project director(s), the institution, and the food and agricultural sciences higher education system; and data on project personnel and beneficiaries. The Final Performance Report should be accompanied by samples or copies of any products or publications resulting from or developed by the project. The Final Performance Report must also contain any other information which may be specified in the terms and conditions of the award.
§ 3405.20
Other Federal statutes and regulations that apply.
(a) The Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) issued guidance on Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards at 2 CFR
part 200 on December 26, 2013. In 2 CFR 400.1, the Department adopted OMB's guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400, as the Department's policies and procedures for uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for federal awards. As a result, this regulation contains references to 2 CFR part 200 as it has regulatory effect for the Department's programs and activities.”
(b) Several other Federal statutes and/or regulations apply to grant proposals considered for review or to research project grants awarded under this part. These include but are not limited to:
2 CFR part 200—Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards.
2 CFR part 180 and Part 417—OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Government-Wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and USDA Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension
7 CFR part 1c—USDA Implementation of the Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects.
7 CFR 1.1—USDA Implementation of Freedom of Information Act.
7 CFR part 3—USDA Implementation of OMB Circular A-129 Regarding Debt Collection.
7 CFR part 15, subpart A—USDA Implementation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
7 CFR part 3407—NIFA Procedures To Implement The National Environmental Policy Act;
29 U.S.C. 794 (section 504, Rehabilitation Act of 1973) and 7 CFR part 15B (USDA implementation of statute)—prohibiting discrimination based upon physical or mental handicap in Federally assisted programs; and
35 U.S.C. 200
et seq.
—Bayh-Dole Act, controlling allocation of rights to inventions made by employees of small business firms and domestic nonprofit organizations, including universities, in Federally assisted programs (implementing regulations are contained in 37 CFR part 401).
[79 FR 75999, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 3405.21
Confidential aspects of proposals and awards.
When a proposal results in a grant, it becomes a part of the record of the Agency's transactions, available to the public upon specific request. Information that the Secretary determines to be of a privileged nature will be held in confidence to the extent permitted by law. Therefore, any information that the applicant wishes to have considered as privileged should be clearly marked as such and sent in a separate statement, two copies of which should accompany the proposal. The original copy of a proposal that does not result in a grant will be retained by the Agency for a period of one year. Other copies will be destroyed. Such a proposal will be released only with the consent of the applicant or to the extent required by law. A proposal may be withdrawn at any time prior to the final action thereon.
§ 3405.22
Evaluation of program.
Grantees should be aware that NIFA may, as a part of its own program evaluation activities, carry out in-depth evaluations of assisted activities. Thus, grantees should be prepared to cooperate with NIFA personnel, or persons retained by NIFA, evaluating the institutional context and the impact of any supported project. Grantees may be asked to provide general information on any students and faculty supported, in whole or in part, by a grant awarded under this program; information that may be requested includes, but is not limited to, standardized academic achievement test scores, grade point average, academic standing, career patterns, age, race/ethnicity, gender, citizenship, and disability.
Pt. 3406

# PART 3406—1890 INSTITUTION CAPACITY BUILDING GRANTS PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Information
Sec.
3406.1
Applicability of regulations.
3406.2
Definitions.
3406.3
Institutional eligibility.

# Subpart B—Program Description
3406.4
Purpose of the program.
3406.5
Matching support.
3406.6
USDA agency cooperator requirement.
3406.7
General scope of program.
3406.8
Joint project proposals.
3406.9
Complementary project proposals.
3406.10
Use of funds for facilities.

# Subpart C—Preparation of a Teaching Proposal
3406.11
Scope of a teaching proposal.
3406.12
Program application materials—teaching.
3406.13
Content of a teaching proposal.

# Subpart D—Review and Evaluation of a Teaching Proposal
3406.14
Proposal review—teaching.
3406.15
Evaluation criteria for teaching proposals.

# Subpart E—Preparation of a Research Proposal
3406.16
Scope of a research proposal.
3406.17
Program application materials—research.
3406.18
Content of a research proposal.

# Subpart F—Review and Evaluation of a Research Proposal
3406.19
Proposal review—research.
3406.20
Evaluation criteria for research proposals.

# Subpart G—Submission of a Teaching or Research Proposal
3406.21
Intent to submit a proposal.
3406.22
When and where to submit a proposal.

# Subpart H—Supplementary Information
3406.23
Access to peer review information.
3406.24
Grant awards.
3406.25
Use of funds; changes.
3406.26
Monitoring progress of funded projects.
3406.27
Other Federal statutes and regulations that apply.
3406.28
Confidential aspects of proposals and awards.
3406.29
Evaluation of program.

# Authority:
Sec. 1470, National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3316).

# Source:
62 FR 39331, July 22, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 3406 appear at 76 FR 4809, Jan. 27, 2011.

# Subpart A—General Information
§ 3406.1
Applicability of regulations.
(a) The regulations of this part apply only to capacity building grants awarded to the 1890 land-grant institutions and Tuskegee University under the provisions of section 1417(b)(4) of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (NARETPA) (7 U.S.C. 3152(b)(4)) and pursuant to annual appropriations made available specifically for an 1890 capacity building program. Section 1417(b)(4) authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture, who has delegated the authority to theDirector of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA), to make competitive grants to land-grant colleges and universities, to colleges and universities having significant minority enrollments and a demonstrable capacity to carry out the teaching of food and agricultural sciences, and to other colleges and universities having a demonstrable capacity to carry out the teaching of food and agricultural sciences, for a period not to exceed 5 years, to design and implement food and agricultural programs to build teaching and research capacity at colleges and universities having significant minority enrollments. Based on and subject to the express provisions of the annual appropriations act, only 1890 land-grant institutions and Tuskegee University are eligible for this grants program.
(b) To the extent that funds are available, each year NIFA will publish a
Federal Register
notice announcing the program and soliciting grant applications.
(c)(1) Based on the amount of funds appropriated in any fiscal year, NIFA will determine and cite in the program announcement:
(i) The program area(s) to be supported (teaching, research, or both);
(ii) The proportion of the appropriation reserved for, or available to, teaching projects and research projects;
(iii) The targeted need area(s) in teaching and in research to be supported;
(iv) The degree level(s) to be supported;
(v) The maximum project period a proposal may request;
(vi) The maximum amount of funds that may be requested by an institution under a regular, complementary, or joint project proposal; and
(vii) The maximum total funds that may be awarded to an institution under the program in a given fiscal
year, including how funds awarded for complementary and for joint projects will be counted toward the institutional maximum.
(2) The program announcement will also specify the deadline date for proposal submission, the number of copies of each proposal that must be submitted, the address to which a proposal must be submitted, and whether or not Form NIFA-711, “Intent to Submit a Proposal,” is requested.
(d)(1) If it is deemed by NIFA that, for a given fiscal year, additional determinations are necessary, each, as relevant, will be stated in the program announcement. Such determinations may include:
(i) Limits on the subject matter/emphasis areas to be supported;
(ii) The maximum number of proposals that may be submitted on behalf of the same school, college, or equivalent administrative unit within an institution;
(iii) The maximum total number of proposals that may be submitted by an institution;
(iv) The maximum number of proposals that may be submitted by an individual in any one targeted need area;
(v) The minimum project period a proposal may request;
(vi) The minimum amount of funds that may be requested by an institution under a regular, complementary, or joint project proposal;
(vii) The proportion of the appropriation reserved for, or available to, regular, complementary, and joint project proposals;
(viii) The proportion of the appropriation reserved for, or available to, projects in each announced targeted need area;
(ix) The proportion of the appropriation reserved for, or available to, each subject matter/emphasis area;
(x) The maximum number of grants that may be awarded to an institution under the program in a given fiscal year, including how grants awarded for complementary and joint projects will be counted toward the institutional maximum; and
(xi) Limits on the use of grant funds for travel or to purchase equipment, if any.
(2) The program announcement also will contain any other limitations deemed necessary by NIF for proper conduct of the program in the applicable year.
(e) The regulations of this part prescribe that this is a competitive program; it is possible that an institution may not receive any grant awards in a particular year.
(f) The regulations of this part do not apply to grants for other purposes awarded by the Department of Agriculture under section 1417 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3152) or any other authority.
§ 3406.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Authorized departmental officer
means the Secretary or any employee of the Department who has the authority to issue or modify grant instruments on behalf of the Secretary.
Authorized organizational representative
means the president of the 1890 Institution or the official, designated by the president of the institution, who has the authority to commit the resources of the institution.
Budget period
means the interval of time (usually 12 months) into which the project period is divided for budgetary and reporting purposes.
Cash contributions
means the applicant's cash outlay, including the outlay of money contributed to the applicant by non-Federal third parties.
Citizen or national of the United States
means:
(1) A citizen or native resident of a State; or,
(2) a person defined in the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22), who, though not a citizen of the United States, owes permanent allegiance to the United States.
College
or
University
means an educational institution in any State which:
(1) Admits as regular students only persons having a certificate of graduation from a school providing secondary education, or the recognized equivalent of such a certificate;
(2) Is legally authorized within such State to provide a program of education beyond secondary education;
(3) Provides an educational program for which a baccalaureate degree or any other higher degree is awarded;
(4) Is a public or other nonprofit institution; and
(5) Is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association.
Complementary project proposal
means a proposal for a project which involves coordination with one or more other projects for which funding was awarded under this program in a previous fiscal year, or for which funding is requested under this program in the current fiscal year.
Cost-sharing
or
Matching
means that portion of project costs not borne by the Federal Government, including the value of in-kind contributions.
Department
or
USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
1890 Institution
or
1890 land-grant institution
or
1890 colleges and universities
means one of those institutions eligible to receive funds under the Act of August 30, 1890 (26 Stat. 417-419, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 321-326 and 328), or a research foundation maintained by such institution, that are the intended recipients of funds under programs established in Subtitle G of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3221
et seq.
), including Tuskegee University.
Eligible participant
means, for purposes of § 3406.11(b), Faculty Preparation and Enhancement for Teaching, and § 3406.11(f), Student Recruitment and Retention, an individual who:
(1) Is a citizen or national of the United States, as defined in this section; or
(2) Is a citizen of the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the Republic of Palau. Where eligibility is claimed under paragraph (2) of the definition of “citizen or national of the United States” as specified in this section, documentary evidence from the Immigration and Naturalization Service as to such eligibility must be made available to NIFA upon request.
Food and agricultural sciences
means basic, applied, and developmental research, extension, and teaching activities in the food, agricultural, renewable natural resources, forestry, and physical and social sciences, in the broadest sense of these terms, including but not limited to, activities concerned with the production, processing, marketing, distribution, conservation, consumption, research, and development of food and agriculturally related products and services, and inclusive of programs in agriculture, natural resources, aquaculture, forestry, veterinary medicine, home economics, rural development, and closely allied disciplines.
Grantee
means the 1890 Institution designated in the grant award document as the responsible legal entity to which a grant is awarded.
Joint project proposal
means a proposal for a project, which will involve the applicant 1890 Institution and two or more other colleges, universities, community colleges, junior colleges, or other institutions, each of which will assume a major role in the conduct of the proposed project, and for which the applicant institution will transfer at least one-half of the awarded funds to the other institutions participating in the project. Only the applicant institution must meet the definition of “1890 Institution” as specified in this section; the other institutions participating in a joint project proposal are not required to meet the definition of “1890 Institution” as specified in this section, nor required to meet the definition of “college” or “university” as specified in this section.
Peer review panel
means a group of experts or consultants, qualified by training and experience in particular fields of science, education, or technology to give expert advice on the merit of grant applications in such fields, who evaluate eligible proposals submitted to this program in their personal area(s) of expertise.
Principal investigator/project director
means the single individual designated by the grantee in the grant application and approved by the Secretary who is responsible for the direction and management of the project.
Prior approval
means written approval evidencing prior consent by an “authorized departmental officer” as defined in this section.
Project
means the particular teaching or research activity within the scope of one or more of the targeted areas supported by a grant awarded under this program.
Project period
means the period, as stated in the award document and modifications thereto, if any, during which Federal sponsorship begins and ends.
Research
means any systematic inquiry directed toward new or fuller knowledge and understanding of the subject studied.
Research capacity
means the quality and depth of an institution's research infrastructure as evidenced by its: faculty expertise in the natural or social sciences, scientific and technical resources, research environment, library resources, and organizational structures and reward systems for attracting and retaining first-rate research faculty or students at the graduate and post-doctorate levels.
Research project grant
means a grant in support of a project that addresses one or more of the targeted need areas or specific subject matter/emphasis areas identified in the annual program announcement related to strengthening research programs including, but not limited to, such initiatives as: Studies and experimentation in food and agricultural sciences, centralized research support systems, technology delivery systems, and other creative projects designed to provide needed enhancement of the Nation's food and agricultural research system.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture and any other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom the authority involved may be delegated.
State
means any one of the fifty States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and the District of Columbia.
Teaching
means formal classroom instruction, laboratory instruction, and practicum experience in the food and agricultural sciences and matters related thereto (such as faculty development, student recruitment and services, curriculum development, instructional materials and equipment, and innovative teaching methodologies) conducted by colleges and universities offering baccalaureate or higher degrees.
Teaching capacity
means the quality and depth of an institution's academic programs infrastructure as evidenced by its: Curriculum, teaching faculty, instructional delivery systems, student experiential learning opportunities, scientific instrumentation for teaching, library resources, academic standing and racial, ethnic, or gender diversity of its faculty and student body as well as faculty and student recruitment and retention programs provided by a college or university in order to achieve maximum results in the development of scientific and professional expertise for the Nation's food and agricultural system.
Teaching project grant
means a grant in support of a project that addresses one or more of the targeted need areas or specific subject matter/emphasis areas identified in the annual program announcement related to strengthening teaching programs including, but not limited to, such initiatives as: Curricula design and materials development, faculty preparation and enhancement for teaching, instruction delivery systems, scientific instrumentation for teaching, student experiential learning, and student recruitment and retention.
Third party in-kind contributions
means non-cash contributions of property or services provided by non-Federal third parties, including real property, equipment, supplies and other expendable property, directly benefiting and specifically identifiable to a funded project or program.
USDA agency cooperator
means any agency or office of the Department which has reviewed and endorsed an applicant's request for support, and indicates a willingness to make available non-monetary resources or technical assistance throughout the life of a project to ensure the accomplishment
of the objectives of a grant awarded under this program.
[62 FR 39331, July 22, 1997, as amended at 76 FR 4810, Jan. 27, 2011]
§ 3406.3
Institutional eligibility.
Proposals may be submitted by any of the 16 historically black 1890 land-grant institutions and Tuskegee University. The 1890 land-grant institutions are: Alabama A
M University; University of Arkansas—Pine Bluff; Delaware State University; Florida A
M University; Fort Valley State College; Kentucky State University; Southern University and A
M College; University of Maryland—Eastern Shore; Alcorn State University; Lincoln University; North Carolina A
T State University; Langston University; South Carolina State University; Tennessee State University; Prairie View A
M University; and Virginia State University. An institution eligible to receive an award under this program includes a research foundation maintained by an 1890 land-grant institution or Tuskegee University.

# Subpart B—Program Description
§ 3406.4
Purpose of the program.
(a) The Department of Agriculture and the Nation depend upon sound programs in the food and agricultural sciences at the Nation's colleges and universities to produce well trained professionals for careers in the food and agricultural sciences. The capacity of institutions to offer suitable programs in the food and agricultural sciences to meet the Nation's need for a well trained work force in the food and agricultural sciences is a proper concern for the Department.
(b) Historically, the Department has had a close relationship with the 1890 colleges and universities, including Tuskegee University. Through its role as administrator of the Second Morrill Act, the Department has borne the responsibility for helping these institutions develop to their fullest potential in order to meet the needs of students and the needs of the Nation.
(c) The institutional capacity building grants program is intended to stimulate development of quality education and research programs at these institutions in order that they may better assist the Department, on behalf of the Nation, in its mission of providing a professional work force in the food and agricultural sciences.
(d) This program is designed specifically to build the institutional teaching and research capacities of the 1890 land-grant institutions through cooperative programs with Federal and non-Federal entities. The program is competitive among the 1890 Institutions and encourages matching funds on the part of the States, private organizations, and other non-Federal entities to encourage expanded linkages with 1890 Institutions as performers of research and education, and as developers of scientific and professional talent for the United States food and agricultural system. In addition, through this program, NIFA will strive to increase the overall pool of qualified job applicants from underrepresented groups in order to make significant progress toward achieving the objectives of work force diversity within the Federal Government, particularly the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
§ 3406.5
Matching support.
The Department strongly encourages and may require non-Federal matching support for this program. In the annual program solicitation, NIFA will announce any incentives that may be offered to applicants for committing their own institutional resources or securing third party contributions in support of capacity building projects. NIFA may also announce any required fixed dollar amount or percentage of institutional cost sharing, if applicable.
§ 3406.6
USDA agency cooperator requirement.
(a) Each application must provide documentation that at least one USDA agency or office has agreed to cooperate with the applicant institution on the proposed project. The documentation should describe the expected benefits of the partnership venture for the USDA agency and for the 1890 Institution, and describe the partnership effort between USDA and the 1890 Institution in regard to the proposed
project. Such USDA agency cooperation may include, but is not limited to, assisting the applicant institution with proposal development, identifying possible sources of matching funds, securing resources, implementing funded projects, providing technical assistance and expertise throughout the life of the project, participating in project evaluation, and disseminating project results.
(b) The designated NIFA agency contact can provide suggestions to institutions seeking to secure a USDA agency cooperator on a particular proposal.
(c) USDA 1890 Liaison Officers, and other USDA employees serving on the campuses of the 1890 colleges and universities, may assist with proposal development and project execution to satisfy the cooperator requirement, in whole or in part, but may not serve as project directors or principal investigators.
(d) Any USDA office responsible for administering a competitive or formula grants program specifically targeted to 1890 Institutions may not be a cooperator for this program.
§ 3406.7
General scope of program.
This program supports both teaching project grants and research project grants. Such grants are intended to strengthen the teaching and research capabilities of applicant institutions. Each 1890 Institution may submit one or more grant applications for either category of grants (as allowed by the annual program notice). However, each application must be limited to either a teaching project grant proposal or a research project grant proposal.
§ 3406.8
Joint project proposals.
Applicants are encouraged to submit joint project proposals as defined in § 3406.2, which address regional or national problems and which will result overall in strengthening the 1890 university system. The goals of such joint initiatives should include maximizing the use of limited resources by generating a critical mass of expertise and activity focused on a targeted need area(s), increasing cost-effectiveness through achieving economies of scale, strengthening the scope and quality of a project's impact, and promoting coalition building likely to transcend the project's lifetime and lead to future ventures.
§ 3406.9
Complementary project proposals.
Institutions may submit proposals that are complementary in nature as defined in § 3406.2. Such complementary project proposals may be submitted by the same or by different eligible institutions.
§ 3406.10
Use of funds for facilities.
Under the 1890 Institution Capacity Building Grants Program, the use of grant funds to plan, acquire, or construct a building or facility is not allowed. With prior approval, in accordance with the cost principles set forth in 2 CFR part 200, some grant funds may be used for minor alterations, renovations, or repairs deemed necessary to retrofit existing teaching or research spaces in order to carry out a funded project. However, requests to use grant funds for such purposes must demonstrate that the alterations, renovations, or repairs are incidental to the major purpose for which a grant is made.
[62 FR 39331, July 22, 1997, as amended at 79 FR 75999, Dec. 19, 2014]

# Subpart C—Preparation of a Teaching Proposal
§ 3406.11
Scope of a teaching proposal.
The teaching component of the program will support the targeted need area(s) related to strengthening teaching programs as specified in the annual program announcement. Proposals may focus on any subject matter area(s) in the food and agricultural sciences unless limited by determinations as specified in the annual program announcement. A proposal may address a single targeted need area or multiple targeted need areas, and may be focused on a single subject matter area or multiple subject matter areas, in any combination (e.g., curriculum development in horticulture; curriculum development, faculty enhancement, and student experiential learning in animal science; faculty enhancement in food science
and agribusiness management; or instruction delivery systems and student experiential learning in plant science, horticulture, and entomology). Applicants are also encouraged to include a library enhancement component related to the teaching project in their proposals. A proposal may be directed toward the undergraduate or graduate level of study as specified in the annual program announcement. Targeted need areas for teaching programs will consist of one or more of the following:
(a)
Curricula design and materials development.
(1) The purpose of this need area is to promote new and improved curricula and materials to increase the quality of, and continuously renew, the Nation's academic programs in the food and agricultural sciences. The overall objective is to stimulate the development and facilitate the use of exemplary education models and materials that incorporate the most recent advances in subject matter, research on teaching and learning theory, and instructional technology. Proposals may emphasize: The development of courses of study, degree programs, and instructional materials; the use of new approaches to the study of traditional subjects; or the introduction of new subjects, or new applications of knowledge, pertaining to the food and agricultural sciences.
(2) Examples include, but are not limited to, curricula and materials that promote:
(i) Raising the level of scholastic achievement of the Nation's graduates in the food and agricultural sciences.
(ii) Addressing the special needs of particular groups of students, such as minorities, gifted and talented, or those with educational backgrounds that warrant enrichment.
(iii) Using alternative instructional strategies or methodologies, including computer-assisted instruction or simulation modeling, media programs that reach large audiences efficiently and effectively, activities that provide hands-on learning experiences, and educational programs that extend learning beyond the classroom.
(iv) Using sound pedagogy, particularly with regard to recent research on how to motivate students to learn, retain, apply, and transfer knowledge, skills, and competencies.
(v) Building student competencies to integrate and synthesize knowledge from several disciplines.
(b)
Faculty preparation and enhancement for teaching.
(1) The purpose of this need area is to advance faculty development in the areas of teaching competency, subject matter expertise, or student recruitment and advising skills. Teachers are central to education. They serve as models, motivators, and mentors—the catalysts of the learning process. Moreover, teachers are agents for developing, replicating, and exchanging effective teaching materials and methods. For these reasons, education can be strengthened only when teachers are adequately prepared, highly motivated, and appropriately recognized and rewarded.
(2) Each faculty recipient of support for developmental activities under § 3406.11(b) must be an “eligible participant” as defined in § 3406.2 of this part.
(3) Examples of developmental activities include, but are not limited to, those which enable teaching faculty to:
(i) Gain experience with recent developments or innovative technology relevant to their teaching responsibilities.
(ii) Work under the guidance and direction of experts who have substantial expertise in an area related to the developmental goals of the project.
(iii) Work with scientists or professionals in government, industry, or other colleges or universities to learn new applications in a field.
(iv) Obtain personal experience working with new ideas and techniques.
(v) Expand competence with new methods of information delivery, such as computer-assisted or televised instruction.
(c)
Instruction delivery systems.
(1) The purpose of this need area is to encourage the use of alternative methods of delivering instruction to enhance the quality, effectiveness, and cost efficiency of teaching programs. The importance of this initiative is evidenced by advances in educational research which have substantiated the theory that differences in the learning styles of students often require alternative
instructional methodologies. Also, the rising costs of higher education strongly suggest that colleges and universities undertake more efforts of a collaborative nature in order to deliver instruction which maximizes program quality and reduces unnecessary duplication. At the same time, advancements in knowledge and technology continue to introduce new subject matter areas which warrant consideration and implementation of innovative instruction techniques, methodologies, and delivery systems.
(2) Examples include, but are not limited to:
(i) Use of computers.
(ii) Teleconferencing.
(iii) Networking via satellite communications.
(iv) Regionalization of academic programs.
(v) Mobile classrooms and laboratories.
(vi) Individualized learning centers.
(vii) Symposia, forums, regional or national workshops, etc.
(d)
Scientific Instrumentation for teaching.
(1) The purpose of this need area is to provide students in science-oriented courses the necessary experience with suitable, up-to-date equipment in order to involve them in work central to scientific understanding and progress. This program initiative will support the acquisition of instructional laboratory and classroom equipment to assure the achievement and maintenance of outstanding food and agricultural sciences higher education programs. A proposal may request support for acquiring new, state-of-the-art instructional scientific equipment, upgrading existing equipment, or replacing non-functional or clearly obsolete equipment.
(2) Examples include, but are not limited to:
(i) Rental or purchase of modern instruments to improve student learning experiences in courses, laboratories, and field work.
(ii) Development of new ways of using instrumentation to extend instructional capabilities.
(iii) Establishment of equipment-sharing capability via consortia or centers that develop innovative opportunities, such as mobile laboratories or satellite access to industry or government laboratories.
(e)
Student experiential learning.
(1) The purpose of this need area is to further the development of student scientific and professional competencies through experiential learning programs which provide students with opportunities to solve complex problems in the context of real-world situations. Effective experiential learning is essential in preparing future graduates to advance knowledge and technology, enhance quality of life, conserve resources, and revitalize the Nation's economic competitiveness. Such experiential learning opportunities are most effective when they serve to advance decision-making and communication skills as well as technological expertise.
(2) Examples include, but are not limited to, projects which:
(i) Provide opportunities for students to participate in research projects, either as a part of an ongoing research project or in a project designed especially for this program.
(ii) Provide opportunities for students to complete apprenticeships, internships, or similar participatory learning experiences.
(iii) Expand and enrich courses which are of a practicum nature.
(iv) Provide career mentoring experiences that link students with outstanding professionals.
(f)
Student recruitment and retention.
(1) The purpose of this need area is to strengthen student recruitment and retention programs in order to promote the future strength of the Nation's scientific and professional work force. The Nation's economic competitiveness and quality of life rest upon the availability of a cadre of outstanding research scientists, university faculty, and other professionals in the food and agricultural sciences. A substantial need exists to supplement efforts to attract increased numbers of academically outstanding students to prepare for careers as food and agricultural scientists and professionals. It is particularly important to augment the racial, ethnic, and gender diversity of the student body in order to promote a robust exchange of ideas and a more effective
use of the full breadth of the Nation's intellectual resources.
(2) Each student recipient of monetary support for education costs or developmental purposes under § 3406.11(f) must be enrolled at an eligible institution and meet the requirement of an “eligible participant” as defined in § 3406.2 of this part.
(3) Examples include, but are not limited to:
(i) Special outreach programs for elementary and secondary students as well as parents, counselors, and the general public to broaden awareness of the extensive nature and diversity of career opportunities for graduates in the food and agricultural sciences.
(ii) Special activities and materials to establish more effective linkages with high school science classes.
(iii) Unique or innovative student recruitment activities, materials, and personnel.
(iv) Special retention programs to assure student progression through and completion of an educational program.
(v) Development and dissemination of stimulating career information materials.
(vi) Use of regional or national media to promote food and agricultural sciences higher education.
(vii) Providing financial incentives to enable and encourage students to pursue and complete an undergraduate or graduate degree in an area of the food and agricultural sciences.
§ 3406.12
Program application materials—teaching.
Program application materials in an application package will be made available to eligible institutions upon request. These materials include the program announcement, the administrative provisions for the program, and the forms needed to prepare and submit teaching grant applications under the program.
§ 3406.13
Content of a teaching proposal.
(a)
Proposal cover page.
(1) Form NIFA-712, “Higher Education Proposal Cover Page,” must be completed in its entirety. Note that providing a Social Security Number is voluntary, but is an integral part of the NIFA information system and will assist in the processing of the proposal.
(2) One copy of the Form NIFA-712 must contain the pen-and-ink signatures of the project director(s) and authorized organizational representative for the applicant institution.
(3) The title of the teaching project shown on the “Higher Education Proposal Cover Page” must be brief (80-character maximum) yet represent the major thrust of the project. This information will be used by the Department to provide information to the Congress and other interested parties.
(4) In block 7. of Form NIFA-712, enter “1890 Institution Capacity Building Grants Program.”
(5) In block 8.a. of Form NIFA-712, enter “Teaching.” In block 8.b. identify the code for the targeted need area(s) as found on the reverse of the form. If a proposal focuses on multiple targeted need areas, enter each code associated with the project. In block 8.c. identify the major area(s) of emphasis as found on the reverse of the form. If a proposal focuses on multiple areas of emphasis, enter each code associated with the project; however, limit the selection to three areas. This information will be used by program staff for the proper assignment of proposals to reviewers.
(6) In block 9. of Form NIFA-712, indicate if the proposal is a complementary project proposal or a joint project proposal as defined in § 3406.2 of this part. If it is not a complementary project proposal or a joint project proposal, identify it as a regular project proposal.
(7) In block 13. of Form NIFA-712, indicate if the proposal is a new, first-time submission or if the proposal is a resubmission of a proposal that has been submitted to, but not funded under, the 1890 Institution Capacity Building Grants Program in a previous competition.
(b)
Table of contents.
For ease in locating information, each proposal must contain a detailed table of contents just after the Proposal Cover Page. The Table of Contents should include page numbers for each component of the proposal. Pagination should begin immediately following the summary documentation of USDA agency cooperation.
(c)
USDA agency cooperator.
To be considered for funding, each proposal must include documentation of cooperation with at least one USDA agency or office. If multiple agencies are involved as cooperators, documentation must be included from each agency. When documenting cooperative arrangements, the following guidelines should be used:
(1) A summary of the cooperative arrangements must immediately follow the Table of Contents. This summary should:
(i) Bear the signatures of the Agency Head (or his/her designated authorized representative) and the university project director;
(ii) Indicate the agency's willingness to commit support for the project;
(iii) Identify the person(s) at the USDA agency who will serve as the liaison or technical contact for the project;
(iv) Describe the degree and nature of the USDA agency's involvement in the proposed project, as outlined in § 3406.6(a) of this part, including its role in:
(A) Identifying the need for the project;
(B) Developing a conceptual approach;
(C) Assisting with project design;
(D) Identifying and securing needed agency or other resources (e.g., personnel, grants/contracts; in-kind support, etc.);
(E) Developing the project budget;
(F) Promoting partnerships with other institutions to carry out the project;
(G) Helping the institution launch and manage the project;
(H) Providing technical assistance and expertise;
(I) Providing consultation through site visits, E-mail, conference calls, and faxes;
(J) Participating in project evaluation and dissemination of final project results; and
(K) Seeking other innovative ways to ensure the success of the project and advance the needs of the institution or the agency; and
(v) Describe the expected benefits of the partnership venture for the USDA agency and for the 1890 Institution.
(2) A detailed discussion of these partnership arrangements should be provided in the narrative portion of the proposal, as outlined in paragraph (f)(2)(iv)(C) of this section.
(3) Additional documentation, including letters of support or cooperation, may be provided in the Appendix.
(d)
Project summary.
(1) A Project Summary should immediately follow the summary documentation of USDA agency cooperation section. The information provided in the Project Summary will be used by the program staff for a variety of purposes, including the proper assignment of proposals to reviewers and providing information to reviewers prior to the peer panel meeting. The name of the institution, the targeted need area(s), and the title of the proposal must be identified exactly as shown on the “Higher Education Proposal Cover Page.”
(2) If the proposal is a complementary project proposal, as defined in § 3406.2 of this part, indicate such and identify the other complementary project(s) by citing the name of the submitting institution, the title of the project, the project director, and the grant number (if funded in a previous year) exactly as shown on the cover page of the complementary project so that appropriate consideration can be given to the interrelatedness of the proposals in the evaluation process.
(3) If the proposal is a joint project proposal, as defined in § 3406.2 of this part, indicate such and identify the other participating institutions and the key faculty member or other individual responsible for coordinating the project at each institution.
(4) The Project Summary should be a concise description of the proposed activity suitable for publication by the Department to inform the general public about awards under the program. The text must not exceed one page, single-spaced. The Project Summary should be a self-contained description of the activity which would result if the proposal is funded by USDA. It should include: The objectives of the project; a synopsis of the plan of operation; a statement of how the project will enhance the teaching capacity of the institution; a description of how
the project will strengthen higher education in the food and agricultural sciences in the United States; a description of the partnership efforts between, and the expected benefits for, the USDA agency cooperator(s) and the 1890 Institution; and the plans for disseminating project results. The Project Summary should be written so that a technically literate reader can evaluate the use of Federal funds in support of the project.
(e)
Resubmission of a proposal
—(1)
Resubmission of previously unfunded proposals.
(i) If a proposal has been submitted previously, but was not funded, such should be indicated in block 13. on Form NIFA-712, “Higher Education Proposal Cover Page,” and the following information should be included in the proposal:
(A) The fiscal year(s) in which the proposal was submitted previously;
(B) A summary of the peer reviewers' comments; and
(C) How these comments have been addressed in the current proposal, including the page numbers in the current proposal where the peer reviewers' comments have been addressed.
(ii) This information may be provided as a section of the proposal following the Project Summary and preceding the proposal narrative or it may be placed in the Appendix (see paragraph (j) of this section). In either case, the location of this information should be indicated in the Table of Contents, and the fact that the proposal is a resubmitted proposal should be stated in the proposal narrative. Further, when possible, the information should be presented in tabular format. Applicants who choose to resubmit proposals that were previously submitted, but not funded, should note that resubmitted proposals must compete equally with newly submitted proposals. Submitting a proposal that has been revised based on a previous peer review panel's critique of the proposal does not guarantee the success of the resubmitted proposal.
(2)
Resubmission of previously funded proposals.
Recognizing that capacity building is a long-term ongoing process, the 1890 Institution Capacity Building Grants Program is interested in funding subsequent phases of previously funded projects in order to build institutional capacity, and institutions are encouraged to build on a theme over several grant awards. However, proposals that are sequential continuations or new stages of previously funded Capacity Building Grants must compete with first-time proposals. Therefore, project directors should thoroughly demonstrate how the project proposed in the current application expands substantially upon a previously funded project (
i.e.
, demonstrate how the new project will advance the former project to the next level of attainment or will achieve expanded goals). The proposal must also show the degree to which the new phase promotes innovativeness and creativity beyond the scope of the previously funded project. Please note that the 1890 Institution Capacity Building Grants Program is not designed to support activities that are essentially repetitive in nature over multiple grant awards. Project directors who have had their projects funded previously are discouraged from resubmitting relatively identical proposals for further funding.
(f)
Narrative of a teaching proposal.
The narrative portion of the proposal is limited to 20 pages in length. The one-page Project Summary is not included in the 20-page limitation. The narrative must be typed on one side of the page only, using a font no smaller than 12 point, and double-spaced. All margins must be at least one inch. All pages following the summary documentation of USDA agency cooperation must be paginated. It should be noted that peer reviewers will not be required to read beyond 20 pages of the narrative to evaluate the proposal. The narrative should contain the following sections:
(1)
Potential for advancing the quality of education
—(i)
Impact.
(A) Identify the targeted need area(s).
(B) Clearly state the specific instructional problem or opportunity to be addressed.
(C) Describe how and by whom the focus and scope of the project were determined. Summarize the body of knowledge which substantiates the need for the proposed project.
(D) Describe ongoing or recently completed significant activities related to the proposed project for which previous funding was received under this program.
(E) Discuss how the project will be of value at the State, regional, national, or international level(s).
(F) Discuss how the benefits to be derived from the project will transcend the proposing institution or the grant period. Also discuss the probabilities of its adaptation by other institutions. For example, can the project serve as a model for others?
(ii)
Continuation plans.
Discuss the likelihood of, or plans for, continuation or expansion of the project beyond USDA support. For example, does the institution's long-range budget or academic plan provide for the realistic continuation or expansion of the initiative undertaken by this project after the end of the grant period, are plans for eventual self-support built into the project, are plans being made to institutionalize the program if it meets with success, and are there indications of other continuing non-Federal support?
(iii)
Innovation.
Describe the degree to which the proposal reflects an innovative or non-traditional approach to solving a higher education problem or strengthening the quality of higher education in the food and agricultural sciences.
(iv)
Products and results.
Explain the kinds of results and products expected and their impact on strengthening food and agricultural sciences higher education in the United States, including attracting academically outstanding students and increasing the ethnic, racial, and gender diversity of the Nation's food and agricultural scientific and professional expertise base.
(2)
Overall approach and cooperative linkages
—(i)
Proposed approach
—(A)
Objectives.
Cite and discuss the specific objectives to be accomplished under the project.
(B)
Plan of operation.
(
1
) Describe procedures for accomplishing the objectives of the project.
(
2
) Describe plans for management of the project to enhance its proper and efficient administration.
(
3
) Describe the way in which resources and personnel will be used to conduct the project.
(C)
Timetable.
Provide a timetable for conducting the project. Identify all important project milestones and dates as they relate to project start-up, execution, dissemination, evaluation, and close-out.
(ii)
Evaluation plans.
(A) Provide a plan for evaluating the accomplishment of stated objectives during the conduct of the project. Indicate the criteria, and corresponding weight of each, to be used in the evaluation process, describe any data to be collected and analyzed, and explain the methodology that will be used to determine the extent to which the needs underlying the project are met.
(B) Provide a plan for evaluating the effectiveness of the end results upon conclusion of the project. Include the same kinds of information requested in paragraph (f) (2)(ii)(A) of this section.
(iii)
Dissemination plans.
Discuss plans to disseminate project results and products. Identify target audiences and explain methods of communication.
(iv)
Partnerships and collaborative efforts.
(A) Explain how the project will maximize partnership ventures and collaborative efforts to strengthen food and agricultural sciences higher education (e.g., involvement of faculty in related disciplines at the same institution, joint projects with other colleges or universities, or cooperative activities with business or industry). Also explain how it will stimulate academia, the States, or the private sector to join with the Federal partner in enhancing food and agricultural sciences higher education.
(B) Provide evidence, via letters from the parties involved, that arrangements necessary for collaborative partnerships or joint initiatives have been discussed and realistically can be expected to come to fruition, or actually have been finalized contingent on an award under this program. Letters must be signed by an official who has the authority to commit the resources of the organization. Such letters should be referenced in the plan of operation, but the actual letters should be included in the Appendix section of
the proposal. Any potential conflict(s) of interest that might result from the proposed collaborative arrangements must be discussed in detail. Proposals which indicate joint projects with other institutions must state which proposer is to receive any resulting grant award, since only one submitting institution can be the recipient of a project grant under one proposal.
(C) Explain how the project will create a new or enhance an existing partnership between the USDA agency cooperator(s) and the 1890 Institution(s). This section should expand upon the summary information provided in the documentation of USDA agency cooperation section, as outlined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. This is particularly important because the focal point of attention in the peer review process is the proposal narrative. Therefore, a comprehensive discussion of the partnership effort between USDA and the 1890 Institution should be provided.
(3)
Institutional capacity building
—(i)
Institutional enhancement.
Explain how the proposed project will strengthen the teaching capacity, as defined in § 3406.2 of this part, of the applicant institution and, if applicable, any other institutions assuming a major role in the conduct of the project. For example, describe how the proposed project is intended to strengthen the institution's academic infrastructure by expanding the current faculty's expertise base, advancing the scholarly quality of the institution's academic programs, enriching the racial, ethnic, or gender diversity of the student body, helping the institution establish itself as a center of excellence in a particular field of education, helping the institution maintain or acquire state-of-the-art scientific instrumentation or library collections for teaching, or enabling the institution to provide more meaningful student experiential learning opportunities.
(ii)
Institutional commitment.
(A) Discuss the institution's commitment to the project and its successful completion. Provide, as relevant, appropriate documentation in the Appendix. Substantiate that the institution attributes a high priority to the project.
(B) Discuss how the project will contribute to the achievement of the institution's long-term (five- to ten-year) goals and how the project will help satisfy the institution's high-priority objectives. Show how this project is linked to and supported by the institution's strategic plan.
(C) Discuss the commitment of institutional resources to the project. Show that the institutional resources to be made available to the project will be adequate, when combined with the support requested from USDA, to carry out the activities of the project and represent a sound commitment by the institution. Discuss institutional facilities, equipment, computer services, and other appropriate resources available to the project.
(g)
Key personnel.
A Form NIFA-708, “Summary Vita—Teaching Proposal,” should be included for each key person associated with the project.
(h)
Budget and cost-effectiveness
—(1)
Budget form.
(i) Prepare Form NIFA-713, “Higher Education Budget,” in accordance with instructions provided with the form. Proposals may request support for a period to be identified in each year's program announcement. A budget form is required for each year of requested support. In addition, a summary budget is required detailing the requested total support for the overall project period. Form NIFA-713 may be reproduced as needed by proposers. Funds may be requested under any of the categories listed on the form, provided that the item or service for which support is requested is allowable under the authorizing legislation, the applicable Federal cost principles, the administrative provisions in this part, and can be justified as necessary for the successful conduct of the proposed project.
(ii) The approved negotiated instruction rate or the maximum rate allowed by law should be used when computing indirect costs. If a reduced rate of indirect costs is voluntarily requested from USDA, the remaining allowable indirect costs may be used as matching funds.
(2)
Matching funds.
When documenting matching contributions, use the following guidelines:
(i) When preparing the column entitled “Applicant Contributions to Matching Funds” of Form NIFA-713, only those costs to be contributed by the applicant for the purposes of matching should be shown. The total amount of this column should be indicated in item M.
(ii) In item N of Form NIFA-713, show a total dollar amount for Cash Contributions from both the applicant and any third parties; also show a total dollar amount (based on current fair market value) for Non-cash Contributions from both the applicant and any third parties.
(iii) To qualify for any incentive benefits stemming from matching support or to satisfy any cost sharing requirements, proposals must include written verification of any actual commitments of matching support (including both cash and non-cash contributions) from third parties. Written verification means—
(A) For any third party cash contributions, a separate pledge agreement for each donation, signed by the authorized organizational representative(s) of the donor organization (or by the donor if the gift is from an individual) and the applicant institution, which must include:
(
1
) The name, address, and telephone number of the donor;
(
2
) The name of the applicant institution;
(
3
) The title of the project for which the donation is made;
(
4
) The dollar amount of the cash donation; and
(
5
) A statement that the donor will pay the cash contribution during the grant period; and
(B) For any third party non-cash contributions, a separate pledge agreement for each contribution, signed by the authorized organizational representative(s) of the donor organization (or by the donor if the gift is from an individual) and the applicant institution, which must include:
(
1
) The name, address, and telephone number of the donor;
(
2
) The name of the applicant institution;
(
3
) The title of the project for which the donation is made;
(
4
) A good faith estimate of the current fair market value of the non-cash contribution; and
(
5
) A statement that the donor will make the contribution during the grant period.
(iv) All pledge agreements must be placed in the proposal immediately following Form NIFA-713. The sources and amounts of all matching support from outside the applicant institution should be summarized in the Budget Narrative section of the proposal.
(v) Applicants should refer to OMB Circulars A-110, “Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements With Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and Other Non-profit Organizations,” and A-21, “Cost Principles for Educational Institutions,” for further guidance and other requirements relating to matching and allowable costs.
(3)
Chart on shared budget for joint project proposal.
(i) For a joint project proposal, a plan must be provided indicating how funds will be distributed to the participating institutions. The budget section of a joint project proposal should include a chart indicating:
(A) The names of the participating institutions;
(B) the amount of funds to be disbursed to those institutions; and
(C) the way in which such funds will be used in accordance with items A through L of Form NIFA-713, “Higher Education Budget.”
(ii) If a proposal is not for a joint project, such a chart is not required.
(4)
Budget narrative.
(i) Discuss how the budget specifically supports the proposed project activities. Explain how each budget item (such as salaries and wages for professional and technical staff, student stipends/scholarships, travel, equipment, etc.) is essential to achieving project objectives.
(ii) Justify that the total budget, including funds requested from USDA and any matching support provided, will be adequate to carry out the activities of the project. Provide a summary of sources and amounts of all third party matching support.
(iii) Justify the project's cost-effectiveness. Show how the project maximizes the use of limited resources, optimizes educational value for the dollar, achieves economies of scale, or leverages additional funds. For example, discuss how the project has the potential to generate a critical mass of expertise and activity focused on a targeted need area or promote coalition building that could lead to future ventures.
(iv) Include the percentage of time key personnel will work on the project, both during the academic year and summer. When salaries of university project personnel will be paid by a combination of USDA and institutional funds, the total compensation must not exceed the faculty member's regular annual compensation. In addition, the total commitment of time devoted to the project, when combined with time for teaching and research duties, other sponsored agreements, and other employment obligations to the institution, must not exceed 100 percent of the normal workload for which the employee is compensated, in accordance with established university policies and applicable Federal cost principles.
(v) If the proposal addresses more than one targeted need area (e.g., student experiential learning and instruction delivery systems), estimate the proportion of the funds requested from USDA that will support each respective targeted need area.
(i)
Current and pending support.
Each applicant must complete Form NIFA-663, “Current and Pending Support,” identifying any other current public- or private-sponsored projects, in addition to the proposed project, to which key personnel listed in the proposal under consideration have committed portions of their time, whether or not salary support for the person(s) involved is included in the budgets of the various projects. This information should also be provided for any pending proposals which are currently being considered by, or which will be submitted in the near future to, other possible sponsors, including other USDA programs or agencies. Concurrent submission of identical or similar projects to other possible sponsors will not prejudice the review or evaluation of a project under this program.
(j)
Appendix.
Each project narrative is expected to be complete in itself and to meet the 20-page limitation. Inclusion of material in an Appendix should not be used to circumvent the 20-page limitation of the proposal narrative. However, in those instances where inclusion of supplemental information is necessary to guarantee the peer review panel's complete understanding of a proposal or to illustrate the integrity of the design or a main thesis of the proposal, such information may be included in an Appendix. Examples of supplemental material are photographs, journal reprints, brochures and other pertinent materials which are deemed to be illustrative of major points in the narrative but unsuitable for inclusion in the proposal narrative itself. Information on previously submitted proposals may also be presented in the Appendix (refer to paragraph (e) of this section). When possible, information in the Appendix should be presented in tabular format. A complete set of the Appendix material must be attached to each copy of the grant application submitted. The Appendix must be identified with the title of the project as it appears on Form NIFA-712 of the proposal and the name(s) of the project director(s). The Appendix must be referenced in the proposal narrative.

# Subpart D—Review and Evaluation of a Teaching Proposal
§ 3406.14
Proposal review—teaching.
The proposal evaluation process includes both internal staff review and merit evaluation by peer review panels comprised of scientists, educators, business representatives, and Government officials who are highly qualified to render expert advice in the areas supported. Peer review panels will be selected and structured to provide optimum expertise and objective judgment in the evaluation of proposals.
§ 3406.15
Evaluation criteria for teaching proposals.
The maximum score a teaching proposal can receive is 150 points. Unless
otherwise stated in the annual solicitation published in the
Federal Register,
the peer review panel will consider the following criteria and weights to evaluate proposals submitted:
Evaluation criterion
Weight
(a) Potential for advancing the quality of education:
This criterion is used to assess the likelihood that the project will have a substantial impact upon and advance the quality of food and agricultural sciences higher education by strengthening institutional capacities through promoting education reform to meet clearly delineated needs.
(1) Impact—Does the project address a targeted need area(s)? Is the problem or opportunity clearly documented? Does the project address a State, regional, national, or international problem or opportunity? Will the benefits to be derived from the project transcend the applicant institution or the grant period? Is it probable that other institutions will adapt this project for their own use? Can the project serve as a model for others?
15 points.
(2) Continuation plans—Are there plans for continuation or expansion of the project beyond USDA support with the use of institutional funds? Are there indications of external, non-Federal support? Are there realistic plans for making the project self-supporting?
10 points.
(3) Innovation—Are significant aspects of the project based on an innovative or a non-traditional approach toward solving a higher education problem or strengthening the quality of higher education in the food and agricultural sciences? If successful, is the project likely to lead to education reform?
10 points.
(4) Products and results—Are the expected products and results of the project clearly defined and likely to be of high quality? Will project results be of an unusual or unique nature? Will the project contribute to a better understanding of or an improvement in the quality, distribution, or effectiveness of the Nation's food and agricultural scientific and professional expertise base, such as increasing the participation of women and minorities?
15 points.
(b) Overall approach and cooperative linkages:
This criterion relates to the soundness of the proposed approach and the quality of the partnerships likely to evolve as a result of the project.
(1) Proposed approach—Do the objectives and plan of operation appear to be sound and appropriate relative to the targeted need area(s) and the impact anticipated? Are the procedures managerially, educationally, and scientifically sound? Is the overall plan integrated with or does it expand upon other major efforts to improve the quality of food and agricultural sciences higher education? Does the timetable appear to be readily achievable?
15 points.
(2) Evaluation—Are the evaluation plans adequate and reasonable? Do they allow for continuous or frequent feedback during the life of the project? Are the individuals involved in project evaluation skilled in evaluation strategies and procedures? Can they provide an objective evaluation? Do evaluation plans facilitate the measurement of project progress and outcomes?
5 points.
(3) Dissemination—Does the proposed project include clearly outlined and realistic mechanisms that will lead to widespread dissemination of project results, including national electronic communication systems, publications, presentations at professional conferences, or use by faculty development or research/teaching skills workshops?
5 points.
(4) Partnerships and collaborative efforts—Does the project have significant potential for advancing cooperative ventures between the applicant institution and a USDA agency? Does the project workplan include an effective role for the cooperating USDA agency(s)? Will the project expand partnership ventures among disciplines at a university, between colleges and universities, or with the private sector? Will the project lead to long-term relationships or cooperative partnerships that are likely to enhance program quality or supplement resources available to food and agricultural sciences higher education?
15 points.
(c) Institutional capacity building:
This criterion relates to the degree to which the project will strengthen the teaching capacity of the applicant institution. In the case of a joint project proposal, it relates to the degree to which the project will strengthen the teaching capacity of the applicant institution and that of any other institution assuming a major role in the conduct of the project.
(1) Institutional enhancement—Will the project help the institution to: Expand the current faculty's expertise base; attract, hire, and retain outstanding teaching faculty; advance and strengthen the scholarly quality of the institution's academic programs; enrich the racial, ethnic, or gender diversity of the faculty and student body; recruit students with higher grade point averages, higher standardized test scores, and those who are more committed to graduation; become a center of excellence in a particular field of education and bring it greater academic recognition; attract outside resources for academic programs; maintain or acquire state-of-the-art scientific instrumentation or library collections for teaching; or provide more meaningful student experiential learning opportunities?
15 points.
(2) Institutional commitment—Is there evidence to substantiate that the institution attributes a high-priority to the project, that the project is linked to the achievement of the institution's long-term goals, that it will help satisfy the institution's high-priority objectives, or that the project is supported by the institution's strategic plans? Will the project have reasonable access to needed resources such as instructional instrumentation, facilities, computer services, library and other instruction support resources?
15 points.
(d) Personnel Resources: This criterion relates to the number and qualifications of the key persons who will carry out the project. Are designated project personnel qualified to carry out a successful project? Are there sufficient numbers of personnel associated with the project to achieve the stated objectives and the anticipated outcomes?
10 points.
(e) Budget and cost-effectiveness:
This criterion relates to the extent to which the total budget adequately supports the project and is cost-effective.
(1) Budget—Is the budget request justifiable? Are costs reasonable and necessary? Will the total budget be adequate to carry out project activities? Are the source(s) and amount(s) of non-Federal matching support clearly identified and appropriately documented? For a joint project proposal, is the shared budget explained clearly and in sufficient detail?
10 points.
(2) Cost-effectiveness—Is the proposed project cost-effective? Does it demonstrate a creative use of limited resources, maximize educational value per dollar of USDA support, achieve economies of scale, leverage additional funds or have the potential to do so, focus expertise and activity on a targeted need area, or promote coalition building for current or future ventures?
5 points.
(f) Overall quality of proposal: This criterion relates to the degree to which the proposal complies with the application guidelines and is of high quality. Is the proposal enhanced by its adherence to instructions (table of contents, organization, pagination, margin and font size, the 20-page limitation, appendices, etc.); accuracy of forms; clarity of budget narrative; well prepared vitae for all key personnel associated with the project; and presentation (are ideas effectively presented, clearly articulated, and thoroughly explained, etc.)?
5 points.

# Subpart E—Preparation of a Research Proposal
§ 3406.16
Scope of a research proposal.
The research component of the program will support projects that address high-priority research initiatives in areas such as those illustrated in this section where there is a present or anticipated need for increased knowledge or capabilities or in which it is feasible for applicants to develop programs recognized for their excellence. Applicants are also encouraged to include in their proposals a library enhancement component related to the initiative(s) for which they have prepared their proposals.
(a)
Studies and experimentation in food and agricultural sciences.
(1) The purpose of this initiative is to advance the body of knowledge in those basic and applied natural and social sciences that comprise the food and agricultural sciences.
(2) Examples include, but are not limited to:
(i) Conduct plant or animal breeding programs to develop better crops, forests, or livestock (e.g., more disease resistant, more productive, yielding higher quality products).
(ii) Conceive, design, and evaluate new bioprocessing techniques for eliminating undesirable constituents from or adding desirable ones to food products.
(iii) Propose and evaluate ways to enhance utilization of the capabilities and resources of food and agricultural institutions to promote rural development (e.g., exploitation of new technologies by small rural businesses).
(iv) Identify control factors influencing consumer demand for agricultural products.
(v) Analyze social, economic, and physiological aspects of nutrition, housing, and life-style choices, and of community strategies for meeting the changing needs of different population groups.
(vi) Other high-priority areas such as human nutrition, sustainable agriculture, biotechnology, agribusiness management and marketing, and aquaculture.
(b)
Centralized research support systems.
(1) The purpose of this initiative is to establish centralized support systems to meet national needs or serve regions or clientele that cannot otherwise afford or have ready access to the support in question, or to provide such support more economically thereby freeing up resources for other research uses.
(2) Examples include, but are not limited to:
(i) Storage, maintenance, characterization, evaluation and enhancement of germplasm for use by animal and plant breeders, including those using the techniques of biotechnology.
(ii) Computerized data banks of important scientific information (e.g., epidemiological, demographic, nutrition, weather, economic, crop yields, etc.).
(iii) Expert service centers for sophisticated and highly specialized methodologies (e.g., evaluation of organoleptic and nutritional quality of
foods, toxicology, taxonomic identifications, consumer preferences, demographics, etc.).
(c)
Technology delivery systems.
(1) The purpose of this initiative is to promote innovations and improvements in the delivery of benefits of food and agricultural sciences to producers and consumers, particularly those who are currently disproportionately low in receipt of such benefits.
(2) Examples include, but are not limited to:
(i) Computer-based decision support systems to assist small-scale farmers to take advantage of relevant technologies, programs, policies, etc.
(ii) Efficacious delivery systems for nutrition information or for resource management assistance for low-income families and individuals.
(d)
Other creative proposals.
The purpose of this initiative is to encourage other creative proposals, outside the areas previously outlined, that are designed to provide needed enhancement of the Nation's food and agricultural research system.
§ 3406.17
Program application materials—research.
Program application materials in an application package will be made available to eligible institutions upon request. These materials include the program announcement, the administrative provisions for the program, and the forms needed to prepare and submit research grant applications under the program.
§ 3406.18
Content of a research proposal.
(a)
Proposal cover page.
(1) Form NIFA-712, “Higher Education Proposal Cover Page,” must be completed in its entirety. Note that providing a Social Security Number is voluntary, but is an integral part of the NIFA information system and will assist in the processing of the proposal.
(2) One copy of Form NIFA-712 must contain the pen-and-ink signatures of the principal investigator(s) and Authorized Organizational Representative for the applicant institution.
(3) The title of the research project shown on the “Higher Education Proposal Cover Page” must be brief (80-character maximum) yet represent the major thrust of the project. This information will be used by the Department to provide information to the Congress and other interested parties.
(4) In block 7. of Form NIFA-712, enter “Capacity Building Grants Program.”
(5) In block 8.a. of Form NIFA-712, enter “Research.” In block 8.b. identify the code of the targeted need area(s) as found on the reverse of the form. If a proposal focuses on multiple targeted need areas, enter each code associated with the project. In block 8.c. identify the major area(s) of emphasis as found on the reverse of the form. If a proposal focuses on multiple areas of emphasis, enter each code associated with the project; however, please limit your selection to three areas. This information will be used by the program staff for the proper assignment of proposals to reviewers.
(6) In block 9. of Form NIFA-712, indicate if the proposal is a complementary project proposal or joint project proposal as defined in § 3406.2 of this part. If it is not a complementary project proposal or a joint project proposal, identify it as a regular proposal.
(7) In block 13. of Form NIFA-712, indicate if the proposal is a new, first-time submission or if the proposal is a resubmission of a proposal that has been submitted to, but not funded under the 1890 Institution Capacity Building Grants Program in a previous competition.
(b)
Table of contents.
For ease of locating information, each proposal must contain a detailed table of contents just after the Proposal Cover Page. The Table of Contents should include page numbers for each component of the proposal. Pagination should begin immediately following the summary documentation of USDA agency cooperation.
(c)
USDA agency cooperator.
To be considered for funding, each proposal must include documentation of cooperation with at least one USDA agency or office. If multiple agencies are involved as cooperators, documentation must be included from each agency. When documenting cooperative arrangements, the following guidelines should be used:
(1) A summary of the cooperative arrangements must immediately follow the Table of Contents. This summary should:
(i) Bear the signatures of the Agency Head (or his/her designated authorized representative) and the university project director;
(ii) Indicate the agency's willingness to commit support for the project;
(iii) Identify the person(s) at the USDA agency who will serve as the liaison or technical contact for the project;
(iv) Describe the degree and nature of the USDA agency's involvement in the proposed project, as outlined in § 3406.6(a) of this part, including its role in:
(A) Identifying the need for the project;
(B) Developing a conceptual approach;
(C) Assisting with project design;
(D) Identifying and securing needed agency or other resources (e.g., personnel, grants/contracts; in-kind support, etc.);
(E) Developing the project budget;
(F) Promoting partnerships with other institutions to carry out the project;
(G) Helping the institution launch and manage the project;
(H) Providing technical assistance and expertise;
(I) Providing consultation through site visits, E-mail, conference calls, and faxes;
(J) Participating in project evaluation and dissemination of final project results; and
(K) Seeking other innovative ways to ensure the success of the project and advance the needs of the institution or the agency; and
(v) Describe the expected benefits of the partnership venture for the USDA agency and for the 1890 Institution.
(2) A detailed discussion of these partnership arrangements should be provided in the narrative portion of the proposal, as outlined in paragraph (f)(2)(iv)(C) of this section.
(3) Additional documentation, including letters of support or cooperation, may be provided in the Appendix.
(d)
Project summary.
(1) A Project Summary should immediately follow the summary documentation of USDA agency cooperation. The information provided in the Project Summary will be used by the program staff for a variety of purposes, including the proper assignment of proposals to peer reviewers and providing information to peer reviewers prior to the peer panel meeting. The name of the institution, the targeted need area(s), and the title of the proposal must be identified exactly as shown on the “Higher Education Proposal Cover Page.”
(2) If the proposal is a complementary project proposal, as defined in § 3406.2 of this part, clearly state this fact and identify the other complementary project(s) by citing the name of the submitting institution, the title of the project, the principal investigator, and the grant number (if funded in a previous year) exactly as shown on the cover page of the complementary project so that appropriate consideration can be given to the interrelatedness of the proposals in the evaluation process.
(3) If the proposal is a joint project proposal, as defined in § 3406.2 of this part, indicate such and identify the other participating institutions and the key person responsible for coordinating the project at each institution.
(4) The Project Summary should be a concise description of the proposed activity suitable for publication by the Department to inform the general public about awards under the program. The text should not exceed one page, single-spaced. The Project Summary should be a self-contained description of the activity which would result if the proposal is funded by USDA. It should include: The objective of the project, a synopsis of the plan of operation, a statement of how the project will enhance the research capacity of the institution, a description of how the project will enhance research in the food and agricultural sciences, and a description of the partnership efforts between, and the expected benefits for, the USDA agency cooperator(s) and the 1890 Institution and the plans for disseminating project results. The Project Summary should be written so that a technically literate reader can evaluate the use of Federal funds in support of the project.
(e)
Resubmission of a proposal
—(1)
Resubmission of previously unfunded proposals.
(i) If the proposal has been submitted previously, but was not funded, such should be indicated in block 13. on Form NIFA-712, “Higher Education Proposal Cover Page,” and the following information should be included in the proposal:
(A) The fiscal year(s) in which the proposal was submitted previously;
(B) A summary of the peer reviewers' comments; and
(C) How these comments have been addressed in the current proposal, including the page numbers in the current proposal where the peer reviewers' comments have been addressed.
(ii) This information may be provided as a section of the proposal following the Project Summary and preceding the proposal narrative or it may be placed in the Appendix (see paragraph (j) of this section). In either case, the location of this information should be indicated in the Table of Contents, and the fact that the proposal is a resubmitted proposal should be stated in the proposal narrative. Further, when possible, the information should be presented in a tabular format. Applicants who choose to resubmit proposals that were previously submitted, but not funded, should note that resubmitted proposals must compete equally with newly submitted proposals. Submitting a proposal that has been revised based on a previous peer review panel's critique of the proposal does not guarantee the success of the resubmitted proposal.
(2)
Resubmission of previously funded proposals.
Recognizing that capacity building is a long-term ongoing process, the 1890 Institution Capacity Building Grants Program is interested in funding subsequent phases of previously funded projects in order to build institutional capacity, and institutions are encouraged to build on a theme over several grant awards. However, proposals that are sequential continuations or new stages of previously funded Capacity Building Grants must compete with first-time proposals. Therefore, principal investigators should thoroughly demonstrate how the project proposed in the current application expands substantially upon a previously funded project (
i.e.
, demonstrate how the new project will advance the former project to the next level of attainment or will achieve expanded goals). The proposal must also show the degree to which the new phase promotes innovativeness and creativity beyond the scope of the previously funded project. Please note that the 1890 Institution Capacity Building Grants Program is not designed to support activities that are essentially repetitive in nature over multiple grant awards. Principal investigators who have had their projects funded previously are discouraged from resubmitting relatively identical proposals for future funding.
(f)
Narrative of a research proposal.
The narrative portion of the proposal is limited to 20 pages in length. The one-page Project Summary is not included in the 20-page limitation. The narrative must be typed on one side of the page only, using a font no smaller than 12 point, and double-spaced. All margins must be at least one inch. All pages following the summary documentation of USDA agency cooperation must be paginated. It should be noted that peer reviewers will not be required to read beyond 20 pages of the narrative to evaluate the proposal. The narrative should contain the following sections:
(1)
Significance of the problem
—(i)
Impact
—(A)
Identification of the problem or opportunity.
Clearly identify the specific problem or opportunity to be addressed and present any research questions or hypotheses to be examined.
(B)
Rationale.
Provide a rationale for the proposed approach to the problem or opportunity and indicate the part that the proposed project will play in advancing food and agricultural research and knowledge. Discuss how the project will be of value and importance at the State, regional, national, or international level(s). Also discuss how the benefits to be derived from the project will transcend the proposing institution or the grant period.
(C)
Literature review.
Include a comprehensive summary of the pertinent scientific literature. Citations may be footnoted to a bibliography in the Appendix. Citations should be accurate, complete, and adhere to an acceptable
journal format. Explain how such knowledge (or previous findings) is related to the proposed project.
(D)
Current research and related activities.
Describe the relevancy of the proposed project to current research or significant research support activities at the proposing institution and any other institution participating in the project, including research which may be as yet unpublished.
(ii)
Continuation plans.
Discuss the likelihood or plans for continuation or expansion of the project beyond USDA support. Discuss, as applicable, how the institution's long-range budget, and administrative and academic plans, provide for the realistic continuation or expansion of the line of research or research support activity undertaken by this project after the end of the grant period. For example, are there plans for securing non-Federal support for the project? Is there any potential for income from patents, technology transfer or university-business enterprises resulting from the project? Also discuss the probabilities of the proposed activity or line of inquiry being pursued by researchers at other institutions.
(iii)
Innovation.
Describe the degree to which the proposal reflects an innovative or non-traditional approach to a food and agricultural research initiative.
(iv)
Products and results.
Explain the kinds of products and results expected and their impact on strengthening food and agricultural sciences higher education in the United States, including attracting academically outstanding students or increasing the ethnic, racial, and gender diversity of the Nation's food and agricultural scientific and professional expertise base.
(2)
Overall approach and cooperative linkages
—(i)
Approach
—(A)
Objectives.
Cite and discuss the specific objectives to be accomplished under the project.
(B)
Plan of operation.
The procedures or methodologies to be applied to the proposed project should be explicitly stated. This section should include, but not necessarily be limited to a description of:
(
1
) The proposed investigations, experiments, or research support enhancements in the sequence in which they will be carried out.
(
2
) Procedures and techniques to be employed, including their feasibility.
(
3
) Means by which data will be collected and analyzed.
(
4
) Pitfalls that might be encountered.
(
5
) Limitations to proposed procedures.
(C)
Timetable.
Provide a timetable for execution of the project. Identify all important research milestones and dates as they relate to project start-up, execution, dissemination, evaluation, and close-out.
(ii)
Evaluation plans.
(A) Provide a plan for evaluating the accomplishment of stated objectives during the conduct of the project. Indicate the criteria, and corresponding weight of each, to be used in the evaluation process, describe any performance data to be collected and analyzed, and explain the methodologies that will be used to determine the extent to which the needs underlying the project are being met.
(B) Provide a plan for evaluating the effectiveness of the end results upon conclusion of the project. Include the same kinds of information requested in paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(A) of this section.
(iii) Dissemination plans. Provide plans for disseminating project results and products including the possibilities for publications. Identify target audiences and explain methods of communication.
(iv)
Partnerships and collaborative efforts.
(A) Explain how the project will maximize partnership ventures and collaborative efforts to strengthen food and agricultural sciences higher education (e.g., involvement of faculty in related disciplines at the same institution, joint projects with other colleges or universities, or cooperative activities with business or industry). Also explain how it will stimulate academia, the States, or the private sector to join with the Federal partner in enhancing food and agricultural sciences higher education.
(B) Provide evidence, via letters from the parties involved, that arrangements necessary for collaborative partnerships or joint initiatives have been
discussed and realistically can be expected to come to fruition, or actually have been finalized contingent on an award under this program. Letters must be signed by an official who has the authority to commit the resources of the organization. Such letters should be referenced in the plan of operation, but the actual letters should be included in the Appendix section of the proposal. Any potential conflict(s) of interest that might result from the proposed collaborative arrangements must be discussed in detail. Proposals which indicate joint projects with other institutions must state which proposer is to receive any resulting grant award, since only one submitting institution can be the recipient of a project grant under one proposal.
(C) Explain how the project will create a new or enhance an existing partnership between the USDA agency cooperator(s) and the 1890 Institution(s). This section should expand upon the summary information provided in the documentation of USDA agency cooperation section, as outlined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. This is particularly important because the focal point of attention in the peer review process is the proposal narrative. Therefore, a comprehensive discussion of the partnership effort between USDA and the 1890 Institution should be provided.
(3)
Institutional capacity building
—(i)
Institutional enhancement.
Explain how the proposed project will strengthen the research capacity, as defined in § 3406.2 of this part, of the applicant institution and, if applicable, any other institutions assuming a major role in the conduct of the project. For example, describe how the proposed project is intended to strengthen the institution's research infrastructure by advancing the expertise of the current faculty in the natural or social sciences; providing a better research environment, state-of-the-art equipment, or supplies; enhancing library collections; or enabling the institution to provide efficacious organizational structures and reward systems to attract and retain first-rate research faculty and students—particularly those from underrepresented groups.
(ii)
Institutional commitment.
(A) Discuss the institution's commitment to the project and its successful completion. Provide, as relevant, appropriate documentation in the Appendix. Substantiate that the institution attributes a high priority to the project.
(B) Discuss how the project will contribute to the achievement of the institution's long-term (five- to ten-year) goals and how the project will help satisfy the institution's high-priority objectives. Show how this project is linked to and supported by the institution's strategic plan.
(C) Discuss the commitment of institutional resources to the project. Show that the institutional resources to be made available to the project will be adequate, when combined with the support requested from USDA, to carry out the activities of the project and represent a sound commitment by the institution. Discuss institutional facilities, equipment, computer services, and other appropriate resources available to the project.
(g)
Key personnel.
A Form NIFA-710, “Summary Vita—Research Proposal,” should be included for each key person associated with the project.
(h)
Budget and cost-effectiveness
—(1)
Budget form.
(i) Prepare Form NIFA-713, “Higher Education Budget,” in accordance with instructions provided with the form. Proposals may request support for a period to be identified in each year's program announcement. A budget form is required for each year of requested support. In addition, a summary budget is required detailing the requested total support for the overall project period. Form NIFA-713 may be reproduced as needed by proposers. Funds may be requested under any of the categories listed on the form, provided that the item or service for which support is requested is allowable under the authorizing legislation, the applicable Federal cost principles, the administrative provisions in this part, and can be justified as necessary for the successful conduct of the proposed project.
(ii) The approved negotiated research rate or the maximum rate allowed by law should be used when computing indirect costs. If a reduced rate of indirect costs is voluntarily requested from
USDA, the remaining allowable indirect costs may be used as matching funds. In the event that a proposal reflects an incorrect indirect cost rate and is recommended for funding, the correct rate will be applied to the approved budget in the grant award.
(2)
Matching funds.
When documenting matching contributions, use the following guidelines:
(i) When preparing the column entitled “Applicant Contributions to Matching Funds” of Form NIFA-713, only those costs to be contributed by the applicant for the purposes of matching should be shown. The total amount of this column should be indicated in item M.
(ii) In item N of Form NIFA-713, show a total dollar amount for Cash Contributions from both the applicant and any third parties; also show a total dollar amount (based on current fair market value) for Non-cash Contributions from both the applicant and any third parties.
(iii) To qualify for any incentive benefits stemming from matching support or to satisfy any cost sharing requirements, proposals must include written verification of any actual commitments of matching support (including both cash and non-cash contributions) from third parties. Written verification means—
(A) For any third party cash contributions, a separate pledge agreement for each donation, signed by the authorized organizational representative(s) of the donor organization (or by the donor if the gift is from an individual) and the applicant institution, which must include:
(
1
) The name, address, and telephone number of the donor;
(
2
) The name of the applicant institution;
(
3
) The title of the project for which the donation is made;
(
4
) The dollar amount of the cash donation; and
(
5
) A statement that the donor will pay the cash contribution during the grant period; and
(B) For any third party non-cash contributions, a separate pledge agreement for each contribution, signed by the authorized organizational representative(s) of the donor organization (or by the donor if the gift is from an individual) and the applicant institution, which must include:
(
1
) The name, address, and telephone number of the donor;
(
2
) The name of the applicant institution;
(
3
) The title of the project for which the donation is made;
(
4
) A good faith estimate of the current fair market value of the non-cash contribution; and
(
5
) A statement that the donor will make the contribution during the grant period.
(iv) All pledge agreements must be placed in the proposal immediately following Form NIFA-713. The sources and amounts of all matching support from outside the applicant institution should be summarized in the Budget Narrative section of the proposal.
(v) Applicants should refer to OMB Circulars A-110, “Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements With Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and Other Non-profit Organizations,” and A-21, “Cost Principles for Educational Institutions,” for further guidance and other requirements relating to matching and allowable costs.
(3)
Chart on shared budget for joint project proposal.
(i) For a joint project proposal, a plan must be provided indicating how funds will be distributed to the participating institutions. The budget section of a joint project proposal should include a chart indicating:
(A) The names of the participating institutions;
(B) the amount of funds to be disbursed to those institutions; and
(C) the way in which such funds will be used in accordance with items A through L of Form NIFA-713, “Higher Education Budget.”
(ii) If a proposal is not for a joint project, such a chart is not required.
(4)
Budget narrative.
(i) Discuss how the budget specifically supports the proposed project activities. Explain how each budget item (such as salaries and wages for professional and technical staff, student workers, travel, equipment, etc.) is essential to achieving project objectives.
(ii) Justify that the total budget, including funds requested from USDA
and any matching support provided, will be adequate to carry out the activities of the project. Provide a summary of sources and amounts of all third party matching support.
(iii) Justify the project's cost-effectiveness. Show how the project maximizes the use of limited resources, optimizes research value for the dollar, achieves economies of scale, or leverages additional funds. For example, discuss how the project has the potential to generate a critical mass of expertise and activity focused on a high-priority research initiative(s) or promote coalition building that could lead to future ventures.
(iv) Include the percentage of time key personnel will work on the project, both during the academic year and summer. When salaries of university project personnel will be paid by a combination of USDA and institutional funds, the total compensation must not exceed the faculty member's regular annual compensation. In addition, the total commitment of time devoted to the project, when combined with time for teaching and research duties, other sponsored agreements, and other employment obligations to the institution, must not exceed 100 percent of the normal workload for which the employee is compensated, in accordance with established university policies and applicable Federal cost principles.
(v) If the proposal addresses more than one targeted need area, estimate the proportion of the funds requested from USDA that will support each respective targeted need area.
(i)
Current and pending support.
Each applicant must complete Form NIFA-663, “Current and Pending Support,” identifying any other current public- or private-sponsored projects, in addition to the proposed project, to which key personnel listed in the proposal under consideration have committed portions of their time, whether or not salary support for the person(s) involved is included in the budgets of the various projects. This information should also be provided for any pending proposals which are currently being considered by, or which will be submitted in the near future to, other possible sponsors, including other USDA programs or agencies. Concurrent submission of identical or similar projects to other possible sponsors will not prejudice the review or evaluation of a project under this program.
(j)
Appendix.
Each project narrative is expected to be complete in itself and to meet the 20-page limitation. Inclusion of material in the Appendix should not be used to circumvent the 20-page limitation of the proposal narrative. However, in those instances where inclusion of supplemental information is necessary to guarantee the peer review panel's complete understanding of a proposal or to illustrate the integrity of the design or a main thesis of the proposal, such information may be included in the Appendix. Examples of supplemental material are photographs, journal reprints, brochures and other pertinent materials which are deemed to be illustrative of major points in the narrative but unsuitable for inclusion in the proposal narrative itself. Information on previously submitted proposals may also be presented in the Appendix (refer to paragraph (e) of this section). When possible, information in the Appendix should be presented in tabular format. A complete set of the Appendix material must be attached to each copy of the grant application submitted. The Appendix must be identified with the title of the project as it appears on Form NIFA-712 of the proposal and the name(s) of the principal investigator(s). The Appendix must be referenced in the proposal narrative.
(k)
Special considerations.
A number of situations encountered in the conduct of research require special information or supporting documentation before funding can be approved for the project. If such situations are anticipated, proposals must so indicate via completion of Form NIFA-662, “Assurance Statement(s).” It is expected that some applications submitted in response to these guidelines will involve the following:
(1)
Recombinant DNA research.
All key personnel identified in the proposal and all endorsing officials of the proposing organization are required to comply with the guidelines established by the National Institutes of Health entitled “Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules,” as revised.
All applicants proposing to use recombinant DNA techniques must so indicate by checking the appropriate box on Form NIFA-712, “Higher Education Proposal Cover Page,” and by completing the applicable section of Form NIFA-662. In the event a project involving recombinant DNA or RNA molecules results in a grant award, the Institutional Biosafety Committee of the proposing institution must approve the research plan before NIFA will release grant funds.
(2)
Protection of human subjects.
Responsibility for safeguarding the rights and welfare of human subjects used in any grant project supported with funds provided by NIFA rests with the performing organization. Guidance on this is contained in Department of Agriculture regulations under 7 CFR part 1c. All applicants who propose to use human subjects for experimental purposes must indicate their intention by checking the appropriate block on Form NIFA-712, “Higher Education Proposal Cover Page,” and by completing the appropriate portion of Form NIFA-662. In the event a project involving human subjects results in a grant award, the Institutional Review Board of the proposing institution must approve the research plan before NIFA will release grant funds.
(3)
Laboratory animal care.
Responsibility for the humane care and treatment of laboratory animals used in any grant project supported with funds provided by NIFA rests with the performing organization. All key project personnel and all endorsing officials of the proposing organization are required to comply with the Animal Welfare Act of 1966, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2131
et seq.
), and the regulations promulgated thereunder by the Secretary of Agriculture in 9 CFR parts 1, 2, 3, and 4 pertaining to the care, handling, and treatment of laboratory animals. All applicants proposing a project which involves the use of laboratory animals must indicate their intention by checking the appropriate block on Form NIFA-712, “Higher Education Proposal Cover Page,” and by completing the appropriate portion of Form NIFA-662. In the event a project involving the use of living vertebrate animals results in a grant award, the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee of the proposing institution must approve the research plan before NIFA will release grant funds.
(l)
Compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA).
As outlined in 7 CFR part 3407 (the Agriculture regulations implementing NEPA), the environmental data for any proposed project is to be provided to NIFA so that NIFA may determine whether any further action is needed. In some cases, however, the preparation of environmental data may not be required. Certain categories of actions are excluded from the requirements of NEPA.
(1)
NEPA determination.
In order for NIFA to determine whether any further action is needed with respect to NEPA, pertinent information regarding the possible environmental impacts of a particular project is necessary; therefore, Form NIFA-1234, “NEPA Exclusions Form,”ust be included in the proposal indicating whether the applicant is of the opinion that the project falls within a categorical exclusion and the reasons therefor. If it is the applicant's opinion that the proposed project falls within the categorical exclusions, the specific exclusion must be identified. Form NIFA-1234 and any supporting documentation should be placed at the end of the proposal and identified in the Table of Contents.
(2)
Exceptions to categorical exclusions.
Even though a project may fall within the categorical exclusions, NIFA may determine that an Environmental Assessment or an Environmental Impact Statement is necessary for an activity, if substantial controversy on environmental grounds exists or if other extraordinary conditions or circumstances are present which may cause such activity to have a significant environmental effect.

# Subpart F—Review and Evaluation of a Research Proposal
§ 3406.19
Proposal review—research.
The proposal evaluation process includes both internal staff review and merit evaluation by peer review panels comprised of scientists, educators, business representatives, and Government officials who are highly qualified
to render expert advice in the areas supported. Peer review panels will be selected and structured to provide optimum expertise and objective judgment in the evaluation of proposals.
§ 3406.20
Evaluation criteria for research proposals.
The maximum score a research proposal can receive is 150 points. Unless otherwise stated in the annual solicitation published in the
Federal Register,
the peer review panel will consider the following criteria and weights to evaluate proposals submitted:
Evaluation criterion
Weight
(a) Significance of the problem:
This criterion is used to assess the likelihood that the project will advance or have a substantial impact upon the body of knowledge constituting the natural and social sciences undergirding the agricultural, natural resources, and food systems.
(1) Impact—Is the problem or opportunity to be addressed by the proposed project clearly identified, outlined, and delineated? Are research questions or hypotheses precisely stated? Is the project likely to further advance food and agricultural research and knowledge? Does the project have potential for augmenting the food and agricultural scientific knowledge base? Does the project address a State, regional, national, or international problem(s)? Will the benefits to be derived from the project transcend the applicant institution or the grant period?
15 points.
(2) Continuation plans—Are there plans for continuation or expansion of the project beyond USDA support? Are there plans for continuing this line of research or research support activity with the use of institutional funds after the end of the grant? Are there indications of external, non-Federal support? Are there realistic plans for making the project self-supporting? What is the potential for royalty or patent income, technology transfer or university-business enterprises? What are the probabilities of the proposed activity or line of inquiry being pursued by researchers at other institutions?
10 points.
(3) Innovation—Are significant aspects of the project based on an innovative or a non-traditional approach? Does the project reflect creative thinking? To what degree does the venture reflect a unique approach that is new to the applicant institution or new to the entire field of study?
10 points.
(4) Products and results—Are the expected products and results of the project clearly outlined and likely to be of high quality? Will project results be of an unusual or unique nature? Will the project contribute to a better understanding of or an improvement in the quality, distribution, or effectiveness of the Nation's food and agricultural scientific and professional expertise base, such as increasing the participation of women and minorities?
15 points.
(b) Overall approach and cooperative linkages:
This criterion relates to the soundness of the proposed approach and the quality of the partnerships likely to evolve as a result of the project.
(1) Proposed approach—Do the objectives and plan of operation appear to be sound and appropriate relative to the proposed initiative(s) and the impact anticipated? Is the proposed sequence of work appropriate? Does the proposed approach reflect sound knowledge of current theory and practice and awareness of previous or ongoing related research? If the proposed project is a continuation of a current line of study or currently funded project, does the proposal include sufficient preliminary data from the previous research or research support activity? Does the proposed project flow logically from the findings of the previous stage of study? Are the procedures scientifically and managerially sound? Are potential pitfalls and limitations clearly identified? Are contingency plans delineated? Does the timetable appear to be readily achievable?
5 points.
(2) Evaluation—Are the evaluation plans adequate and reasonable? Do they allow for continuous or frequent feedback during the life of the project? Are the individuals involved in project evaluation skilled in evaluation strategies and procedures? Can they provide an objective evaluation? Do evaluation plans facilitate the measurement of project progress and outcomes?
5 points
(3) Dissemination—Does the proposed project include clearly outlined and realistic mechanisms that will lead to widespread dissemination of project results, including national electronic communication systems, publications and presentations at professional society meetings?
5 points.
(4) Partnerships and collaborative efforts—Does the project have significant potential for advancing cooperative ventures between the applicant institution and a USDA agency? Does the project workplan include an effective role for the cooperating USDA agency(s)? Will the project encourage and facilitate better working relationships in the university science community, as well as between universities and the public or private sector? Does the project encourage appropriate multi-disciplinary collaboration? Will the project lead to long-term relationships or cooperative partnerships that are likely to enhance research quality or supplement available resources?
15 points.
(c) Institutional capacity building:
This criterion relates to the degree to which the project will strengthen the research capacity of the applicant institution. In the case of a joint project proposal, it relates to the degree to which the project will strengthen the research capacity of the applicant institution and that of any other institution assuming a major role in the conduct of the project.
(1) Institutional enhancement—Will the project help the institution to advance the expertise of current faculty in the natural or social sciences; provide a better research environment, state-of-the-art equipment, or supplies; enhance library collections related to the area of research; or enable the institution to provide efficacious organizational structures and reward systems to attract, hire and retain first-rate research faculty and students—particularly those from underrepresented groups?
15 points.
(2) Institutional commitment—Is there evidence to substantiate that the institution attributes a high-priority to the project, that the project is linked to the achievement of the institution's long-term goals, that it will help satisfy the institution's high-priority objectives, or that the project is supported by the institution's strategic plans? Will the project have reasonable access to needed resources such as scientific instrumentation, facilities, computer services, library and other research support resources?
15 points.
(d) Personnel Resources
10 Points
This criterion relates to the number and qualifications of the key persons who will carry out the project. Are designated project personnel qualified to carry out a successful project? Are there sufficient numbers of personnel associated with the project to achieve the stated objectives and the anticipated outcomes? Will the project help develop the expertise of young scientists at the doctoral or post-doctorate level?
(e) Budget and cost-effectiveness:
This criterion relates to the extent to which the total budget adequately supports the project and is cost-effective.
(1) Budget—Is the budget request justifiable? Are costs reasonable and necessary? Will the total budget be adequate to carry out project activities? Are the source(s) and amount(s) of non-Federal matching support clearly identified and appropriately documented? For a joint project proposal, is the shared budget explained clearly and in sufficient detail?
10 points.
(2) Cost-effectiveness—Is the proposed project cost-effective? Does it demonstrate a creative use of limited resources, maximize research value per dollar of USDA support, achieve economies of scale, leverage additional funds or have the potential to do so, focus expertise and activity on a high-priority research initiative(s), or promote coalition building for current or future ventures?
5 points.
(f) Overall quality of proposal
5 points
This criterion relates to the degree to which the proposal complies with the application guidelines and is of high quality. Is the proposal enhanced by its adherence to instructions (table of contents, organization, pagination, margin and font size, the 20-page limitation, appendices, etc.); accuracy of forms; clarity of budget narrative; well prepared vitae for all key personnel associated with the project; and presentation (are ideas effectively presented, clearly articulated, thoroughly explained, etc.)?

# Subpart G—Submission of a Teaching or Research Proposal
§ 3406.21
Intent to submit a proposal.
To assist NIFA in preparing for the review of proposals, institutions planning to submit proposals may be requested to complete Form NIFA-711, “Intent to Submit a Proposal,” provided in the application package. NIFA will determine each year if Intent to Submit a Proposal forms will be requested and provide such information in the program announcement. If Intent to Submit a Proposal forms are required, one form should be completed and returned for each proposal an institution anticipates submitting. Submitting this form does not commit an institution to any course of action, nor does failure to send this form prohibit an institution from submitting a proposal.
§ 3406.22
When and where to submit a proposal.
The program announcement will provide the deadline date for submitting a proposal, the number of copies of each proposal that must be submitted, and the address to which proposals must be submitted.

# Subpart H—Supplementary Information
§ 3406.23
Access to peer review information.
After final decisions have been announced, NIFA will, upon request, inform the principal investigator/project director of the reasons for its decision on a proposal. Verbatim copies of summary reviews, not including the identity of the peer reviewers, will be made
available to the respective principal investigator/project directors upon specific request.
§ 3406.24
Grant awards.
(a)
General.
Within the limit of funds available for such purpose, the authorized departmental officer shall make project grants to those responsible, eligible applicants whose proposals are judged most meritorious in the announced targeted need areas under the evaluation criteria and procedures set forth in this part. The beginning of the project period shall be no later than September 30 of the Federal fiscal year in which the project is approved for support. All funds granted under this part shall be expended solely for the purpose for which the funds are granted in accordance with the approved application and budget, the regulations of this part, the terms and conditions of the award, the applicable Federal cost principles, and2 CFR part 200 and part 400.
(b)
Organizational management information.
Specific management information relating to a proposing institution shall be submitted on a one-time basis prior to the award of a project grant identified under this part if such information has not been provided previously under this or another program for which the sponsoring agency is responsible. Copies of forms used to fulfill this requirement will be sent to the proposing institution by the sponsoring agency as part of the pre-award process.
(c)
Notice of grant award.
The grant award document shall include at a minimum the following:
(1) Legal name and address of performing organization.
(2) Title of project.
(3) Name(s) and address(es) of principal investigator(s)/project director(s).
(4) Identifying grant number assigned by the Department.
(5) Project period, which specifies how long the Department intends to support the effort without requiring reapplication for funds.
(6) Total amount of Federal financial assistance approved during the project period.
(7) Legal authority(ies) under which the grant is awarded.
(8) Approved budget plan for categorizing allocable project funds to accomplish the stated purpose of the grant award.
(9) Other information or provisions deemed necessary by the Department to carry out its granting activities or to accomplish the purpose of this particular project grant.
(d)
Obligation of the Federal Government.
Neither the approval of any application nor the award of any project grant shall legally commit or obligate NIFA or the United States to provide further support of a project or any portion thereof.
[62 FR 39331, July 22, 1997, as amended at 79 FR 75999, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 3406.25
Use of funds; changes.
(a)
Delegation of fiscal responsibility.
The grantee may not in whole or in part delegate or transfer to another person, institution, or organization the responsibility for use or expenditure of grant funds.
(b)
Change in project plans.
(1) The permissible changes by the grantee, principal investigator(s)/project director(s), or other key project personnel in the approved project grant shall be limited to changes in methodology, techniques, or other aspects of the project to expedite achievement of the project's approved goals. If the grantee or the principal investigator(s)/project director(s) are uncertain as to whether a change complies with this provision, the question must be referred to the Department for a final determination.
(2) Changes in approved goals, or objectives, shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the authorized departmental officer prior to effecting such changes. In no event shall requests for such changes be approved which are outside the scope of the approved project.
(3) Changes in approved project leadership or the replacement or reassignment of other key project personnel shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the authorized departmental officer prior to effecting such changes.
(4) Transfers of actual performance of the substantive programmatic work in whole or in part and provisions for payment of funds, whether or not Federal
funds are involved, shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the authorized departmental officer prior to effecting such transfers.
(c)
Changes in project period.
The project period may be extended by the authorized departmental officer without additional financial support for such additional period(s) as the authorized departmental officer determines may be necessary to complete or fulfill the purposes of an approved project. However, due to statutory restriction, no grant may be extended beyond five years from the original start date of the grant. Grant extensions shall be conditioned upon prior request by the grantee and approval in writing by the authorized departmental officer, unless prescribed otherwise in the terms and conditions of a grant.
(d)
Changes in approved budget.
Changes in an approved budget must be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the authorized departmental officer prior to instituting such changes if the revision will:
(1) Involve transfers of amounts budgeted for indirect costs to absorb an increase in direct costs;
(2) Involve transfers of amounts budgeted for direct costs to accommodate changes in indirect cost rates negotiated during a budget period and not approved when a grant was awarded; or
(3) Involve transfers or expenditures of amounts requiring prior approval as set forth in the applicable Federal cost principles, Departmental regulations, or in the grant award.
§ 3406.26
Monitoring progress of funded projects.
(a) During the tenure of a grant, principal investigators/project directors must attend at least one national principal investigators/project directors meeting, if offered, in Washington, DC or any other announced location. The purpose of the meeting will be to discuss project and grant management, opportunities for collaborative efforts, future directions for education reform, research project management, advancing a field of science, and opportunities to enhance dissemination of exemplary end products/results.
(b) An Annual Performance Report must be submitted to the USDA program contact person within 90 days after the completion of the first year of the project and annually thereafter during the life of the grant. Generally, the Annual Performance Reports should include a summary of the overall progress toward project objectives, current problems or unusual developments, the next year's planned activities, and any other information that is pertinent to the ongoing project or which may be specified in the terms and conditions of the award. These reports are in addition to the annual Current Research Information System (CRIS) reports required for all research grants under the award's “Special Terms and Conditions.”
(c) A Final Performance Report must be submitted to the USDA program contact person within 90 days after the expiration date of the project. The expiration date is specified in the award documents and modifications thereto, if any. Generally, the Final Performance Report should be a summary of the completed project, including: A review of project objectives and accomplishments; a description of any products and outcomes resulting from the project; activities undertaken to disseminate products and outcomes; partnerships and collaborative ventures that resulted from the project; future initiatives that are planned as a result of the project; the impact of the project on the principal investigator(s)/project director(s), the institution, and the food and agricultural sciences higher education system; and data on project personnel and beneficiaries. The Final Performance Report should be accompanied by samples or copies of any products or publications resulting from or developed by the project. The Final Performance Report must also contain any other information which may be specified in the terms and conditions of the award.
§ 3406.27
Other Federal statutes and regulations that apply.
(a) The Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) issued guidance on Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards at 2 CFR
part 200 on December 26, 2013. In 2 CFR 400.1, the Department adopted OMB's guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400, as the Department's policies and procedures for uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for federal awards. As a result, this regulation contains references to 2 CFR part 200 as it has regulatory effect for the Department's programs and activities.”
(b) Several other Federal statutes and/or regulations apply to grant proposals considered for review or to research project grants awarded under this part. These include but are not limited to:
2 CFR part 200—Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, And Audit Requirements For Federal Awards.
2 CFR part 180 and Part 417—OMB Guidelines To Agencies On Government-Wide Debarment And Suspension (Nonprocurement) And USDA Nonprocurement Debarment And Suspension
7 CFR part 1c—USDA implementation of the Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects.
7 CFR 1.1—USDA implementation of Freedom of Information Act.
7 CFR part 3—USDA implementation of OMB Circular A-129 regarding debt collection.
7 CFR part 15, subpart A—USDA implementation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
7 CFR part 3407—NIFA procedures to implement the National Environmental Policy Act;
29 U.S.C. 794 (section 504, Rehabilitation Act of 1973) and 7 CFR part 15B (USDA implementation of statute)—prohibiting discrimination based upon physical or mental handicap in Federally assisted programs; and
35 U.S.C. 200
et seq.
—Bayh-Dole Act, controlling allocation of rights to inventions made by employees of small business firms and domestic nonprofit organizations, including universities, in Federally assisted programs (implementing regulations are contained in 37 CFR part 401).
[79 FR 75999, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 3406.28
Confidential aspects of proposals and awards.
When a proposal results in a grant, it becomes a part of the record of the Agency's transactions, available to the public upon specific request. Information that the Secretary determines to be of a privileged nature will be held in confidence to the extent permitted by law. Therefore, any information that the applicant wishes to have considered as privileged should be clearly marked as such and sent in a separate statement, two copies of which should accompany the proposal. The original copy of a proposal that does not result in a grant will be retained by the Agency for a period of one year. Other copies will be destroyed. Such a proposal will be released only with the consent of the applicant or to the extent required by law. A proposal may be withdrawn at any time prior to the final action thereon.
§ 3406.29
Evaluation of program.
Grantees should be aware that NIFA may, as a part of its own program evaluation activities, carry out in-depth evaluations of assisted activities. Thus, grantees should be prepared to cooperate with NIFA personnel, or persons retained by NIFA, evaluating the institutional context and the impact of any supported project. Grantees may be asked to provide general information on any students and faculty supported, in whole or in part, by a grant awarded under this program; information that may be requested includes, but is not limited to, standardized academic achievement test scores, grade point average, academic standing, career patterns, age, race/ethnicity, gender, citizenship, and disability.
Pt. 3407

# PART 3407—IMPLEMENTATION OF NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
Sec.
3407.1
Background and purpose.
3407.2
Definitions.
3407.3
Policy.
3407.4
Responsibilities.
3407.5
Classes of action.
3407.6
Categorical exclusions.
3407.7
Actions normally requiring an environmental assessment.
3407.8
Actions normally requiring an environmental impact statement.
3407.9
Use of environmental documents in decisionmaking.
3407.10
Preparation of environmental assessments.
3407.11
Preparation of environmental impact statements.

# Authority:
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.;
E.O. 11514, 34 FR 4247, as amended by E.O. 11991, 42 FR 26927; E.O. 12144, 44 FR 11957; 5 U.S.C. 301; 40 CFR 1500-1508; and 7 CFR 1b.

# Source:
56 FR 49245, Sept. 27, 1991, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 3407 appear at 76 FR 4810, Jan. 27, 2011.
§ 3407.1
Background and purpose.
(a) The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA), as amended (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
) establishes national policies and goals for the protection of the human environment. Section 102(2) of NEPA directs all Federal agencies to give appropriate consideration to the environmental consequences of proposed actions in their decisionmaking and to prepare detailed environmental statements on major Federal actions significantly affecting the quality of the human environment.
(b) The purpose of this regulation is to supplement the regulations for implementation of NEPA established by the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) and codified at 40 CFR parts 1500-1508, as adopted by USDA in 7 CFR part 1b.
(c) Unless otherwise noted, parenthetical citations throughout this part refer to the CEQ regulations.
§ 3407.2
Definitions.
(a)
Authorized Departmental Officer
means the NIFA official, acting within the scope of delegated authority, who is responsible for awarding and administering project grants on behalf of USDA and for carrying out NEPA responsibilities as outlined in § 3407.4(d) of this part. The Authorized Departmental Officer's responsibilities do not include the review, approval, management, or similar activity relating to programs or projects funded by NIFA on the basis of statutory formula and also do not include parallel responsibilities relating to the management or administration of cooperative agreements awarded by NIFA.
(b) Other terms used in this regulation have the same meaning as they have in the CEQ regulations.
§ 3407.3
Policy.
(a) It is NIFA policy to comply with the provisions of NEPA and related laws and policies and with the implementing regulations cited in § 3407.1(b) of this part.
(b) Environmental documents should be concise, written in plain language, and address the issues pertinent to the decision being made.
(c) Environmental documents may be substituted for or combined with other reports which serve to facilitate decisionmaking (40 CFR 1506.4).
(d) NIFA personnel will cooperate with other Federal and State agencies or units thereof, as well as with grantees, contractors, and other cooperating individuals or entities undertaking activities funded or recommended for funding by NIFA to assure that NEPA considerations are addressed early in the planning process to avoid delays and conflicts (40 CFR 1501.2).
(e) NIFA reserves the right to require project participants outside of NIFA to furnish environmental data or documentation to assist NIFA in carrying out its responsibilities under NEPA. When an applicant, grantee, or other cooperating individual or organization is required to submit environmental data to NIFA, including preparation of an environmental assessment (EA), or when a contractor hired by a grantee or other cooperating party prepares environmental data or documentation, NIFA shall provide advance instructions to the applicant, grantee, or other cooperator relating to the preparation and submission of the required information. All information supplied by external project participants shall be subject to verification by NIFA (40 CFR 1506.5).
(f) When possible, costs of analyses and development of required environmental documents shall be planned for during the budgetary process relating to the plan or program. Where the nature of particular program agreements (e.g., grants, cooperative agreements, formula projects) are determined by NIFA to require environmental documentation, the cost of preparing such documentation and of reasonable mitigation efforts shall be considered allowable costs and may be charged to the project as a portion of the Federal
or the non-Federal share of project costs. However, NIFA funds above those authorized for the program award will not be made available to recipients to cover such costs.
(g) Final environmental documents, decision notices, and records of decision shall be available to the public for review. There shall be an early and open process for determining the scope of issues to be addressed during environmental analysis (40 CFR 1501.7).
(h) The concept of tiering to eliminate repetitive discussions applicable to EISs (40 CFR part 1502) is applicable to EAs also.
(i) NIFA officials may adopt an existing Federal EA or EIS when a proposed action is substantially the same as the action for which an existing EA or EIS was prepared (40 CFR 1506.3), provided that the EA or EIS or portion thereof meets the standards for an adequate EA or EIS under these regulations.
(j) Existing environmental documents may be incorporated by reference to reduce the bulk of an EA or EIS (40 CFR 1502.21).
(k) After prior consultation with the Council on Environmental Quality, NIFA personnel may, in emergency situations, implement alternative arrangements for compliance with these procedures in accordance with 40 CFR 1506.11.
§ 3407.4
Responsibilities.
The NIFA officials identified below are responsible for carrying out the provisions of NEPA as indicated:
(a)
Director.
The Director is responsible for providing leadership, formulating agency policies and procedures to implement NEPA, and making available necessary resources to ensure that NEPA goals are met.
(b)
Deputy Directors and Assistant Directors.
Deputy Directors and Assistant Directors are responsible for:
(1) Ensuring that eligible institutions under NIFA formula grant programs are notified of agency environmental requirements before projects to be funded with formula funds are submitted to NIFA for approval;
(2) Assuring that adequate consideration is given to environmental effects of proposed actions during programmatic planning and decisionmaking processes for grants, cooperative agreements, and formula projects;
(3) Ensuring that environmental information is reviewed and that required documentation is developed in a timely and satisfactory manner for grants, cooperative agreements, and formula projects; and
(4) Approving courses of action within the range of alternatives presented including, as appropriate, approval or recommendation of EAs and EISs for grants, cooperative agreements, and formula projects.
(c)
Program Managers.
NIFA Program Managers are responsible for:
(1) Preparing EISs when required;
(2) Reviewing and making recommendations relating to environmental documentation submitted by project recipients;
(3) Recommending and implementing courses of action within the range of alternatives presented; and
(4) Monitoring results.
(d)
Authorized Departmental Officer.
The Authorized Departmental Officer is responsible for:
(1) Ensuring that eligible applicants under NIFA's project grant programs are notified of agency environmental requirements in advance of proposal preparation;
(2) Providing terms and conditions of grant award for adequate environmental documentation; and
(3) Authorizing the commencement of approved project activities.

# Note:
Where agency environmental requirements are set forth in program regulations, solicitations of applications, program guidelines, or other documents that apprise applicants of environmental requirements, the requirement for advance notification to potential applicants shall be satisfied.
[56 FR 49245, Sept. 27, 1991, as amended at 79 FR 76000, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 3407.5
Classes of action.
The following describes typical classes of action associated with NIFA programs and related activities:
(a) Actions which normally do not require the preparation of an EA or an EIS are those actions which ordinarily do not have significant individual or cumulative effect on the quality of the human environment. These include those activities described in §§ 3407.6 (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this part.
(b) Actions normally requiring an EA, but not necessarily an EIS, are those projects in which at least some level of uncertainty exists regarding individual or cumulative effects on the quality of the human environment. Such actions generally include those identified in §§ 3407.6(b) and 3407.7 of this part.
(c) Actions normally requiring an EIS are projects which are determined to have a significant impact on the quality of the human environment or which will be performed under extraordinary circumstances. These types of actions are identified in §§ 3407.6(b) and 3407.8 of this part.
§ 3407.6
Categorical exclusions.
(a) All NIFA actions will be analyzed by the appropriate NIFA official specified in § 3407.4(c) to determine whether the project under consideration will have a significant environmental effect prior to recommending to the official responsible for approving a formula project in the case of formula grants, or the official responsible for awarding a grant or cooperative agreement in the case of a grant or cooperative agreement that the action be undertaken. Unless otherwise determined to be necessary under the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, however, the preparation of an EA or EIS is not required for the following categories of actions:
(1)
Department of Agriculture Categorical Exclusions (7 CFR 1b.3).
(i) Policy development, planning and implementation which are related to routine activities such as personnel, organizational changes, or similar administrative functions;
(ii) Activities which deal solely with the functions of programs, such as program budget proposals, disbursement, and transfer or reprogramming of funds;
(iii) Inventories, research activities and studies, such as resource inventories and routine data collection when such actions are clearly limited in context and intensity;
(iv) Educational and informational programs and activities;
(v) Civil and criminal law enforcement and investigative activities;
(vi) Activities which are advisory and consultative to other agencies and public and private entities; and
(vii) Activities related to trade representation and market development activities abroad.
(2)
NIFA categorical exclusions
Based on previous experience, the following categories of NIFA actions are excluded because they have been found to have limited scope and intensity and to have no significant individual or cumulative impacts on the quality of the human environment:
(i) The following categories of research programs or projects of limited size and magnitude or with only short-term effects on the environment:
(A) Research conducted within any laboratory, greenhouse, or other contained facility where research practices and safeguards prevent environmental impacts;
(B) Surveys, inventories, and similar studies that have limited context and minimal intensity in terms of changes in the environment; and
(C) Testing outside of the laboratory, such as in small isolated field plots, which involves the routine use of familiar chemicals or biological materials.
(ii) Routine renovation, rehabilitation, or revitalization of physical facilities, including the acquisition and installation of equipment, where such activity is limited in scope and intensity.
(b) Exceptions to categorical exclusions. Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, an EA or EIS shall be prepared for an activity which is normally within the purview of categorical exclusion where it is determined by NIFA that substantial controversy on environmental grounds exists or that other extraordinary conditions or circumstances are present which may cause such activity to have a significant environmental effect.
§ 3407.7
Actions normally requiring an environmental assessment.
The following actions normally will require an EA:
(a) Programs supported in whole or in part by NIFA which may result in a particular technology's moving from the field evaluation stage to large-
scale demonstration or simulated commercial phase.
(b) Field work that is expected to have an effect on the human environment such as large-scale excavations or the use of explosives.
(c) Projects for the construction or renovation of physical facilities, unless categorically excluded under § 3407.6(a)(2)(ii).
(d) Activities specified in § 3407.6(b).
§ 3407.8
Actions normally requiring an environmental impact statement.
An EIS normally will be required for major actions where it is determined by NIFA that such activity will significantly affect the quality of the human environment, including those specified in § 3407.6(b).
§ 3407.9
Use of environmental documents in decisionmaking.
In carrying out agency responsibilities under NEPA, NIFA officials shall:
(a) Consider all relevant environmental documents in evaluating programs, proposals, or projects for final agency action.
(b) Make all relevant final environmental documents, comments, and responses part of the record in rulemaking and adjudicatory proceedings.
(c) Ensure that all relevant final environmental documents, comments, and responses are submitted to NIFA in a timely fashion, are subjected to normal agency review processes, and are made a part of the official record.
(d) Consider only those alternatives encompassed by the range of alternatives discussed in the relevant environmental documents when evaluating plans, programs, or proposals for agency action.
§ 3407.10
Preparation of environmental assessments.
(a)
Format and content.
An EA may be prepared in any format provided that it covers, in a logical and succinct fashion, the information necessary for determining whether a proposed NIFA action may have a significant environmental impact and thus warrant preparation of an EIS. The information must include brief discussions on the need for the project, alternatives to the proposed action, environmental impacts of the proposed action and alternatives, and a listing of agencies and persons consulted (40 CFR 1508.9). Where possible, EAs should be limited to 10-15 pages. NOTE: It is the scope and complexity of the environmental issues, rather than the size of the project, that should be used to determine the length of the EA
(b)
Supplements to environmental assessments.
Where substantial changes occur in a project or activity for which an EA has been prepared and it is determined by a responsible NIFA official specified in § 3407.4(b) that the changes are pertinent to environmental concerns, a supplement to the EA may be required. Supplements to EAs shall be evaluated and processed as stated in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Decision notice.
Upon completion of an EA and any supplement thereto, the responsible NIFA official will evaluate the information it contains, determine whether an EIS is required or whether no significant environmental impact is likely to occur, and will document the decision and the reasons upon which it is based (40 CFR 1508.13). The EA shall be available to the public.
§ 3407.11
Preparation of environmental impact statements.
(a)
Actions involving more than one agency.
If more than one Federal agency participates in a program activity, a lead agency shall be selected in accordance with 40 CFR 1501.5(c). The lead agency, in full cooperation with all participating agencies, shall assume responsibility for involving the public as required in 40 CFR 1501.4(b) and shall prepare the EIS or shall cause the EIS to be prepared as provided in 40 CFR 1501.5.
(b)
Notice of intent.
If a responsible NIFA official designated in § 3407.4(b) of this part recommends the preparation of an EIS, the public shall be apprised of the decision. This notice shall be prepared according to 40 CFR 1508.2.
(c)
Draft and Final EIS.
The process of preparing the draft and final EIS, as well as the format of the document, shall comply with the provisions of 40 CFR parts 1502-1506.
(d)
Supplemental statements.
Where substantial changes occur or new information becomes available under a project or activity for which an EIS or draft EIS has been prepared and it is determined by a responsible NIFA official specified in § 3407.4(b) that the changes are pertinent to environmental concerns, a supplement to the EIS or draft EIS may be required. The supplement shall be evaluated and processed in accordance with 40 CFR 1502.9(c).
(e)
Decisionmaking and implementation.
A responsible NIFA official designated in § 3407.4(b) may make a decision no sooner than thirty days after the notice of availability of the final EIS has been published in the
Federal Register
by the Environmental Protection Agency (40 CFR 1506.10). The decision will be documented in a record of decision as required by 40 CFR 1505.2, and monitoring and mitigation activities will be implemented as required by 40 CFR 1505.3.
PART 3411—NATIONAL RESEARCH INITIATIVE COMPETITION GRANTS PROGRAM [RESERVED]
Pt. 3415

# PART 3415—BIOTECHNOLOGY RISK ASSESSMENT RESEARCH GRANTS PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
3415.1
Applicability of regulations.
3415.2
Definitions.
3415.3
Eligibility requirements.
3415.4
How to apply for a grant.
3415.5
Evaluation and disposition of applications.
3415.6
Grant awards.
3415.7
Use of funds; changes.
3415.8
Other Federal statutes and regulations that apply.
3415.9
Other conditions.

# Subpart B—Scientific Peer Review of Research Grant Applications
3415.10
Establishment and operation of peer review groups.
3415.11
Composition of peer review groups.
3415.12
Conflicts of interest.
3415.13
Availability of information.
3415.14
Proposal review.
3415.15
Evaluation factors.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 7 U.S.C. 5921.

# Source:
58 FR 65647, Dec. 15, 1993, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 3415 appear at 76 FR 4811, Jan. 27, 2011.

# Subpart A—General
§ 3415.1
Applicability of regulations.
(a) The regulations of this part apply to research grants awarded under the authority of section 1668 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990, (7 U.S.C. 5921). Grants awarded under this section will support biotechnology risk assessment research to help address concerns about the effects of introducing certain biotechnology products into the environment and to help regulators develop policies concerning the introduction of such products. Taking into consideration any determinations made through consultations with such entities as the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, the Forest Service, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Office of Agricultural Biotechnology, and the Agricultural Biotechnology Research Advisory Committee, the Director of NIFA and Administrator of ARS shall determine and announce, through publication of a Notice in such publications as the
Federal Register,
professional trade journals, agency or program handbooks, the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance, or any other appropriate means, specific areas of research for which preproposals or proposals will be solicited and the extent that funds are available therefor.
(b) The regulations of this part do not apply to grants awarded by the Department of Agriculture under any other authority.
§ 3415.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Ad hoc reviewers
means experts or consultants qualified by training and experience in particular scientific or technical fields to render special expert advice, through written evaluations of grant applications, in accordance with the provisions of this part, on the scientific or technical merit of grant applications in those fields.
(b)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Agricultural Research
Service (ARS) and any other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom the authority involved may be delegated.
(c)
Awarding official
means the Director or Administrator and any other officer or employee of the Department to whom the authority to issue or modify grant instruments has been delegated.
(d)
Biotechnology
means any technique that uses living organisms (or parts of organisms) to make or modify products, to improve plants or animals, or to develop microorganisms for specific use. The development of materials that mimic molecular structures or functions of living systems is included.
(e)
Budget period
means the interval of time (usually 12 months) into which the project period is divided for budgetary and reporting purposes.
(f)
Department
means the Department of Agriculture.
(g)
Director
means the Director of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) and any other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom the authority involved may be delegated.
(h)
Grant
means the award by the Director or Administrator of funds to a grantee to assist in meeting the costs of conducting, for the benefit of the public, an identified project which is intended and designed to establish, discover, elucidate, or confirm information or the underlying mechanisms relating to a research program area identified in program solicitation.
(i)
Grantee
means the entity designated in the grant award document as the responsible legal entity to whom a grant is awarded under this part.
(j)
Peer review group
means an assembled group of experts or consultants qualified by training and experience in particular scientific or technical fields to give expert advice, in accordance with the provisions of this part, on the scientific and technical merit of grant applications in those fields.
(k)
Principal investigator
means a single individual who is responsible for the scientific and technical direction of the project, as designated by the grantee in the grant application and approved by the Director or Administrator.
(l)
Project
means the particular activity within the scope of one or more of the research program areas identified in the annual program solicitation that is supported by a grant under this part.
(m)
Project period
means the total time approved by the Director or Administrator for conducting the proposed project as outlined in an approved grant application.
(n)
Research
means any systematic study directed toward new or fuller knowledge and understanding of the subject studied.
(o)
Methodology
means the project approach to be followed to carry out the project.
[58 FR 65647, Dec. 15, 1993, as amended at 76 FR 4811, Jan. 27, 2011]
§ 3415.3
Eligibility requirements.
(a) Except where otherwise prohibited by law, any public or private research or educational institution or organization shall be eligible to apply for and to receive a grant award under this part, provided that the applicant qualifies as a responsible grantee under the criteria set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) To qualify as responsible, an applicant must meet the following standards as they relate to a particular project:
(1) Adequate financial resources for performance, the necessary experience, organizational and technical qualifications, and facilities, or a firm commitment, arrangement, or ability to obtain same (including by proposed subagreements);
(2) Ability to comply with the proposed or required completion schedule for the project;
(3) Satisfactory record of integrity, judgment, and performance, including, in particular, any prior performance under grants or contracts from the Federal government;
(4) Adequate financial management system and audit procedures that provide efficient and effective accountability and control of all funds, property, and other assets; and
(5) Otherwise be qualified and eligible to receive a grant under the applicable laws and regulations.
(c) Any applicant who is determined to be not responsible will be notified in
writing of such finding and the basis therefor.
§ 3415.4
How to apply for a grant.
(a) A program solicitation will be prepared and announced through publications such as the
Federal Register,
professional trade journals, agency or program handbooks, the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance, or any other appropriate means, as early as practicable each fiscal year.
The Department may elect to solicit preproposals each fiscal year in order to eliminate from consideration proposed research that does not address narrowly focused program objectives. A preproposal will be limited in length (in comparison to a full proposal) to alleviate waste of time and effort by applicants in the preparation of proposals and USDA staff in the review of proposals. If the Department solicits preproposals through publication of the annual program solicitation, the Department does not anticipate publishing a subsequent solicitation for full proposals. Applicants submitting preproposals deemed appropriate to the objectives of this program as set out in the annual solicitation will be requested to submit full proposals; the full proposals will then be evaluated in accordance with § 3415.5 through § 3415.15 of this part.
The annual program solicitation will contain information sufficient to enable applicants to prepare preproposals or full proposals under this program and will be as complete as possible with respect to:
(1) Descriptions of the specific research areas that the Department proposes to support during the fiscal year involved, including anticipated funds to be awarded;
(2) Eligibility requirements;
(3) Obtaining application kits;
(4) Deadline dates for submission of preproposal or proposal packages;
(5) Name and mailing address to send preproposals or proposals;
(6) Number of copies to submit; and
(7) Special requirements.
(b)
Application Kit.
An Application Kit will be made available to any potential grant applicant who requests a copy. This kit contains required forms, certifications, and instructions applicable to the submission of grant preproposals or proposals.
(c)
Format for preproposals.
As stated above, the Department may elect to solicit preproposals under this program. Unless otherwise indicated by the Department in the annual program solicitation, the following general format applies for the preparation of preproposals:
(1)
“Application for Funding (Form NIFA-661)”.
All preproposals submitted by eligible applicants should contain an “Application for Funding”, Form NIFA-661, which must be signed by the proposing principal investigator(s) and endorsed by the cognizant authorized organizational representative who possesses the necessary authority to commit the applicant's time and other relevant resources. The title of the proposal must be brief (80-character maximum), yet represent the major thrust of the project. Because this title will be used to provide information to those who may not be familiar with the proposed project, highly technical words or phraseology should be avoided where possible. In addition, phrases such as “investigation of” and “research on” should not be used.
(2)
Project summary.
Each preproposal must contain a project summary, the text of which may not exceed three (3) single- or double-spaced pages. The Department reserves the option of not forwarding for further consideration a preproposal in which the project summary page limit is exceeded. The project summary is not intended for the general reader; consequently, it may contain technical language comprehensible primarily by persons in disciplines relating to the food and agricultural sciences. The project summary should be a self-contained specific description of the activity to be undertaken and should focus on:
(i) Overall project goal(s) and supporting objectives;
(ii) Plans to accomplish project goal(s); and
(iii) Relevance or significance of the project to United States agriculture.
(3)
Budget.
A budget detailing requested support for the proposed project period must be included in each preproposal. A copy of the form which must be used for this purpose, along
with instructions for completion, is included in the Application Kit identified under § 3415.4(b) of this part and may be reproduced as needed by applicants. Funds may be requested under any of the categories listed on the budget form, provided that the item or service for which support is requested may be identified as necessary for successful conduct of the proposed project, is allowable under applicable Federal cost principles, and is not prohibited under any applicable Federal statute.
(4)
Special requirements.
(i) The annual program solicitation will describe any special preproposal submission requirements, such as paper size or type pitch to be used in the preparation of preproposals. The solicitation will also describe special program requirements, such as conference attendance or electronic project reporting, for which applicants may allocate funds when preparing proposed budgets.
(ii) By signing the “Application for Funding” identified under § 3415.4(c)(1) in its submission of a preproposal, the applicant is certifying compliance with the restrictions on the use of appropriated funds for lobbying set out in 7 CFR part 3018.
(5)
Evaluation of preproposals.
Preproposals shall be evaluated to determine whether the substance of the proposed project is appropriate to the objectives of this program as set out in the annual program solicitation. Subsequently, the Director or Administrator shall request full proposals from those applicants proposing projects deemed appropriate to the objectives of this program as set out in the annual program solicitation. Such proposals shall conform to the format for full proposals set out below and shall be evaluated in accordance with § 3415.5 through § 3415.15 of this part.
(d)
Format for full proposals.
Unless otherwise indicated by the Department in the annual program solicitation, the following general format applies for the preparation of full proposals under this program:
(1)
“Application for Funding” (Form NIFA-661).
All full proposals submitted by eligible applicants should contain an Application for Funding”, Form NIFA-661, which must be signed by the proposed principal investigator(s) and endorsed by the cognizant authorized organizational representative who possesses the necessary authority to commit the applicant's time and other relevant resources. Investigators who do not sign the full proposal cover sheet will not be listed on the grant document in the event an award is made. The title of the proposal must be brief (80-character maximum), yet represent The major emphasis of the project. Because this title will be used to provide information to those who may not be familiar with the proposed project, highly technical words or phraseology should be avoided where possible. In addition, phrases such as “investigation of” or “research on” should not be used.
(2)
Project summary.
Each full proposal must contain a project summary, the length of which may not exceed three (3) single- or double-spaced pages. This summary is not intended for the general reader; consequently, it may contain technical language comprehensible primarily by persons in disciplines relating to the food and agricultural sciences. The project summary should be a self-contained, specific description of the activity to be undertaken and should focus on:
(i) Overall project goal(s) and supporting objectives;
(ii) Plans to accomplish project goal(s); and
(iii) Relevance or significance of the project to United States agriculture.
(3)
Project description.
The specific aims of the project must be included in all proposals. The text of the project description may not exceed 15 single- or double-spaced pages. The Department reserves the option of not forwarding for further consideration proposals in which the project description exceeds this page limit. The project description must contain the following components:
(i)
Introduction.
A clear statement of the long-term goal(s) and supporting objectives of the proposed project should preface the project description. The most significant published work in the field under consideration, including the work of key project personnel on the current application, should be reviewed. The current status of research in the particular scientific field also
should be described. All work cited, including that of key personnel, should be referenced.
(ii)
Progress report.
If the proposal is a renewal of an existing project supported under this program, include a clearly marked performance report describing results to date from the previous award. This section should contain the following information:
(A) A comparison of actual accomplishments with the goals established for the previous award;
(B) The reasons established goals were not met, if applicable; and
(C) A listing of any publications resulting from the award. Copies of reprints or preprints may be appended to the proposal if desired.
(4)
Rationale and significance.
Present concisely the rationale behind the proposed project. The objectives' specific relationship and relevance to the area in which an application is submitted and the objectives' specific relationship and relevance to potential regulatory issues of United States biotechnology research should be shown clearly. Any novel ideas or contributions that the proposed project offers also should be discussed in this section.
(5)
Experimental plan.
The hypotheses or questions being asked and the methodology to be applied to the proposed project should be stated explicitly. Specifically, this section must include:
(i) A description of the investigations and/or experiments proposed and the sequence in which the investigations or experiments are to be performed;
(ii) Techniques to be used in carrying out the proposed project, including the feasibility of the techniques;
(iii) Results expected;
(iv) Means by which experimental data will be analyzed or interpreted;
(v) Pitfalls that may be encountered;
(vi) Limitations to proposed procedures; and
(vii) Tentative schedule for conducting major steps involved in these investigations and/or experiments.
In describing the experimental plan, the applicant must explain fully any materials, procedures, situations, or activities that may be hazardous to personnel (whether or not they are directly related to a particular phase of the proposed project), along with an outline of precautions to be exercised to avoid or mitigate the effects of such hazards.
(6)
Facilities and equipment.
All facilities and major items of equipment that are available for use or assignment to the proposed research project during the requested period of support should be described. In addition, items of nonexpendable equipment necessary to conduct and successfully conclude the proposed project should be listed.
(7)
Collaborative arrangements.
If the nature of the proposed project requires collaboration or subcontractual arrangements with other research scientists, corporations, organizations, agencies, or entities, the applicant must identify the collaborator(s) and provide a full explanation of the nature of the collaboration. Evidence (
i.e.
, letters of intent) should be provided to assure peer reviewers that the collaborators involved have agreed to render this service. In addition, the proposal must indicate whether or not such a collaborative arrangement(s) has the potential for conflict(s) of interest.
(8)
Personnel support.
To assist peer reviewers in assessing the competence and experience of the proposed project staff, key personnel who will be involved in the proposed project must be identified clearly. For each principal investigator involved, and for all senior associates and other professional personnel who expect to work on the project, whether or not funds are sought for their support, the following should be included:
(i) An estimate of the time commitments necessary;
(ii) Curriculum vitae. The curriculum vitae should be limited to a presentation of academic and research credentials, e.g., educational, employment and professional history, and honors and awards. Unless pertinent to the project, to personal status, or to the status of the organization, meetings attended, seminars given, or personal data such as birth date, marital status, or community activities should not be included. The vitae shall be no more than two pages each in length, excluding the publication lists. The Department reserves the option of not forwarding for further consideration a
proposal in which each vitae exceeds the two-page limit; and
(iii) Publication List(s). A chronological list of all publications in referred journals during the past five years, including those in press, must be provided for each professional project member for whom a curriculum vitae is provided. Authors should be listed in the same order as they appear on each paper cited, along with the title and complete reference as these items usually appear in journals.
(9)
Budget.
A detailed budget is required for each year of requested support. In addition, a summary budget is required detailing requested support for the overall project period. A copy of the form which must be used for this purpose, Form NIFA-55, along with instructions for completion, is included in the Application Kit identified under § 3415.4(b) of this part and may be reproduced as needed by applicants. Funds may be requested under any of the categories listed, provided that the item or service for which support is requested may be identified as necessary for successful conduct of the proposed project, is allowable under applicable Federal cost principles, and is not prohibited under any applicable Federal statute.
(10)
Research involving special considerations.
A number of situations encountered in the conduct of research require special information and supporting documentation before funding can be approved for the project. If any such situation is anticipated, the proposal must so indicate. It is expected that a significant number of proposals will involve the following:
(i)
Recombinant DNA and RNA molecules.
All key personnel identified in a proposal and all endorsing officials of a proposed performing entity are required to comply with the guidelines established by the National Institutes of Health entitled, “Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules,” as revised. The Application Kit, identified above in § 3415.4(b), contains a form which is suitable for such certification of compliance (Form NIFA-662).
(ii)
Human subjects at risk.
Responsibility for safeguarding the rights and welfare of human subjects used in any proposed project supported with grant funds provided by the Department rests with the performing entity. Regulations have been issued by the Department under 7 CFR Part 1c, Protection of Human Subjects. In the event that a project involving human subjects at risk is recommended for award, the applicant will be required to submit a statement certifying that the project plan has been reviewed and approved by the Institutional Review Board at the proposing organization or institution. The Application Kit, identified above in § 3415.4(b), contains a form which is suitable for such certification (Form NIFA-662).
(iii)
Experimental vertebrate animal care.
The responsibility for the humane care and treatment of any experimental vertebrate animal, which has the same meaning as “animal” in section 2(g) of the Animal Welfare Act of 1966, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2132(g)), used in any project supported with grant funds rests with the performing organization. In this regard, all key personnel associated with any supported project and all endorsing officials of the proposed performing entity are required to comply with the applicable provisions of the Animal Welfare Act of 1966, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2131
et seq.
) and the regulations promulgated thereunder by the Secretary of Agriculture in 9 CFR parts 1, 2, 3, and 4. The applicant must submit a statement certifying that the proposed project is in compliance with the aforementioned regulations, and that the proposed project is either under review by or has been reviewed and approved by an Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. The Application Kit, identified above in § 3415.4(b), contains a form which is suitable for such certification (Form NIFA-662).
(11)
Current and pending support.
All proposals must list any other current public or private research support (including in-house support) to which key personnel identified in the proposal have committed portions of their time, whether or not salary support for the person(s) involved is included in the budget. Analogous information must be provided for any pending proposals that are being considered by, or that will be submitted in the near future to,
other possible sponsors, including other USDA programs or agencies. Concurrent submission of identical or similar proposals to other possible sponsors will not prejudice proposal review or evaluation by the Director or Administrator or experts or consultants engaged by the Director or Administrator for this purpose. However, a proposal that duplicates or overlaps substantially with a proposal already reviewed and funded (or that will be funded) by another organization or agency will not be funded under this program. The Application Kit, identified above in § 3415.4(b), contains a form which is suitable for listing current and pending support (Form NIFA-663).
(12)
Additions to project description.
Each project description is expected by the Director or Administrator, the members of peer review groups, and the relevant program staff to be complete while meeting the page limit established in § 3415.4(d)(3). However, if the inclusion of additional information is necessary to ensure the equitable evaluation of the proposal (e.g., photographs that do not reproduce well, reprints, and other pertinent materials that are deemed to be unsuitable for inclusion in the text of the proposal), the number of copies submitted should match the number of copies of the application requested in the program solicitation. Each set of such materials must be identified with the name of the submitting organization, and the name(s) of the principal investigator(s). Information may not be appended to a proposal to circumvent page limitations prescribed for the project description. Extraneous materials will not be used during the peer review process.
(13)
Organizational management information.
Specific management information relating to an applicant shall be submitted on a one-time basis prior to the award of a grant identified under this Part if such information has not been provided previously under this or another program for which the sponsoring agency is responsible. The Department will contact an applicant to request organizational management information once a proposal has been recommended for funding.
§ 3415.5
Evaluation and disposition of applications.
(a)
Evaluation.
All proposals received from eligible applicants and submitted in accordance with deadlines established in the annual program solicitation shall be evaluated by the Director or Administrator through such officers, employees, and others as the Director or Administrator determines are uniquely qualified in the areas of research represented by particular projects. To assist in equitably and objectively evaluating proposals and to obtain the best possible balance of viewpoints, the Director or Administrator shall solicit the advice of peer scientists,
ad hoc
reviewers, or others who are recognized specialists in the areas covered by the applications received and whose general roles are defined in § 3415.2. Specific evaluations will be based upon the criteria established in subpart B, § 3415.15, unless NIFA and/or ARS determine that different criteria are necessary for the proper evaluation of proposals in one or more specific program areas, or for specific types of projects to be supported, and announces such criteria and their relative importance in the annual program solicitation. The overriding purpose of these evaluations is to provide information upon which the Director or Administrator may make an informed judgment in selecting proposals for support. Incomplete, unclear, or poorly organized applications will work to the detriment of applicants during the peer evaluation process. To ensure a comprehensive evaluation, all applications should be written with the care and thoroughness accorded papers for publication.
(b)
Disposition.
On the basis of the Director's or Administrator's evaluation of an application in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, the Director or Administrator will (1) approve support using currently available funds, (2) defer support due to lack of funds or a need for further evaluation, or (3) disapprove support for the proposed project in whole or in part. With respect to approved projects, the Director or Administrator will determine the project period (subject to extension as provided in § 3415.7(c)) during which
the project may be supported. Any deferral or disapproval of an application will not preclude its reconsideration or a reapplication during subsequent fiscal years.
[58 FR 65647, Dec. 15, 1993, as amended at 80 FR 81738, Dec. 31, 2015]
§ 3415.6
Grant awards.
(a)
General.
Within the limit of funds available for such purpose, the awarding official of NIFA or ARS shall make grants to those responsible, eligible applicants whose proposals are judged most meritorious in the announced program areas under the evaluation criteria and procedures set forth in this part. The date specified by the Director or Administrator as the effective date of the grant shall be no later than September 30 of the Federal fiscal year in which the project is approved for support and funds are appropriated for such purpose, unless otherwise permitted by law. It should be noted that the project need not be initiated on the grant effective date, but as soon thereafter as practicable so that project goals may be attained within the funded project period. All funds granted by NIFA or ARS under this Part shall be expended solely for the purpose for which the funds are granted in accordance with the approved application and budget, the regulations of this part, the terms and conditions of the award, the applicable Federal cost principles, 2 CFR part 200.
(b)
Grant award document and notice of grant award
—(1)
Grant award document.
The grant award document shall include at a minimum the following:
(i) Legal name and address of performing organization or institution to whom the Director or Administrator has awarded a grant under the terms of this Part;
(ii) Title of project;
(iii) Name(s) and address(es) of principal investigator(s) chosen to direct and control approved activities;
(iv) Identifying grant number assigned by the Department;
(v) Project period, specifying the amount of time the Department intends to support the project without requiring recompetition for funds;
(vi) Total amount of Departmental financial assistance approved by the Director or Administrator during the project period;
(vii) Legal authority(ies) under which the grant is awarded;
(viii) Approved budget plan for categorizing allocable project funds to accomplish the stated purpose of the grant award; and
(ix) Other information or provisions deemed necessary by NIFA or ARS to carry out their respective granting activities or to accomplish the purpose of a particular grant.
(2)
Notice of grant award.
The notice of grant award, in the form of a letter, will be prepared and will provide pertinent instructions or information to the grantee that is not included in the grant award document.
(c)
Types of grant instruments.
The major types of grant instruments shall be as follows:
(1)
New grant.
This is a grant instrument by which NIFA or ARS agrees to support a specified level of effort for a project that generally has not been supported previously under this program. This type of grant is approved on the basis of peer review recommendation.
(2)
Renewal grant.
This is a grant instrument by which NIFA or ARS agrees to provide additional funding for a project period beyond that approved in an original or amended award. When a renewal application is submitted, it should include a summary of progress to date from the previous granting period. A renewal grant shall be based upon new application,
de novo
peer review and staff evaluation, new recommendation and approval, and a new award action reflecting that the grant has been renewed.
(3)
Supplemental grant.
This is an instrument by which NIFA or ARS agrees to provide small amounts of additional funding under a new or renewal grant as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section and may involve a short-term (usually six months or less) extension of the project period beyond that approved in an
original or amended award. A supplement is awarded only if required to assure adequate completion of the original scope of work and if there is sufficient justification to warrant such action. A request of this nature normally will not require additional peer review.
(d)
Funding mechanisms.
The two mechanisms by which NIFA or ARS may elect to award new, renewal, and supplemental grants are as follows:
(1)
Standard grant.
This is a funding mechanism whereby NIFA or ARS agrees to support a specified level of effort for a predetermined time period without the announced intention of providing additional support at a future date.
(2)
Continuation grant.
This is a funding mechanism whereby NIFA or ARS agrees to support a specified level of effort for a predetermined period of time with a statement of intention to provide additional support at a future date, provided that performance has been satisfactory, appropriations are available for this purpose, and continued support would be in the best interests of the Federal government and the public. This kind of mechanism normally will be awarded for an initial one-year period, and any subsequent continuation project grants also will be awarded in one-year increments. The award of a continuation project grant to fund an initial or succeeding budget period does not constitute an obligation to fund any subsequent budget period. Unless prescribed otherwise by NIFA or ARS, a grantee must subject a separate application for continued support for each subsequent fiscal year. Requests for such continued support must be submitted in duplicate at least three months prior to the expiration date of the budget period currently being funded. Decisions regarding continued support and the actual funding levels of such support in future years usually will be made administratively after consideration of such factors as the grantee's progress and management practices and the availability of funds. Since initial peer reviews are based upon the full term and scope of the original grant application, additional evaluations of this type generally are not required prior to successive years' support. However, in unusual cases (e.g., when the nature of the project or key personnel change or when the amount of future support requested substantially exceeds the grant application originally reviewed and approved), additional reviews may be required prior to approving continued funding.
(e)
Obligation of the Federal Government.
Neither the approval of any application nor the award of any project grant commits or obligates the United States in any way to make any renewal, supplemental, continuation, or other award with respect to any approved application or portion thereof.
[58 FR 65647, Dec. 15, 1993, as amended at 79 FR 76000, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 3415.7
Use of funds; changes.
(a)
Delegation of fiscal responsibility.
The grantee may not in whole or in part delegate or transfer to another person, institution, or organization the responsibility for use or expenditure of grant funds.
(b)
Change in project plans.
(1) The permissible changes by the grantee, principal investigator(s), or other key project personnel in the approved grant shall be limited to changes in methodology, techniques, or other aspects of the project to expedite achievement of the project's approved goals. If the grantee or the principal investigator(s) is uncertain whether a particular change complies with this provision, the question must be referred to the awarding official of NIFA or ARS, as appropriate, for a final determination.
(2) Changes in approved goals, or objectives, shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the awarding official of NIFA or ARS, as appropriate, prior to effecting such changes. Normally, no requests for such changes that are outside the scope of the original approved project will be approved.
(3) Changes in approved project leadership or the replacement or reassignment of other key project personnel shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the awarding official of NIFA or ARS, as appropriate, prior to effecting such changes.
(4) Transfers of actual performance of the substantive programmatic work in
whole or in part and provisions for payment of funds, whether or not Federal funds are involved, shall be requested by the grantee and approved in writing by the awarding official of NIFA or ARS, as appropriate, prior to effecting such changes, unless prescribed otherwise in the terms and conditions of a grant.
(c)
Changes in project period.
The project period determined pursuant to § 3415.5(b) may be extended by the awarding official of NIFA or ARS, as appropriate, without additional financial support, for such additional period(s) as the appropriate awarding official determines may be necessary to complete, or fulfill the purposes of, an approved project. Any extension of time shall be conditioned upon prior request by the grantee and approval in writing by the appropriate awarding official, unless prescribed otherwise in the terms and conditions of a grant.
(d)
Changes in approved budget.
The terms and conditions of a grant will prescribe the circumstances under which written approval must be requested and obtained from the awarding official of NIFA or ARS, as appropriate, prior to instituting changes in an approved budget.
§ 3415.8
Other Federal statutes and regulations that apply.
(a) The Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) issued guidance on Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards at 2 CFR part 200 on December 26, 2013. In 2 CFR 400.1, the Department adopted OMB's guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400, as the Department's policies and procedures for uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for federal awards. As a result, this regulation contains references to 2 CFR part 200 as it has regulatory effect for the Department's programs and activities.”
(b) Several other Federal statutes and/or regulations apply to grant proposals considered for review or to research project grants awarded under this part. These include but are not limited to:
2 CFR part 200—Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards.
2 CFR part 180 and Part 417—OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Government-Wide Debarment And Suspension (Nonprocurement) and USDA Nonprocurement Debarment And Suspension
7 CFR part 1c—USDA Implementation of the Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects.
7 CFR 1.1—USDA Implementation of Freedom of Information Act.
7 CFR part 3—USDA Implementation of OMB Circular A-129 Regarding Debt Collection.
7 CFR part 15, subpart A—USDA Implementation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
7 CFR part 3407—NIFA Procedures To Implement the National Environmental Policy Act;
29 U.S.C. 794 (section 504, Rehabilitation Act of 1973) and 7 CFR part 15B (USDA implementation of statute)—prohibiting discrimination based upon physical or mental handicap in Federally assisted programs; and
35 U.S.C. 200
et seq.
—Bayh-Dole Act, controlling allocation of rights to inventions made by employees of small business firms and domestic nonprofit organizations, including universities, in Federally assisted programs (implementing regulations are contained in 37 CFR part 401).
[79 FR 76000, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 3415.9
Other conditions.
The Director or Administrator may elect to use a portion of available funding each fiscal year to support an Annual Conference, the purpose of which will be to bring together scientists and regulatory officials relevant to this program. At the Annual Conference, the participants may offer individual opinions regarding research needs, update information and discuss progress, or may offer individual opinions on areas of risk assessment research appropriate to agricultural biotechnology. The annual program solicitation will indicate whether funds are available to support an Annual Conference and, if so, will include instructions on the preparation and submission of proposals requesting funds from the Department for support of an Annual Conference. The Department may also elect to require principal investigators whose research is funded under this program to attend an Annual Conference and to present data on the results of their research efforts. Should
attendance at an Annual Conference be required, the annual program solicitation will so indicate, and principal investigators may include attendance costs in their proposed budgets.
The Director or Administrator may, with respect to any grant or to any class of awards, impose additional conditions prior to or at the time of any award when, in the Director's or Administrator's judgment, such conditions are necessary to ensure or protect advancement of the approved project, the interests of the public, or the conservation of grant funds.

# Subpart B—Scientific Peer Review of Research Grant Applications
§ 3415.10
Establishment and operation of peer review groups.
Subject to § 3415.5, the Director or Administrator shall adopt procedures for the conduct of peer reviews and the formulation of recommendations under § 3415.14.
§ 3415.11
Composition of peer review groups.
(a) Peer review group members and
ad hoc
reviewers will be selected based upon their training and experience in relevant scientific or technical fields, taking into account the following factors:
(1) The level of formal scientific or technical education by the individual and the extent to which an individual is engaged in relevant research activities;
(2) The need to include as peer reviewers experts from various areas of specialization within relevant scientific or technical fields;
(3) The need to include as peer reviewers experts from a variety of organizational types (e.g., universities, Federal laboratories, industry, private consultant(s), Federal and State regulatory agencies, environmental organizations) and geographic locations; and
(4) The need to maintain a balanced composition of peer review groups related to minority and female representation and an equitable age distribution.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 3415.12
Conflicts of interest.
Members of peer review groups covered by this part are subject to relevant provisions contained in title 18 of the United States Code relating to criminal activity, Departmental regulations governing employee responsibilities and conduct (part O of this title), and Executive Order No. 11222, as amended.
§ 3415.13
Availability of information.
Information regarding the peer review process will be made available to the extent permitted under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a.), and implementing Departmental regulations (part 1 of this title).
§ 3415.14
Proposal review.
(a) All grant applications will be acknowledged. Prior to technical examination, a preliminary review will be made for responsiveness to the program solicitation (e.g., relationship of application to announced program area). Proposals that do not fall within the guidelines as stated in the program solicitation will be eliminated from competition and will be returned to the applicant.
(b) All applications will be carefully reviewed by the Director or Administrator, qualified officers or employees of the Department, the respective peer review group, and
ad hoc
reviewers, as required. Written comments will be solicited from
ad hoc
reviewers when required, and individual written comments and in-depth discussions will be provided by peer review group members prior to recommending applications for funding. Applications will be ranked and support levels recommended within the limitation of total available funding for each research program area as announced in the program solicitation.
(c) No awarding official will make a grant based upon an application covered by this part unless the application has been reviewed in accordance with the provisions of this part and unless said reviewers have made recommendations concerning the scientific merit and relevance to the program of such application.
(d) Except to the extent otherwise provided by law, such recommendations are advisory only and are not binding on program officers or on the awarding officials of NIFA and ARS.
§ 3415.15
Evaluation factors.
In carrying out its review under § 3415.14, the peer review group will take into account the following factors unless, pursuant to § 3415.5(a), different evaluation criteria are specified in the annual program solicitation:
(a) Scientific merit of the proposal.
(1) Conceptual adequacy of hypothesis;
(2) Clarity and delineation of objectives;
(3) Adequacy of the description of the undertaking and suitability and feasibility of methodology;
(4) Demonstration of feasibility through preliminary data;
(5) Probability of success of project;
(6) Novelty, uniqueness and originality; and
(7) Appropriateness to regulation of biotechnology and risk assessment.
(b) Qualifications of proposed project personnel and adequacy of facilities.
(1) Training and demonstrated awareness of previous and alternative approaches to the problem identified in the proposal, and performance record and/or potential for future accomplishments;
(2) Time allocated for systematic attainment of objectives;
(3) Institutional experience and competence in subject area; and
(4) Adequacy of available or obtainable support personnel, facilities, and instrumentation.
(c) Relevance of project to solving biotechnology regulatory uncertainty for United States agriculture.
(1) Scientific contribution of research in leading to important discoveries or significant breakthroughs in announced program areas; and
(2) Relevance of the risk assessment research to agriculture and environmental regulations.
Pt. 3418

# PART 3418—STAKEHOLDER INPUT REQUIREMENTS FOR RECIPIENTS OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND EXTENSION FORMULA FUNDS
Sec.
3418.1
Definitions.
3418.2
Scope and purpose.
3418.3
Applicability.
3418.4
