Using the 80th percentile charges for the selected CPT/HCPCS codes from paragraph (i)(3) of this section for each geographic area, a geographic area-specific conversion factor is calculated by dividing the weighted average charge by the weighted average geographically-adjusted RVU. The resulting geographic area conversion factor is divided by the corresponding nationwide conversion factor determined pursuant to paragraph (i)(3)(i) of this section. The resulting ratios are the geographic area adjustment factors for pathology and laboratory services for each geographic area.
(j)
Observation care facility charges.
When VA provides observation care within the scope of care referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the facility charges billed for such care will be determined in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph. The charges for this care vary by geographic area and number of hours of care. These charges are calculated as follows:
(1)
Formula.
For each occurrence of observation care, add the nationwide base charge determined pursuant to paragraph (j)(2) of this section to the product of the number of hours in observation care and the hourly charge also determined pursuant to paragraph (j)(2) of this section. Then multiply this amount by the appropriate geographic area adjustment factor determined pursuant to paragraph (j)(3) of this section. The result constitutes the area-specific observation care facility charge.
(2)(i)
Nationwide 80th percentile observation care facility charges.
To calculate nationwide base and hourly facility charges, all claims with observation care line items are selected from the outpatient facility component of the Medicare Standard Analytical File 5 Percent Sample. Then, using the 80th percentile observation line item charges for each unique hourly length of stay, a standard linear regression technique is used to calculate the nationwide 80th percentile base charge and 80th percentile hourly charge. Finally, the resulting amounts are each trended forward to the effective time period for the charges, as set forth in paragraph (j)(2)(ii) of this section. The results constitute the nationwide 80th percentile base and hourly facility charges for observation care.
(ii)
Trending forward.
The nationwide 80th percentile base and hourly facility charges for observation care, obtained as described in paragraph (j)(2)(i) of this section, are trended forward based on changes to the outpatient hospital services component of the CPI-U. Actual CPI-U changes are used from the time period of the source data through the latest available month as of the time the calculations are performed. The three-month average annual trend rate as of the latest available month is then held constant to the midpoint of the calendar year in which the charges are primarily expected to be used. The projected total CPI-U change so obtained is then applied to the 80th percentile charges.
(3)
Geographic area adjustment factors.
The geographic area adjustment factors for observation care facility
charges are the same as those computed for outpatient facility charges under paragraph (e)(4) of this section.
(k)
Ambulance and other emergency transportation charges.
When VA provides ambulance and other emergency transportation services that are within the scope of care referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the charges billed for such services will be determined in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph. The charges for these services vary by HCPCS code, length of trip, and geographic area. These charges are calculated as follows:
(1)
Formula.
For each occasion of ambulance or other emergency transportation service, add the nationwide base charge for the appropriate HCPCS code determined pursuant to paragraph (k)(2)(i) of this section to the product of the number of miles traveled and the appropriate HCPCS code mileage charge determined pursuant to paragraph (k)(2)(ii) of this section. Then multiply this amount by the appropriate geographic area adjustment factor determined pursuant to paragraph (k)(3) of this section. The result constitutes the area-specific ambulance or other emergency transportation service charge.
(2)(i)
Nationwide 80th percentile all-inclusive base charge.
To calculate a nationwide all-inclusive base charge, all ambulance and other emergency transportation claims are selected from the outpatient facility component of the Medicare Standard Analytical File 5 Percent Sample. Excluding professional and mileage charges, as well as all-inclusive charges which are reported on such claims, the total charge per claim, including incidental supplies, is computed. Then, the 80th percentile amount for each HCPCS code is computed. Finally, the resulting amounts are each trended forward to the effective time period for the charges, as set forth in paragraph (k)(2)(iii) of this section. The results constitute the nationwide 80th percentile all-inclusive base charge for each HCPCS base charge code.
(ii)
Nationwide 80th percentile mileage charge.
To calculate a nationwide mileage charge, all ambulance and other emergency transportation claims are selected from the outpatient facility component of the Medicare Standard Analytical File 5 Percent Sample. Excluding professional, incidental, and base charges, as well as claims with all-inclusive charges, the total mileage charge per claim is computed. This amount is divided by the number of miles reported on the claim. Then, the 80th percentile amount for each HCPCS code, using miles as weights, is computed. Finally, the resulting amounts are each trended forward to the effective time period for the charges, as set forth in paragraph (k)(2)(iii) of this section. The results constitute the nationwide 80th percentile mileage charge for each HCPCS mileage code.
(iii)
Trending forward.
The nationwide 80th percentile charge for each HCPCS code, obtained as described in paragraphs (k)(2)(i) and (k)(2)(ii) of this section, is trended forward based on changes to the outpatient hospital services component of the CPI-U. Actual CPI-U changes are used from the time period of the source data through the latest available month as of the time the calculations are performed. The three-month average annual trend rate as of the latest available month is then held constant to the midpoint of the calendar year in which the charges are primarily expected to be used. The projected total CPI-U change so obtained is then applied to the 80th percentile charges.
(3)
Geographic area adjustment factors.
The geographic area adjustment factors for ambulance and other emergency transportation charges are the same as those computed for outpatient facility charges under paragraph (e)(4) of this section.
(l)
Charges for durable medical equipment, drugs, injectables, and other medical services, items, and supplies identified by HCPCS Level II codes.
When VA provides DME, drugs, injectables, or other medical services, items, or supplies that are identified by HCPCS Level II codes and that are within the scope of care referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the charges billed for such services, items, and supplies will be determined in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph. The charges for these services, items, and supplies vary by geographic area, by HCPCS code,
and by modifier, when applicable. These charges are calculated as follows:
(1)
Formula.
For each HCPCS code, multiply the nationwide charge determined pursuant to paragraphs (l)(2), (l)(3), and (l)(4) of this section by the appropriate geographic area adjustment factor determined pursuant to paragraph (l)(5) of this section. The result constitutes the area-specific charge.
(2)
Nationwide 80th percentile charges for HCPCS codes with RVUs.
For each applicable HCPCS code, RVUs are compiled from the data sources set forth in paragraph (l)(2)(i) of this section. The RVUs are multiplied by the charge amount for each incremental RVU determined pursuant to paragraph (l)(2)(ii) of this section, and this amount is added to the fixed charge amount also determined pursuant to paragraph (l)(2)(ii) of this section. Then, for each HCPCS code, this charge is multiplied by the appropriate 80th percentile to median charge ratio determined pursuant to paragraph (l)(2)(iii) of this section. Finally, the resulting amount is trended forward to the effective time period for the charges, as set forth in paragraph (l)(2)(iv) of this section to obtain the nationwide 80th percentile charge.
(i)
RVUs for DME, drugs, injectables, and other medical services, items, and supplies.
For the purpose of the statistical methodology set forth in paragraph (l)(2)(ii) of this section, HCPCS codes are assigned to the following HCPCS code groups. For the HCPCS codes in each group, the RVUs or amounts indicated constitute the RVUs:
(A) Chemotherapy Drugs: Medicare ASP Pricing RBRVS Practice Expense RVUs.
(B) Other Drugs: Medicare ASP Pricing RBRVS Practice Expense RVUs.
(C) DME—Hospital Beds: Medicare DME Fee Schedule amounts.
(D) DME—Medical/Surgical Supplies: Medicare DME Fee Schedule amounts.
(E) DME—Orthotic Devices: Medicare DME Fee Schedule amounts.
(F) DME—Oxygen and Supplies: Medicare DME Fee Schedule amounts.
(G) DME—Wheelchairs: Medicare DME Fee Schedule amounts.
(H) Other DME: Medicare DME Fee Schedule amounts.
(I) Enteral/Parenteral Supplies: Medicare Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition Fee Schedule amounts.
(J) Surgical Dressings and Supplies: Medicare DME Fee Schedule amounts.
(K) Vision Items—Other Than Lenses: Medicare DME Fee Schedule amounts.
(L) Vision Items—Lenses: Medicare DME Fee Schedule amounts.
(M) Hearing Items: Medicare ASP Pricing RBRVS Practice Expense RVUs.
(ii)
Charge amounts.
Using combined Part B and DME components of the Medicare Standard Analytical File 5% Sample, the median billed charge is calculated for each HCPCS code. A mathematical approximation methodology based on least squares techniques is applied to the RVUs specified for each of the groups set forth in paragraph (l)(2)(i) of this section, yielding two charge amounts for each HCPCS code group: a charge amount per incremental RVU, and a fixed charge amount.
(iii)
80th Percentile to median charge ratios.
Two ratios are obtained for each HCPCS code group set forth in paragraph (l)(2)(i) of this section by dividing the weighted average 80th percentile charge by the weighted average median charge derived from two data sources: Medicare data, as represented by the combined Part B and DME components of the Medicare Standard Analytical File 5% Sample; and the Fair Health database. Charge frequencies from the Medicare data are used as weights when calculating all weighted averages. For each HCPCS code group, the smaller of the two ratios is selected as the adjustment from median to 80th percentile charges.
(iv)
Trending forward.
The charges for each HCPCS code, obtained as described in paragraph (l)(2)(iii) of this section, are trended forward based on changes to the medical care commodities component of the CPI-U. Actual CPI-U changes are used from the time period of the source data through the latest available month as of the time the calculations are performed. The three-month average annual trend rate as of the latest available month is then
held constant to the midpoint of the calendar year in which the charges are primarily expected to be used. The projected total CPI-U change so obtained is then applied to the 80th percentile charges, as described in paragraph (l)(2)(iii) of this section.
(3)
Nationwide 80th percentile charges for HCPCS codes without RVUs.
For each applicable HCPCS code, 80th percentile charges are extracted from two independent data sources: The FAIR Health database and the combined Part B and DME components of the Medicare Standard Analytical File 5 Percent Sample; and Milliman, Inc., Optimized HMO (Health Maintenance Organization) Data Sets (
see
paragraph (a)(3) of this section for Data Sources). Charges from each database are then trended forward to the effective time period for the charges, as set forth in paragraph (l)(3)(i) of this section. Charges for each HCPCS code from each data source are combined into an average 80th percentile charge by means of the methodology set forth in paragraph (l)(3)(ii) of this section. The results constitute the nationwide 80th percentile charge for each applicable HCPCS code.
(i)
Trending forward.
The charges from each database for each HCPCS code, obtained as described in paragraph (l)(3) of this section, are trended forward based on changes to the medical care commodities component of the CPI-U. Actual CPI-U changes are used from the time period of each source database through the latest available month as of the time the calculations are performed. The three-month average annual trend rate as of the latest available month is then held constant to the midpoint of the calendar year in which the charges are primarily expected to be used. The projected total CPI-U change so obtained is then applied to the 80th percentile charges, as described in paragraph (l)(3) of this section.
(ii)
Averaging methodology.
The average 80th percentile trended charge for any particular HCPCS code is calculated by first computing a preliminary mean of the available charges for each HCPCS code. Statistical outliers are identified and removed. In cases where none of the charges are removed, the average charge is calculated as a mean of all reported charges.
(4)
Nationwide 80th percentile charges for HCPCS codes designated as unlisted or unspecified.
For HCPCS codes designated as unlisted or unspecified procedures, services, items, or supplies, 80th percentile charges are developed based on the weighted median 80th percentile charges of HCPCS codes within the series in which the unlisted or unspecified code occurs. A nationwide VA distribution of procedures, services, items, and supplies is used for the purpose of computing the weighted median.
(5)
Geographic area adjustment factors.
For the purpose of geographic adjustment, HCPCS codes are combined into two groups: drugs and DME/supplies, as set forth in paragraph (l)(5)(i) of this section. The geographic area adjustment factor for each of these groups is calculated as the ratio of the area-specific weighted average charge determined pursuant to paragraph (l)(5)(ii) of this section divided by the nationwide weighted average charge determined pursuant to paragraph (l)(5)(iii) of this section.
(i)
Combined HCPCS code groups for geographic area adjustment factors for DME, drugs, injectables, and other medical services, items, and supplies.
For the purpose of the statistical methodology set forth in paragraph (l)(5) of this section, each of the HCPCS code groups set forth in paragraph (l)(2)(i) of this section is assigned to one of two combined HCPCS code groups, as follows:
(A) Chemotherapy Drugs: Drugs.
(B) Other Drugs: Drugs.
(C) DME—Hospital Beds: DME/supplies.
(D) DME—Medical/Surgical Supplies: DME/supplies.
(E) DME—Orthotic Devices: DME/supplies.
(F) DME—Oxygen and Supplies: DME/supplies.
(G) DME—Wheelchairs: DME/supplies.
(H) Other DME: DME/supplies.
(I) Enteral/Parenteral Supplies: DME/supplies.
(J) Surgical Dressings and Supplies: DME/supplies.
(K) Vision Items—Other Than Lenses: DME/supplies.
(L) Vision Items—Lenses: DME/supplies.
(M) Hearing Items: DME/supplies.
(ii)
Area-specific weighted average charges.
Using the median charges by HCPCS code from the FairHealth database for each geographic area and utilization frequencies by HCPCS code from the combined Part B and DME components of the Medicare Standard Analytical File 5 Percent Sample, an area-specific weighted average charge is calculated for each combined HCPCS code group.
(iii)
Nationwide weighted average charges.
Using the area-specific weighted average charges determined pursuant to paragraph (l)(5)(ii) of this section, a nationwide weighted average charge is calculated for each combined HCPCS code group, using as weights the population (census) frequencies for each geographic area as presented in the Milliman, Inc., Health Cost Guidelines (see paragraph (a)(3) of this section for Data Sources).
(m)
Charges for prescription drugs not administered during treatment.
Notwithstanding other provisions of this section regarding VA charges, when VA provides or furnishes prescription drugs not administered during treatment, within the scope of care referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, charges billed separately for such prescription drugs will consist of the amount that equals the total of the actual cost to VA for the drugs and the national average of VA administrative costs associated with dispensing the drugs for each prescription. The actual VA cost of a drug will be the actual amount expended by the VA facility for the purchase of the specific drug. The administrative cost will be determined annually using VA's managerial cost accounting system. Under this accounting system, the average administrative cost is determined by adding the total VA national drug general overhead costs (such as costs of buildings and maintenance, utilities, billing, and collections) to the total VA national drug dispensing costs (such as costs of the labor of the pharmacy department, packaging, and mailing) with the sum divided by the actual number of VA prescriptions filled nationally. Based on this accounting system, VA will determine the amount of the average administrative cost annually for the prior fiscal year (October through September) and then apply the charge at the start of the next calendar year.

# Note to § 17.101:
The charges generated by the methodology set forth in this section are the same charges prescribed by the Office of Management and Budget for use under the Federal Medical Care Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 2651-2653.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1701, 1705, 1710, 1720D, 1720E, 1721, 1722, 1729)
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0606)
[68 FR 70715, Dec. 19, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 1061, Jan. 7, 2004; 72 FR 68072, Dec. 4, 2007; 75 FR 61623, Oct. 6, 2010; 83 FR 31454, July 6, 2018; 85 FR 53176, Aug. 28, 2020; 86 FR 16053, Mar. 26, 2021]
§ 17.102
Charges for care or services.
Subject to the methodology set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, and notwithstanding the provisions of § 17.101, VA shall charge for VA care and services provided in the circumstances described as follows:
(a) For hospital care or medical services provided:
(1) As a humanitarian service in a medical emergency in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 1784 or 38 U.S.C. 1784A;
(2) During and immediately following a disaster or emergency in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 1785 and § 17.86;
(3) While attending a national convention of an organization recognized under 38 U.S.C. 5902, for emergency medical treatment, in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 1711;
(4) In error, on the basis of eligibility as a non-veteran recipient of VA hospital care and medical services under title 38 U.S.C., and such an individual subsequently is determined not to have been eligible for such care or services;
(5) To a beneficiary of the Department of Defense or other Federal agency, to include for inpatient or outpatient care or services authorized for a member of the Armed Forces on active duty, a beneficiary or designee of any other Federal agency, and members or former members of a uniformed
service who are entitled to retired or retainer pay, or equivalent pay; or
(6) To a retiree of the uniformed services with a chronic disability for hospital care identified in Executive Orders 10122, 10400, and 11733 as well as § 17.44.
(b) For hospital care, medical services, domiciliary care, or nursing home care provided:
(1) In error, on the basis of eligibility for such care and services as a veteran under §§ 17.34, 17.36, or 17.37, and such an individual was subsequently determined not to have been eligible for such care or services.
(2) To a discharged member of the armed forces of a nation allied with the United States in World War I or World War II in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 109.
(3) Under a sharing agreement in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 8111 or 8153 and 17.240.
(4) Under any other provision of law that authorizes VA to provide care.
(c) Unless rates or charges are otherwise established in contract, in a sharing agreement, or under Federal law, VA will charge under this section at rates based on the VHA Office of Finance Managerial Cost Accounting (MCA) Cost Reports, which sets forth the actual basic costs and per diem rates by type of inpatient care, and actual basic costs and rates for outpatient care visits. Factors for depreciation of buildings and equipment and Central Office overhead are added, based on accounting manual instructions. Additional factors are added for interest on capital investment and for standard fringe benefit costs covering government employee retirement and disability costs. The VHA Office of Finance MCA Cost Reports are used to determine two separate rates: one rate is the general Cost-Based Rate and the other rate is the Inter-Agency Rate. These rates are published annually by VA on the internet site of the Veterans Health Administration Office of Community Care's website at
https://www.va.gov/communitycare/revenue_ops/payer_rates.asp.
(d) The rates for prescription drugs that VA furnishes not administered during treatment are based on the actual cost of the drug plus a national average of VA administrative costs as described in § 17.101(m).
[88 FR 32975, May 23, 2023]
§ 17.103
Referrals of compromise settlement offers.
Any offer to compromise or settle any charges or claim for $20,000 or less asserted by the Department of Veterans Affairs in connection with the medical program shall be referred as follows:
(a)
To Chief Financial Officers of the Consolidated Patient Account Centers.
If the debt represents charges made under §§ 17.108, 17.110, or 17.111, the compromise offer shall be referred to the Chief Financial Officer of the Consolidated Patient Account Center (CPAC) for application of the collection standards in § 1.900
et seq.
of this chapter, provided:
(1) The debt does not exceed $1,000, and
(2) There has been a previous denial of waiver of the debt by the CPAC Committee on Waivers and Compromises.
(b)
To Regional Counsel.
If the debt in any amount represents charges for medical services for which there is or may be a claim against a third party tort-feasor or under workers' compensation laws or Pub. L. 87-693; 76 Stat. 593 (see § 1.903 of this chapter) or involves a claim contemplated by § 1.902 of this chapter over which the Department of Veterans Affairs lacks jurisdiction, the compromise offer (or request for waiver or proposal to terminate or suspend collection action) shall be promptly referred to the field station Regional Counsel having jurisdiction in the area in which the claim arose, or
(c)
To Committee on Waivers and Compromises.
If one of the following situations contemplated in paragraph (c)(1) through (3) of this section applies
(1) If the debt represents charges made under § 17.101(a), but is not of a type contemplated in paragraph (a) of this section, or
(2) If the debt represents charges for medical services made under § 17.101(b), or
(3) A claim arising in connection with any transaction of the Veterans Health Administration for which the
instructions in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section or in § 17.105(c) are not applicable, then, the compromise offer should be referred for disposition under § 1.900
et seq.
of this chapter to the field station Committee on Waivers and Compromises which shall take final action.
[39 FR 26403, July 19, 1974, as amended at 47 FR 58250, Dec. 30, 1982. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 21966, 21967, May 13, 1996; 62 FR 17072, Apr. 9, 1997; 80 FR 23241, Apr. 27, 2015]
§ 17.104
Terminations and suspensions.
Any proposal to suspend or terminate collection action on any charges or claim for $20,000 or less asserted by the Department of Veterans Affairs in connection with the medical program shall be referred as follows:
(a)
Of charges for medical services.
If the debt represents charges made under §§ 17.108, 17.110, or 17.111 questions concerning suspension or termination of collection action shall be referred to the Chief Financial Officer of the Consolidated Patient Account Center for application of the collection standards in § 1.900
et seq.
of this chapter, or
(b)
Of other debts.
If the debt is of a type other than those contemplated in paragraph (a) of this section, questions concerning suspension or termination of collection action shall be referred in accordance with the same referral procedures for compromise offers (except the Fiscal activity shall make final determinations in terminations or suspensions involving claims of $150 or less pursuant to the provisions of § 1.900
et seq.
of this chapter.)
[34 FR 7807, May 16, 1969, as amended at 39 FR 26403, July 19, 1974. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 21966, 21967, May 13, 1996; 80 FR 23241, Apr. 27, 2015]
§ 17.105
Waivers.
Applications or requests for waiver of debts or claims asserted by the Department of Veterans Affairs in connection with the medical program generally will be denied by the facility Fiscal activity on the basis there is no legal authority to waive debts, unless the question of waiver should be referred as follows:
(a)
Of charges for medical services.
If the debt represents charges made under § 17.102, the application or request for waiver should be referred for disposition under § 1.900
et seq.
of this chapter to the field facility Committee on Waivers and Compromises which shall take final action, or
(b)
Of claims against third persons and other claims.
If the debt is of a type contemplated in § 17.103(b), the waiver question should be referred in accordance with the same referral procedures for compromise offers in such categories of claims, or
(c)
Of charges for copayments.
If the debt represents charges for outpatient medical care, inpatient hospital care, medication or extended care services copayments made under §§ 17.108, 17.110, 17.111, or 17.4600, the claimant must request a waiver by submitting VA Form 5655 (Financial Status Report) to the Consolidated Patient Account Center (CPAC) Chief Financial Officer. The claimant must submit this form within the time period provided in § 1.963(b) of this chapter and may request a hearing under § 1.966(a) of this chapter. The CPAC Chief Financial Officer may extend the time period for submitting a claim if the Chairperson of the Committee on Waivers and Compromises could do so under § 1.963(b) of this chapter. The CPAC Chief Financial Officer will apply the standard “equity and good conscience” in accordance with §§ 1.965 and 1.966(a) of this chapter, and may waive all or part of the claimant's debts. A decision by the CPAC Chief Financial Officer under this provision is final (except that the decision may be reversed or modified based on new and material evidence, fraud, a change in law or interpretation of law, or clear and unmistakable error shown by the evidence in the file at the time of the prior decision as provided in § 1.969 of this chapter) and may be appealed in accordance with 38 CFR parts 19 and 20.
(d)
Other debts.
If the debt represents any claim or charges other than those contemplated in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, and is a debt for which waiver has been specifically provided for by law or under the terms of a contract, initial action shall be taken at the station level for referral of the request for waiver through channels for
action by the appropriate designated official. If, however, the question of waiver may also involve a concurrent opportunity to negotiate a compromise settlement, the application shall be referred to the Committee on Waivers and Compromises.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0165)
[39 FR 26403, July 19, 1974. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 21966, 21967, May 13, 1996; 69 FR 62204, Oct. 25, 2004; 80 FR 23241, Apr. 27, 2015; 84 FR 26017, June 5, 2019]
§ 17.106
VA collection rules; third-party payers.
(a)(1)
General rule.
VA has the right to recover or collect reasonable charges from a third-party payer for medical care and services provided for a nonservice-connected disability in or through any VA facility to a veteran who is also a beneficiary under the third-party payer's plan. VA's right to recover or collect is limited to the extent that the beneficiary or a nongovernment provider of care or services would be eligible to receive reimbursement or indemnification from the third-party payer if the beneficiary were to incur the costs on the beneficiary's own behalf.
(2)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section:
Automobile liability insurance
means insurance against legal liability for health and medical expenses resulting from personal injuries arising from operation of a motor vehicle. Automobile liability insurance includes:
(A) Circumstances in which liability benefits are paid to an injured party only when the insured party's tortious acts are the cause of the injuries; and
(B) Uninsured and underinsured coverage, in which there is a third-party tortfeasor who caused the injuries (
i.e.
, benefits are not paid on a no-fault basis), but the insured party is not the tortfeasor.
Health-plan contract
means any plan, policy, program, contract, or liability arrangement that provides compensation, coverage, or indemnification for expenses incurred by a beneficiary for medical care or services, items, products, and supplies. It includes but is not limited to:
(A) Any plan offered by an insurer, reinsurer, employer, corporation, organization, trust, organized health care group or other entity.
(B) Any plan for which the beneficiary pays a premium to an issuing agent as well as any plan to which the beneficiary is entitled as a result of employment or membership in or association with an organization or group.
(C) Any Employee Retirement Income and Security Act (ERISA) plan.
(D) Any Multiple Employer Trust (MET).
(E) Any Multiple Employer Welfare Arrangement (MEWA).
(F) Any Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) plan, including any such plan with a point-of-service provision or option.
(G) Any individual practice association (IPA) plan.
(H) Any exclusive provider organization (EPO) plan.
(I) Any physician hospital organization (PHO) plan.
(J) Any integrated delivery system (IDS) plan.
(K) Any management service organization (MSO) plan.
(L) Any group or individual medical services account.
(M) Any participating provider organization (PPO) plan or any PPO provision or option of any third-party payer plan.
(N) Any Medicare supplemental insurance plan.
(O) Any automobile liability insurance plan.
(P) Any no fault insurance plan, including any personal injury protection plan or medical payments benefit plan for personal injuries arising from the operation of a motor vehicle.
Medicare supplemental insurance plan
means an insurance, medical service or health-plan contract primarily for the purpose of supplementing an eligible person's benefit under Medicare. The term has the same meaning as “Medicare supplemental policy” in section 1882(g)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395,
et seq.
) and 42 CFR part 403, subpart B.
No-fault insurance
means an insurance contract providing compensation
for medical expenses relating to personal injury arising from the operation of a motor vehicle in which the compensation is not premised on who may have been responsible for causing such injury. No-fault insurance includes personal injury protection and medical payments benefits in cases involving personal injuries resulting from operation of a motor vehicle.
Participating provider organization
means any arrangement in a third-party payer plan under which coverage is limited to services provided by a select group of providers who are members of the PPO or incentives (for example, reduced copayments) are provided for beneficiaries under the plan to receive health care services from the members of the PPO rather than from other providers who, although authorized to be paid, are not included in the PPO. However, a PPO does not include any organization that is recognized as a health maintenance organization.
Third-party payer
means an entity, other than the person who received the medical care or services at issue (first party) and VA who provided the care or services (second party), responsible for the payment of medical expenses on behalf of a person through insurance, agreement or contract. This term includes, but is not limited to the following:
(A) State and local governments that provide such plans other than Medicaid.
(B) Insurance underwriters or carriers.
(C) Private employers or employer groups offering self-insured or partially self-insured medical service or health plans.
(D) Automobile liability insurance underwriter or carrier.
(E) No fault insurance underwriter or carrier.
(F) Workers' compensation program or plan sponsor, underwriter, carrier, or self-insurer.
(G) Any other plan or program that is designed to provide compensation or coverage for expenses incurred by a beneficiary for healthcare services or products.
(H) A third-party administrator.
(b)
Calculating reasonable charges.
(1) The “reasonable charges” subject to recovery or collection by VA under this section are calculated using the applicable method for such charges established by VA in 38 CFR 17.101.
(2) If the third-party payer's plan includes a requirement for a deductible or copayment by the beneficiary of the plan, VA will recover or collect reasonable charges less that deductible or copayment amount.
(c)
VA's right to recover or collect is exclusive.
The only way for a third-party payer to satisfy its obligation under this section is to pay the VA facility or other authorized representative of the United States. Payment by a third-party payer to the beneficiary does not satisfy the third-party's obligation under this section.
(1) Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 1729(b)(2), the United States may file a claim or institute and prosecute legal proceedings against a third-party payer to enforce a right of the United States under 38 U.S.C. 1729 and this section. Such filing or proceedings must be instituted within six years after the last day of the provision of the medical care or services for which recovery or collection is sought.
(2) An authorized representative of the United States may compromise, settle or waive a claim of the United States under this section.
(3) The remedies authorized for collection of indebtedness due the United States under 31 U.S.C. 3701,
et seq.,
28 CFR part 11, 31 CFR parts 900 through 904 and 38 CFR part 1, are available to effect collections under this section.
(4) A third-party payer may not, without the consent of a U.S. Government official authorized to take action under 38 U.S.C. 1729 and this part, offset or reduce any payment due under 38 U.S.C. 1729 or this part on the grounds that the payer considers itself due a refund from a VA facility. A written request for a refund must be submitted within 18 months from the original payment date and adjudicated separately from any other claims submitted to the third-party payer under 38 U.S.C. 1729 or this part. If third-party payers do not submit requests for a refund within this 18-month time frame, VA will not provide a refund to third-party payers for a paid claim for any reason.
(d)
Assignment of benefits or other submission by beneficiary not necessary.
The obligation of the third-party payer to pay is not dependent upon the beneficiary executing an assignment of benefits to the United States. Nor is the obligation to pay dependent upon any other submission by the beneficiary to the third-party payer, including any claim or appeal. In any case in which VA makes a claim, appeal, representation, or other filing under the authority of this part, any procedural requirement in any third-party payer plan for the beneficiary of such plan to make the claim, appeal, representation, or other filing must be deemed to be satisfied. A copy of the completed VA Form 10-10EZ or VA Form 10-10EZR that includes a veteran's insurance declaration will be provided to payers upon request, in lieu of a claimant's statement or coordination of benefits form.
(e)
Preemption of conflicting State laws and contracts.
Any provision of a law or regulation of a State or political subdivision thereof and any provision of any contract or agreement that purports to establish any requirement on a third-party payer that would have the effect of excluding from coverage or limiting payment for any medical care or services for which payment by the third-party payer under 38 U.S.C. 1729 or this part is required, is preempted by 38 U.S.C. 1729(f) and shall have no force or effect in connection with the third-party payer's obligations under 38 U.S.C. 1729 or this part.
(f)
Impermissible exclusions by third-party payers.
(1)
Statutory requirement.
Under 38 U.S.C. 1729(f), no provision of any third-party payer's plan having the effect of excluding from coverage or limiting payment for certain care if that care is provided in or through any VA facility shall operate to prevent collection by the United States.
(2)
General rules.
The following are general rules for the administration of 38 U.S.C. 1729 and this part, with examples provided for clarification. The examples provided are not exclusive. A third-party payer may not reduce, offset, or request a refund for payments made to VA under the following conditions:
(i) Express exclusions or limitations in third-party payer plans that are inconsistent with 38 U.S.C. 1729 are inoperative. For example, a provision in a third-party payer's plan that purports to disallow or limit payment for services provided by a government entity or paid for by a government program (or similar exclusion) is not a permissible ground for refusing or reducing third-party payment.
(ii) No objection, precondition or limitation may be asserted that defeats the statutory purpose of collecting from third-party payers. For example, a provision in a third-party payer's plan that purports to disallow or limit payment for services for which the patient has no obligation to pay (or similar exclusion) is not a permissible ground for refusing or reducing third-party payment.
(iii) Third-party payers may not treat claims arising from services provided in or through VA facilities less favorably than they treat claims arising from services provided in other hospitals. For example, no provision of an employer sponsored program or plan that purports to make ineligible for coverage individuals who are eligible to receive VA medical care and services shall be permissible.
(iv) The lack of a participation agreement or the absence of privity of contract between a third-party payer and VA is not a permissible ground for refusing or reducing third-party payment.
(v) A provision in a third-party payer plan, other than a Medicare supplemental plan, that seeks to make Medicare the primary payer and the plan the secondary payer or that would operate to carve out of the plan's coverage an amount equivalent to the Medicare payment that would be made if the services were provided by a provider to whom payment would be made under Part A or Part B of Medicare is not a permissible ground for refusing or reducing payment as the primary payer to VA by the third-party payer unless the provision expressly disallows payment as the primary payer to all providers to whom payment would not be made under Medicare (including payment under Part A, Part B, a Medicare HMO, or a Medicare Advantage plan).
(vi) A third-party payer may not refuse or reduce third-party payment to VA because VA's claim form did not report hospital acquired conditions (HAC) or present on admission conditions (POA). VA is exempt from the Medicare Inpatient prospective payment system and the Medicare rules for reporting POA or HAC information to third-party payers.
(vii) Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs) may not exclude claims or refuse to certify emergent and urgent services provided within the HMO's service area or otherwise covered non-emergency services provided out of the HMO's service area. In addition, opt-out or point-of-service options available under an HMO plan may not exclude services otherwise payable under 38 U.S.C. 1729 or this part.
(viii) A third party may not reduce or refuse payment if the facility where the medical treatment was furnished is designated by VA as provider-based, but the facility does not meet the provider-based status requirements under 42 CFR 413.65.
(ix) A provision in a third-party payer's plan that directs payment for care or services be refused or lessened because the billing is not presented in accordance with a specified methodology (such as a line item methodology) is not by itself a permissible ground for refusing or reducing third-party payment.
(g)
Records.
Pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 1729(h), VA shall make available for inspection and review to representatives of third-party payers, from which the United States seeks payment, recovery, or collection under 38 U.S.C. 1729, appropriate health care records (or copies of such records) of patients. However, the appropriate records will be made available only for the purposes of verifying the care and services which are the subject of the claim(s) for payment under 38 U.S.C. 1729, and for verifying that the care and services met the permissible criteria of the terms and conditions of the third-party payer's plan. Patient care records will not be made available under any other circumstances to any other entity. VA will not make available to a third-party payer any other patient or VA records.
(Authority: 31 U.S.C. 3711, 38 U.S.C. 501, 1729, 42 U.S.C. 2651)
[76 FR 37204, June 24, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 54616, Sept. 12, 2014; 85 FR 53176, Aug. 28, 2020; 86 FR 16055, Mar. 26, 2021]

# Disciplinary Control of Beneficiaries Receiving Hospital, Domiciliary or Nursing Home Care
§ 17.107
VA response to disruptive behavior of patients.
(a)
Definition.
For the purposes of this section:
VA medical facility
means VA medical centers, outpatient clinics, and domiciliaries.
(b)
Response to disruptive patients.
The time, place, and/or manner of the provision of a patient's medical care may be restricted by written order of the Chief of Staff of the VA Medical Center of jurisdiction or his or her designee if:
(1) The Chief of Staff or designee determines pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section that the patient's behavior at a VA medical facility has jeopardized or could jeopardize the health or safety of other patients, VA staff, or guests at the facility, or otherwise interfere with the delivery of safe medical care to another patient at the facility;
(2) The order is narrowly tailored to address the patient's disruptive behavior and avoid undue interference with the patient's care;
(3) The order is signed by the Chief of Staff or designee, and a copy is entered into the patient's permanent medical record;
(4) The patient receives a copy of the order and written notice of the procedure for appealing the order to the Network Director of jurisdiction as soon as possible after issuance; and
(5) The order contains an effective date and any appropriate limits on the duration of or conditions for continuing the restrictions. The Chief of Staff or designee may order restrictions for a definite period or until the conditions for removing conditions specified in the order are satisfied. Unless otherwise stated, the restrictions imposed by an order will take effect upon issuance by the Chief of Staff or
designee. Any order issued by the Chief of Staff or designee shall include a summary of the pertinent facts and the bases for the Chief of Staff's or designee's determination regarding the need for restrictions.
(c)
Evaluation of disruptive behavior.
In making determinations under paragraph (b) of this section, the Chief of Staff or designee must consider all pertinent facts, including any prior counseling of the patient regarding his or her disruptive behavior or any pattern of such behavior, and whether the disruptive behavior is a result of the patient's individual fears, preferences, or perceived needs. A patient's disruptive behavior must be assessed in connection with VA's duty to provide good quality care, including care designed to reduce or otherwise clinically address the patient's behavior.
(d)
Restrictions.
The restrictions on care imposed under this section may include but are not limited to:
(1) Specifying the hours in which nonemergent outpatient care will be provided;
(2) Arranging for medical and any other services to be provided in a particular patient care area (e.g., private exam room near an exit);
(3) Arranging for medical and any other services to be provided at a specific site of care;
(4) Specifying the health care provider, and related personnel, who will be involved with the patient's care;
(5) Requiring police escort; or
(6) Authorizing VA providers to terminate an encounter immediately if certain behaviors occur.
(e)
Review of restrictions.
The patient may request the Network Director's review of any order issued under this section within 30 days of the effective date of the order by submitting a written request to the Chief of Staff. The Chief of Staff shall forward the order and the patient's request to the Network Director for a final decision. The Network Director shall issue a final decision on this matter within 30 days. VA will enforce the order while it is under review by the Network Director. The Chief of Staff will provide the patient who made the request written notice of the Network Director's final decision.

# Note to § 17.107:
Although VA may restrict the time, place, and/or manner of care under this section, VA will continue to offer the full range of needed medical care to which a patient is eligible under title 38 of the United States Code or Code of Federal Regulations. Patients have the right to accept or refuse treatments or procedures, and such refusal by a patient is not a basis for restricting the provision of care under this section.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 901, 1721)
[75 FR 69883, Nov. 16, 2010. Redesignated at 76 FR 37204, June 24, 2011; 79 FR 54616, Sept. 12, 2014]

# Copayments
§ 17.108
Copayments for inpatient hospital care and outpatient medical care.
(a)
General.
This section sets forth requirements regarding copayments for inpatient hospital care and outpatient medical care provided to veterans by VA.
(b)
Copayments for inpatient hospital care.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (d) or (e) of this section, a veteran, as a condition of receiving inpatient hospital care provided by VA (provided either directly by VA or obtained by VA by contract, provider agreement, or sharing agreement), must agree to pay VA (and is obligated to pay VA) the applicable copayment, as set forth in paragraph (b)(2), (b)(3), or (b)(4) of this section.
(2) The copayment for inpatient hospital care shall be, during any 365-day period, a copayment equaling the sum of:
(i) $10 for every day the veteran receives inpatient hospital care, and
(ii) The lesser of:
(A) The sum of the inpatient Medicare deductible for the first 90 days of care and one-half of the inpatient Medicare deductible for each subsequent 90 days of care (or fraction thereof) after the first 90 days of such care during such 365-day period, or
(B) VA's cost of providing the care.
(3) The copayment for inpatient hospital care for veterans enrolled in priority category 7 shall be 20 percent of the amount computed under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) For inpatient hospital care furnished through the Veterans Choice Program under §§ 17.1500 through
17.1540, or the Veterans Community Care Program under §§ 17.4000 through 17.4040, the copayment amount at the time of furnishing such care or services by a non-VA entity or provider is $0. VA will determine and assess the veteran's copayment amount at the end of the billing process, but at no time will a veteran's copayment be more than the amount identified in paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section.

# Note to § 17.108(
b

# ):
The requirement that a veteran agree to pay the copayment would be met by submitting to VA a signed VA Form 10-10EZ. This is the application form for enrollment in the VA healthcare system and also is the document used for providing means-test information annually.
(c)
Copayments for outpatient medical care.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (d), (e), or (f) of this section, a veteran, as a condition for receiving outpatient medical care provided by VA (provided either directly by VA or obtained by VA by contract, provider agreement, or sharing agreement), must agree to pay VA (and is obligated to pay VA) a copayment as set forth in paragraph (c)(2) or (c)(4) of this section.
(2) The copayment for outpatient medical care is $15 for a primary care outpatient visit and $50 for a specialty care outpatient visit. If a veteran has more than one primary care encounter on the same day and no specialty care encounter on that day, the copayment amount is the copayment for one primary care outpatient visit. If a veteran has one or more primary care encounters and one or more specialty care encounters on the same day, the copayment amount is the copayment for one specialty care outpatient visit.
(3) For purposes of this section, a primary care visit is an episode of care furnished in a clinic that provides integrated, accessible healthcare services by clinicians who are accountable for addressing a large majority of personal healthcare needs, developing a sustained partnership with patients, and practicing in the context of family and community. Primary care includes, but is not limited to, diagnosis and management of acute and chronic biopsychosocial conditions, health promotion, disease prevention, overall care management, and patient and caregiver education. Each patient's identified primary care clinician delivers services in the context of a larger interdisciplinary primary care team. Patients have access to the primary care clinician and much of the primary care team without need of a referral. In contrast, specialty care is generally provided through referral. A specialty care outpatient visit is an episode of care furnished in a clinic that does not provide primary care, and is only provided through a referral. Some examples of specialty care provided at a specialty care clinic are radiology services requiring the immediate presence of a physician, audiology, optometry, magnetic resonance imagery (MRI), computerized axial tomography (CAT) scan, nuclear medicine studies, surgical consultative services, and ambulatory surgery.
(4) For outpatient medical care furnished through the Veterans Choice Program under §§ 17.1500 through 17.1540, or the Veterans Community Care Program under §§ 17.4000 through 17.4040, the copayment amount at the time of furnishing such care or services by a non-VA entity or provider is $0. VA will determine and assess the veteran's copayment amount at the end of the billing process, but at no time will a veteran's copayment be more than the amount identified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

# Note to § 17.108(
c

# ):
The requirement that a veteran agree to pay the copayment would be met by submitting to VA a signed VA Form 10-10EZ. This is the application form for enrollment in the VA healthcare system and also is the document used for providing means-test information annually.
(d)
Veterans not subject to copayment requirements for inpatient hospital care or outpatient medical care.
The following veterans are not subject to the copayment requirements of this section:
(1) A veteran with a compensable service-connected disability.
(2) A veteran who is a former prisoner of war.
(3) A veteran awarded a Purple Heart.
(4) A veteran who was discharged or released from active military service for a disability incurred or aggravated in the line of duty;
(5) A veteran who receives disability compensation under 38 U.S.C. 1151.
(6) A veteran whose entitlement to disability compensation is suspended pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 1151, but only to the extent that the veteran's continuing eligibility for care is provided for in the judgment or settlement described in 38 U.S.C. 1151.
(7) A veteran whose entitlement to disability compensation is suspended because of the receipt of military retirement pay.
(8) A veteran of World War II.
(9) A military retiree provided care under an interagency agreement as defined in section 113 of Public Law 106-117, 113 Stat. 1545.
(10) A veteran who VA determines to be unable to defray the expenses of necessary care under 38 U.S.C. 1722(a).
(11) A veteran who VA determines to be catastrophically disabled, as defined in 38 CFR 17.36(e).
(12) A veteran receiving care for psychosis or a mental illness other than psychosis pursuant to § 17.109.
(13) A veteran who was awarded the Medal of Honor.
(14) A veteran who meets the definition of Indian or urban Indian, as defined in 25 U.S.C. 1603(13) and (28), for inpatient hospital care or outpatient medical care provided on or after January 5, 2022. To demonstrate that they meet the definition of Indian or urban Indian, the veteran must submit to VA any of the documentation described in paragraphs (d)(14)(i) through (vi) of this section:
(i) Documentation issued by a federally recognized Indian Tribe that shows that the veteran is a member of the Tribe;
(ii) Documentation showing that the veteran, irrespective of whether they live on or near a reservation, is a member of a Tribe, band, or other organized group of Indians, including those tribes, bands, or groups terminated since 1940 and those recognized now or in the future by the State in which they reside, or who is a descendant, in the first or second degree, of any such member;
(iii) Documentation showing that the veteran is an Eskimo or Aleut or other Alaska Native;
(iv) Documentation issued by the Department of Interior (DOI) showing that the veteran considered by DOI to be an Indian for any purpose;
(v) Documentation showing that the veteran is considered by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to be an Indian under that Department's regulations; or
(vi) Documentation showing that the veteran resides in an urban center and meets one or more of the following criteria:
(A) Irrespective of whether they live on or near a reservation, is a member of a Tribe, band, or other organized group of Indians, including those tribes, bands, or groups terminated since 1940 and those recognized now or in the future by the State in which they reside, or who is a descendant, in the first or second degree, of any such member;
(B) Is an Eskimo or Aleut or other Alaska Native;
(C) Is considered by the Department of Interior to be an Indian for any purpose; or
(D) Is considered by HHS to be an Indian under that Department's regulations.
(e)
Services not subject to copayment requirements for inpatient hospital care, outpatient medical care, or urgent care.
The following are not subject to the copayment requirements under this section or, except for § 17.108(e)(1), (2), (4), (10), and (14), the copayment requirements under § 17.4600.
(1) Care provided to a veteran for a noncompensable zero percent service-connected disability;
(2) Care authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1710(e) for Vietnam-era herbicide-exposed veterans, radiation-exposed veterans, Gulf War veterans, post-Gulf War combat-exposed veterans, or Camp Lejeune veterans pursuant to § 17.400;
(3) Special registry examinations (including any follow-up examinations or testing ordered as part of the special registry examination) offered by VA to evaluate possible health risks associated with military service;
(4) Counseling and care for sexual trauma as authorized under 38 U.S.C 1720D;
(5) Compensation and pension examinations requested by the Veterans Benefits Administration;
(6) Care provided as part of a VA-approved research project authorized by 38 U.S.C. 7303;
(7) Outpatient dental care provided under 38 U.S.C. 1712;
(8) Readjustment counseling and related mental health services authorized under 38 U.S.C 1712A;
(9) Emergency treatment paid for under 38 U.S.C. 1725 or 1728;
(10) Care or services authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1720E for certain veterans regarding cancer of the head or neck;
(11) Publicly announced VA public health initiatives (
e.g.
, health fairs) or an outpatient visit solely consisting of preventive screening and immunizations (e.g., influenza immunization, pneumonococcal immunization, hypertension screening, hepatitis C screening, tobacco screening, alcohol screening, hyperlipidemia screening, breast cancer screening, cervical cancer screening, screening for colorectal cancer by fecal occult blood testing, and education about the risks and benefits of prostate cancer screening);
(12) Weight management counseling (individual and group);
(13) Smoking cessation counseling (individual and group);
(14) Laboratory services, flat film radiology services, and electrocardiograms;
(15) Hospice care;
(16) In-home video telehealth care;
(17) Mental health peer support services; and
(18) An outpatient care visit solely for education on the use of opioid antagonists to reverse the effects of overdoses of specific medications or substances.
(19) Emergent suicide care as authorized under 38 CFR 17.1200-17.1230.
(f)
Additional care not subject to outpatient copayment.
Outpatient care is not subject to the outpatient copayment requirements under this section when provided to a veteran during a day for which the veteran is required to make a copayment for extended care services that were provided either directly by VA or obtained for VA by contract.
(g)
Retroactive copayment reimbursement.
After VA determines that the documentation submitted by the veteran meets the criteria in paragraph (d)(14) of this section and VA updates the veteran's record to reflect the veteran's status as an Indian or urban Indian, VA will reimburse veterans exempt under paragraph (d)(14) for any copayments that were paid to VA for inpatient hospital care and outpatient medical care provided on or after January 5, 2022 if they would have been exempt from making such copayments if paragraph (d)(14) had been in effect.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection provisions in this section under control number 2900-0920)
[66 FR 63448, Dec. 6, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 60854, Oct. 24, 2003; 70 FR 22596, May 2, 2005; 73 FR 20532, Apr. 16, 2008; 75 FR 54030, Sept. 3, 2010; 76 FR 52274, Aug. 22, 2011; 77 FR 13198, Mar. 6, 2012; 78 FR 28143, May 14, 2013; 79 FR 57414, Sept. 24, 2014; 79 FR 65584, Nov. 5, 2014; 79 FR 70939, Nov. 28, 2014; 84 FR 7815, Mar. 5, 2019; 84 FR 26017, 26306, June 5, 2019; 86 FR 52076, Sept. 20, 2021; 88 FR 2536, Jan. 17, 2023; 88 FR 19871, Apr. 4, 2023; 88 FR 21478, Apr. 11, 2023; 89 FR 45601, May 23, 2024]
§ 17.109
Presumptive eligibility for psychosis and mental illness other than psychosis.
(a)
Psychosis.
Eligibility for benefits under this part is established by this section for treatment of an active psychosis, and such condition is exempted from copayments under §§ 17.108, 17.110, and 17.111 for any veteran of World War II, the Korean conflict, the Vietnam era, or the Persian Gulf War who developed such psychosis:
(1) Within 2 years after discharge or release from the active military, naval, or air service; and
(2) Before the following date associated with the war or conflict in which he or she served:
(i) World War II: July 26, 1949.
(ii) Korean conflict: February 1, 1957.
(iii) Vietnam era: May 8, 1977.
(iv) Persian Gulf War: The end of the 2-year period beginning on the last day of the Persian Gulf War.
(b)
Mental illness (other than psychosis).
Eligibility under this part is established by this section for treatment of an active mental illness (other than psychosis), and such condition is exempted from copayments under
§§ 17.108, 17.110, and 17.111 for any veteran of the Persian Gulf War who developed such mental illness other than psychosis:
(1) Within 2 years after discharge or release from the active military, naval, or air service; and
(2) Before the end of the 2-year period beginning on the last day of the Persian Gulf War.
(c)
No minimum service required.
Eligibility for care and waiver of copayments will be established under this section without regard to the veteran's length of active-duty service.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1702, 5303A)
[78 FR 28143, May 14, 2013]
§ 17.110
Copayments for medication.
(a)
General.
This section sets forth requirements regarding copayments for medications provided to veterans by VA. For purposes of this section, the term “medication” means prescription and over-the-counter medications, as determined by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), but does not mean medical supplies, oral nutritional supplements, or medical devices. Oral nutritional supplements are commercially prepared nutritionally enhanced products used to supplement the intake of individuals who cannot meet nutrient needs by diet alone.
(b)
Copayments.
(1)
Copayment amount.
Unless exempted under paragraph (c) of this section, a veteran is obligated to pay VA a copayment for each 30-day or less supply of medication provided by VA on an outpatient basis (other than medication administered during treatment).
(i) For each 30-day or less supply of Tier 1 medications, the copayment amount is $5.
(ii) For each 30-day or less supply of Tier 2 medications, the copayment amount is $8.
(iii) For each 30-day or less supply of Tier 3 medications, the copayment amount is $11.
(iv) For purposes of this section:
(A)
Multi-source medication
is any one of the following:
(
1
) A medication that has been and remains approved by the FDA—
(
i
) Under sections 505(b)(2) or 505(j) of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA, 21 U.S.C. 355), and that has been granted an A-rating in the current version of the FDA's Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations (the Orange Book); or
(
ii
) Under section 351(k) of the Public Health Service Act (PHSA, 42 U.S.C. 262), and that has been granted an I or B rating in the current version of the FDA's Lists of Licensed Biological Products with Reference Product Exclusivity and Biosimilarity or Interchangeability Evaluations (the Purple Book). FDA determines both therapeutic equivalence for drugs and interchangeability for biological products.
(
2
) A medication that—
(
i
) Has been and remains approved by the FDA pursuant to FDCA section 505(b)(1) or PHSA section 351(a);
(
ii
) Which is referenced by at least one FDA-approved product that meets the criteria of paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(A)(
1
) of this section; and
(
iii
) Which is covered by a contracting strategy in place with pricing such that it is lower in cost than other generic sources.
(
3
) A medication that—
(
i
) Has been and remains approved by the FDA pursuant to FDCA section 505(b)(1) or PHSA section 351(a); and
(
ii
) Has the same active ingredient or active ingredients, works in the same way and in a comparable amount of time, and is determined by VA to be substitutable for another medication that has been and remains approved by the FDA pursuant to FDCA section 505(b)(1) or PHSA section 351(a). This may include but is not limited to insulin and levothyroxine.
(
4
) A listed drug, as defined in 21 CFR 314.3, that has been approved under FDCA section 505(c) and is marketed, sold, or distributed directly or indirectly to retail class of trade with either labeling, packaging (other than repackaging as the listed drug in blister packs, unit doses, or similar packaging for use in institutions), product code, labeler code, trade name, or trademark that differs from that of the listed drug.
(B)
Tier 1 medication
means a multi-source medication that has been identified using the process described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(C)
Tier 2 medication
means a multi-source medication that is not identified using the process described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(D)
Tier 3 medication
means a medication approved by the FDA under a New Drug Application (NDA) or a biological product approved by the FDA pursuant to a biologics license agreement (BLA) that retains its patent protection and exclusivity and is not a multi-source medication identified in paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(A)(
3
) or (
4
) of this section.
(2)
Determining Tier 1 medications.
Not less than once per year, VA will identify a subset of multi-source medications as Tier 1 medications using the criteria below. Only medications that meet all of the criteria in paragraphs (b)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) will be eligible to be considered Tier 1 medications, and only those medications that meet all of the criteria in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section will be assessed using the criteria in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) and (iii).
(i) A medication must meet all of the following criteria:
(A) The VA acquisition cost for the medication is less than or equal to $10 for a 30-day supply of medication;
(B) The medication is not a topical cream, a product used to treat musculoskeletal conditions, an antihistamine, or a steroid-containing medication;
(C) The medication is available on the VA National Formulary;
(D) The medication is not an antibiotic that is primarily used for short periods of time to treat infections; and
(E) The medication primarily is used to either treat or manage a chronic condition, or to reduce the risk of adverse health outcomes secondary to the chronic condition, for example, medications used to treat high blood pressure to reduce the risks of heart attack, stroke, and kidney failure. For purposes of this section, conditions that typically are known to persist for 3 months or more will be considered chronic.
(ii) The medication must be among the top 75 most commonly prescribed multi-source medications that meet the criteria in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, based on the number of prescriptions issued for a 30-day or less supply on an outpatient basis during a fixed period of time.
(iii) VA must determine that the medication identified provides maximum clinical value consistent with budgetary resources.
(3)
Information on Tier 1 medications.
Not less than once per year, VA will publish a list of Tier 1 medications in the
Federal Register
and on VA's Web site at
www.va.gov/health.
(4)
Veterans Choice Program.
For medications furnished through the Veterans Choice Program under §§ 17.1500 through 17.1540, or the Veterans Community Care Program under §§ 17.4000 through 17.4040, the copayment amount at the time the veteran fills the prescription is $0. VA will determine and assess the veteran's copayment amount at the end of the billing process, but at no time will a veteran's copayment be more than the amount identified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(5)
Copayment cap.
The total amount of copayments for medications in a calendar year for an enrolled veteran will not exceed $700.
(c)
Medication not subject to the copayment requirements.
The following are exempt from the copayment requirements of this section:
(1) Medication for a veteran who has a service-connected disability rated 50% or more based on a service-connected disability or unemployability.
(2) Medication for a veteran's service-connected disability.
(3) Medication for a veteran whose annual income (as determined under 38 U.S.C. 1503) does not exceed the maximum annual rate of VA pension which would be payable to such veteran if such veteran were eligible for pension under 38 U.S.C. 1521.
(4) Medication authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1710(e) for Vietnam-era herbicide-exposed veterans, radiation-exposed veterans, Persian Gulf War veterans, post-Persian Gulf War combat-exposed veterans, or Camp Lejeune veterans pursuant to § 17.400.
(5) Medication for treatment of sexual trauma as authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1720D.
(6) Medication for treatment of cancer of the head or neck authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1720E.
(7) Medications provided as part of a VA approved research project authorized by 38 U.S.C. 7303.
(8) Medication for a veteran who is a former prisoner of war.
(9) A veteran who VA determines to be catastrophically disabled, as defined in 38 CFR 17.36(e).
(10) A veteran receiving care for psychosis or a mental illness other than psychosis pursuant to § 17.109.
(11) Medication for a veteran who was awarded the Medal of Honor.
(12) Opioid antagonists furnished to a veteran who is at high risk for overdose of a specific medication or substance in order to reverse the effect of such an overdose.
(i) For purposes of this paragraph (c)(12), a veteran who is at high risk for overdose of a specific medication or substance in order to reverse the effect of such an overdose is a veteran:
(A) Who is prescribed or using opioids, or has an opioid use history, and who is at increased risk for opioid overdose as determined by VA; or
(B) Whose provider deems, based on their clinical judgment, that the veteran may benefit from ready availability of an opioid antagonist.
(ii) Examples of a veteran who is at high risk for overdose of a specific medication or substance in order to reverse the effect of such an overdose include, but are not limited to, the following:
(A) A veteran with an opioid or substance use disorder diagnosis;
(B) A veteran receiving treatment for an opioid or substance use disorder diagnosis, such as receiving opioid agonist therapy or inpatient, residential, or outpatient treatment for such diagnosis, or attending a support group for such diagnosis;
(C) A veteran with a history of prescription opioid misuse or injection opioid use;
(D) A veteran with a history of previous opioid overdose;
(E) A veteran who is taking an extended-release or long-acting prescription opioid;
(F) A veteran with household or community access to opioids who is at increased risk for overdose (
e.g.,
psychiatric disorder or high risk for suicide) as determined by VA; or
(G) A veteran predicted to be at high risk for overdose based on standardized assessments or predictive models (
e.g.,
Risk Index for Overdose or Serious Opioid-induced Respiratory Depression [RIOSORD]; Stratification Tool for Opioid Risk Mitigation [STORM]).

# Note 1 to paragraph (c)(12).
The examples in paragraphs (c)(12)(ii)(A) through (G) of this section apply even if the veteran has had a period of abstinence from opioids (
e.g.,
due to treatment, detoxification, incarceration) because loss of tolerance can increase the risk for an overdose.
(13) Medication for an individual as part of emergent suicide care as authorized under 38 CFR 17.1200-17.1230.
(14) A veteran who meets the definition of Indian or urban Indian, as defined in 25 U.S.C. 1603(13) and (28), for medications provided on or after January 5, 2022. To demonstrate that they meet the definition of Indian or urban Indian, the veteran must submit to VA any of the documentation described in paragraphs (c)(14)(i) through (vi) of this section:
(i) Documentation issued by a federally recognized Indian Tribe that shows that the veteran is a member of the Tribe;
(ii) Documentation showing that the veteran, irrespective of whether they live on or near a reservation, is a member of a Tribe, band, or other organized group of Indians, including those tribes, bands, or groups terminated since 1940 and those recognized now or in the future by the State in which they reside, or who is a descendant, in the first or second degree, of any such member;
(iii) Documentation showing that the veteran is an Eskimo or Aleut or other Alaska Native;
(iv) Documentation issued by the Department of Interior (DOI) showing that the veteran is considered by DOI to be an Indian for any purpose;
(v) Documentation showing that the veteran is considered by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to be an Indian under that Department's regulations; or
(vi) Documentation showing that the veteran resides in an urban center and meets one or more of the following criteria:
(A) Irrespective of whether they live on or near a reservation, is a member
of a Tribe, band, or other organized group of Indians, including those tribes, bands, or groups terminated since 1940 and those recognized now or in the future by the State in which they reside, or who is a descendant, in the first or second degree, of any such member;
(B) Is an Eskimo or Aleut or other Alaska Native;
(C) Is considered by DOI to be an Indian for any purpose; or
(D) Is considered by HHS to be an Indian under that Department's regulations.
(d)
Retroactive copayment reimbursement.
After VA determines the submitted documentation meets paragraph (c)(14) of this section and updates the veteran's record to reflect the veteran's status as an Indian or urban Indian, VA will reimburse veterans exempt under paragraph (c)(14) for any copayments that were paid to VA for medications provided on or after January 5, 2022, if they would have been exempt from making such copayments if paragraph (c)(14) had been in effect.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection provisions in this section under control number 2900-0920)
[66 FR 63451, Dec. 6, 2001, as amended at 74 FR 69285, Dec. 31, 2009; 75 FR 32672, June 9, 2010; 75 FR 54030, Sept. 3, 2010; 76 FR 52274, Aug. 22, 2011; 76 FR 78826, Dec. 20, 2011; 77 FR 76867, Dec. 31, 2012; 78 FR 28143, May 14, 2013; 78 FR 79317, Dec. 30, 2013; 79 FR 57414, Sept. 24, 2014; 79 FR 63821, Oct. 27, 2014; 79 FR 65585, Nov. 5, 2014; 80 FR 55545, Sept. 16, 2015; 81 FR 88120, Dec. 7, 2016; 81 FR 89390, Dec. 12, 2016; 84 FR 7815, Mar. 5, 2019; 84 FR 26306, June 5, 2019; 86 FR 52076, Sept. 20, 2021; 88 FR 2536, Jan. 17, 2023; 88 FR 19872, Apr. 4, 2023; 88 FR 21478, Apr. 11, 2023]
§ 17.111
Copayments for extended care services.
(a)
General.
This section sets forth requirements regarding copayments for extended care services provided to veterans by VA (either directly by VA or paid for by VA).
(b)
Copayments.
(1) Unless exempted under paragraph (f) of this section, as a condition of receiving extended care services from VA, a veteran must agree to pay VA and is obligated to pay VA a copayment as specified by this section. A veteran has no obligation to pay a copayment for the first 21 days of extended care services that VA provided the veteran in any 12-month period (the 12-month period begins on the date that VA first provided extended care services to the veteran). However, for each day that extended care services are provided beyond the first 21 days, a veteran is obligated to pay VA the copayment amount set forth below to the extent the veteran has available resources. Available resources are based on monthly calculations, as determined under paragraph (d) of this section. The following sets forth the extended care services provided by VA and the corresponding copayment amount per day:
(i) Adult day health care—$15.
(ii) Domiciliary care—$5.
(iii) Institutional respite care—$97.
(iv) Institutional geriatric evaluation—$97.
(v) Non-institutional geriatric evaluation—$15.
(vi) Non-institutional respite care—$15.
(vii) Nursing home care—$97.
(2) For purposes of counting the number of days for which a veteran is obligated to make a copayment under this section, VA will count each day that adult day health care, non-institutional geriatric evaluation, and non-institutional respite care are provided and will count each full day and partial day for each inpatient stay except for the day of discharge.
(3) For hospital care and medical services considered non-institutional care furnished through the Veterans Choice Program under §§ 17.1500 through 17.1540, as well as extended care services furnished through the Veterans Community Care Program under §§ 17.4000 through 17.4040, the copayment amount at the time of furnishing such care or services by a non-VA entity or provider is $0. VA will determine and assess the veteran's copayment amount at the end of the billing process, but at no time will a veteran's copayment be more than the amount identified in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section.
(c)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Adult day health care
is a therapeutic outpatient care program that
provides medical services, rehabilitation, therapeutic activities, socialization, nutrition and transportation services to disabled veterans in a congregate setting.
(2)
Domiciliary care
is defined in § 17.30(b).
(3)
Extended care services
means adult day health care, domiciliary care, institutional geriatric evaluation, noninstitutional geriatric evaluation, nursing home care, institutional respite care, and noninstitutional respite care.
(4)
Geriatric evaluation
is a specialized, diagnostic/consultative service provided by an interdisciplinary team that is for the purpose of providing a comprehensive assessment, care plan, and extended care service recommendations.
(5)
Institutional
means a setting in a hospital, domiciliary, or nursing home of overnight stays of one or more days.
(6)
Noninstitutional
means a service that does not include an overnight stay.
(7)
Nursing home care
means the accommodation of convalescents or other persons who are not acutely ill and not in need of hospital care, but who require nursing care and related medical services, if such nursing care and medical services are prescribed by, or are performed under the general direction of, persons duly licensed to provide such care (nursing services must be provided 24 hours a day). Such term includes services furnished in skilled nursing care facilities. Such term excludes hospice care.
(8)
Respite care
means care which is of limited duration, is furnished on an intermittent basis to a veteran who is suffering from a chronic illness and who resides primarily at home, and is furnished for the purpose of helping the veteran to continue residing primarily at home. (Respite providers temporarily replace the caregivers to provide services ranging from supervision to skilled care needs.)
(d)
Effect of the veteran's financial resources on obligation to pay copayment.
(1) A veteran is obligated to pay the copayment to the extent the veteran and the veteran's spouse have available resources. For veterans who have been receiving extended care services for 180 days or less, their available resources are the sum of the income of the veteran and the veteran's spouse, minus the sum of the veterans allowance, the spousal allowance, and expenses. For veterans who have been receiving extended care services for 181 days or more, their available resources are the sum of the value of the liquid assets, the fixed assets, and the income of the veteran and the veteran's spouse, minus the sum of the veterans allowance, the spousal allowance, the spousal resource protection amount, and (but only if the veteran—has a spouse or dependents residing in the community who is not institutionalized) expenses. When a veteran is legally separated from a spouse, available resources do not include spousal income, expenses, and assets or a spousal allowance.
(2) For purposes of determining available resources under this section:
(i)
Income
means current income (including, but not limited to, wages and income from a business (minus business expenses), bonuses, tips, severance pay, accrued benefits, cash gifts, inheritance amounts, interest income, standard dividend income from non tax deferred annuities, retirement income, pension income, unemployment payments, worker's compensation payments, black lung payments, tort settlement payments, social security payments, court mandated payments, payments from VA or any other Federal programs, and any other income). The amount of current income will be stated in frequency of receipt, e.g., per week, per month.
(ii)
Expenses
means basic subsistence expenses, including current expenses for the following: rent/mortgage for primary residence; vehicle payment for one vehicle; food for veteran, veteran's spouse, and veteran's dependents; education for veteran, veteran's spouse, and veteran's dependents; court-ordered payments of veteran or veteran's spouse (e.g., alimony, child-support); and including the average monthly expenses during the past year for the following: utilities and insurance for the primary residence; out-of-pocket medical care costs not otherwise covered by health insurance; health insurance premiums for the veteran, veteran's
spouse, and veteran's dependents; and taxes paid on income and personal property.
(iii)
Fixed Assets
means:
(A) Real property and other non-liquid assets; except that this does not include—
(
1
) Burial plots;
(
2
) A residence if the residence is:
(
i
) The primary residence of the veteran and the veteran is receiving only noninstitutional extended care service; or
(
ii
) The primary residence of the veteran's spouse or the veteran's dependents (if the veteran does not have a spouse) if the veteran is receiving institutional extended care service.
(
3
) A vehicle if the vehicle is:
(
i
) The vehicle of the veteran and the veteran is receiving only noninstitutional extended care service; or
(
ii
) The vehicle of the veteran's spouse or the veteran's dependents (if the veteran does not have a spouse) if the veteran is receiving institutional extended care service.
(B) [Reserved]
(iv)
Liquid assets
means cash, stocks, dividends received from IRA, 401K's and other tax deferred annuities, bonds, mutual funds, retirement accounts (e.g., IRA, 401Ks, annuities), art, rare coins, stamp collections, and collectibles of the veteran, spouse, and dependents. This includes household and personal items (e.g., furniture, clothing, and jewelry) except when the veteran's spouse or dependents are living in the community.
(v)
Spousal allowance
is an allowance of $20 per day that is included only if the spouse resides in the community (not institutionalized).
(vi)
Spousal resource protection amount
means the value of liquid assets equal to the Maximum Community Spouse Resource Standard published by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) as of January 1 of the current calendar year if the spouse is residing in the community (not institutionalized).
(vii)
Veterans allowance
is an allowance of $20 per day.
(3) The maximum amount of a copayment for any month equals the copayment amount specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section multiplied by the number of days in the month. The copayment for any month may be less than the amount specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the veteran provides information in accordance with this section to establish that the copayment should be reduced or eliminated.
(e)
Requirement to submit information.
(1) Unless exempted under paragraph (f) of this section, a veteran must submit to a VA medical facility a completed VA Form 10-10EC and documentation requested by the Form at the following times:
(i) At the time of initial request for an episode of extended care services;
(ii) At the time of request for extended care services after a break in provision of extended care services for more than 30 days; and
(iii) Each year at the time of submission to VA of VA Form 10-10EZ.
(2) When there are changes that might change the copayment obligation (
i.e.,
changes regarding marital status, fixed assets, liquid assets, expenses, income (when received), or whether the veteran has a spouse or dependents residing in the community), the veteran must report those changes to a VA medical facility within 10 days of the change.
(f)
Veterans and care that are not subject to the copayment requirements.
The following veterans and care are not subject to the copayment requirements of this section:
(1) A veteran with a compensable service-connected disability.
(2) A veteran whose annual income (determined under 38 U.S.C. 1503) is less than the amount in effect under 38 U.S.C. 1521(b).
(3) Care for a veteran's noncompensable zero percent service-connected disability.
(4) An episode of extended care services that began on or before November 30, 1999.
(5) Care authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1710(e) for Vietnam-era herbicide-exposed veterans, radiation-exposed veterans, Persian Gulf War veterans,post-Persian Gulf War combat-exposed veterans, or Camp Lejeune veterans pursuant to § 17.400.
(6) Care for treatment of sexual trauma as authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1720D.
(7) Care or services authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1720E for certain veterans regarding cancer of the head or neck.
(8) A veteran who VA determines to be catastrophically disabled, as defined in 38 CFR 17.36(e), is exempt from copayments for adult day health care, non-institutional respite care, and non-institutional geriatric care.
(9) A veteran receiving care for psychosis or a mental illness other than psychosis pursuant to § 17.109.
(10) A veteran who was awarded the Medal of Honor.
(11) A veteran who meets the definition of Indian or urban Indian, as defined in 25 U.S.C. 1603(13) and (28), is exempt from copayments for noninstitutional extended care including adult day health care, noninstitutional respite care, and noninstitutional geriatric evaluation provided on or after January 5, 2022. To demonstrate that they meet the definition of Indian or urban Indian, the veteran must submit to VA any of the documentation described in paragraphs (f)(11)(i) through (vi) of this section:
(i) Documentation issued by a federally recognized Indian Tribe that shows that the veteran is a member of the Tribe;
(ii) Documentation showing that the veteran, irrespective of whether they live on or near a reservation, is a member of a Tribe, band, or other organized group of Indians, including those tribes, bands, or groups terminated since 1940 and those recognized now or in the future by the State in which they reside, or who is a descendant, in the first or second degree, of any such member;
(iii) Documentation showing that the veteran is an Eskimo or Aleut or other Alaska Native;
(iv) Documentation issued by the Department of Interior (DOI) showing that the veteran is considered by DOI to be an Indian for any purpose;
(v) Documentation showing that the veteran is considered by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to be an Indian under that Department's regulations; or
(vi) Documentation showing that the veteran resides in an urban center and meets one or more of the following criteria:
(A) Irrespective of whether they live on or near a reservation, is a member of a Tribe, band, or other organized group of Indians, including those tribes, bands, or groups terminated since 1940 and those recognized now or in the future by the State in which they reside, or who is a descendant, in the first or second degree, of any such member;
(B) Is an Eskimo or Aleut or other Alaska Native;
(C) Is considered by DOI to be an Indian for any purpose; or
(D) Is considered by HHS to be an Indian under that Department's regulations.
(g)
Retroactive copayment reimbursement.
After VA determines the submitted documentation meets paragraph (f)(11) of this section and updates the veteran's record to reflect the veteran's status as an Indian or urban Indian, VA will reimburse veterans exempt under paragraph (f)(11) for any copayments that were paid to VA for adult day health care, non-institutional respite care, and non-institutional geriatric evaluation provided on or after January 5, 2022, if they would have been exempt from making such copayments if paragraph (f)(11) had been in effect.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection provisions in this section under control number 2900-0920)
[67 FR 35040, May 17, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 39846, July 1, 2004; 76 FR 52274, Aug. 22, 2011; 78 FR 28143, May 14, 2013; 78 FR 70864, Nov. 27, 2013; 79 FR 57414, Sept. 24, 2014; 79 FR 65585, Nov. 5, 2014; 84 FR 7815, Mar. 5, 2019; 84 FR 26307, June 5, 2019; 88 FR 19872, Apr. 4, 2023; 88 FR 21478, Apr. 11, 2023]

# Ceremonies
§ 17.112
Services or ceremonies on Department of Veterans Affairs hospital or center reservations.
(a) Services or ceremonies on Department of Veterans Affairs hospital or center reservations are subject to the following limitations:
(1) All activities must be conducted with proper decorum, and not interfere with the care and treatment of patients. Organizations must provide assurance that their members will obey all rules in effect at the hospital or
center involved, and act in a dignified and proper manner;
(2) Partisan activities are inappropriate and all activities must be nonpartisan in nature. An activity will be considered partisan and therefore inappropriate if it includes commentary in support of, or in opposition to, or attempts to influence, any current policy of the Government of the United States or any State of the United States. If the activity is closely related to partisan activities being conducted outside the hospital or center reservations, it will be considered partisan and therefore inappropriate.
(b) Requests for permission to hold services or ceremonies will be addressed to the Secretary, or the Director of the Department of Veterans Affairs hospital or center involved. Such applications will describe the proposed activity in sufficient detail to enable a determination as to whether it meets the standards set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. If permission is granted, the Director of the hospital or center involved will assign an appropriate time, and render assistance where appropriate. No organization will be given exclusive permission to use the hospital or center reservation on any particular occasion. Where several requests are received for separate activities, the Director will schedule each so as to avoid overlapping or interference, or require appropriate modifications in the scope or timing of the activity.
[35 FR 2389, Feb. 3, 1970. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996, and further redesignated at 67 FR 35040, May 17, 2002]

# Reimbursement for Loss By Natural Disaster of Personal Effects of Hospitalized or Nursing Home Patients
§ 17.113
Conditions of custody.
When the personal effects of a patient who has been or is hospitalized or receiving nursing home care in a Department of Veterans Affairs hospital or center were or are duly delivered to a designated location for custody and loss of such personal effects has occurred or occurs by fire, earthquake, or other natural disaster, either during such storage or during laundering, reimbursement will be made as provided in §§ 17.113 and 17.114.
[39 FR 1843, Jan. 15, 1974. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 21966, 21967, May 13, 1996, and further redesignated at 67 FR 35039, May 17, 2002]
§ 17.114
Submittal of claim for reimbursement.
The claim for reimbursement for personal effects damaged or destroyed will be submitted by the patient to the Director. The patient will separately list and evaluate each article with a notation as to its condition at the time of the fire, earthquake, or other natural disaster
i.e.
, whether new, worn, etc. The date of the fire, earthquake, or other natural disaster will be stated. It will be certified by a responsible official that each article listed was stored in a designated location at the time of loss by fire, earthquake, or other natural disaster or was in process of laundering. The patient will further state whether the loss of each article was complete or partial, permitting of some further use of the article. The responsible official will certify that the amount of reimbursement claimed on each article of personal effects is not in excess of the fair value thereof at time of loss. The certification will be prepared in triplicate, signed by the responsible officer who made it, and countersigned by the Director of the medical center. After the above papers have been secured, voucher will be prepared, signed, and certified, and forwarded to the Fiscal Officer for approval, payment to be made in accordance with fiscal procedure. The original list of property and certificate are to be attached to voucher.
[39 FR 1843, Jan. 15, 1974, as amended at 49 FR 5616, Feb. 14, 1984. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996, and further redesignated at 67 FR 35039, May 17, 2002]
§ 17.115
Claims in cases of incompetent patients.
Where the patient is insane and incompetent, the patient will not be required to make claim for reimbursement for personal effects lost by fire, earthquake, or other natural disaster as required under the provisions of § 17.113. The responsible official will make claim for the patient, adding the
certification in all details as provided for in § 17.113. After countersignature of this certification by the Director, payment will be made as provided in § 17.113, and the amount thereby disbursed will be turned over to the Director for custody.
[39 FR 1843, Jan. 15, 1974, as amended at 49 FR 5616, Feb. 14, 1984. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 21966, 21967, May 13, 1996, and further redesignated at 67 FR 35039, May 17, 2002]

# Reimbursement to Employees for the Cost of Repairing or Replacing Certain Personal Property Damaged or Destroyed by Patients or Members
§ 17.116
Adjudication of claims.
Claims comprehended.
Claims for reimbursing Department of Veterans Affairs employees for cost of repairing or replacing their personal property damaged or destroyed by patients or members while such employees are engaged in the performance of their official duties will be adjudicated by the Director of the medical center concerned. Such claims will be considered under the following conditions, both of which must have existed and, if either one is lacking, reimbursement or payment for the cost or repair of the damaged article will not be authorized:
(a) The claim must be for an item of personal property normally used by the employee in his or her day to day employment, e.g., eyeglasses, hearing aids, clothing, etc., and,
(b) Such personal property was damaged or destroyed by a patient or domiciliary member while the employee was engaged in the performance of official duties.
Reimbursement or payment as provided in this paragraph will be made in a fair and reasonable amount, taking into consideration the condition and reasonable value of the article at the time it was damaged or destroyed.
[28 FR 5083, May 22, 1963, as amended at 39 FR 1843, Jan. 15, 1974; 49 FR 5616, Feb. 14, 1984. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 21965, May 13, 1996, and further redesignated at 67 FR 35039, May 17, 2002]

# Payment and Reimbursement of the Expenses of Medical Services Not Previously Authorized
§ 17.120
Payment or reimbursement for emergency treatment furnished by non-VA providers to certain veterans with service-connected disabilities.
To the extent allowable, payment or reimbursement of the expenses of emergency treatment, not previously authorized, in a private or public (or Federal) hospital not operated by the Department of Veterans Affairs, or of any emergency treatment not previously authorized including transportation will be paid on the basis of a claim timely filed, under the following circumstances:
(a)
For veterans with service connected disabilities.
Emergency treatment not previously authorized was rendered to a veteran in need of such emergency treatment:
(1) For an adjudicated service-connected disability;
(2) For nonservice-connected disabilities associated with and held to be aggravating an adjudicated service-connected disability;
(3) For
any disability
of a veteran who has a total disability permanent in nature resulting from a service-connected disability (does not apply outside of the States, Territories, and possessions of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico); or
(4) For any illness, injury or dental condition in the case of a veteran who is participating in a rehabilitation program under 38 U.S.C. ch. 31 and who is medically determined to be in need of hospital care or medical services for any of the reasons enumerated in § 17.47(i)(2); and
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1724, 1728)
(b)
In a medical emergency.
Emergency treatment not previously authorized including medical services, professional services, ambulance services, ancillary care and medication (including a short course of medication related to and necessary for the treatment of the emergency condition that is provided directly to or prescribed for the patient for use after the emergency condition
is stabilized and the patient is discharged) was rendered in a medical emergency of such nature that a prudent layperson would have reasonably expected that delay in seeking immediate medical attention would have been hazardous to life or health. This standard is met by an emergency medical condition manifesting itself by acute symptoms of sufficient severity (including severe pain) that a prudent layperson who possesses an average knowledge of health and medicine could reasonably expect the absence of immediate medical attention to result in placing the health of the individual in serious jeopardy, serious impairment to bodily functions, or serious dysfunction of any bodily organ or part. And,
(c)
When Federal facilities are unavailable.
VA or other Federal facilities that VA has an agreement with to furnish health care services for veterans were not feasibly available, and an attempt to use them beforehand or obtain prior VA authorization for the services required would not have been reasonable, sound, wise, or practicable, or treatment had been or would have been refused.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1724, 1728, 7304)
[39 FR 1844, Jan. 15, 1974, as amended at 49 FR 5616, Feb. 14, 1984; 51 FR 8672, Mar. 13, 1986; 56 FR 3422, Jan. 30, 1991. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996; 76 FR 79070, Dec. 21, 2011; 80 FR 79484, Dec. 22, 2015; 85 FR 84259, Dec. 28, 2020]
§ 17.121
Limitations on payment or reimbursement of the costs of emergency treatment not previously authorized.
(a)
Emergency Treatment.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, VA will not approve claims for payment or reimbursement of the costs of emergency treatment not previously authorized for any period beyond the date on which the medical emergency ended. For this purpose, VA considers that an emergency ends when the designated VA clinician at the VA facility has determined that, based on sound medical judgment, the veteran who received emergency treatment:
(1) Could have been transferred from the non-VA facility to a VA medical center (or other Federal facility that VA has an agreement with to furnish health care services for veterans) for continuation of treatment, or
(2) Could have reported to a VA medical center (or other Federal facility that VA has an agreement with to furnish health care services for veterans) for continuation of treatment.
(b)
Continued non-emergency treatment.
Claims for payment or reimbursement of the costs of emergency treatment not previously authorized may only be approved for continued, non-emergency treatment, if:
(1) The non-VA facility notified VA at the time the veteran could be safely transferred to a VA facility (or other Federal facility that VA has an agreement with to furnish health care services for veterans), and the transfer of the veteran was not accepted; and
(2) The non-VA facility made and documented reasonable attempts to request transfer of the veteran to a VA facility (or to another Federal facility that VA has an agreement with to furnish health care services for veterans), which means the non-VA facility contacted either the VA Transfer Coordinator, Administrative Officer of the Day, or designated staff responsible for accepting transfer of patients, at a local VA (or other Federal facility) and documented such contact in the veteran's progress/physicians' notes, discharge summary, or other applicable medical record.
(c)
Refusal of transfer.
If a stabilized veteran who requires continued non-emergency treatment refuses to be transferred to an available VA facility (or other Federal facility that VA has an agreement with to furnish health care services for veterans), VA will make payment or reimbursement only for the expenses related to the initial evaluation and the emergency treatment furnished to the veteran up to the point of refusal of transfer by the veteran.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1724, 1728, 7304)
[76 FR 79071, Dec. 21, 2011]
§ 17.122
[Reserved]
§ 17.123
Claimants.
A claim for payment or reimbursement of services not previously authorized may be filed by the veteran who
received the services (or his/her guardian) or by the hospital, clinic, or community resource which provided the services, or by a person other than the veteran who paid for the services.
[39 FR 1844, Jan. 15, 1974, as amended at 45 FR 53807, Aug. 13, 1980. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.124
Preparation of claims.
Claims for costs of services not previously authorized shall be on such forms as shall be prescribed and shall include the following:
(a) The claimant shall specify the amount claimed and furnish bills, vouchers, invoices, or receipts or other documentary evidence establishing that such amount was paid or is owed, and
(b) The claimant shall provide an explanation of the circumstances necessitating the use of community medical care, services, or supplies instead of Department of Veterans Affairs care, services, or supplies, and
(c) The claimant shall furnish such other evidence or statements as are deemed necessary and requested for adjudication of the claim.
[33 FR 19011, Dec. 20, 1968, as amended at 39 FR 1844, Jan. 15, 1974. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.125
Where to file claims.
Generally, VA must preauthorize VA payment for health care services provided in the community when such care is provided in a State as that term is defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(20).
(a) Where VA payment for such services has not been authorized in advance, claims for payment for such health care services provided in a State should be submitted to the VA medical facility nearest to where those services were provided.
(b) Claims for payment for hospital care and outpatient services authorized under § 17.35(a) and provided in Canada must be submitted to Veterans Affairs Canada, Foreign Countries Operations Unit, 2323 Riverside Dr., 2nd Floor, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada K1A OP5.
(c) All other claims for payment for hospital care and outpatient services authorized under § 17.35(a) and provided outside a State must be submitted to the Foreign Medical Program, P.O. Box 469061, Denver, CO 80246-9061.
[83 FR 29448, June 25, 2018]
§ 17.126
Timely filing.
Claims for payment or reimbursement of the expenses of medical care or services not previously authorized must be filed within the following time limits:
(a) A claim must be filed within 2 years after the date the care or services were rendered (and in the case of continuous care, payment will not be made for any part of the care rendered more than 2 years prior to filing claim), or
(b) In the case of case or services rendered prior to a VA adjudication allowing service-connection:
(1) The claim must be filed within 2 years of the date the veteran was notified by VA of the allowance of the award of service-connection.
(2) VA payment may be made for care related to the service-connected disability received only within a 2-year period prior to the date the veteran filed the original or reopened claim which resulted in the award of service-connection but never prior to the effective date of the award of service-connection within that 2-year period.
(3) VA payment will never be made for any care received beyond this 2-year period whether service connected or not.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7304)
[33 FR 19012, Dec. 20, 1968, as amended at 39 FR 1844, Jan. 15, 1974; 45 FR 53807, Aug. 13, 1980; 51 FR 8673, Mar. 13, 1986. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.127
Date of filing claims.
The date of filing any claim for payment or reimbursement of the expenses of medical care and services not previously authorized shall be the postmark date of a formal claim, or the date of any preceding telephone call, telegram, or other communication constituting an informal claim.
[39 FR 1844, Jan. 15, 1974. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.128
Allowable rates and fees.
When it has been determined that a veteran has received public or private
hospital care or outpatient medical services, the expenses of which may be paid under § 17.120 of this part, the payment of such expenses shall be paid in accordance with §§ 17.55 and 17.56 of this part.
(Authority: Section 233, Pub. L. 99-576)
[63 FR 39515, July 23, 1998]
§ 17.129
Retroactive payments prohibited.
When a claim for payment or reimbursement of expenses of services not previously authorized has not been timely filed in accordance with the provisions of § 17.126, the expenses of any such care or services rendered prior to the date of filing the claim shall not be paid or reimbursed. In no event will a bill or claim be paid or allowed for any care or services rendered prior to the effective date of any law, or amendment to the law, under which eligibility for the medical services at Department of Veterans Affairs expense has been established.
[39 FR 1844, Jan. 15, 1974. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 21966, 21968, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.130
Payment for treatment dependent upon preference prohibited.
No reimbursement or payment of services not previously authorized will be made when such treatment was procured through private sources in preference to available Government facilities.
[39 FR 1844, Jan. 15, 1974. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.131
Payment of abandoned claims prohibited.
Any informal claim for the payment or reimbursement of medical expenses which is not followed by a formal claim, or any formal claim which is not followed by necessary supporting evidence, within 1 year from the date of the request for a formal claim or supporting evidence shall be deemed abandoned, and payment or reimbursement shall not be authorized on the basis of such abandoned claim or any future claim for the same expenses. For the purpose of this section, time limitations shall be computed from the date following the date of request for a formal claim or supporting evidence.
[33 FR 19012, Dec. 20, 1968. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.132
Appeals.
(a) This section applies only to legacy claims.
(b) When any claim for payment or reimbursement of expenses of medical care or services rendered in non-Department of Veterans Affairs facilities or from non-Department of Veterans Affairs resources has been disallowed, the claimant shall be notified of the reasons for the disallowance and of the right to initiate an appeal to the Board of Veterans Appeals by filing a Notice of Disagreement, and shall be furnished such other notices or statements as are required by part 19 of this chapter, governing appeals.
[33 FR 19012, Dec. 20, 1968. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996, as amended at 87 FR 43748, July 22, 2022]

# Reconsideration of Denied Claims
§ 17.133
Procedures.
(a)
Scope.
This section sets forth reconsideration procedures regarding claims for benefits administered by the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). This section applies only to legacy claims.
(b)
Process.
An individual who disagrees with the initial decision denying the claim in whole or in part may obtain reconsideration under this section by submitting a reconsideration request in writing to the Director of the healthcare facility of jurisdiction within one year of the date of the initial decision. The reconsideration decision will be made by the immediate supervisor of the initial VA decision-maker. The request must state why it is concluded that the decision is in error and must include any new and relevant information not previously considered. Any request for reconsideration that does not identify the reason for the dispute will be returned to the sender without further consideration. The request for reconsideration may include a request for a meeting with the immediate supervisor of the initial VA decision-maker, the claimant, and the
claimant's representative (if the claimant wishes to have a representative present). Such a meeting shall only be for the purpose of discussing the issues and shall not include formal procedures (e.g., presentation, cross-examination of witnesses, etc.). The meeting will be taped and transcribed by VA if requested by the claimant and a copy of the transcription shall be provided to the claimant. After reviewing the matter, the immediate supervisor of the initial VA decision-maker shall issue a written decision that affirms, reverses, or modifies the initial decision.

# Note to § 17.133:
The final decision of the immediate supervisor of the initial VA decision-maker will inform the claimant of further appellate rights for an appeal to the Board of Veterans' Appeals.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0600)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 511, 38 U.S.C. 7105)
[64 FR 44660, Aug. 17, 1999, as amended at 87 FR 43748, July 22, 2022]

# Delegation of Authority
§ 17.142
Authority to approve sharing agreements, contracts for scarce medical specialist services and contracts for other medical services.
The Under Secretary for Health is delegated authority to enter into
(a) Sharing agreements authorized under 38 U.S.C. 8153 and § 17.240;
(b) Contracts with schools and colleges of medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, podiatry, optometry, and nursing, clinics, and any other group or individual capable of furnishing such services to provide scarce medical specialist services at Department of Veterans Affairs health care facilities (including, but not limited to, services of physicians, dentists, podiatrists, optometrists, nurses, physicians' assistants, expanded function dental auxiliaries, technicians, and other medical support personnel); and
(c) When a sharing agreement or contract for scarce medical specialist services is not warranted, contracts authorized under the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 8153 for medical and ancillary services. The authority under this section generally will be exercised by approval of proposed contracts or agreements negotiated at the health care facility level. Such approval, however, will not be necessary in the case of any purchase order or individual authorization for which authority has been delegated in 48 CFR 801.670-3. All such contracts and agreements will be negotiated pursuant to 48 CFR chapters 1 and 8.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 512, 7409, 8153)
[45 FR 6938, Jan. 31, 1980. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 17072, Apr. 9, 1997; 79 FR 54616, Sept. 12, 2014]

# Sensory and Other Rehabilitative Aids
§ 17.148
Service dogs.
(a)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section:
Service dogs
are guide or service dogs prescribed for a disabled veteran under this section.
(b)
Clinical requirements.
VA will provide benefits under this section to a veteran with a service dog only if:
(1) The veteran is diagnosed as having a visual, hearing, or substantial mobility impairment; and
(2) The VA clinical team that is treating the veteran for such impairment determines based upon medical judgment that it is optimal for the veteran to manage the impairment and live independently through the assistance of a trained service dog. Note: If other means (such as technological devices or rehabilitative therapy) will provide the same level of independence, then VA will not authorize benefits under this section.
(3) For the purposes of this section, substantial mobility impairment means a spinal cord injury or dysfunction or other chronic impairment that substantially limits mobility. A chronic impairment that substantially limits mobility includes but is not limited to a traumatic brain injury that compromises a veteran's ability to make appropriate decisions based on environmental cues (
i.e.
, traffic lights or dangerous obstacles) or a seizure disorder that causes a veteran to become immobile during and after a seizure event.
(c)
Recognized service dogs.
VA will recognize, for the purpose of paying
benefits under this section, the following service dogs:
(1) The dog and veteran must have successfully completed a training program offered by an organization accredited by Assistance Dogs International or the International Guide Dog Federation, or both (for dogs that perform both service- and guide-dog assistance). The veteran must provide to VA a certificate showing successful completion issued by the accredited organization that provided such program.
(2) Dogs obtained before September 5, 2012 will be recognized if a guide or service dog training organization in existence before September 5, 2012 certifies that the veteran and dog, as a team, successfully completed, no later than September 5, 2013, a training program offered by that training organization. The veteran must provide to VA a certificate showing successful completion issued by the organization that provided such program. Alternatively, the veteran and dog will be recognized if they comply with paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(d)
Authorized benefits.
Except as noted in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, VA will provide to a veteran enrolled under 38 U.S.C. 1705 only the following benefits for one service dog at any given time in accordance with this section:
(1) A commercially available insurance policy, to the extent commercially practicable, that meets the following minimum requirements:
(i) VA, and not the veteran, will be billed for any premiums, copayments, or deductibles associated with the policy; however, the veteran will be responsible for any cost of care that exceeds the maximum amount authorized by the policy for a particular procedure, course of treatment, or policy year. If a dog requires care that may exceed the policy's limit, the insurer will, whenever reasonably possible under the circumstances, provide advance notice to the veteran.
(ii) The policy will guarantee coverage for all treatment (and associated prescription medications), subject to premiums, copayments, deductibles or annual caps, determined to be medically necessary, including euthanasia, by any veterinarian who meets the requirements of the insurer. The veteran will not be billed for these covered costs, and the insurer will directly reimburse the provider.
(iii) The policy will not exclude dogs with preexisting conditions that do not prevent the dog from being a service dog.
(2) Hardware, or repairs or replacements for hardware, that are clinically determined to be required by the dog to perform the tasks necessary to assist the veteran with his or her impairment. To obtain such devices, the veteran must contact the Prosthetic and Sensory Aids Service at his or her local VA medical facility and request the items needed.
(3) Payments for travel expenses associated with obtaining a dog under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Travel costs will be provided only to a veteran who has been prescribed a service dog by a VA clinical team under paragraph (b) of this section. Payments will be made as if the veteran is an eligible beneficiary under 38 U.S.C. 111 and 38 CFR part 70, without regard to whether the veteran meets the eligibility criteria as set forth in 38 CFR part 70. Note: VA will provide payment for travel expenses related to obtaining a replacement service dog, even if the veteran is receiving other benefits under this section for the service dog that the veteran needs to replace.
(4) The veteran is responsible for procuring and paying for any items or expenses not authorized by this section. This means that VA will not pay for items such as license tags, nonprescription food, grooming, insurance for personal injury, non-sedated dental cleanings, nail trimming, boarding, pet-sitting or dog-walking services, over-the-counter medications, or other goods and services not covered by the policy. The dog is not the property of VA; VA will never assume responsibility for, or take possession of, any service dog.
(e)
Dog must maintain ability to function as a service dog.
To continue to receive benefits under this section, the service dog must maintain its ability to function as a service dog. If at any time VA learns from any source that the dog is medically unable to maintain that role, or VA makes a clinical
determination that the veteran no longer requires the dog, VA will provide at least 30 days notice to the veteran before benefits will no longer be authorized.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1714)
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0785)
[77 FR 54381, Sept. 5, 2012]
§ 17.149
Sensori-neural aids.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, VA will furnish needed sensori-neural aids (
i.e.
, eyeglasses, contact lenses, hearing aids) only to veterans otherwise receiving VA care or services and only as provided in this section.
(b) VA will furnish needed sensori-neural aids (
i.e.
, eyeglasses, contact lenses, hearing aids) to the following veterans:
(1) Those with a compensable service-connected disability;
(2) Those who are former prisoners of war;
(3) Those awarded a Purple Heart;
(4) Those in receipt of benefits under 38 U.S.C. 1151;
(5) Those in receipt of increased pension based on the need for regular aid and attendance or by reason of being permanently housebound;
(6) Those who have a visual or hearing impairment that resulted from the existence of another medical condition for which the veteran is receiving VA care, or which resulted from treatment of that medical condition;
(7) Those with a significant functional or cognitive impairment evidenced by deficiencies in activities of daily living, but not including normally occurring visual or hearing impairments; and
(8) Those visually or hearing impaired so severely that the provision of sensori-neural aids is necessary to permit active participation in their own medical treatment.
(c) VA will furnish needed hearing aids to those veterans who have service-connected hearing disabilities rated 0 percent if there is organic conductive, mixed, or sensory hearing impairment, and loss of pure tone hearing sensitivity in the low, mid, or high-frequency range or a combination of frequency ranges which contribute to a loss of communication ability; however, hearing aids are to be provided only as needed for the service-connected hearing disability.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501,1707(b)
[62 FR 30242, June 3, 1997, as amended at 69 FR 33575, June 16, 2004]
§ 17.150
[Reserved]
§ 17.151
Invalid lifts for recipients of aid and attendance allowance or special monthly compensation.
An invalid lift may be furnished if:
(a) The applicant is a veteran who is receiving (1) special monthly compensation (including special monthly compensation based on the need for aid and attendance) under the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 1114(r), or (2) comparable compensation benefits at the rates prescribed under 38 U.S.C. 1134, or (3) increased pension based on the need for aid and attendance or a greater compensation benefit rather than aid and attendance pension to which he or she has been adjudicated to be presently eligible; and
(b) The veteran has loss, or loss of use, of both lower extremities and at least one upper extremity (loss of use may result from paralysis or other impairment to muscle power and includes all cases in which the veteran cannot use his or her extremities or is medically prohibited from doing so because of a serious disease or disability); and
(c) The veteran has been medically determined incapable of moving himself or herself from his or her bed to a wheelchair, or from his or her wheelchair to his or her bed, without the aid of an attendant, because of the disability involving the use of his or her extremities; and
(d) An invalid lift would be a feasible means by which the veteran could accomplish the necessary maneuvers between bed and wheelchair, and is medically determined necessary.
[33 FR 12315, Aug. 31, 1968, as amended at 36 FR 3117, Feb. 13, 1971; 54 FR 34983, Aug. 23, 1989. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.152
Devices to assist in overcoming the handicap of deafness.
Devices for assisting in overcoming the handicap of deafness (including telecaptioning television decoders) may be furnished to any veteran who is profoundly deaf (rated 80% or more disabled for hearing impairment by the Department of Veterans Affairs) and is entitled to compensation on account of such hearing impairment.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1717(c))
[53 FR 46607, Nov. 18, 1988. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996; 79 FR 54616, Sept. 12, 2014]
§ 17.153
[Reserved]
§ 17.154
Equipment for blind veterans.
VA may furnish mechanical and/or electronic equipment considered necessary as aids to overcoming the handicap of blindness to blind veterans entitled to disability compensation for a service-connected disability.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1714)
[77 FR 54382, Sept. 5, 2012]

# Automotive Equipment and Driver Training
§ 17.155
Minimum standards of safety and quality for automotive adaptive equipment.
(a) The Under Secretary for Health or designee is authorized to develop and establish minimum standards of safety and quality for adaptive equipment provided under 38 U.S.C. chapter 39.
(b) In the performance of this function, the following considerations will apply:
(1) Minimum standards of safety and quality will be developed and promulgated for basic adaptive equipment specifically designed to facilitate operation and use of standard passenger motor vehicles by persons who have specified types of disablement and for the installation of such equipment.
(2) In those instances where custombuilt adaptive equipment is designed and installed to meet the peculiar needs of uniquely disabled persons and where the incidence of probable usage is not such as to justify development of formal standards, such equipment will be inspected and, if in order, approved for use by a qualified designee of the Under Secretary for Health.
(3) Adaptive equipment, available to the general public, which is manufactured under standards of safety imposed by a Federal agency having authority to establish the same, shall be deemed to meet required standards for use as adaptive equipment. These include such items as automatic transmissions, power brakes, power steering and other automotive options.
(c) For those items where specific Department of Veterans Affairs standards of safety and quality have not as yet been developed, or where such standards are otherwise provided as with custom-designed or factory option items, authorization of suitable adaptive equipment will not be delayed. Approval of such adaptive equipment, however, shall be subject to the judgment of designated certifying officials that it meets implicit standards of safety and quality adopted by the industry or as later developed by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
[40 FR 8819, Mar. 3, 1975. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 17072, Apr. 9, 1997]
§ 17.156
Eligibility for automobile adaptive equipment.
Automobile adaptive equipment may be authorized if the Under Secretary for Health or designee determines that such equipment is deemed necessary to insure that the eligible person will be able to operate the automobile or other conveyance in a manner consistent with such person's safety and so as to satisfy the applicable standards of licensure established by the State of such person's residency or other proper licensing authority subject to the definitions and limitations in §§ 17.157 and 17.158.
(a) Persons eligible for adaptive equipment are:
(1) Veterans who are entitled to receive compensation for the loss or permanent loss of use of one or both feet; or the loss or permanent loss of use of one or both hands; or ankylosis of one or both knees, or one of both hips if the disability is the result of injury incurred or disease contracted in or aggravated by active military, naval or air service.
(2) Members of the Armed Forces serving on active duty who are suffering from any disability described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section incurred or contracted during or aggravated by active military service are eligible to receive automobile adaptive equipment.
(b) VA will reimburse or pay for adaptive equipment for automobiles and other conveyances subject to the requirements of 38 CFR 17.158(b).
[53 FR 46607, Nov. 18, 1988. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 17072, Apr. 9, 1997; 89 FR 51232, June 17, 2024]
§ 17.157
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part:
Adaptive equipment
means equipment which must be part of or added to a conveyance manufactured for sale to the general public to make it safe for use by the eligible person and enable that person and the conveyance to meet the applicable standards of licensure. Adaptive equipment includes any item specified by the Under Secretary for Health or designee as ordinarily necessary for any of the classes of losses or combination of such losses specified in 38 CFR 17.156, or as deemed necessary in an individual case for an eligible person for the continued safety and functionality of a modified automobile and adaptive equipment. Adaptive equipment includes, but is not limited to, a basic automatic transmission, power steering, power brakes, power window lifts, power seats, air-conditioning equipment when necessary for the health and safety of the veteran, and special equipment necessary to assist the eligible person into or out of the automobile or other conveyance, regardless of whether the automobile or other conveyance is to be operated by the eligible person or is to be operated for such person by another person; and any modification of the interior space of the automobile or other conveyance if needed because of the physical condition of such person in order for such person to enter or operate the vehicle.
Altered vehicle
means the same as in 49 CFR 567.3.
Alterer
means the same as in 49 CFR 567.3.
Manufacturer
means the same as in 49 U.S.C. 30102(a)(6).
Modifier
means a motor vehicle repair business that modifies a motor vehicle to enable a person with a disability to operate, or ride as a passenger in, the motor vehicle. VA does not approve, endorse, or assess the abilities of any modifiers to perform any requested or represented modification services.
Registered provider
means a manufacturer, modifier, or alterer registered with the Department of Transportation's National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) Modifiers Identification Database currently available at
https://www.nhtsa.gov/apps/modifier/index.htm.
Any manufacturer, modifier, or alterer who is not registered is considered an
unregistered provider.
Roadside service
means emergency roadside services provided to an eligible person performed in connection with the repair, reinstallation, or replacement of adaptive equipment already installed in the automobile or other conveyance. The term is limited solely to services provided to make the adaptive equipment operational and does not include mechanical repair of the engine or other vehicle systems, towing, providing essential fuels and fluids such as gasoline necessary to operate the vehicle, or providing locksmith services.
VA Adaptive Equipment Schedule for Automobiles and Other Conveyances (“Schedule”)
means the VA schedule that contains the maximum allowable reimbursement amounts for the listed adaptive equipment. The Schedule also includes the maximum hourly labor rates for installation, repair, reinstallation, and replacement of this equipment and allowable fees that VA will pay.
[89 FR 51232, June 17, 2024]
§ 17.158
Limitations on assistance.
(a)
General.
An eligible person will not be provided adaptive equipment for more than two automobiles or other conveyances at any one time or during any four-year period except when, due to circumstances beyond the control of such person, one of the automobiles or other conveyances for which adaptive
equipment was provided during the applicable four-year period is no longer available for the use of such person.
(1) Circumstances beyond the control of the eligible person are those where the automobile or other conveyance was lost due to fire, theft, accident, or court action; when repairs are so costly as to be prohibitive; or a different automobile or other conveyance is required due to a change in the eligible person's physical condition.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, an eligible person shall be deemed to have access to and use of an automobile or other conveyance for which the Department of Veterans Affairs has provided adaptive equipment if that eligible person has sold, given or transferred the automobile or other conveyance to a spouse, family member or other person residing in the same household as the eligible person; or to a business owned by the eligible person, spouse, family member or other person residing in the same household as the eligible person.
(b)
Basis for payment or reimbursement.
VA will reimburse or pay for adaptive equipment that VA determines is needed in accordance with this section based on the information submitted and the VA Adaptive Equipment Schedule for Automobiles and Other Conveyances (Schedule). In addition to paying or reimbursing for specific types of adaptive equipment listed in the Schedule, VA will pay, or reimburse for roadside service, and waste disposal fees consistent with the Schedule. Determination of payment or reimbursement rates are based on the Schedule in effect on the date installation, reinstallation, replacement, or repair is complete. Schedule labor rates are classified as “In Shop (low technology)” or “High Technology.” High Technology means labor performed on or modification of adaptive equipment devices or systems that are capable of controlling vehicle functions or driving controls, and operate with a designed logic system, or interface or integrate with an electronic system of the vehicle. In Shop (low technology) means labor performed on or modification of adaptive equipment devices that do not meet the definition of High Technology.
(1) Payments made for adaptive equipment that is authorized under this section shall constitute payment in full and shall extinguish the eligible person's liability to the registered provider. The registered provider may not impose any additional charge on the eligible person for any adaptive equipment that is authorized under this section and for which payment is made by VA.
(2) This paragraph sets forth what must be submitted to VA in order for VA to reimburse or pay for adaptive equipment.
(i) Reimbursement when services performed by registered providers. VA will reimburse eligible persons identified in 38 CFR 17.156(a) who have purchased adaptive equipment (
e.g.,
installations, repairs, reinstallations, replacements) from registered providers. The eligible person must submit to VA a completed VA Form 10-1394, an itemized estimate, and provide VA with either a final itemized: (1) invoice, (2) paid receipt, or (3) bill of sale for the purchase.
(ii) Reimbursement when services performed by unregistered providers. VA will reimburse eligible persons identified in 38 CFR 17.156(a) who have purchased adaptive equipment (
e.g.,
installations, repairs, reinstallations, replacements) from unregistered providers. The eligible person must submit to VA a completed VA Form 10-1394 and a final itemized (1) invoice, (2) paid receipt, or (3) bill of sale for the purchase.
(iii) Payments to registered providers for adaptive equipment. VA will pay registered providers for adaptive equipment (
e.g.,
installations, repairs, reinstallations, replacements) furnished to eligible persons identified in 38 CFR 17.156(a). The following must be submitted before VA will pay. The eligible person or the registered provider must sign and submit to VA a completed VA Form 10-1394 and an itemized estimate prior to the completion of work. The eligible person or registered provider must provide VA with a final itemized invoice after the work is completed.
(iv) In the case of any installation, repair or replacement of adaptive equipment performed outside of the United States where an invoice, estimate, or bill of sale is calculated in a
foreign currency, an application submitted under this paragraph must include the conversion rate from the foreign currency to U.S. dollars, and calculation of the invoice, estimate, or bill of sale amount in U.S. dollars.
(3) VA will reimburse or pay labor costs as follows:
(i) For any labor costs associated with the installation of adaptive equipment by a registered provider, VA will reimburse or pay the lesser of:
(A) The relevant Schedule hourly labor rate, per paragraph (b) of this section, multiplied by the number of hours listed by the registered provider;
(B) The labor costs included in the itemized estimate; or
(C) The hourly labor rate provided by the registered provider in the final itemized invoice multiplied by the number of hours listed by the registered provider.
(ii) VA does not reimburse or pay labor costs for pre-installed (
i.e.,
original equipment manufacturer) equipment.
(iii) VA does not reimburse or pay labor costs of unregistered providers.
(4) New adaptive equipment. VA will reimburse an eligible person who meets the requirements of (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, or pay a registered provider who meets the requirements of (b)(2)(iii) of this section for new adaptive equipment (including equipment that has been installed or used for one year or less from the date of manufacture listed in the Schedule) as follows:
(i) VA will pay the lesser of the amount for the new adaptive equipment listed in either a final itemized: (1) invoice, (2) paid receipt, or (3) bill of sale for the purchase; or (4) the amount listed in the Schedule.
(ii) VA will reimburse or pay any labor costs consistent with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(5) Used adaptive equipment. For used adaptive equipment listed in the Schedule that is more than one (1) year old from the date of manufacture:
(i) VA will depreciate it by twenty (20%) percent per year from the time the equipment was pre-installed or installed as new on an automobile or other conveyance to the time of its reinstallation for which reimbursement or payment is being sought for a period up to five (5) years. VA will reimburse an eligible person, who meets the requirements of (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, or pay a registered provider who meets the requirements of (b)(2)(iii) of this section the lesser of the amount of the adaptive equipment listed in the final itemized invoice, paid receipt, or bill of sale for the purchase or the amount listed in the Schedule reduced by twenty (20%) percent for each year from the time the equipment was pre-installed or installed on the automobile or other conveyance for a period up to five (5) years.
(ii) VA will reimburse or pay any labor costs consistent with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, but will not reimburse or pay labor costs for used equipment that is more than five (5) years old from the date of manufacture.
(6) Unlisted adaptive equipment. For adaptive equipment not listed in the Schedule but meeting the definition of adaptive equipment in 38 CFR 17.157, VA will reimburse an eligible person who meets the requirements of (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, or pay a registered provider who meets the requirements of (b)(2)(iii) of this section:
(i) the lesser of the cost of the adaptive equipment when equal to or less than what VA has paid for a similar item in the past or, when available, the commercially available price for a similar item. If the price of a similar commercially available item is not available, or VA has not previously paid for a similar item, VA will pay or reimburse the billed charges.
(ii) VA will reimburse or pay any labor costs consistent with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(7) VA will establish the Schedule on July 17, 2024 based on the most recent available data and each fiscal year thereafter, and publish that Schedule on a publicly accessible page on the
www.prosthetics.va.gov
website. VA will increase the reimbursement amounts in the Schedule using the indices for two expenditure categories of the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for All Urban Consumers. The index for the expenditure category for “motor vehicle parts and equipment” will be used to calculate the increase in the reimbursement amounts for adaptive equipment on the Schedule, and the index for
“motor vehicle maintenance and repair” will be used to calculate the increase in the reimbursement amounts for labor. Such increases to the Schedule for adaptive equipment and labor will be equal to the percentage by which the respective index increased during the 12-month period ending with the last month for which CPI data is available. In the event that such index does not increase during such period, there will be no change to the Schedule for the reimbursement amounts for which the index is used to calculate increases. The amounts for the new fiscal year will be rounded up to the whole dollar amount.
(c)
Repair of used adaptive equipment.
Reimbursement or payment for a repair to an item of used adaptive equipment may be provided for adaptive equipment installed on an automobile or other conveyance that meets the limitations of paragraph (a) of this section. VA will pay or reimburse labor costs associated with the repairs in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(1) For repairs to used adaptive equipment, VA will reimburse the eligible person meeting the requirements of (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section as follows: the lesser of the amount of the adaptive equipment listed in either a final itemized: (1) invoice, (2) paid receipt, or (3) bill of sale for the purchase.
(2) For repairs to used adaptive equipment, VA will reimburse a registered provider meeting the requirements of (b)(2)(iii) of this section as follows: the lesser of the amount of the adaptive equipment listed in the final itemized (1) invoice, (2) paid receipt, or (3) bill of sale for the purchase.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0188.)
[89 FR 51233, June 17, 2024]
§ 17.159
Obtaining vehicles for special driver training courses.
The Secretary may obtain by purchase, lease, gift or otherwise, any automobile, motor vehicle, or other conveyance deemed necessary to conduct special driver training courses at Department of Veterans Affairs health care facilities. The Secretary may sell, assign, transfer or convey any such automobile, vehicle or conveyance to which the Department of Veterans Affairs holds title for such price or under such terms deemed appropriate by the Secretary. Any proceeds received from such disposition shall be credited to the applicable Department of Veterans Affairs appropriation.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3903(e)(3))
[45 FR 6939, Jan. 31, 1980. Redesignated at 54 FR 46607, Nov. 18, 1988, and further redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]

# Dental Services
§ 17.160
Authorization of dental examinations.
When a detailed report of dental examination is essential for a determination of eligibility for benefits, dental examinations may be authorized for the following classes of claimants or beneficiaries:
(a) Those having a dental disability adjudicated as incurred or aggravated in active military, naval, or air service or those requiring examination to determine whether the dental disability is service connected.
(b) Those having disability from disease or injury other than dental, adjudicated as incurred or aggravated in active military, naval, or air service but with an associated dental condition that is considered to be aggravating the basic service-connected disorder.
(c) Those for whom a dental examination is ordered as a part of a general physical examination.
(d) Those requiring dental examination during hospital, nursing home, or domiciliary care.
(e) Those held to have suffered dental injury or aggravation of an existing dental injury, as the result of examination, hospitalization, or medical or surgical (including dental) treatment that had been awarded.
(f) Veterans who are participating in a rehabilitation program under 38 U.S.C. chapter 31 are entitled to such dental services as are professionally determined necessary for any of the reasons enumerated in § 17.47(g).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1712(b); ch. 31)
(g) Those for whom a special dental examination is authorized by the Under Secretary for Health or the Assistant Chief Medical Director for Dentistry.
(h) Persons defined in § 17.93.
[13 FR 7162, Nov. 27, 1948, as amended at 21 FR 10388, Dec. 28, 1956; 23 FR 6503, Aug. 22, 1958; 27 FR 11424, Nov. 20, 1962; 29 FR 1463, Jan. 29, 1964; 30 FR 1789, Feb. 9, 1965; 32 FR 13817, Oct. 4, 1967; 33 FR 5300, Apr. 3, 1968; 35 FR 6586, Apr. 24, 1970; 49 FR 5617, Feb. 14, 1984. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 21966, 21968, May 13, 1996; 79 FR 54616, Sept. 12, 2014]
§ 17.161
Authorization of outpatient dental treatment.
Outpatient dental treatment may be authorized by the Chief, Dental Service, for beneficiaries defined in 38 U.S.C. 1712(b) and 38 CFR 17.93 to the extent prescribed and in accordance with the applicable classification and provisions set forth in this section.
(a)
Class I.
Those having a service-connected compensable dental disability or condition, may be authorized any dental treatment indicated as reasonably necessary to maintain oral health and masticatory function. There is no time limitation for making application for treatment and no restriction as to the number of repeat episodes of treatment.
(b)
Class II.
(1)(i) Those having a service-connected noncompensable dental condition or disability shown to have been in existence at time of discharge or release from active service, which took place after September 30, 1981, may be authorized any treatment indicated as reasonably necessary for the one-time correction of the service-connected noncompensable condition, but only if:
(A) They served on active duty during the Persian Gulf War and were discharged or released, under conditions other than dishonorable, from a period of active military, naval, or air service of not less than 90 days, or they were discharged or released under conditions other than dishonorable, from any other period of active military, naval, or air service of not less than 180 days;
(B) Application for treatment is made within 180 days after such discharge or release.
(C) The certificate of discharge or release does not bear a certification that the veteran was provided, within the 90-day period immediately before such discharge or release, a complete dental examination (including dental X-rays) and all appropriate dental treatment indicated by the examination to be needed, and
(D) Department of Veterans Affairs dental examination is completed within six months after discharge or release, unless delayed through no fault of the veteran.
(ii) Those veterans discharged from their final period of service after August 12, 1981, who had reentered active military service within 90 days after the date of a discharge or release from a prior period of active military service, may apply for treatment of service-connected noncompensable dental conditions relating to any such periods of service within 180 days from the date of their final discharge or release.
(iii) If a disqualifying discharge or release has been corrected by competent authority, application may be made within 180 days after the date of correction.
(2)(i) Those having a service-connected noncompensable dental condition or disability shown to have been in existence at time of discharge or release from active service, which took place before October 1, 1981, may be authorized any treatment indicated as reasonably necessary for the one-time correction of the service-connected noncompensable condition, but only if:
(A) They were discharged or released, under conditions other than dishonorable, from a period of active military, naval or air service of not less than 180 days.
(B) Application for treatment is made within one year after such discharge or release.
(C) Department of Veterans Affairs dental examination is completed within 14 months after discharge or release, unless delayed through no fault of the veteran.
(ii) Those veterans discharged from their final period of service before August 13, 1981, who had reentered active military service within one year from the date of a prior discharge or release, may apply for treatment of service-
connected noncompensable dental conditions relating to any such prior periods of service within one year of their final discharge or release.
(iii) If a disqualifying discharge or release has been corrected by competent authority, application may be made within one year after the date of correction.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1712)
(c)
Class II
(
a
). Those having a service-connected noncompensable dental condition or disability adjudicated as resulting from combat wounds or service trauma may be authorized any treatment indicated as reasonably necessary for the correction of such service-connected noncompensable condition or disability.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501; 1712(a)(1)(C))
(d)
Class II(b).
Certain homeless and other enrolled veterans eligible for a one-time course of dental care under 38 U.S.C. 2062.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2062; 38 U.S.C. 1712(a)(1)(H))
(e)
Class II(c).
Those who were prisoners of war, as determined by the concerned military service department, may be authorized any needed outpatient dental treatment.
(Authority: Pub. L. 100-322; Pub. L. 108-170; 38 U.S.C. 1712(a)(1)(F))
(f)
Class IIR (Retroactive).
Any veteran who had made prior application for and received dental treatment from the Department of Veterans Affairs for noncompensable dental conditions, but was denied replacement of missing teeth which were lost during any period of service prior to his/her last period of service may be authorized such previously denied benefits under the following conditions:
(1) Application for such retroactive benefits is made within one year of April 5, 1983.
(2) Existing Department of Veterans Affairs records reflect the prior denial of the claim.
All Class IIR (Retroactive) treatment authorized will be completed on a fee basis status.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1712)
(g)
Class III.
Those having a dental condition professionally determined to be aggravating disability from an associated service-connected condition or disability may be authorized dental treatment for only those dental conditions which, in sound professional judgment, are having a direct and material detrimental effect upon the associated basic condition or disability.
(h)
Class IV.
Those whose service-connected disabilities are rated at 100% by schedular evaluation or who are entitled to the 100% rate by reason of individual unemployability may be authorized any needed dental treatment.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1712)
(i)
Class V.
A veteran who is participating in a rehabilitation program under 38 U.S.C. chapter 31 may be authorized such dental services as are professionally determined necessary for any of the reasons enumerated in § 17.47(g).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1712(b); chapter 31)
(j)
Class VI.
Any veterans scheduled for admission or otherwise receiving care and services under chapter 17 of 38 U.S.C. may receive outpatient dental care which is medically necessary,
i.e.
, is for dental condition clinically determined to be complicating a medical condition currently under treatment.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1712)
[20 FR 9505, Dec. 20, 1955]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 17.161, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 17.162
Eligibility for Class II dental treatment without rating action.
When an application has been made for class II dental treatment under § 17.161(b), the applicant may be deemed eligible and dental treatment authorized on a one-time basis without rating action if:
(a) The examination to determine the need for dental care has been accomplished within the specified time limit after date of discharge or release unless
delayed through no fault of the veteran, and sound dental judgment warrants a conclusion the condition originated in or was aggravated during service and the condition existed at the time of discharge or release from active service, and
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1712)
(b) The treatment will not involve replacement of a missing tooth noted at the time of Department of Veterans Affairs examination except:
(1) In conjunction with authorized extraction replacement, or
(2) When a determination can be made on the basis of sound professional judgment that a tooth was extracted or lost on active duty.
(c) Individuals whose entire tour of duty consisted of active or inactive duty for training shall not be eligible for treatment under this section.
[37 FR 6847, Apr. 5, 1972, as amended at 48 FR 16682, Apr. 19, 1983. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 21966, 21968, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.163
Posthospital outpatient dental treatment.
The Chief, Dental Service may authorize outpatient dental care which is reasonably necessary to complete treatment of a nonservice-connected dental condition which was begun while the veteran was receiving Department of Veterans Affairs authorized hospital care.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1712(a)(1)(E))
[45 FR 6939, Jan. 31, 1980. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996; 79 FR 54616, Sept. 12, 2014]
§ 17.164
Patient responsibility in making and keeping dental appointments.
Any veteran eligible for dental treatment on a one-time completion basis only and who has not received such treatment within 3 years after filing the application shall be presumed to have abandoned the claim for dental treatment.
[45 FR 6939, Jan. 31, 1980. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.165
Emergency outpatient dental treatment.
When outpatient emergency dental care is provided, as a humanitarian service, to individuals who have no established eligibility for outpatient dental care, the treatment will be restricted to the alleviation of pain or extreme discomfort, or the remediation of a dental condition which is determined to be endangering life or health. The provision of emergency treatment to persons found ineligible for dental care will not entitle the applicant to further dental treatment. Individuals provided emergency dental care who are found to be ineligible for such care will be billed.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
[50 FR 14704, Apr. 15, 1985; 50 FR 21604, May 28, 1985. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.166
Dental services for hospital or nursing home patients and domiciled members.
Persons receiving hospital, nursing home, or domiciliary care pursuant to the provisions of §§ 17.46 and 17.47, will be furnished such dental services as are professionally determined necessary to the patients' or members' overall hospital, nursing home, or domiciliary care.
[30 FR 1790, Feb. 9, 1965. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.169
VA Dental Insurance Program for veterans and survivors and dependents of veterans (VADIP).
(a)
General.
(1) The VA Dental Insurance Program (VADIP) provides premium-based dental insurance coverage through which individuals eligible under paragraph (b) of this section may choose to obtain dental insurance from a participating insurer. Enrollment in VADIP does not affect the insured's eligibility for outpatient dental services and treatment, and related dental appliances, under 38 U.S.C. 1712.
(2) The following definitions apply to this section:
Insured
means an individual, identified in paragraph (b) of this section, who has enrolled in an insurance plan through VADIP.
Participating insurer
means an insurance company that has contracted with VA to offer a premium-based dental insurance plan to veterans, survivors, and dependents through VADIP. There may be more than one participating insurer.
(b)
Covered veterans and survivors and dependents.
A participating insurer must offer coverage to the following persons:
(1) Any veteran who is enrolled under 38 U.S.C. 1705 in accordance with 38 CFR 17.36.
(2) Any survivor or dependent of a veteran who is eligible for medical care under 38 U.S.C. 1781 and 38 CFR 17.271.
(c)
Premiums, coverage, and selection of participating insurer.
(1)
Premiums.
Premiums and copayments will be paid by the insured in accordance with the terms of the insurance plan. Premiums and copayments will be determined by VA through the contracting process, and will be adjusted on an annual basis. The participating insurer will notify all insureds in writing of the amount and effective date of such adjustment.
(2)
Benefits.
Participating insurers must offer, at a minimum, coverage for the following dental care and services:
(i)
Diagnostic services.
(A) Clinical oral examinations.
(B) Radiographs and diagnostic imaging.
(C) Tests and laboratory examinations.
(ii)
Preventive services.
(A) Dental prophylaxis.
(B) Topical fluoride treatment (office procedure).
(C) Sealants.
(D) Space maintenance.
(iii)
Restorative services.
(A) Amalgam restorations.
(B) Resin-based composite restorations.
(iv)
Endodontic services.
(A) Pulp capping.
(B) Pulpotomy and pulpectomy.
(C) Root canal therapy.
(D) Apexification and recalcification procedures.
(E) Apicoectomy and periradicular services.
(v)
Periodontic services.
(A) Surgical services.
(B) Periodontal services.
(vi)
Oral surgery.
(A) Extractions.
(B) Surgical extractions.
(C) Alveoloplasty.
(D) Biopsy.
(vii)
Other services.
(A) Palliative (emergency) treatment of dental pain.
(B) Therapeutic drug injection.
(C) Other drugs and/or medications.
(D) Treatment of postsurgical complications.
(E) Crowns.
(F) Bridges.
(G) Dentures.
(3)
Selection of participating insurer.
VA will use the Federal competitive contracting process to select a participating insurer, and the insurer will be responsible for the administration of VADIP.
(d)
Enrollment.
(1) VA, in connection with the participating insurer, will market VADIP through existing VA communication channels to notify all eligible persons of their right to voluntarily enroll in VADIP. The participating insurer will prescribe all further enrollment procedures, and VA will be responsible for confirming that a person is eligible under paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) The initial period of enrollment will be for a period of 12 calendar months, followed by month-to-month enrollment, subject to paragraph (e)(5) of this section, as long as the insured remains eligible for coverage under paragraph (b) of this section and chooses to continue enrollment, so long as VA continues to authorize VADIP.
(3) The participating insurer will agree to continue to provide coverage to an insured who ceases to be eligible under paragraphs (b)(1) through (2) of this section for at least 30 calendar days after eligibility ceased. The insured must pay any premiums due during this 30-day period. This 30-day coverage does not apply to an insured who is disenrolled under paragraph (e) of this section.
(e)
Disenrollment.
(1) Insureds may be involuntarily disenrolled at any time for failure to make premium payments.
(2) Insureds must be permitted to voluntarily disenroll, and will not be required to continue to pay any copayments or premiums, under any of the following circumstances:
(i) For any reason, during the first 30 days that the beneficiary is covered by the plan, if no claims for dental services or benefits were filed by the insured.
(ii) If the insured relocates to an area outside the jurisdiction of the plan that prevents the use of the benefits under the plan.
(iii) If the insured is prevented by serious medical condition from being able to obtain benefits under the plan.
(iv) If the insured would suffer severe financial hardship by continuing in VADIP.
(v) For any reason during the month-to-month coverage period, after the initial 12-month enrollment period.
(3) All insured requests for voluntary disenrollment must be submitted to the insurer for determination of whether the insured qualifies for disenrollment under the criteria in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (v) of this section. Requests for disenrollment due to a serious medical condition or financial hardship must include submission of written documentation that verifies the existence of a serious medical condition or financial hardship. The written documentation submitted to the insurer must show that circumstances leading to a serious medical condition or financial hardship originated after the effective date coverage began, and will prevent the insured from maintaining the insurance benefits.
(4) If the participating insurer denies a request for voluntary disenrollment because the insured does not meet any criterion under paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (v) of this section, the participating insurer must issue a written decision and notify the insured of the basis for the denial and how to appeal. The participating insurer will establish the form of such appeals whether orally, in writing, or both. The decision and notification of appellate rights must be issued to the insured no later than 30 days after the request for voluntary disenrollment is received by the participating insurer. The appeal will be decided and that decision issued in writing to the insured no later than 30 days after the appeal is received by the participating insurer. An insurer's decision of an appeal is final.
(5) Month-to-month enrollment, as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, may be subject to conditions in insurance contracts, whereby upon voluntarily disenrolling, an enrollee may be prevented from re-enrolling for a certain period of time as specified in the insurance contract.
(f) Other appeals procedures. Participating insurers will establish and be responsible for determination and appeal procedures for all issues other than voluntary disenrollment.
(g)
Limited preemption of State and local law.
To achieve important Federal interests, including but not limited to the assurance of the uniform delivery of benefits under VADIP and to ensure the operation of VADIP plans at the lowest possible cost to VADIP enrollees, paragraphs (b), (c)(1), (c)(2), (d), and (e)(2) through (5) of this section preempt conflicting State and local laws, including laws relating to the business of insurance. Any State or local law, or regulation pursuant to such law, is without any force or effect on, and State or local governments have no legal authority to enforce them in relation to, the paragraphs referenced in this paragraph or decisions made by VA or a participating insurer under these paragraphs.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirement in this section under control number 2900-0789.)
[78 FR 32130, May 29, 2013, as amended at 78 FR 62443, Oct. 22, 2013; 82 FR 16288, Apr. 4, 2017]

# Autopsies
§ 17.170
Autopsies.
(a)
General.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the Director of a VA facility may order an autopsy on a decedent who died while undergoing VA care authorized by § 17.38 or § 17.52, if the Director determines that an autopsy is required for VA purposes for the following reasons:
(i) Completion of official records; or
(ii) Advancement of medical knowledge.
(2) VA may order an autopsy to be performed only if consent is first obtained under one of the following circumstances:
(i) Consent is granted by the surviving spouse or next of kin of the decedent;
(ii) Consent is implied where a known surviving spouse or next of kin does not respond within a specified period of time to VA's request for permission to conduct an autopsy;
(iii) Consent is implied where a known surviving spouse or next of kin does not inquire after the well-being of the deceased veteran for a period of at least 6 months before the date of the veteran's death; or
(iv) Consent is implied where there is no known surviving spouse or next of kin of the deceased veteran.
(b)
Death resulting from crime.
If it is suspected that death resulted from crime and if the United States has jurisdiction over the area where the body is found, the Director of the Department of Veterans Affairs facility will inform the Office of Inspector General of the known facts concerning the death. Thereupon the Office of Inspector General will transmit all such information to the United States Attorney for such action as may be deemed appropriate and will inquire whether the United States Attorney objects to an autopsy if otherwise it be appropriate. If the United States Attorney has no objection, the procedure as to autopsy will be the same as if the death had not been reported to him or her.
(c)
Jurisdiction.
If the United States does not have exclusive jurisdiction over the area where the body is found the local medical examiner/coroner will be informed. If the local medical examiner/coroner declines to assume jurisdiction the procedure will be the same as is provided in paragraph (b) of this section. If a Federal crime is indicated by the evidence, the procedure of paragraph (b) of this section will also be followed.
(d)
Applicable law.
(1) The laws of the state where the autopsy will be performed are to be used to identify the person who is authorized to grant VA permission to perform the autopsy and, if more than one person is identified, the order of precedence among such persons.
(2) When the next of kin, as defined by the laws of the state where the autopsy will be performed, consists of a number of persons such as children, parents, brothers and sisters, etc., permission to perform an autopsy may be accepted when granted by the person in the appropriate class who assumes the right and duty of burial.
(e)
Death outside a VA facility.
The Director of a VA facility may order an autopsy on a veteran who was undergoing VA care authorized by § 17.38 or § 17.52, and whose death did not occur in a VA facility. Such authority also includes transporting the body at VA's expense to the facility where the autopsy will be performed, and the return of the body. Consent for the autopsy will be obtained as stated in paragraph (d) of this section. The Director must determine that such autopsy is reasonably required for VA purposes for the following reasons:
(1) The completion of official records; or
(2) Advancement of medical knowledge.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1703, 1710)
[16 FR 5701, June 15, 1951, as amended at 18 FR 2414, Apr. 24, 1953; 24 FR 8330, Oct. 14, 1959; 35 FR 6586, Apr. 24, 1970; 36 FR 23386, Dec. 9, 1971; 45 FR 6939, Jan. 31, 1980. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 21966, 21968, May 13, 1996; 61 FR 29294, June 10, 1996; 68 FR 17551, Apr. 10, 2003; 77 FR 38181, June 27, 2012]

# Veterans Canteen Service
§ 17.180
Delegation of authority.
In connection with the Veterans Canteen Service, the Under Secretary for Health is hereby delegated authority as follows:
(a) To exercise the powers and functions of the Secretary with respect to the maintenance and operation of the Veterans Canteen Service.
(b) To designate the Assistant Chief Medical Director for Administration to administer the overall operation of the Veterans Canteen Service and to designate selected employees of the Veterans Canteen Service to perform the functions described in the enabling
statute, 38 U.S.C. ch. 78, so as to effectively maintain and operate the Veterans Canteen Service.
[20 FR 337, Jan. 14, 1955, as amended at 36 FR 23386, Dec. 9, 1971; 45 FR 6939, Jan. 31, 1980. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 17072, Apr. 9, 1997; 79 FR 54616, Sept. 12, 2014]
(Authority: 31 U.S.C. 7501-7507)
[52 FR 23825, June 25, 1987. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996; 80 FR 43322, July 22, 2015]

# Sharing of Medical Facilities, Equipment, and Information
§ 17.230
Contingency backup to the Department of Defense.
(a)
Priority care to active duty personnel.
The Secretary, during and/or immediately following a period of war or national emergency declared by the Congress or the President that involves the use of United States Armed Forces in armed conflict, is authorized to furnish hospital care, nursing home care, and medical services to members of the Armed Forces on active duty. The Secretary may give higher priority in the furnishing of such care and services in VA facilities to members of the Armed Forces on active duty than to any other group of persons eligible for such care and services with the exception of veterans with service-connected disabilities.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 8111A, Pub. L. 97-174)
(b)
Contract authority.
During a period in which the Secretary is authorized to furnish care and services to members of the Armed Forces under paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary, to the extent authorized by the President and subject to the availability of appropriations or reimbursements, may authorize VA facilities to enter into contracts with private facilities for the provision during such period of hospital care and medical services for certain veterans. These veterans include only those who are receiving hospital care under 38 U.S.C. 1710 or, in emergencies, for those who are eligible for treatment under that section, or who are receiving care under 38 U.S.C. 1710(g). This authorization pertains only to circumstances in which VA facilities are not capable of furnishing or continuing to furnish the care or services required because of the furnishing of care and services to members of the Armed Forces.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 8111A)
(Authority: Sec. 501 and 1720(a) of Title 38, U.S.C.)
[49 FR 5617, Feb. 14, 1984. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996; 79 FR 54616, Sept. 12, 2014]
§ 17.240
Sharing health-care resources.
Subject to such terms and conditions as the Under Secretary for Health shall prescribe, agreements may be entered into for sharing medical resources between Department health-care facilities and any health-care provider, or other entity or individual with geographical limitations determined by the Under Secretary for Health, provided:
(a) The agreement will achieve one of the following purposes: (1) It will secure the use of a health-care resource which otherwise might not be feasibly available by providing for the mutual use or exchange of use of health-care resources when such an agreement will obviate the need for a similar resource to be installed or provided at a facility operated by the Department of Veterans Affairs, or
(2) It will secure effective use of Department of Veterans Affairs health-care resources by providing for the mutual use, or exchange of use, of health-care resources in a facility operated by the Department of Veterans Affairs, which have been justified on the basis of veterans' care, but which are not utilized to their maximum effective capacity; and
(b) The agreement is determined to be in the best interest of the prevailing standards of the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Program; and
(c) The agreement provides for reciprocal reimbursement based on a charge which covers the full cost of the use of health-care resources, incidental hospital care or other needed services, supplies used, and normal depreciation and amortization costs of equipment.
(d) Reimbursement for medical care rendered to an individual who is entitled to hospital or medical services (Medicare) under subchapter XVIII of
chapter 7 of title 42 U.S.C., and who has no entitlement to medical care from the Department of Veterans Affairs, will be made to such facility, or if the contract or agreement so provides, to the community health care facility which is party to the agreement, in accordance with:
(1) Rates prescribed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, after consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and
(2) Procedures jointly prescribed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to assure reasonable quality of care and service and efficient and economical utilization of resources.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 8153)
[32 FR 6841, May 4, 1967, as amended at 35 FR 18198, Nov. 28, 1970; 39 FR 1846, Jan. 15, 1974; 45 FR 6940, Jan. 31, 1980; 47 FR 58250, Dec. 30, 1982; 54 FR 34983, Aug. 23, 1989. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 17072, Apr. 9, 1997; 79 FR 54616, Sept. 12, 2014]
§ 17.241
Sharing medical information services.
(a)
Agreements for exchange of information.
Subject to such terms and conditions as the Under Secretary for Health shall prescribe, Directors of Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers, may enter into agreements with medical schools, Federal, State or local, public or private hospitals, research centers, and individual members of the medical profession, under which medical information and techniques will be freely exchanged and the medical information services of all parties to the agreement will be available for use by any party to the agreement under conditions specified in the agreement.
(b)
Purpose of sharing agreements.
Agreements for the exchange of information shall be used to the maximum extent practicable to create at each Department of Veterans Affairs medical center which has entered into such an agreement, an environment of academic medicine which will help the hospital attract and retain highly trained and qualified members of the medical profession.
(c)
Use of electronic equipment.
Recent developments in electronic equipment shall be utilized under information sharing programs to provide a close educational, scientific, and professional link between Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers and major medical centers.
(d)
Furnishing information services on a fee basis.
The educational facilities and programs established at Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Centers and the electronic link to medical centers shall be made available for use by medical entities in the surrounding medical community which have not entered into sharing agreements with the Department of Veterans Affairs, in order to bring about utilization of all medical information in the surrounding medical community, particularly in remote areas, and to foster and encourage the widest possible cooperation and consultation among all members of the medical profession in the surrounding medical community.
(e)
Establishing fees for information services.
Subject to such terms and conditions as the Under Secretary for Health shall prescribe, Directors of Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers shall charge for information and educational facilities and services made available under paragraph (d) of this section. The fee may be on an annual or other periodic basis, at rates determined, after appropriate study, to be fair and equitable. The financial status of any user of such services shall be taken into consideration in establishing the amount of the fee to be paid.
[32 FR 6841, May 4, 1967, as amended at 47 FR 58250, Dec. 30, 1982. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 17072, Apr. 9, 1997]
§ 17.242
Coordination of programs with Department of Health and Human Services.
Programs for sharing specialized medical resources or medical information services shall be coordinated to a maximum extent practicable, with programs carried out under part F, title XVI of the Public Health Service Act under the jurisdiction of the Department of Health and Human Services.
[32 FR 6842, May 4, 1967, as amended at 45 FR 6940, Jan. 31, 1980; 47 FR 58250, Dec. 30, 1982. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]

# VA Pilot Program on Graduate Medical Education and Residency

# Source:
Sections 17.243 through 17.248 appear at 88 FR 77520, Nov. 13, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.243
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
This section and §§ 17.244 through 17.248 implement the VA Pilot Program on Graduate Medical Education and Residency (PPGMER), which permits placement of residents in existing or new residency programs in covered facilities and permits VA to reimburse certain costs associated with establishing new residency programs in covered facilities, as authorized by section 403 of Public Law 115-182.
(b)
Scope.
This section and §§ 17.244 through 17.248 apply only to the PPGMER as authorized under section 403 of Public Law 115-182, and not to VA's more general administration of graduate medical residency programs in VA facilities as authorized under 38 U.S.C. 7302(e).
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection provisions in this section under control number 2900-0936).
[88 FR 77520, Nov. 13, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 1034, Jan. 9, 2024]
§ 17.244
Definitions.
For purposes of §§ 17.243 through 17.248:
Benefit
means a benefit provided by VA to a resident that has monetary value in addition to a resident's stipend, which may include but not be limited to health insurance, life insurance, worker's compensation, disability insurance, Federal Insurance Contributions Act taxes, and retirement contributions.
Covered facility
means any facility identified in § 17.245.
Educational activities
mean all activities in which residents participate to meet educational goals or curriculum requirements of a residency program, to include but not be limited to: clinical duties; research; attendance in didactic sessions; attendance at facility committee meetings; scholarly activities that are part of an accredited training program; and approved educational details.
Resident
means physician trainees engaged in post-graduate specialty or subspecialty training programs that are either accredited by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education or in the application process for such accreditation. A resident may include an individual in their first post-graduate year (PGY-1) of training (often referred to as an intern), and an individual who has completed training in their primary specialty and continues training in a subspecialty graduate medical education program (generally referred to a fellow).
Stipend
means the annual salary paid by VA for a resident.
VA health care facility
means any VA-owned or VA-operated location where VA physicians provide care to veterans, to include but not be limited to a VA medical center, independent outpatient clinic, domiciliary, nursing home (community living center), residential treatment program, and community-based clinic.
§ 17.245
Covered facilities.
A covered facility is any of the following:
(a) A VA health care facility;
(b) A health care facility operated by an Indian tribe or tribal organization, as those terms are defined in 25 U.S.C. 5304 and at 25 CFR 273.106;
(c) A health care facility operated by the Indian Health Service;
(d) A federally-qualified health center as defined in 42 U.S.C. 1396d(l)(2)(B);
(e) A health care facility operated by the Department of Defense; or
(f) Other health care facilities deemed appropriate by VA.
§ 17.246
Consideration factors for placement of residents.
(a)
General.
When determining in which covered facilities residents will be placed, VA shall consider the clinical need for health care providers in an area, as determined by VA's evaluation of the following factors:
(1) The ratio of veterans to VA providers for a standardized geographic area surrounding a covered facility, including a separate ratio for general practitioners and specialists.
(i) For purposes of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, standardized geographic area means the county in which the covered facility is located.
(ii) VA may consider either or both of the ratio(s) for general practitioners and specialists, where a higher ratio of veterans to VA providers indicates a higher need for health care providers in an area.
(2) The range of clinical specialties of VA and non-VA providers for a standardized geographic area surrounding a covered facility, where the presence of fewer clinical specialties indicates a higher need for health care providers in an area.
(3) Whether the specialty of a provider is included in the most recent staffing shortage determination by VA under 38 U.S.C. 7412.
(4) Whether the covered facility is in the local community of a VA facility that has been designated by VA as an underserved facility pursuant to criteria developed under section 401 of Public Law 115-182.
(5) Whether the covered facility is located in a community that is designated by the Secretary of Health and Human Services as a health professional shortage area under 42 U.S.C. 254e.
(6) Whether the covered facility is in a rural or remote area, where:
(i) A rural area means an area identified by the U.S. Census Bureau as rural; and
(ii) A remote area means an area within a zip-code designated as a frontier and remote area (FAR) code by the Economic Research Service within the United States Department of Agriculture, based on the most recent decennial census and to include all identified FAR code levels.
(7) Such other criteria as VA considers important in determining those covered facilities that are not adequately serving area veterans. These factors may include but are not limited to:
(i) Proximity of a non-VA covered facility to a VA health care facility, such that residents placed in non-VA covered facilities may also receive training in VA health care facilities.
(ii) Programmatic considerations related to establishing or maintaining a sustainable residency program, such as: whether the stated objectives of a residency program align with VA's workforce needs; the likely or known available educational infrastructure of a new residency program or existing residency program (including the ability to attract and retain qualified teaching faculty); and the ability of the residency program to remain financially sustainable after the cessation of funding that VA may furnish under § 17.248.
(b)
Priority in placements.
For the duration in which the PPGMER is administered, no fewer than 100 residents will be placed in covered facilities operated by either the Indian Health Service, an Indian tribe, a tribal organization, or covered facilities located in the same areas as VA facilities designated by VA as underserved pursuant to criteria developed under section 401 of Public Law 115-182.
§ 17.247
Determination process for placement of residents.
Section 403 of Public Law 115-182 does not authorize a grant program or cooperative agreement program through which covered facilities or any other entity may apply for residents to be placed in covered facilities or to apply for VA to pay or reimburse costs under § 17.248. VA therefore will not conduct a public solicitation to determine those covered facilities in which residents may be placed or to determine costs that may be paid or reimbursed under § 17.248. VA will instead determine those covered facilities in which residents may be placed and determine any costs to be paid or reimbursed under § 17.248 in accordance with the following parameters:
(a) VA Central Office will issue a request for proposal (RFP) to announce opportunities for residents to be placed in covered facilities and to have costs paid or reimbursed under § 17.248. This RFP will describe, at a minimum:
(1) Consideration factors to include the criteria in § 17.246, that will be used to evaluate any responses to the RFP, as well as the relative importance of such consideration factors;
(2) Information required to be in any responses to the RFP; and
(3) The process to submit a response to the RFP.
(b) Covered facilities will submit responses to the RFP to VA Central Office.
(c) Consistent with paragraph (a) of this section, VA Central Office will evaluate responses to the RFP and will determine those covered facilities where residents may be placed and costs under § 17.248 are paid or reimbursed.
§ 17.248
Costs of placing residents and new residency programs.
Once VA determines in which covered facilities residents will be placed in accordance with §§ 17.246 through 17.247, payment or reimbursement is authorized for the following costs:
(a)
Resident stipends and benefits.
For residents placed in covered facilities, VA may pay only the proportionate cost of resident stipends and benefits that are associated with residents participating in educational activities directly related to the PPGMER, in accordance with any contract, agreement, or other arrangement VA has legal authority to form.
(b)
Costs associated with new residency programs.
(1) If a covered facility establishes a new residency program in which a resident is placed, VA will reimburse the following costs in accordance with any contract, agreement, or other arrangement VA has legal authority to form.
(i) Curriculum development costs, to include but not be limited to costs associated with needs analysis, didactic activities, materials, equipment, consultant fees, and instructional design.
(ii) Recruitment and retention of faculty costs, to include but not be limited to costs associated with advertising available faculty positions, and monetary incentives to fill such positions such as relocation costs and educational loan repayment.
(iii) Accreditation costs, to include but not be limited to the administrative fees incurred by a covered facility in association with applying for only initial accreditation of the program by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME).
(iv) Faculty salary costs, to include only the proportionate cost of faculty performing duties directly related to the PPGMER.
(v) Resident education expense costs, to include but not be limited to costs associated with the required purchase of medical equipment and required training, national resident match program participation fees, and residency program management software fees.
(2) VA considers new residency programs as only those residency programs that have initial ACGME accreditation or have continued ACGME accreditation without outcomes, and have not graduated an inaugural class, at the time VA has determined those covered facilities where residents will be placed under § 17.247(c).

# Grants for Exchange of Information
§ 17.250
Scope of the grant program.
The provisions of § 17.250 through § 17.266 are applicable to grants under 38 U.S.C. 8155 for programs for the exchange of medical information. The purpose of these grants is to assist medical schools, hospitals, and research centers in planning and carrying out agreements for the exchange of medical information, techniques, and information services. The grant funds may be used for the employment of personnel, the construction of facilities, the purchasing of equipment, research, training or demonstration activities when necessary to implement exchange of information agreements.
[33 FR 6011, Apr. 19, 1968. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 21966, 21968, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.251
The Subcommittee on Academic Affairs.
There is established within the Special Medical Advisory Group authorized under the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 7312 a Subcommittee on Academic Affairs, and the Subcommittee shall advise the Secretary, through the Under Secretary for Health, in matters pertinent to achieving the objectives of programs for exchange of medical information. The Subcommittee shall review each application for a grant and prepare a written report setting forth
recommendations as to the final action to be taken on the application.
[42 FR 54804, Oct. 11, 1977. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 17072, Apr. 9, 1997]
§ 17.252
Ex officio member of subcommittee.
The Assistant Chief Medical Director for Academic Affairs shall be an ex officio member of the Subcommittee on Academic Affairs.
[42 FR 54804, Oct. 11, 1977. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.253
Applicants for grants.
Applicants for grants generally will be persons authorized to represent a medical school, hospital, or research center which has in effect or has tentatively approved an agreement with the Department of Veterans Affairs to exchange medical information.
[33 FR 6011, Apr. 19, 1968. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.254
Applications.
Each application for a grant shall be submitted to the Under Secretary for Health on such forms as shall be prescribed and shall include the following evidence, assurances, and supporting documents:
(a)
To specify amount.
Each application shall show the amount of the grant requested, and if the grant is to be for more than one objective, the amounts allocated to each objective (e.g., to training, demonstrations, or construction) shall be specified, and
(b)
To include copy of agreement.
Each application shall be accompanied by a copy of the agreement for the exchange of information or information services which the grant funds applied for will implement, and
(c)
To include descriptions and plans.
Each application shall include a description of the use to which the grant funds will be applied in sufficient detail to show need, purpose, and justifications, and shall be illustrated by financial and budgetary data, and
(d)
To include cost participation information.
Each application shall show the amount of the grant requested to be used for direct expenses by category of direct expenses, the amount requested for indirect expenses related to the direct expenses, any additional amounts which will be applied to the program or planning from other Federal agencies, and from other sources, and amounts or expenses which will be borne by the applicant, and
(e)
To include assurance records will be kept.
Each application shall include sufficient assurances that the applicant shall keep records which fully disclose the amount and disposition of the proceeds of the grant, the total cost of the project or undertaking in connection with which the grant is made or used, the portion of the costs supplied by non-Federal sources, and such other records as will facilitate an effective audit. All such records shall be retained by the applicant (grantee) for a period of 3 years after the submission of the final expenditure report, or if litigation, claim or audit is started before the expiration of the 3-year period, the records shall be retained until all litigation, claims or audit findings involving the records have been resolved, and
(f)
To include assurance records will be made available.
Each application shall include sufficient assurances the applicant will give the Secretary and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their authorized representatives, access to its books, documents, papers, and records which are pertinent to the grant for the purposes of audit and examination, and
(g)
To include assurance progress reports will be made.
Each application shall include sufficient assurances the applicant will furnish the Under Secretary for Health periodic progress reports in sufficient detail showing the status of the project, planning, program, or system funded by the grant for which application is made, and the extent to which the stated objectives will have been achieved, and
(h)
To include civil rights assurances.
Each application shall include sufficient assurances that no part of the grant funds will be used either by the grantee or by any contractor or subcontractor to be paid from grant funds for any purpose which is inconsistent with regulations promulgated by the Secretary (part 18 of this chapter) implementing title VI of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964, or inconsistent with Executive Order 11246 (30 FR 12319) and any implementing regulations the Secretary of Labor may promulgate.
[33 FR 6011, Apr. 19, 1968, as amended at 36 FR 320, Jan. 9, 1971; 42 FR 54804, Oct. 11, 1977. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 21966, 21969, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.255
Applications for grants for programs which include construction projects.
In addition to the documents and evidence required by § 17.254, any application for a grant for the construction of any facility, structure or system which is part of an exchange of information program shall include the following:
(a) Each application shall include complete descriptions, maps, and surveys of the construction site, and documentary evidence and explanations showing ownership, and
(b) Each application shall include complete plans and specifications for the construction project, and where applicable, sufficient explanations of technical applications so that they may be understood by the layman, and
(c) Each application shall contain assurance that the rates of pay for laborers and mechanics engaged in construction activities will not be less than the prevailing local wage rates for similar work as determined in accordance with the provisions of 40 U.S.C. 3141-3144, 3146, and 3147.
[33 FR 6012, Apr. 19, 1968. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 21966, 21969, May 13, 1996; 79 FR 54616, Sept. 12, 2014]
§ 17.256
Amended or supplemental applications.
An amended application, or an application for a supplemental grant, may be considered either before or after final action has been taken on the original application. Amended applications and applications for supplemental grants shall be subject to the same terms, conditions and requirements necessary for original applications.
[33 FR 6012, Apr. 19, 1968. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.257
Awards procedures.
Applications for grants for planning or implementing agreements for the exchange of medical information or information facilities shall be reviewed by the Under Secretary for Health or designee. If it is determined approval of the grant is warranted, recommendations to that effect shall be made to the Secretary in writing and shall be accompanied by the following:
(a) The recommendation for approval shall be accompanied by the written recommendation of the Subcommittee on Academic Affairs, and
(b) The recommendation for approval shall be accompanied by the written draft of the certificate of award stating all conditions which the grantee is required to agree to under the provisions of § 17.258 and all other conditions to which it has been determined the grant will be subject, and
(c) The recommendation shall include a certification that sufficient appropriated funds are available, and that the application for the grant is sufficient in all details as specified in §§ 17.254 through 17.256.
[33 FR 6012, Apr. 19, 1968, as amended at 42 FR 54805, Oct. 11, 1977. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 21966, 21969, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.258
Terms and conditions to which awards are subject.
Each certificate of award of a grant for planning or implementing an agreement for the exchange of information or information facilities shall specify that the grant is subject to the following terms and conditions:
(a)
Grants subject to terms of agreement for exchange of information.
Each grant shall be subject to, and the certificate shall incorporate by reference, all terms, conditions, and obligations specified in the agreement or planning protocols which the grant will implement, and
(b)
Grants subject to assurances in application.
Each grant shall be subject to all assurances made by the grantee in its application for the grant as required by §§ 17.254 through 17.256, and
(c)
Grants subject to limitations on use of funds.
Each grant shall be subject to the limitations on the use of grant funds, either for direct or indirect costs, as prescribed in §§ 17.259 through 17.261, and
(d)
Grants subject to special provisions.
Each grant shall be subject to any special terms or conditions which may be
warranted by circumstances applicable to individual applications, and specified in the certificate of award.
[33 FR 6012, Apr. 19, 1968. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 21966, 21969, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.259
Direct costs.
Direct costs to which grant funds may be applied may include in proportion to time and effort spent, but are not limited to, fees and costs directly paid to personnel or for fringe benefits, rent, publications, educational programs, training, research, demonstration activities, or construction carried out in connection with pilot programs for planning or exchange of information.
[33 FR 6012, Apr. 19, 1968. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.260
Patient care costs to be excluded from direct costs.
Grant funds for planning or implementing agreements for the exchange of medical information shall not be available for the payment of any hospital, medical, or other costs involving the care of patients except to the extent that such costs are determined to be incident to research, training, or demonstration activities carried out in connection with an exchange of information program.
[33 FR 6012, Apr. 19, 1968. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.261
Indirect costs.
The grantee shall allocate expenditures as between direct and indirect costs according to generally accepted accounting procedures. The amount allocated for indirect costs may be computed on a percentage basis or on the basis of a negotiated lump-sum allowance. In the method of computation used, only indirect costs shall be included which bear a reasonable relationship to the planning or program funded by the grant and shall not exceed a percentage greater than the percentage the total institutional indirect cost is of the total direct salaries and wages paid by the institution.
[33 FR 6012, Apr. 19, 1968. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.262
Authority to approve applications discretionary.
Notwithstanding any recommendation by the Subcommittee on Academic Affairs of the Special Medical Advisory Group, or any recommendation by the Under Secretary for Health or designee, the final determination on any application for a grant rests solely with the Secretary.
[42 FR 54805, Oct. 11, 1977. Redesignated and amended at 61 FR 21966, 21969, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.263
Suspension and termination procedures.
Termination of a grant means the cancellation of Department of Veterans Affairs sponsorship, in whole or in part, under an agreement at any time prior to the date of completion. Suspension of a grant is an action by the Department of Veterans Affairs which temporarily suspends Department of Veterans Affairs sponsorship under the grant pending corrective action by the grantee or pending a decision to terminate the grant by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(a)
Posttermination appeal.
The following procedures are applicable for reviewing postaward disputes which may arise in the administration of or carrying out of the Exchange of Medical Information Grant Program.
(1)
Reviewable decisions.
The Department of Veterans Affairs reserves the right to terminate any grant in whole or in part at any time before the date of completion, whenever it determines that the grantee has failed to comply with conditions of the agreement, or otherwise failed to comply with any law, regulation, assurance, term, or condition applicable to the grant.
(2)
Notice.
The Department of Veterans Affairs shall promptly notify the grantee in writing of the determination. The notice shall set forth the reason for the determination in sufficient detail to enable the grantee to respond, and shall inform the grantee of his or her opportunity for review by the Assistant Chief Medical Director as provided in this section.
(3)
Request for appeal.
A grantee with respect to whom a determination described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section has been made, and who desires review, may file with the Assistant Chief
Medical Director for Academic Affairs an application for review of such determination. The grantee's application for review must be post-marked no later than 30 days after the postmarked date of notification provided pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(4)
Contents of request.
The application for review must clearly identify the question or questions in dispute, contain a full statement of the grantee's position in respect to such question or questions, and provide pertinent facts and reasons in support of his or her position. The Assistant Chief Medical Director for Academic Affairs will promptly send a copy of the grantee's application to the Department of Veterans Affairs official responsible for the determination which is to be reviewed.
(5)
Effect of submission.
When an application for review has been filed no action may be taken by the Department of Veterans Affairs pursuant to such determination until such application has been disposed of, except that the filing of the application shall not affect the authority which the constituent agency may have to suspend the system under a grant during proceedings under this section or otherwise to withhold or defer payments under the grant.
(6)
Consideration of request.
When an application for review has been filed with the Assistant Chief Medical Director for Academic Affairs, and it has been determined that the application meets the requirements stated in this paragraph, all background material of the issues shall be reviewed. If the application does not meet the requirements, the grantee shall be notified of the deficiencies.
(7)
Presentation of case.
If the Assistant Chief Medical Director for Academic Affairs believes there is no dispute as to material fact, the resolution of which would be materially assisted by oral testimony, both parties shall be notified of the issues to be considered, and take steps to afford both parties the opportunity for presenting their cases, at the option of the Assistant Chief Medical Director for Academic Affairs, in whole or in part in writing, or in an informal conference. Where it is concluded that oral testimony is required to resolve a dispute over a material fact, both parties shall be afforded an opportunity to present and cross-examine witnesses at a hearing.
(8)
Decision.
After both parties have presented their cases, the Assistant Chief Medical Director for Academic Affairs shall prepare an initial written decision which shall include findings of fact and conclusions based thereon. Copies of the decision shall be mailed promptly to each of the parties together with a notice informing them of their right to appeal the decision of the Secretary, or to the officer or employee to whom the Secretary has delegated such authority, by submitting written comments thereon within a specified reasonable time.
(9)
Final decision.
Upon filing comments with the Secretary, or designated officer or employee, the review of the initial decision shall be conducted on the basis of the decision, the hearing record, if any, and written comments submitted by both parties. The decision shall be final.
(10)
Participation by a party.
Either party may participate in person, or by counsel pursuant to the procedure set forth in this section.
(b)
Termination for convenience.
The Department of Veterans Affairs or the grantee may terminate a grant in whole or in part when both parties agree that the continuation of the project would not produce beneficial results commensurate with the further expenditure of funds. The two parties shall agree upon the termination conditions, including the effective date and, in the case of partial terminations, the portion to be terminated. The grantee shall not incur new obligations for the terminated portion after the effective date, and shall cancel as many outstanding obligations as possible. The Department of Veterans Affairs shall allow full credit to the grantee for the Department of Veterans Affairs share of the noncancellable obligations, properly incurred by the grantee prior to termination.
(c)
Suspension procedures.
When a grantee has failed to comply with the terms of the grant agreement and conditions or standards, the Department of Veterans Affairs may, on reasonable
notice to the grantee, suspend the grant and withhold further payments, prohibit the grantee from incurring additional obligations of funds, pending corrective action by the grantee, or make a decision to terminate as described in paragraph (a) of this section. The Department of Veterans Affairs shall allow all necessary and proper costs that the grantee could not reasonably avoid during the period of suspension provided that they meet the provisions of the applicable Federal cost principles.
[42 FR 54805, Oct. 11, 1977. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.264
Recoupments and releases.
In any case where the Department of Veterans Affairs or a grantee's obligations under an exchange of information agreement implemented by grant funds are terminated, or where grant-financed equipment or facilities cease to be used for the purposes for which grant support was given, or when grant-financed property is transferred, the grantee shall return the proportionate value of such equipment or facility as was financed by the grant. When it is determined the Department of Veterans Affairs equitable interest is greater that proportionate value, then a claim in such greater amount shall be asserted. If it is determined an amount less than proportionate value or less than the Department of Veterans Affairs equitable interest should be recouped, or that the Department of Veterans Affairs should execute any releases, then a proposal concerning such a settlement or releases complete with explanations and justifications shall be submitted to the Assistant Chief Medical Director for Academic Affairs for a final determination.
[42 FR 54805, Oct. 11, 1977. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.265
Payments.
Payments of grant funds are made to grantees through a letter-of-credit, an advance by Treasury check, or a reimbursement by Treasury check, as appropriate. A letter-of-credit is an instrument certified by an authorized official of the Department of Veterans Affairs which authorizes the grantee to draw funds when needed from the Treasury, through a Federal Reserve bank and the grantee's commercial bank and shall be used by the Department of Veterans Affairs where all the following conditions exist:
(a) When there is or will be a continuing relationship between the grantee and the Department of Veterans Affairs for at least a 12-month period and the total amount of advance payments expected to be received within that period is $250,000, or more;
(b) When the grantee has established or demonstrated the willingness and ability to maintain procedures that will minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds and their disbursement by the grantee; and
(c) When the grantee's financial management meets the standards for fund control and accountability. An advance by Treasury check is a payment made to a grantee upon its request before outlays are made by the grantee, or through use of predetermined payment schedules and shall be used by the Department of Veterans Affairs when the grantee meets all of the above requirements of this section except that advances will be less than $250,000, or for a period less than 12 months. Reimbursement by Treasury check is a payment made to a grantee upon request for reimbursement from the grantee and shall be the preferred method when the grantee does not meet the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. This method may be used on any construction agreement, or if the major portion of the program is accomplished through private market financing or Federal loans, and the Federal assistance constitutes a minor portion of the program. When the reimbursement method is used, the Department of Veterans Affairs shall make payment within 30 days after receipt of the billing, unless billing is improper. Unless otherwise required by law, payments shall not be withheld for proper charges at any time during the grant period unless a grantee has failed to comply with the program objectives, award conditions, or Federal reporting requirements; or the grantee is indebted.
[42 FR 54806, Oct. 11, 1977. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]
§ 17.266
Copyrights and patents.
If a grant-supported program results in copyrightable material or patentable inventions or discoveries, the United States Government shall have the right to use such publications or inventions on a royalty-free basis.
[33 FR 6013, Apr. 19, 1968. Redesignated at 61 FR 21966, May 13, 1996]

# Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs (CHAMPVA)—Medical Care for Survivors and Dependents of Certain Veterans

# Source:
63 FR 48102, Sept. 9, 1998, unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.270
General provisions and definitions.
(a)
Overview of CHAMPVA.
CHAMPVA is the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Generally, CHAMPVA furnishes medical care in the same or similar manner, and subject to the same or similar limitations, as medical care furnished to certain dependents and survivors of active duty and retired members of the Armed Forces under chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code (CHAMPUS), commonly referred to as the TRICARE Select plan. Under CHAMPVA, VA shares the cost of medically necessary services and supplies with eligible beneficiaries within the 50 United States, the District of Columbia, the U.S. territories, and abroad. Under CHAMPVA, medical services and supplies may be provided as follows:
(1) By an authorized non-VA provider.
(2) By a VA provider at a VA facility, on a resource-available basis through the CHAMPVA In-house Treatment Initiative (CITI) to CHAMPVA beneficiaries who are not also eligible for Medicare.
(3) Through VA Medications by Mail (MbM).
(i) Only CHAMPVA beneficiaries who do not have any other type of health insurance that pays for prescriptions, including Medicare Part D, may use MbM.
(ii) Smoking cessation pharmaceutical supplies will only be provided through MbM and only to CHAMPVA beneficiaries that are not also eligible for Medicare.
(b)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to CHAMPVA (§§ 17.270 through 17.278):
Accepted assignment
refers to the action of an authorized non-VA provider who accepts responsibility for the care of a CHAMPVA beneficiary and thereby agrees to accept the CHAMPVA determined allowable amount as full payment for services and supplies rendered to the beneficiary. (The provider's acceptance of the CHAMPVA determined allowable amount extinguishes the beneficiary's payment liability to the provider with the exception of applicable cost-shares and deductibles.)
Authorized non-VA provider
means an individual or institutional non-VA provider of CHAMPVA-covered medical services and supplies that meets any of the following criteria:
(i) Is licensed or certified by a state to provide the medical services and supplies; or
(ii) Where a state does not offer licensure or certification, is otherwise certified by an appropriate national or professional association that sets standards for the specific medical provider.
Calendar year
means January 1 through December 31.
CHAMPVA beneficiary
means a person enrolled under § 17.271.
CHAMPVA-covered services and supplies
mean those medical services and supplies that are medically necessary and appropriate for the treatment of a condition and that are not specifically excluded under § 17.272(a)(1) through (84).
CHAMPVA determined allowable amount
has the meaning set forth in § 17.272(b)(1).
CHAMPVA In-house Treatment Initiative (CITI)
means the initiative under 38 U.S.C. 1781(b) under which participating VA medical facilities provide medical services and supplies to CHAMPVA beneficiaries who are not also eligible for Medicare, subject to availability of space and resources.
Child
has the definition established in 38 U.S.C. 101.
Claim
means a request by an authorized non-VA provider or by a
CHAMPVA beneficiary for payment or reimbursement for medical services and supplies provided to a CHAMPVA beneficiary.
Fiscal year
means October 1 through September 30.
Medications by Mail (MbM)
means the initiative under which VA provides outpatient prescription medications through the mail to CHAMPVA beneficiaries.
Other health insurance (OHI)
means health insurance plans or programs (including Medicare) or third-party coverage that provide coverage to a CHAMPVA beneficiary for expenses incurred for medical services and supplies.
Payer
refers to OHI, as defined in this section, that is obligated to pay for CHAMPVA-covered medical services and supplies. In a situation in which, in addition to CHAMPVA, one or more payers is/are responsible to pay for such services and supplies (
i.e.,
a “double coverage” situation), there would be a primary payer (
i.e.,
the payer obligated to pay first), secondary payer (
i.e.,
the payer obligated to pay after the primary payer), etc. In double coverage situations, CHAMPVA would be the last payer.
Service-connected
has the definition established in 38 U.S.C. 101.
Spouse
refers to a person who is married to a veteran and whose marriage is valid as determined under 38 U.S.C. 103(c).
Surviving spouse
refers to a person who was married to and is the widow(er) of a veteran as determined under 38 U.S.C. 103(c).
(c)
Discretionary authority.
When it is determined to be in the best interest of VA, VA may waive any requirement in §§ 17.270 through 17.278, except any requirement specifically set forth in 38 U.S.C. 1781, or otherwise imposed by statute. Such discretionary authority would be used only under very unusual and limited circumstances and not to deny any individual any right, benefit, or privilege provided to him or her by statute or these regulations. Any such waiver will apply only to the individual circumstance or case involved and will in no way be construed to be precedent-setting.
[87 FR 41599, July 13, 2022]
§ 17.271
Eligibility.
(a)
General entitlement.
The following persons are eligible for CHAMPVA benefits provided that they are not eligible under Title 10 for the TRICARE Program or Part A of Title XVIII of the Social Security Act (Medicare) except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) The spouse or child of a veteran who has been adjudicated by VA as having a permanent and total service-connected disability;
(2) The surviving spouse or child of a veteran who died as a result of an adjudicated service-connected condition(s); or who at the time of death was adjudicated permanently and totally disabled from a service-connected condition(s);
(3) The surviving spouse or child of a person who died on active military service and in the line of duty and not due to such person's own misconduct;
(4) An individual designated as a Primary Family Caregiver, under 38 CFR 71.25(f), who is not entitled to care or services under a health-plan contract (as defined in 38 U.S.C. 1725(f)(2)); and
(5) An eligible child who is pursuing a full-time course of instruction approved under 38 U.S.C. Chapter 36, and who incurs a disabling illness or injury while pursuing such course (between terms, semesters or quarters; or during a vacation or holiday period) that is not the result of his or her own willful misconduct and that results in the inability to continue or resume the chosen program of education must remain eligible for medical care until:
(i) The end of the six-month period beginning on the date the disability is removed; or
(ii) The end of the two-year period beginning on the date of the onset of the disability; or
(iii) The twenty-third birthday of the child, whichever occurs first.
(b)
CHAMPVA and Medicare entitlement.
(1) Individuals under age 65 who are entitled to Medicare Part A and enrolled in Medicare Part B, retain CHAMPVA eligibility as secondary payer to Medicare Parts A and B, Medicare supplemental insurance plans, and Medicare HMO plans.
(2) Individuals age 65 or older, and not entitled to Medicare Part A, retain CHAMPVA eligibility.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# )(2):
If the person is not eligible for Part A of Medicare, a Social Security Administration “Notice of Disallowance” certifying that fact must be submitted. Additionally, if the individual is entitled to only Part B of Medicare, but not Part A, or Part A through the Premium HI provisions, a copy of the individual's Medicare card or other official documentation noting this must be provided.
(3) Individuals age 65 on or after June 5, 2001, who are entitled to Medicare Part A and enrolled in Medicare Part B, are eligible for CHAMPVA as secondary payer to Medicare Parts A and B, Medicare supplemental insurance plans, and Medicare HMO plans for services received on or after October 1, 2001.
(4) Individuals age 65 or older prior to June 5, 2001, who are entitled to Medicare Part A and who have not purchased Medicare Part B, are eligible for CHAMPVA as secondary payer to Medicare Part A and any other health insurance for services received on or after October 1, 2001.
(5) Individuals age 65 or older prior to June 5, 2001, who are entitled to Medicare Part A and who have purchased Medicare Part B must continue to carry Part B to retain CHAMPVA eligibility as secondary payer for services received on or after October 1, 2001.

# Note to § 17.271:
Eligibility criteria specific to Dependency and Indemnity Compensation (DIC) benefits are not applicable to CHAMPVA eligibility determinations.
[63 FR 48102, Sept. 9, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 4359, Jan. 30, 2002; 73 FR 65553, Nov. 4, 2008; 87 FR 41600, July 13, 2022]
§ 17.272
Benefits limitations/exclusions.
(a) Benefits cover allowable expenses for medical services and supplies that are medically necessary and appropriate for the treatment of a condition and that are not specifically excluded from program coverage. Covered benefits may have limitations. The fact that a physician may prescribe, order, recommend, or approve a service or supply does not, of itself, make it medically necessary or make the charge an allowable expense, even though it is not listed specifically as an exclusion. The following are specifically excluded from program coverage:
(1) Services, procedures or supplies for which the beneficiary has no legal obligation to pay, or for which no charge would be made in the absence of coverage under a health benefits plan.
(2) Services and supplies required as a result of an occupational disease or injury for which benefits are payable under workers' compensation or similar protection plan (whether or not such benefits have been applied for or paid) except when such benefits are exhausted and the services and supplies are otherwise not excluded from CHAMPVA coverage.
(3) Services and supplies that are paid directly or indirectly by a local, State or Federal government agency, including court-ordered treatment. In the case of the following exceptions, CHAMPVA assumes primary payer status:
(i) Medicaid.
(ii) State Victims of Crime Compensation Programs.
(iii) Indian Health Service.
(iv) CHAMPVA supplemental policies.
(4) Services and supplies that are not medically or psychologically necessary for the diagnosis or treatment of a covered condition (including mental disorder) or injury.
(5) Radiology, laboratory, and pathological services and machine diagnostic testing not related to a specific illness or injury or a definitive set of symptoms.
(6) Services and supplies above the appropriate level required to provide necessary medical care.
(7) Services and supplies related to an inpatient admission primarily to perform diagnostic tests, examinations, and procedures that could have been and are performed routinely on an outpatient basis.
(8) Postpartum inpatient stay of a mother for purposes of staying with the newborn infant (primarily for the purpose of breast feeding the infant) when the infant (but not the mother) requires the extended stay; or continued inpatient stay of a newborn infant primarily for purposes of remaining with the mother when the mother (but
not the newborn infant) requires extended postpartum inpatient stay.
(9) Therapeutic absences from an inpatient facility or residential treatment center (RTC).
(10) Custodial care.
(11) Inpatient stays primarily for domiciliary care purposes.
(12) Inpatient stays primarily for rest or rest cures.
(13) Services and supplies provided as a part of, or under, a scientific or medical study, grant, or research program.
(14) Services and supplies not provided in accordance with accepted professional medical standards or related to experimental or investigational procedures or treatment regimens.
(15) Services or supplies prescribed or provided by a member of the beneficiary's immediate family, or a person living in the beneficiary's or sponsor's household.
(16) Services and supplies that are (or are eligible to be) payable under another medical insurance or program, either private or governmental, such as coverage through employment or Medicare.
(17) Services or supplies subject to preauthorization (see § 17.273) that were obtained without the required preauthorization; and services and supplies that were not provided according to the terms of the preauthorization.
(18) Inpatient stays primarily to control or detain a runaway child, whether or not admission is to an authorized institution.
(19) Services and supplies (to include prescription medications) in connection with cosmetic surgery which is performed to primarily improve physical appearance or for psychological purposes or to restore form without correcting or materially improving a bodily function.
(20) Electrolysis.
(21) Dental care with the following exceptions:
(i) Dental care that is medically necessary in the treatment of an otherwise covered medical condition, is an integral part of the treatment of such medical condition, and is essential to the control of the primary medical condition.
(ii) Dental care required in preparation for, or as a result of, radiation therapy for oral or facial cancer.
(iii) Gingival Hyperplasia.
(iv) Loss of jaw substance due to direct trauma to the jaw or due to treatment of neoplasm.
(v) Intraoral abscess when it extends beyond the dental alveolus.
(vi) Extraoral abscess.
(vii) Cellulitis and osteitis which is clearly exacerbating and directly affecting a medical condition currently under treatment.
(viii) Repair of fracture, dislocation, and other injuries of the jaw, to include removal of teeth and tooth fragments only when such removal is incidental to the repair of the jaw.
(ix) Treatment for stabilization of myofascial pain dysfunction syndrome, also referred to as temporomandibular joint disorder (TMD). Authorization is limited to initial imaging such as radiographs, Computed Tomography, or Magnetic Resonance Imaging; up to four office visits; and the construction of an occlusal splint.
(x) Total or complete ankyloglossia.
(xi) Adjunctive dental and orthodontic support for cleft palate.
(xii) Prosthetic replacement of jaw due to trauma or cancer.
(22) Nonsurgical treatment of obesity or morbid obesity for dietary control or weight reduction (with the exception of gastric bypass, gastric stapling, or gastroplasty procedures in connection with morbid obesity when determined to be medically necessary) including prescription medications.
(23) Services and supplies related to transsexualism or other similar conditions such as gender dysphoria (including, but not limited to, intersex surgery and psychotherapy, except for ambiguous genitalia which was documented to be present at birth).
(24) Sex therapy, sexual advice, sexual counseling, sex behavior modification, psychotherapy for mental disorders involving sexual deviations (e.g., transvestic fetish), or other similar services, and any supplies provided in connection with therapy for sexual dysfunctions or inadequacies.
(25) Removal of corns or calluses or trimming of toenails and other routine
foot care services, except those required as a result of a diagnosed systemic medical disease affecting the lower limbs, such as severe diabetes.
(26) Surgery to reverse voluntary surgical sterilization procedures.
(27) Services and supplies related to artificial insemination (including semen donors and semen banks), in vitro fertilization, gamete intrafallopian transfer and all other noncoital reproductive technologies.
(28) Nonprescription contraceptives, except those non-prescription contraceptives used as emergency contraceptives.
(29) Diagnostic tests to establish paternity of a child; or tests to determine sex of an unborn child.
(30) Preventive care (such as employment-requested physical examinations and routine screening procedures). The following exceptions apply, including but not limited to:
(i) Well-child care from birth to age six. Periodic health examinations designed for prevention, early detection, and treatment of disease are covered to include screening procedures, immunizations, and risk counseling. The following services are payable when required as part of a well-child care program and when rendered by the attending pediatrician, family physician, or a pediatric nurse practitioner.
(A) Newborn examination, heredity and metabolic screening, and newborn circumcision.
(B) Periodic health supervision visits intended to promote optimal health for infants and children to include the following services:
(
1
) History and physical examination.
(
2
) Vision, hearing, and dental screening.
(
3
) Developmental appraisal to include body measurement.
(
4
) Immunizations as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and Prevention Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices.
(
5
) Pediatric blood lead level test.
(
6
) Tuberculosis screening.
(
7
) Blood pressure screening.
(
8
) Measurement of hemoglobin and hematocrit for anemia.
(
9
) Urinalysis.
(C) Additional services or visits required because of specific findings or because the particular circumstances of the individual case are covered if medically necessary and otherwise authorized for benefits under CHAMPVA.
(ii) Rabies vaccine following an animal bite.
(iii) Tetanus vaccine following an accidental injury.
(iv) Rh immune globulin.
(v) Cervical cancer screening.
(vi) Breast cancer screening.
(vii) Genetic testing and counseling determined to be medically necessary.
(viii) Chromosome analysis in cases of habitual abortion or infertility.
(ix) Gamma globulin.
(x) School-required physical examinations for beneficiaries through age 17 that are provided on or after October 1, 2001.
(xi) Colorectal cancer screening.
(xii) Prostate cancer screening.
(xiii) Annual physical examination.
(xiv) Vaccinations/immunizations.
(31) Chiropractic and naturopathic services.
(32) Counseling services that are not medically necessary in the treatment of a diagnosed medical condition (such as educational counseling; vocational counseling; and counseling for socioeconomic purposes, stress management, life style modification, etc.).
(33) Acupuncture, whether used as a therapeutic agent or as an anesthetic.
(34) Hair transplants, wigs, or hairpieces, except that benefits may be extended for one wig or hairpiece per beneficiary (lifetime maximum) when the attending physician certifies that alopecia has resulted from treatment of malignant disease and the beneficiary certifies that a wig or hairpiece has not been obtained previously through the U.S. Government (including the Department of Veterans Affairs). The wig or hairpiece benefit does not include coverage for the following:
(i) Maintenance, wig or hairpiece supplies, or replacement of the wig or hairpiece.
(ii) Hair transplant or any other surgical procedure involving the attachment of hair or a wig or hairpiece to the scalp.
(iii) Any diagnostic or therapeutic method or supply intended to encourage hair growth.
(35) Self-help, academic education or vocational training services and supplies.
(36) Exercise equipment, spas, whirlpools, hot tubs, swimming pools, health club membership or other such charges or items.
(37) General exercise programs, even if recommended by a physician.
(38) Eye exercises or visual training (orthoptics).
(39) Eye and hearing examinations except when rendered in connection with medical or surgical treatment of a covered illness or injury or in connection with well-child care.
(40) Eyeglasses, spectacles, contact lenses, or other optical devices with the following exceptions:
(i) When necessary to perform the function of the human lens, lost as a result of intraocular surgery, ocular injury or congenital absence.
(ii) Pinhole glasses prescribed for use after surgery for detached retina.
(iii) Lenses prescribed as “treatment” instead of surgery for the following conditions:
(A) Contact lenses used for treatment of infantile glaucoma.
(B) Corneal or scleral lenses prescribed in connection with treatment of keratoconus.
(C) Scleral lenses prescribed to retain moisture when normal tearing is not present or is inadequate.
(D) Corneal or scleral lenses prescribed to reduce a corneal irregularity other than astigmatism.
(iv) The specified benefits are limited to one set of lenses related to one qualifying eye condition as set forth in paragraphs (a)(40)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section. If there is a prescription change requiring a new set of lenses, but still related to the qualifying eye condition, benefits may be extended for a second set of lenses, subject to medical review.
(41) Hearing aids or other auditory sensory enhancing devices.
(42) Prostheses with the following exceptions:
(i) Dental prostheses specifically required in connection with otherwise covered orthodontia directly related to the surgical correction of a cleft palate anomaly.
(ii) Any prostheses, other than dental prostheses, determined to be medically necessary because of significant conditions resulting from trauma, congenital anomalies, or disease, including, but not limited to:
(A) Artificial limbs.
(B) Voice prostheses.
(C) Eyes.
(D) Items surgically inserted in the body as an integral part of a surgical procedure.
(E) Ears, noses, and fingers.
(43) Orthopedic shoes, arch supports, shoe inserts, and other supportive devices for the feet, including special ordered, custom-made built-up shoes, or regular shoes later built up with the following exceptions:
(i) Shoes that are an integral part of an orthopedic brace, and which cannot be used separately from the brace.
(ii) Extra-depth shoes with inserts or custom molded shoes with inserts for individuals with diabetes.
(44) Telephone Services, with the following exceptions:
(i) Services or advice rendered by telephone (audio only) on or after May 12, 2020, are not excluded when the services are otherwise covered CHAMPVA services provided through this modality and are medically necessary and appropriate.
(ii) A diagnostic or monitoring procedure which incorporates electronic transmission of data or remote detection and measurement of a condition, activity, or function (biotelemetry) is covered when:
(A) The procedure, without electronic data transmission, is a covered benefit;
(B) The addition of electronic data transmission or biotelemetry improves the management of a clinical condition in defined circumstances; and
(C) The electronic data or biotelemetry device has been classified by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, either separately or as part of a system, for use consistent with the medical condition and clinical management of such condition.
(45) Air conditioners, humidifiers, dehumidifiers, and purifiers.
(46) Elevators.
(47) Alterations to living spaces or permanent features attached thereto, even when necessary to accommodate
installation of covered durable medical equipment or to facilitate entrance or exit.
(48) Items of clothing, even if required by virtue of an allergy (such as cotton fabric versus synthetic fabric and vegetable-dyed shoes).
(49) Food, food substitutes, vitamins or other nutritional supplements, including those related to care for a home patient whose condition permits oral feeding, except for prenatal vitamins which are medically necessary as a component of prenatal care and prescribed by a VA provider or an authorized non-VA provider as defined in § 17.270 of this part.
(50) Enuretic (bed-wetting) conditioning programs.
(51) Autopsy and post-mortem examinations.
(52) All camping, even when organized for a specific therapeutic purpose (such as diabetic camp or a camp for emotionally disturbed children), or when offered as a part of an otherwise covered treatment plan.
(53) Housekeeping, homemaker, or attendant services, including a sitter or companion.
(54) Personal comfort or convenience items, such as beauty and barber services, radio, television, and telephone.
(55) Megavitamin psychiatric therapy; orthomolecular psychiatric therapy.
(56) All transportation except for specialized transportation with life sustaining equipment, when medically required for the treatment of a covered condition.
(57) Services that are provided to a beneficiary who is referred to a provider of such services by a provider who has an economic interest in the facility to which the patient is referred, unless a waiver is granted.
(58) Abortions, except when:
(i) The life or the health of the pregnant beneficiary would be endangered if the pregnancy were carried to term; or
(ii) The pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest. Self-reporting from the pregnant beneficiary constitutes sufficient evidence that an act of rape or incest occurred.
(59) Aversion therapy.
(60) Rental or purchase of biofeedback equipment.
(61) Biofeedback therapy for treatment of ordinary muscle tension states (including tension headaches) or for psychosomatic conditions.
(62) Immunotherapy for malignant diseases except for treatment of Stage O and Stage A carcinoma of the bladder.
(63) Services and supplies provided by other than a hospital, such as nonskilled nursing homes, intermediate care facilities, halfway houses, homes for the aged, or other institutions of similar purpose.
(64) Services performed when the patient is not physically present.
(65) Medical photography.
(66) Special tutoring.
(67) Surgery for psychological reasons.
(68) Treatment of premenstrual syndrome (PMS).
(69) Over-the-counter products except for pharmaceutical smoking cessation supplies that are approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, prescribed, and provided through MbM, and insulin and related diabetic testing supplies and syringes.
(70) Thermography.
(71) Removal of tattoos.
(72) Penile implant/testicular prosthesis procedures and related supplies for psychological impotence.
(73) Dermabrasion of the face except in those cases where coverage has been authorized for reconstructive or plastic surgery required to restore body form following an accidental injury or to revise disfiguring and extensive scars resulting from neoplastic surgery.
(74) Chemical peeling for facial wrinkles.
(75) Panniculectomy, body sculpting procedures.
(76) Medications not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), excluding FDA exceptions to the approval requirement.
(77) Services and supplies related to the treatment of dyslexia.
(b) Costs of services and supplies to the extent such amounts are billed over the CHAMPVA determined allowable amount are specifically excluded from coverage.
(1) The CHAMPVA determined allowable amount is the maximum level of payment by CHAMPVA to an authorized non-VA provider for the provision of CHAMPVA-covered services and supplies to a CHAMPVA beneficiary. The CHAMPVA determined allowable amount is determined before consideration of cost sharing and the application of deductibles or OHI.
(2) A Medicare-participating hospital must accept the CHAMPVA determined allowable amount for inpatient services provided to a CHAMPVA beneficiary as payment in full. See 42 CFR 489.25.
(3) An authorized non-VA provider who accepts responsibility for the care of a CHAMPVA beneficiary thereby agrees to accept the CHAMPVA determined allowable amount as full payment for services and supplies rendered to the beneficiary (
i.e.,
accepted assignment). The provider's acceptance of the CHAMPVA determined allowable amount extinguishes the beneficiary's payment liability to the provider. Any attempts to collect any additional amount from the CHAMPVA beneficiary may result in the provider being excluded from Federal benefits programs. See 42 CFR 1003.105.
[63 FR 48102, Sept. 9, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 4359, Jan. 30, 2002; 73 FR 65553, Nov. 4, 2008; 87 FR 41600, July 13, 2022; 87 FR 55296, Sept. 9, 2022; 89 FR 34136, Apr. 30, 2024]
§ 17.273
Preauthorization.
Preauthorization or advance approval is required for any of the following, except when the benefit is covered by the CHAMPVA beneficiary's other health insurance (OHI):
(a) Non-emergent inpatient mental health and substance abuse care including admission of emotionally disturbed children and adolescents to residential treatment centers.
(b) All admissions to a partial hospitalization program (including alcohol rehabilitation).
(c) Dental care. For limitations on dental care, see § 17.272(a)(21)(i) through (xii).
(e) Organ transplants.
(d) Organ transplants.
(e) CHAMPVA will perform a retrospective medical necessity review during the coordination of benefits process if:
(1) It is determined that CHAMPVA is the responsible payer for services and supplies but CHAMPVA preauthorization was not obtained prior to delivery of the services or supplies; and,
(2) The claim for payment is filed within the appropriate one-year period.
[63 FR 48102, Sept. 9, 1998, as amended at 74 FR 31374, July 1, 2009; 87 FR 41601, July 13, 2022; 89 FR 34137, Apr. 30, 2024]
§ 17.274
Cost sharing.
(a)
Cost sharing generally.
CHAMPVA is a cost sharing program in which the cost of covered services is shared with the CHAMPVA beneficiary. CHAMPVA pays the CHAMPVA determined allowable amount less the CHAMPVA deductible, if applicable, and less the CHAMPVA beneficiary cost-share.
(1) CHAMPVA beneficiary cost-share requirements do not apply to the following:
(i) Supplies provided through VA MbM.
(ii) Any medical services and supplies provided to a CHAMPVA beneficiary through CITI.
(iii) The following services, even if not provided through CITI:
(A) Colorectal cancer screening.
(B) Breast cancer screening.
(C) Cervical cancer screening.
(D) Prostate cancer screening.
(E) Annual physical exams.
(F) Vaccinations/immunizations.
(G) Well child care from birth to age six, as described in § 17.272(a)(30)(i).
(iv) Hospice services.
(v) Or other preventive services as determined by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
(2) [Reserved]
(b)
Deductibles.
In addition to the CHAMPVA beneficiary cost-share, an annual (calendar year) outpatient deductible requirement ($50 per beneficiary or $100 per family) must be satisfied prior to VA payment of outpatient benefits. The deductible requirement is waived for:
(1) CHAMPVA-covered services and supplies provided through VA MbM or through CITI.
(2) Inpatient services.
(3) Preventive services listed in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section.
(4) Hospice services.
(5) Or other services as determined by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
(c)
Cost sharing limitations.
To provide financial protection against the impact of a long-term illness or injury, there is a $3,000 calendar year limit or “catastrophic cap” per CHAMPVA eligible family on the CHAMPVA beneficiary's out-of-pocket costs for allowable services and supplies. After a family has paid $3,000 in out-of-pocket costs, to include both cost-share and deductible amounts, in a calendar year, CHAMPVA will pay the full allowable amounts for the remaining CHAMPVA-covered services and supplies through the end of that calendar year. Credits to the annual catastrophic cap are limited to the applied annual deductible(s) and the CHAMPVA beneficiary cost-share amount. Costs above the CHAMPVA determined allowable amount, as well as costs associated with non-covered medical services and supplies, are not credited toward the catastrophic cap calculation.
(d)
Non-payment.
If the CHAMPVA benefit payment is under $1.00, payment will not be issued. Catastrophic cap and deductible will, however, be credited.
(e)
Cost-share calculation.
The CHAMPVA beneficiary's cost-share amount, if not waived under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, is 25 percent of the CHAMPVA determined allowable amount in excess of the annual calendar year deductible (see § 17.275 for procedures related to the calculation of the allowable amount for CHAMPVA-covered services and supplies), except for the following:
(1) For inpatient services subject to the CHAMPVA Diagnosis Related Group (DRG) payment system, the cost-share is the lesser of:
(i) The per diem rate multiplied by the number of inpatient days;
(ii) 25 percent of the hospital's billed amount; or
(iii) The base CHAMPVA DRG rate.
(2) For inpatient mental health low volume hospitals and units (less than 25 mental health discharges per federal fiscal year), the cost-share is the lesser of:
(i) The fixed per diem rate multiplied by the number of inpatient days; or
(ii) 25 percent of the hospital's billed charges.
(f) Cost sharing and annual deductible requirements under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply to:
(1) Insertion, removal, and replacement of intrauterine systems, contraceptive implants, or similar FDA approved, granted, or cleared contraceptives that require insertion, removal, and replacement by a health care provider;
(2) Measurement for, and purchase of, contraceptive diaphragms or similar FDA approved, cleared, or granted medical devices, including remeasurement and replacement;
(3) Administration of injectable contraceptives or similar FDA approved, granted, or cleared contraceptives that require administration by a health care provider;
(4) Prescription contraceptives, and prescription or nonprescription contraceptives used as emergency contraceptives, approved, granted, or cleared by the FDA;
(5) Surgical sterilization; and
(6) Outpatient care or evaluation associated with provision of family planning services listed in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section.
[67 FR 4359, Jan. 30, 2002, as amended at 67 FR 6875, Feb. 14, 2002; 87 FR 41601, July 13, 2022; 89 FR 34137, Apr. 30, 2024]
§ 17.275
CHAMPVA determined allowable amount calculation.
CHAMPVA calculates the allowable amount in the following ways, for the following covered services and supplies:
(a)
Inpatient hospital services (non-mental health).
Unless exempt or subject to a methodology under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, inpatient hospital services provided in the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico are subject to the CHAMPVA Diagnosis Related Group (DRG)-based reimbursement methodology. Under the CHAMPVA DRG-based payment system, hospitals are paid a predetermined amount per discharge for inpatient hospital services, which will not exceed the billed amount. Certain inpatient services will be reimbursed under
the CHAMPVA Cost-to-Charge (CTC) reimbursement methodology.
(b)
Inpatient hospital services (mental health).
The CHAMPVA inpatient mental health per diem reimbursement methodology is used to calculate reimbursement for inpatient mental health hospital care in specialty psychiatric hospitals and psychiatric units of general acute hospitals that are exempt from the CHAMPVA DRG-based payment system. The per diem rate is calculated by multiplying the daily rate by the number of days (length of stay). The daily rate is updated each fiscal year for both high volume hospitals (25 or more discharges per fiscal year) and low volume hospitals (fewer than 25 discharges per fiscal year).
(c)
Other inpatient hospital services.
(1) The CHAMPVA CTC reimbursement methodology is used to calculate reimbursement for inpatient care furnished by hospitals or facilities that are exempt from either of the methodologies in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. Such hospitals or facilities will be paid at the CHAMPVA CTC ratio times the billed charges that are customary and not in excess of rates or fees the hospital or facility charges the general public for similar services in a community.
(2) The following hospitals and services are subject to the CHAMPVA CTC payment methodology:
(i) Any hospital that qualifies as a cancer hospital under Medicare standards and has elected to be exempt from the Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services (CMS) prospective payment system.
(ii) Christian Science sanatoriums.
(iii) Critical Access Hospitals.
(iv) Any hospital outside the 50 states, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico.
(v) Hospitals within hospitals.
(vi) Long-term care hospitals.
(vii) Non-Medicare participating hospitals.
(viii) Non-VA Federal Health Care Facilities (
e.g.,
military treatment facilities, Indian Health Service).
(ix) Rehabilitation hospitals.
(x) Hospital or hospital-based services subject to state waiver in any state that has implemented a separate DRG-based payment system or similar payment system in order to control costs.
(xi) Hospitals and services as determined by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
(d)
Outpatient hospital services.
The CHAMPVA outpatient prospective payment system (OPPS) is used to calculate the allowable amount for outpatient services provided in hospitals subject to Medicare OPPS. This will include the utilization of TRICARE's reimbursement methodology to include specific coding requirements, ambulatory payment classifications (APCs), nationally established APC amounts, and associated adjustments.
(e)
Outpatient and inpatient non-hospital services.
Payments to individual authorized non-VA providers (not hospitals) for CHAMPVA-covered medical services and supplies provided on an outpatient or inpatient basis, including but not limited to, anesthesia services, laboratory services, and other professional fees associated with individual authorized non-VA providers, are reimbursed based on the lesser of:
(1) The CHAMPVA Maximum Allowable Charge;
(2) The prevailing amount, which is the amount equal to the maximum reasonable amount allowed providers for a specific procedure in a specific locality; or,
(3) The billed amount.
(f)
Pharmacy services and supplies.
The CHAMPVA pharmacy services and supplies payment methodology is based on specific CHAMPVA pharmacy points of service, which dictate the amounts paid by VA. VA pays:
(1) For services and supplies obtained from a retail in-network pharmacy, the lesser of the billed amount or the contracted rate; or
(2) For supplies obtained from a retail out-of-network pharmacy, the lesser of the billed amount plus a dispensing fee or the average wholesale price plus a dispensing fee.
(g)
Skilled Nursing Facility (SNF) care.
The CHAMPVA SNF reimbursement methodology is based on the CMS prospective payment system for SNFs under 42 CFR part 413, subpart J.
(h)
Durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies (DMEPOS).
The CHAMPVA DMEPOS
reimbursement methodology is based on the same amounts established under the CMS DMEPOS fee schedule under 42 CFR part 414, subpart D. The CHAMPVA determined allowable amount for DMEPOS is the amount in effect in the specific geographic location at the time CHAMPVA-covered medical services and supplies are provided to a CHAMPVA beneficiary.
(i)
Ambulance services.
CHAMPVA adopts Medicare's Ambulance Fee Schedule (AFS) for ambulance services, with the exception of services furnished by a Critical Access Hospital (CAH). Ambulance services are paid based on the lesser of the Medicare AFS or the billed amount. Ambulance services provided by a CAH are paid on the same bases as the CTC method under paragraph (c) of this section.
(j)
Hospice care.
CHAMPVA hospice reimbursement methodology uses Medicare per diem hospice rates.
(k)
Home health care (intermittent or part-time).
CHAMPVA home health care reimbursement methodology, based on Medicare's home health prospective payment system, uses a fixed case-mix and wage-adjusted episode payment amount to act as payment in full for costs associated with furnishing home health services with exceptions allowing for additional payment to be established.
(l)
Ambulatory surgery.
The CHAMPVA reimbursement methodology for facility charges associated with procedures performed in a freestanding ambulatory surgery center is based on a prospectively determined amount, similar to that used by TRICARE. These facility charges do not include physician fees, anesthesiologist fees, or fees of other authorized non-VA providers; such independent professional fees must be submitted separately from facility fees and are calculated under the methodology in paragraph (e) of this section.
(m)
CHAMPVA-covered medical services and supplies provided outside the United States.
VA shall determine the appropriate reimbursement method(s) for CHAMPVA-covered medical services and supplies provided by authorized non-VA providers outside the United States.
(n)
Sole Community Hospitals.
The CHAMPVA reimbursement methodology for inpatient services provided in a Sole Community Hospital (SCH) will be the greater of: the allowable amount determined by multiplying the billed charges by the SCH's most recently available cost-to-charge ratio from the CMS Inpatient Provider Specific File or the DRG reimbursement rate.
[87 FR 41602, July 13, 2022]
§ 17.276
Claim filing deadline.
(a) Unless an exception is granted under paragraph (b) of this section, claims for medical services and supplies must be filed no later than:
(1) One year after the date of service; or
(2) In the case of inpatient care, one year after the date of discharge; or
(3) In the case of retroactive approval for medical services/supplies, 180 days following beneficiary notification of authorization; or
(4) In the case of retroactive approval of CHAMPVA eligibility, 180 days following notification to the beneficiary of authorization for services occurring on or after the date of first eligibility.
(b) Requests for an exception to the claim filing deadline must be submitted in writing and include a complete explanation of the circumstances resulting in late filing along with all available supporting documentation. Each request for an exception to the claim filing deadline will be reviewed individually and considered on its own merit. VA may grant exceptions to the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section if it determines that there was good cause for missing the filing deadline. For example, when dual coverage exists, CHAMPVA payment, if any, cannot be determined until after the primary insurance carrier has adjudicated the claim. In such circumstances an exception may be granted provided that the delay on the part of the primary insurance carrier is not attributable to the beneficiary. Delays due to provider billing procedures do not constitute a valid basis for an exception.
(c) Claims for CHAMPVA-covered services and supplies provided before the date of the event that qualifies an
individual under § 17.271 are not reimbursable.
(d) CHAMPVA is the last payer to OHI, as that term is defined in § 17.270(b). CHAMPVA benefits will generally not be paid until the claim has been filed with the OHI and the OHI has issued a final payment determination or explanation of benefits. CHAMPVA is secondary payer to Medicare per the terms of § 17.271(b).
[63 FR 48102, Sept. 9, 1998, as amended at 73 FR 65553, Nov. 4, 2008. Redesignated and amended at 87 FR 41602, 41603, July 13, 2022]
§ 17.277
Appeals.
(a) This section applies only to legacy claims.
(b) Notice of the initial determination regarding payment of CHAMPVA benefits will be provided to the CHAMPVA beneficiary on a CHAMPVA Explanation of Benefits (EOB) form. The EOB form is generated by the CHAMPVA automated payment processing system. If a CHAMPVA beneficiary or provider disagrees with the determination concerning CHAMPVA-covered services and supplies or calculation of benefits, he or she may request reconsideration. Such requests must be submitted to VA in writing within one year of the date of the initial determination. The request must state why the CHAMPVA claimant believes the decision is in error and must include any new and relevant information not previously considered. Any request for reconsideration that does not identify the reason for dispute will be returned to the claimant without further consideration. After reviewing the claim and any relevant supporting documentation, VA will issue a written determination to the claimant that affirms, reverses, or modifies the previous decision. If the claimant is still dissatisfied, within 90 days of the date of the decision he or she may make a written request for review by VA. After reviewing the claim and any relevant supporting documentation, VA will issue a written determination to the claimant that affirms, reverses, or modifies the previous decision. The decision of VA with respect to benefit coverage and computation of benefits is final. When a CHAMPVA beneficiary has other health insurance (OHI), an appeal must first be filed with the OHI, and a determination made, before submitting the appeal to CHAMPVA with limited exceptions such as if the OHI deems the issue non-appealable. Denial of CHAMPVA benefits based on legal eligibility requirements may be appealed to the Board of Veterans' Appeals in accordance with 38 CFR part 20. Medical determinations are not appealable to the Board. 38 CFR 20.101.
[87 FR 41603, July 13, 2022]
§ 17.278
Medical care cost recovery.
VA will actively pursue medical care cost recovery in accordance with applicable law.
[87 FR 41603, July 13, 2022]
§ 17.279
Confidentiality of records.
Confidentiality of records will be maintained in accordance with 38 CFR 1.460 through 1.582.
[63 FR 48102, Sept. 9, 1998. Redesignated and amended at 87 FR 41602, 41603, July 13, 2022]

# In Vitro Fertilization and Reimbursement of Adoption Expenses
§ 17.380
In vitro fertilization treatment.
(a)(1) In vitro fertilization may be provided when clinically appropriate to—
(i) A veteran who has a service-connected disability that results in the inability of the veteran to procreate without the use of fertility treatment; and,
(ii) The spouse of such veteran, as provided in § 17.412.
(2) For the purposes of this section, “a service-connected disability that results in the inability of the veteran to procreate without the use of fertility treatment” means, for a male veteran, a service-connected injury or illness that prevents the successful delivery of sperm to an egg; and, for a female veteran with ovarian function and a patent uterine cavity, a service-connected injury or illness that prevents the egg from being successfully fertilized by sperm.
(3) In vitro fertilization treatment will be provided under this section when clinically appropriate and to the same extent such treatment is provided
to a member of the Armed Forces who incurs a serious injury or illness on active duty pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1074(c)(4)(A), as described in the April 3, 2012, memorandum issued by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs on the subject of “Policy for Assisted Reproductive Services for the Benefit of Seriously or Severely Ill/Injured (Category II or III) Active Duty Service Members,” and the guidance issued by the Department of Defense to implement such policy, including any limitations on the amount of such benefits available to such a member.
(b) The time periods regarding embryo cryopreservation and storage set forth in part III(G) and in part IV(H) of the memorandum referenced in paragraph (a)(3) of this section do not apply. Embryo cryopreservation and storage may be provided to an individual described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section without limitation on the duration of such cryopreservation and storage.
[82 FR 6275, Jan. 19, 2017, as amended at 82 FR 11153, Feb. 21, 2017; 84 FR 8257, Mar. 7, 2019]
§ 17.390
Reimbursement for qualifying adoption expenses incurred by certain veterans.
(a)
General.
A covered veteran may request reimbursement for qualifying adoption expenses incurred by the veteran in the adoption of a child under 18 years of age.
(1) An adoption for which expenses may be reimbursed under this section includes an adoption by a married or single person, an infant adoption, an intercountry adoption, and an adoption of a child with special needs (as defined in section 473(c) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 673(c))).
(2) Reimbursement for qualifying adoption expenses may be requested only for an adoption that became final after September 29, 2016, and must be requested:
(i) No later than 2 years after the adoption is final; or,
(ii) In the case of adoption of a foreign child, no later than 2 years from the date the certificate of United States citizenship is issued.
(3) In the case of adoption of a foreign child, reimbursement for qualifying adoption expenses may be requested only after United States citizenship has been granted to the adopted child.
(4) Reimbursement for qualifying adoption expenses may not be made under this section for any expense paid to or for a covered veteran under any other adoption benefits program administered by the Federal Government or under any such program administered by a State or local government.
(b)
Limitations.
(1) Reimbursement per adopted child. No more than $2,000 may be reimbursed under this section to a covered veteran, or to two covered veterans who are spouses of each other, for expenses incurred in the adoption of a child. In the case of two married covered veterans, only one spouse may claim reimbursement for any one adoption.
(2) Maximum reimbursement in any calendar year. No more than $5,000 may be paid under this section to a covered veteran in any calendar year. In the case of two married covered veterans, the couple is limited to a maximum of $5,000 per calendar year.
(c)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section:
(1) “Covered veteran” means a veteran with a service-connected disability that results in the inability of the veteran to procreate without the use of fertility treatment.
(2) “Qualifying adoption expenses” means reasonable and necessary expenses that are directly related to the legal adoption of a child under 18 years of age, but only if such adoption is arranged by a qualified adoption agency. Such term does not include any expense incurred:
(i) For items such as clothing, bedding, toys and books;
(ii) For travel; or
(iii) In connection with an adoption arranged in violation of Federal, State, or local law.
(3) “Reasonable and necessary expenses” include:
(i) Public and private agency fees, including adoption fees charged by an agency in a foreign country;
(ii) Placement fees, including fees charged to adoptive parents for counseling;
(iii) Legal fees (including court costs) or notary expenses;
(iv) Medical expenses, including hospital expenses of the biological mother and medical care of the child to be adopted; and
(v) Temporary foster care charges when payment of such charges is required before the adoptive child's placement.
(4) “Qualified adoption agency” means any of the following:
(i) A State or local government agency which has responsibility under State or local law for child placement through adoption.
(ii) A nonprofit, voluntary adoption agency which is authorized by State or local law to place children for adoption.
(iii) Any other source authorized by a State to provide adoption placement if the adoption is supervised by a court under State or local law.
(iv) A foreign government or an agency authorized by a foreign government to place children for adoption, in any case in which:
(A) The adopted child is entitled to automatic citizenship under section 320 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1431); or
(B) A certificate of citizenship has been issued for such child under section 322 of that Act (8 U.S.C. 1433).
(d)
Applying for reimbursement of qualifying adoption
expenses. An application for reimbursement must be submitted on a form prescribed for such purpose by VA. Information and documentation must include:
(1) A copy of the final adoption decree, certificate or court order granting the adoption. For U.S. adoptions, the court order must be signed by a judge unless either State law or local court rules authorize that the adoption order may be signed by a commissioner, magistrate or court referee. The covered veteran must submit a full English translation of any foreign language document, to include the translator's certification that he or she is competent to translate the foreign language to English and that his or her translation is complete and correct.
(2) For foreign adoptions, proof of U.S. citizenship of the child, including any of the following:
(i) A copy of Certificate of Citizenship.
(ii) A copy of a U.S. court order that recognizes the foreign adoption, or documents the re-adopting of the child in the United States.
(iii) A letter from the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, which states the status of the child's adoption.
(iv) A copy of the child's U.S. passport (page with personal information only).
(3) For U.S. adoptions, documentation to show that the adoption was handled by a qualified adoption agency or other source authorized by a State or local law to provide adoption placement. Acceptable forms of proof that the adoption was handled by a qualified adoption agency include:
(i) A copy of placement agreement from the adoption agency showing the agreement entered into between the member and the agency.
(ii) A letter from the adoption agency stating that the agency arranged the adoption and that the agency is a licensed child placing agency in the United States.
(iii) Receipts for payment to the adoption agency, as well as proof, (
e.g.,
a copy of the agency's web page), of the agency's status as a for-profit or non-profit licensed child placing agency.
(4) For foreign adoptions, documentation to show that the adoption was handled by a qualified adoption agency. In addition to the forms of acceptable proof that the adoption was handled by a qualified adoption agency listed in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the documentation must also include:
(i) A document that describes the mission of the foreign agency and its authority from the foreign government to place children for adoption; and
(ii) A placement agreement from the adoption agency or letter from the adoption agency stating the specific services it provided for the adoption.
(5) Documentation to substantiate reasonable and necessary expenses paid by the covered veteran. Acceptable forms of documentation include receipts, cancelled checks, or a letter from the adoption agency showing the amount paid by the member. Receipts from a foreign entity should include
the U.S. currency equivalency. Reconstruction of expense records is permissible when the original records are unavailable and the covered veteran submits a notarized affidavit stating the costs.
(6) Checking or savings account information to facilitate VA providing reimbursement to the covered veteran under this section.
(e)
Failure to establish
eligibility. If documents submitted by a covered veteran in support of an application for reimbursement do not establish eligibility for reimbursement or justify claimed expenses, VA will retain the application and advise the covered veteran of additional documentation needed. All requested documentation must be submitted to VA within 90 calendar days of VA request.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirement in this section under control number 2900-0860)
[83 FR 9212, Mar. 5, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 68048, Dec. 13, 2019; 85 FR 31983, May 28, 2020]

# Hospital Care, Medical Services, and Other Services for Live Donors
§ 17.395
Transplant procedures with live donors, and related services.
(a)
Scope.
This section provides for medical and non-medical care and services of persons who volunteer to donate a solid organ, part of a solid organ, or bone marrow for transplantation into an eligible veteran transplant candidate, irrespective of a donor's eligibility to receive VA health care for any reason other than to donate a solid organ, part of a solid organ, or bone marrow. It prescribes the type, timing, and duration of hospital care and medical services VA provides, including medical care or services purchased by agreement from a non-VA facility. It also provides for non-medical care and services essential to the prospective live donor's or live donor's participation and for VA reimbursement for that care and services. The section does not provide for eligible veteran transplant candidates' VA medical benefits.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
Initial prospective live donor
means an intended recipient's prospective live donor who volunteers to donate a kidney to a recipient other than the intended recipient through kidney paired donation.
Intended recipient
means the transplant candidate who VA identifies to receive a live donor's solid organ, part of a solid organ, or bone marrow.
Kidney paired donation
means one prospective live donor's voluntary donation of a kidney for transplantation into a recipient other than an intended recipient, paired with the transplantation into the intended recipient of a compatible kidney from a different live donor. Note: For purposes of this section, kidney paired donation includes live donor chains.
Live donor
means an individual who is:
(i) Medically suitable for donation;
(ii) Is a compatible match to an identified veteran transplant candidate; and
(iii) Has provided informed consent to undergo elective removal of one solid organ, part of a solid organ, or of bone marrow.
Live donor chain
means a set of kidney paired donation matches that begins with a donation of a kidney from a live donor without an intended recipient. Such live donor donates a kidney for transplantation into the intended recipient of a prospective live donor. The prospective live donor then donates a kidney for transplantation into a recipient other than the intended recipient. A chain continues to allow donation and receipt of compatible kidneys.

# Live Donor Follow-Up Means
(i) For live donors of a solid organ or part of a solid organ, the collection of clinically relevant post-donation live donor data and the provision of recommended clinical laboratory tests and evaluations consistent with Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network policy, and the provision of direct medical care required to address reasonably foreseeable donor health complications resulting directly from the donation procedure.
(ii) For live donors of bone marrow, the provision of direct medical care required to address reasonably foreseeable donor health complications resulting directly from the donation procedure.
Prospective live donor
means a person who has volunteered to donate a solid organ, part of a solid organ, or bone marrow to an intended recipient, and who has agreed to participate in any activity VA deems necessary to carry out the intended recipient's transplant procedure.
Transplant candidate
means an enrolled veteran or a veteran otherwise eligible for VA's medical benefits package who VA determines has a medical need for a solid organ, part of a solid organ, or bone marrow transplant.
Transplant recipient
means a transplant candidate who has undergone transplantation and received a solid organ, part of a solid organ, or bone marrow from a live donor.
(c)
Hospital care and medical services.
To obtain a solid organ, part of a solid organ, or bone marrow for a VA transplant candidate, VA may provide the following hospital care and medical services to a prospective live donor or live donor:
(1) Before removal of a solid organ, part of a solid organ, or bone marrow, VA will provide examinations, tests, and studies necessary to qualify a prospective live donor to donate a solid organ, part of a solid organ, or bone marrow.
(2) During removal of a solid organ, part of a solid organ, or bone marrow, VA will provide the surgical procedure to remove a solid organ, part of a solid organ, or bone marrow from the living donor whose solid organ, part of a solid organ, or bone marrow will be transplanted into an intended recipient.
(3) After removal of a solid organ or part of a solid organ, VA will provide all hospital care, medical services, and other services which are necessary and appropriate to live donor follow-up as defined in paragraph (b) of this section for a period not less than that which the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network prescribes or recommends or for a period of 2 years, whichever is greater.
(4) After bone marrow removal, VA will provide direct medical care required to address reasonably foreseeable live donor health complications resulting directly from the bone marrow donation procedure for a period not greater than 2 years.
(5) A prospective live donor who is also a veteran enrolled in VA's health care system may receive care and services authorized in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) only under this section. A live donor who is also a veteran enrolled in VA's health care system may opt to receive the care and services authorized under paragraph (c)(3) or (4) under either the medical benefits package codified at § 17.38 or under this section, but not both at the same time.
(d)
Non-hospital care and non-medical services.
If VA determines the prospective live donor's or the live donor's presence or proximity is necessary, VA will reimburse the travel costs of the prospective live donor or live donor, including one needed attendant or support person, at the rates provided in § 70.30 of this chapter, without the deductibles required by § 70.31 of this chapter, for:
(1) Travel between the prospective live donor's or live donor's residence and the site of hospital care or medical services authorized in paragraph (c) of this section; and
(2) Temporary lodging:
(i) While the live donor is hospitalized for the organ removal procedure; or
(ii) While the prospective live donor's or live donor's participation in the live donor program requires the prospective live donor's or live donor's presence away from home at least overnight and the prospective live donor's or live donor's presence or proximity is determined necessary by VA.
(e)
Use of non-VA facilities and non-VA service providers.
(1) If and only if VA and a non-VA facility or non-VA service provider have an agreement governed by 38 U.S.C. 8153 or any other applicable authority in title 38, United States Code, a non-VA facility may provide—
(i) A surgical procedure and care and services described in paragraph (c) of this section; or
(ii) Non-hospital care or non-medical services described and otherwise reimbursable under paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) The prospective live donor or live donor is eligible for hospital care and medical services, or travel services, at a non-VA facility solely for the procedure, care, and services described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section as governed by an agreement described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(f)
Participation terminated without completion of the intended recipient's transplantation procedure.
(1) VA will provide the prospective live donor or live donor the care and services described in this section for any VA-authorized participation in the intended recipient's organ or bone marrow transplantation process even if the transplantation procedure for which the prospective live donor or live donor volunteered to donate a solid organ, part of a solid organ, or bone marrow is not completed.
(2) A prospective live donor or a live donor may withdraw his or her informed consent at any time and for any reason. In the case of revocation of consent, VA will pay all the costs authorized under this section for the prospective live donor or live donor up until when the donor revokes consent and ends his or her participation.
(g)
Limitation on VA obligation in kidney paired donations.
In kidney paired donations, VA's obligation to provide any procedure, hospital care, or medical services under this section extends:
(1) To the initial prospective live donor who elects to participate in a kidney paired donation matching program, but only for the examinations, tests, and studies described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for a prospective live donor before kidney removal.
(2) To the live donor whose kidney the intended recipient will receive or has received but only for the services described in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section.
[87 FR 33024, July 1, 2022]

# Hospital Care and Medical Services for Camp Lejeune Veterans and Families
§ 17.400
Hospital care and medical services for Camp Lejeune veterans.
(a)
General.
In accordance with this section, VA will provide hospital care and medical services to Camp Lejeune veterans. Camp Lejeune veterans will be enrolled pursuant to § 17.36(b)(6).
(b)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section:
Camp Lejeune
means any area within the borders of the U.S. Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune or Marine Corps Air Station New River, North Carolina.
Camp Lejeune veteran
means any veteran who served at Camp Lejeune on active duty, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(21), in the Armed Forces for at least 30 (consecutive or nonconsecutive) days during the period beginning on August 1, 1953, and ending on December 31, 1987. A veteran served at Camp Lejeune if he or she was stationed at Camp Lejeune, or traveled to Camp Lejeune as part of his or her professional duties.
Covered illness or condition
means any of the following illnesses and conditions:
(i) Esophageal cancer;
(ii) Lung cancer;
(iii) Breast cancer;
(iv) Bladder cancer;
(v) Kidney cancer;
(vi) Leukemia;
(vii) Multiple myeloma;
(viii) Myelodysplastic syndromes;
(ix) Renal toxicity;
(x) Hepatic steatosis;
(xi) Female infertility;
(xii) Miscarriage;
(xiii) Scleroderma;
(xiv) Neurobehavioral effects; and
(xv) Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
(c)
Limitations.
For a Camp Lejeune veteran, VA will assume that a covered illness or condition is attributable to the veteran's active duty service at Camp Lejeune unless it is clinically determined, under VA clinical practice guidelines, that such an illness or condition resulted from a cause other than such service.
(d)
Copayments
—(1)
Exemption.
(i) Camp Lejeune veterans who served at Camp Lejeune between January 1, 1957,
and December 31, 1987, are not subject to copayment requirements for hospital care and medical services provided for a covered illness or condition on or after August 6, 2012.
(ii) Camp Lejeune veterans who served at Camp Lejeune between August 1, 1953, and December 31, 1956, are not subject to copayment requirements for hospital care and medical services provided for a covered illness or condition on or after December 16, 2014.
(2)
Retroactive exemption.
VA will reimburse Camp Lejeune veterans for any copayments paid to VA for hospital care and medical services provided for a covered illness or condition if either of the following is true:
(i) For Camp Lejeune veterans who served at Camp Lejeune between January 1, 1957, and December 31, 1987, VA provided the hospital care or medical services to the Camp Lejeune veteran on or after August 6, 2012, and the veteran requested Camp Lejeune veteran status no later than September 24, 2016; or
(ii) For Camp Lejeune veterans who served at Camp Lejeune between August 1, 1953, and December 31, 1956, VA provided the hospital care or medical services to the Camp Lejeune veteran on or after December 16, 2014, and the veteran requested Camp Lejeune veteran status no later than July 18, 2018.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirement in this section under control number 2900-0091)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1710)
[81 FR 46605, July 18, 2016]

# Hospital Care and Medical Services for Spouses and Families
§ 17.410
Hospital care and medical services for Camp Lejeune family members.
(a)
General.
In accordance with this section and subject to the availability of funds appropriated for such purpose, VA will provide payment or reimbursement for certain hospital care and medical services furnished to Camp Lejeune family members by non-VA health care providers.
(b)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section:
Camp Lejeune
has the meaning set forth in § 17.400(b).
Camp Lejeune family member
means an individual who:
(i) Resided at Camp Lejeune (or was in utero while his or her mother either resided at Camp Lejeune or served at Camp Lejeune under § 17.400(b)) for at least 30 (consecutive or nonconsecutive) days during the period beginning on August 1, 1953, and ending on December 31, 1987; and
(ii) Meets one of the following criteria:
(A) Is related to a Camp Lejeune veteran by birth;
(B) Was married to a Camp Lejeune veteran; or
(C) Was a legal dependent of a Camp Lejeune veteran.
Camp Lejeune veteran
has the meaning set forth in § 17.400(b).
Health-plan contract
has the meaning set forth in § 17.1001(a).
Third party
has the meaning set forth in § 17.1001(b).
(c)
Application.
An individual may apply for benefits under this section by completing and submitting an application form.
(d)
Payment or reimbursement of certain medical care and hospital services.
VA will provide payment or reimbursement for hospital care and medical services provided to a Camp Lejeune family member by a non-VA provider if all of the following are true:
(1) The Camp Lejeune family member or provider of care or services has submitted a timely claim for payment or reimbursement, which means:
(i) In the case of a Camp Lejeune family member who resided at Camp Lejeune between January 1, 1957, and December 31, 1987, for hospital care and medical services received prior to the date an application for benefits is filed per paragraph (c) of this section, the hospital care and medical services must have been provided on or after March 26, 2013, but no more than 2 years prior to the date that VA receives the application. The claim for payment or reimbursement must be received by VA no more than 60 days after VA approves the application;
(ii) In the case of a Camp Lejeune family member who resided at Camp Lejeune between August 1, 1953, and
December 31, 1956, for hospital care and medical services received prior to the date an application for benefits is filed per paragraph (c) of this section, the hospital care and medical services must have been provided on or after December 16, 2014, but no more than 2 years prior to the date that VA receives the application. The claim for payment or reimbursement must be received by VA no more than 60 days after VA approves the application;
(iii) For hospital care and medical services provided on or after the date an application for benefits is filed per paragraph (c) of this section, the claim for payment or reimbursement must be received by VA no more than 2 years after the later of either the date of discharge from a hospital or the date that medical services were rendered;
(2) The Camp Lejeune family member's treating physician certifies that the claimed hospital care or medical services were provided for a covered illness or condition as defined in § 17.400(b), and provides information about any co-morbidities, risk factors, or other exposures that may have contributed to the illness or condition;
(3) VA makes the clinical finding, under VA clinical practice guidelines, that the illness or condition did not result from a cause other than the residence of the family member at Camp Lejeune;
(4) VA would be authorized to provide the claimed hospital care or medical services to a veteran under VA's medical benefits package in § 17.38;
(5) The Camp Lejeune family member or hospital care or medical service provider has exhausted without success all claims and remedies reasonably available to the family member or provider against a third party, including health-plan contracts; and
(6) Funds were appropriated to implement 38 U.S.C. 1787 in a sufficient amount to permit payment or reimbursement.
(e)
Payment or reimbursement amounts.
Payments or reimbursements under this section will be in amounts determined in accordance with this paragraph (e).
(1) If a third party is partially liable for the claimed hospital care or medical services, then VA will pay or reimburse the lesser of the amount for which the Camp Lejeune family member remains personally liable or the amount for which VA would pay for such care under §§ 17.55 and 17.56.
(2) If VA is the sole payer for hospital care and medical services, then VA will pay or reimburse in accordance with §§ 17.55 and 17.56, as applicable.
(The information collection requirements have been submitted to OMB and are pending OMB approval.)
[82 FR 21122, May 5, 2017]
§ 17.412
Fertility counseling and treatment for certain spouses.
(a)(1) VA may provide fertility counseling and treatment to a spouse of a veteran described in § 17.380 to the extent such services are available to a veteran under § 17.38, and consistent with the benefits relating to reproductive assistance provided to a member of the Armed Forces who incurs a serious injury or illness on active duty pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1074(c)(4)(A), as described in the April 3, 2012, memorandum issued by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs on the subject of “Policy for Assisted Reproductive Services for the Benefit of Seriously or Severely Ill/Injured (Category II or III) Active Duty Service Members,” and the guidance issued by the Department of Defense to implement such policy, including any limitations on the amount of such benefits available to such a member.
(2) VA may provide in vitro fertilization to a spouse of a veteran described in § 17.380 when clinically appropriate and consistent with the benefits relating to reproductive assistance provided to a member of the Armed Forces who incurs a serious injury or illness on active duty pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1074(c)(4)(A), as described in the April 3, 2012, memorandum issued by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs on the subject of “Policy for Assisted Reproductive Services for the Benefit of Seriously or Severely Ill/Injured (Category II or III) Active Duty Service Members,” and the guidance issued by the Department of Defense to implement such policy, including any limitations on the amount of such benefits available to such a member.
(b) The time periods regarding embryo cryopreservation and storage set forth in part III(G) and in part IV(H) of the memorandum referenced in paragraph (a) of this section do not apply. Embryo cryopreservation and storage may be provided to a spouse of a covered veteran without limitation on the duration of such cryopreservation and storage.
[82 FR 6276, Jan. 19, 2017, as amended at 81 FR 11153, Feb. 21, 2017; 84 FR 8257, Mar. 7, 2019]

# Authority of Health Care Providers to Practice in VA
§ 17.415
Full practice authority for advanced practice registered nurses.
(a)
Advanced practice registered nurse (APRN).
For purposes of this section, an advanced practice registered nurse (APRN) is an individual who:
(1) Has completed a nationally-accredited, graduate-level educational program that prepares them for one of the three APRN roles of Certified Nurse Practitioner (CNP), Clinical Nurse Specialist (CNS), or Certified Nurse-Midwife (CNM);
(2) Has passed a national certification examination that measures knowledge in one of the APRN roles described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(3) Has obtained a license from a State licensing board in one of three recognized APRN roles described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and
(4) Maintains certification and licensure as required by paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section.
(b)
Full practice authority.
For purposes of this section, full practice authority means the authority of an APRN to provide services described in paragraph (d) of this section without the clinical oversight of a physician, regardless of State or local law restrictions, when that APRN is working within the scope of their VA employment.
(c)
Granting of full practice authority.
VA may grant full practice authority to an APRN subject to the following:
(1) Verification that the APRN meets the requirements established in paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) Determination that the APRN has demonstrated the knowledge and skills necessary to provide the services described in paragraph (d) of this section without the clinical oversight of a physician, and is thus qualified to be privileged for such scope of practice.
(d)
Services provided by an APRN with full practice authority.
(1) Subject to the limitations established in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the full practice authority for each of the three APRN roles includes, but is not limited to, providing the following services:
(i) A CNP has full practice authority to:
(A) Take comprehensive histories, provide physical examinations and other health assessment and screening activities, diagnose, treat, and manage patients with acute and chronic illnesses and diseases;
(B) Order laboratory and imaging studies and integrate the results into clinical decision making;
(C) Prescribe medication and durable medical equipment;
(D) Make appropriate referrals for patients and families, and request consultations;
(E) Aid in health promotion, disease prevention, health education, and counseling as well as the diagnosis and management of acute and chronic diseases.
(ii) A CNS has full practice authority to provide diagnosis and treatment of health or illness states, disease management, health promotion, and prevention of illness and risk behaviors among individuals, families, groups, and communities within their scope of practice.
(iii) A CNM has full practice authority to provide a range of primary health care services to women, including gynecologic care, family planning services, preconception care (care that women veterans receive before becoming pregnant, including reducing the risk of birth defects and other problems such as the treatment of diabetes and high blood pressure), prenatal and postpartum care, childbirth, and care of a newborn, and treating the partner of their female patients for sexually transmitted disease and reproductive health, if the partner is also enrolled in
the VA healthcare system or is not required to enroll.
(2) The full practice authority of an APRN is subject to the limitations imposed by the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 801
et seq.,
and that APRN's State licensure on the authority to prescribe, or administer controlled substances, as well as any other limitations on the provision of VA care set forth in applicable Federal law and policy.
(e)
Preemption of State and local law.
To achieve important Federal interests, including but not limited to the ability to provide the same comprehensive care to veterans in all States under 38 U.S.C. 7301, this section preempts conflicting State and local laws relating to the practice of APRNs when such APRNs are working within the scope of their VA employment. Any State or local law, or regulation pursuant to such law, is without any force or effect on, and State or local governments have no legal authority to enforce them in relation to, activities performed under this section or decisions made by VA under this section.
[81 FR 90206, Dec. 14, 2016]
§ 17.417
Health care providers practicing via telehealth.
(a)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this section.
(1)
Beneficiary.
The term beneficiary means a veteran or any other individual receiving health care under title 38 of the United States Code.
(2)
Health care provider.
The term health care provider means an individual who:
(i) Is licensed, registered, or certified in a State to practice a health care specialty identified under 38 U.S.C. 7402(b);
(ii) Is appointed to an occupation in the Veterans Health Administration that is listed in or authorized under 38 U.S.C. 7401(1) or (3);
(iii) Maintains credentials (
e.g.,
a license, registration, or certification) in accordance with the requirements of his or her health care specialty as identified under 38 U.S.C. 7402(b); and
(iv) Is not a VA-contracted health care provider.
(3)
State.
The term State means a State as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(20), or a political subdivision of such a State.
(4)
Telehealth.
The term telehealth means the use of electronic information or telecommunications technologies to support clinical health care, patient and professional health-related education, public health, and health administration.
(b)
Health care provider's practice via telehealth.
(1) Health care providers may provide telehealth services, within their scope of practice, functional statement, and/or in accordance with privileges granted to them by VA, irrespective of the State or location within a State where the health care provider or the beneficiary is physically located. Health care providers' practice is subject to the limitations imposed by the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 801,
et seq.,
on the authority to prescribe or administer controlled substances, as well as any other limitations on the provision of VA care set forth in applicable Federal law and policy. This section only grants health care providers the ability to practice telehealth within the scope of their VA employment and does not otherwise grant health care providers additional authorities that go beyond what is required or authorized by Federal law and regulations or as defined in the laws and practice acts of the health care providers' State license, registration, or certification.
(2) Situations where a health care provider's VA practice of telehealth may be inconsistent with a State law or State license, registration, or certification requirements related to telehealth include when:
(i) The beneficiary and the health care provider are physically located in different States during the episode of care;
(ii) The beneficiary is receiving services in a State other than the health care provider's State of licensure, registration, or certification;
(iii) The health care provider is delivering services in a State other than the health care provider's State of licensure, registration, or certification;
(iv) The health care provider is delivering services either on or outside VA property;
(v) The beneficiary is receiving services while she or he is located either on or outside VA property;
(vi) The beneficiary has or has not previously been assessed, in person, by the health care provider; or
(vii) Other State requirements would prevent or impede the practice of health care providers delivering telehealth to VA beneficiaries.
(c)
Preemption of State law.
To achieve important Federal interests, including, but not limited to, the ability to provide the same complete health care and hospital service to beneficiaries in all States under 38 U.S.C. 7301, this section preempts conflicting State laws relating to the practice of health care providers when such health care providers are practicing telehealth within the scope of their VA employment. Any State law, rule, regulation or requirement pursuant to such law, is without any force or effect on, and State governments have no legal authority to enforce them in relation to, this section or decisions made by VA under this section.
[83 FR 21906, May 11, 2018]
§ 17.419
Health care professionals' practice in VA.
(a)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this section.
(1)
Beneficiary.
The term beneficiary means a veteran or any other individual receiving health care under title 38 of the United States Code.
(2)
Health care professional.
The term health care professional is an individual who:
(i) Is appointed to an occupation in the Veterans Health Administration that is listed in or authorized under 38 U.S.C. 7306, 7401, 7405, 7406, or 7408 or title 5 of the U.S. Code;
(ii) Is not a VA-contracted health care professional; and
(iii) Is qualified to provide health care as follows:
(A) Has an active, current, full, and unrestricted license, registration, certification, or satisfies another State requirement in a State;
(B) Has other qualifications as prescribed by the Secretary for one of the health care professions listed under 38 U.S.C. 7402(b);
(C) Is an employee otherwise authorized by the Secretary to provide health care services; or
(D) Is under the clinical supervision of a health care professional that meets the requirements of subsection (a)(2)(iii)(A)-(C) of this section and is either:
(
i
) A health professions trainee appointed under 38 U.S.C. 7405 or 7406 participating in clinical or research training under supervision to satisfy program or degree requirements; or
(
ii
) A health care employee, appointed under title 5 of the U.S. Code, 38 U.S.C. 7401(1) or (3), or 38 U.S.C. 7405 for any category of personnel described in 38 U.S.C. 7401(1) or (3) who must obtain an active, current, full and unrestricted licensure, registration, certification, or meet the qualification standards as defined by the Secretary within the specified time frame.
(3)
State.
The term State means a State as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(20), or a political subdivision of such a State.
(b)
Health care professional's practice.
(1) When a State law or license, registration, certification, or other requirement prevents or unduly interferes with a health care professional's practice within the scope of their VA employment, the health care professional is required to abide by their Federal duties, which includes, but is not limited to, the following situations:
(i) A health care professional may practice their VA health care profession in any State irrespective of the State where they hold a valid license, registration, certification, or other State qualification; or
(ii) A health care professional may practice their VA health care profession within the scope of the VA national standard of practice as determined by VA.
(2) VA health care professional's practice is subject to the limitations imposed by the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 801
et seq.
and implementing regulations at 21 CFR 1300
et seq.,
on the authority to prescribe or administer controlled substances, as well as any other limitations on the provision of VA care set forth in applicable Federal law and policy.
(c)
Preemption of State law.
Pursuant to the Supremacy Clause, U.S. Const. art. IV, cl. 2, and in order to achieve important Federal interests, including,
but not limited to, the ability to provide the same complete health care and hospital service to beneficiaries in all States as required by 38 U.S.C. 7301, conflicting State laws, rules, regulations or requirements pursuant to such laws are without any force or effect, and State governments have no legal authority to enforce them in relation to actions by health care professionals within the scope of their VA employment.
[85 FR 71845, Nov. 12, 2020]

# Center for Innovation for Care and Payment
§ 17.450
Center for Innovation for Care and Payment.
(a)
Purpose and organization.
The purpose of this section is to establish procedures for the Center for Innovation for Care and Payment.
(1) The Center for Innovation for Care and Payment will be responsible for working across VA to carry out pilot programs to develop innovative approaches to testing payment and service delivery models to reduce expenditures while preserving or enhancing the quality of care furnished by VA.
(2) The Center for Innovation for Care and Payment will operate within the Veterans Health Administration, which will ensure that the limited number of concurrent pilots under this section are not redundant of or conflicting with ongoing innovation efforts within any specific administration.
(b)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this section.
Access
refers to entry into or use of VA services.
Patient satisfaction of care and services
refers to patients' rating of their experiences of care and services and as further defined in a pilot program proposal.
Payment models
refer to the types of payment, reimbursement, or incentives that VA deems appropriate for advancing the health and well-being of beneficiaries.
Pilot program
refers to a pilot program conducted under this section.
Quality enhancement
refers to improvement or improvements in such factors as clinical quality, beneficiary-level outcomes, and functional status as documented through improvements in measurement data from a reliable and valid source, and as further defined in a pilot program proposal.
Quality preservation
refers to the maintenance of such factors as clinical quality, beneficiary-level outcomes, and functional status as documented through maintenance of measurement data from an evidence-based source, and as further defined in a pilot program proposal.
Reduction in expenditure
refers to, but is not limited to, cost stabilization, cost avoidance, or decreases in long- or short-term spending, and as further defined in a pilot program proposal. NOTE: VA will also consider the proposal's potential impact on expenditures for other related Federal programs; however, this potential impact will not count against the limitation in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
Service delivery models
refer to all methods or programs for furnishing care or services.
(c)
Geographic locations.
VA will make decisions regarding the location of each pilot program based upon the appropriateness of testing a specific model in a specific area while taking efforts to ensure that pilot programs are operated in geographically diverse areas of the country. VA will include in its proposal to Congress and publish a document in the
Federal Register
identifying the geographic locations proposed for each pilot program, the rationale for those selections, and how VA believes the selected locations will address deficits in care for a defined population.
(d)
Limitations.
In carrying out pilot programs under this section, VA will not:
(1) Actively operate more than 10 pilot programs at the same time; and
(2) Consistent with 38 U.S.C. 1703E(d), obligate more than $50 million in any fiscal year in the conduct of the pilot programs (including all administrative and overhead costs, such as measurement, evaluation, and expenses to implement the pilot programs themselves) operated under this section, unless VA determines it to be necessary and submits a report to the appropriate
Committees of Congress that sets forth the amount of, and justification for, the additional expenditure.
(e)
Waiver of authorities.
In carrying out pilot programs under this section, VA may waive statutory provisions by adding to or removing from statutory text in subchapters I, II, and III of chapter 17, title 38, U.S.C., upon Congressional approval, including waiving any provisions of law in any provision codified in or included as a note to any section in subchapter I, II, or III of chapter 17, title 38.
(1) Upon Congressional approval of the waiver of a provision of law under this section, VA will also deem waived any applicable provision of regulation implementing such law as identified in VA's pilot program proposal.
(2) VA will publish a document in the
Federal Register
providing information about, and seeking comment on, each proposed pilot program upon its submission of a proposal to Congress for approval. VA will publish a document in the
Federal Register
to inform the public of any pilot programs that have been approved by Congress.
(f)
Notice of eligibility.
VA will take reasonable actions to provide direct notice to veterans eligible to participate in a pilot program operated under this section and will provide general notice to other individuals eligible to participate in a pilot program. VA will announce its methods of providing notice to veterans, the public, and other individuals eligible to participate through the document it publishes in the
Federal Register
for each proposed and approved pilot program.
(g)
Evaluation and reporting.
VA will evaluate each pilot program operated under this section and report its findings. Evaluations may be based on quantitative data, qualitative data, or both. Whenever appropriate, evaluations will include a survey of participants or beneficiaries to determine their satisfaction with the pilot program. VA will make the evaluation results available to the public on a VA website on the schedule identified in VA's proposal for the pilot program.
(h)
Expansion of pilot programs.
VA may expand a pilot program consistent with this paragraph (h).
(1) VA may expand the scope or duration of a pilot program if, based on an analysis of the data developed pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section for the pilot program, VA expects the pilot program to reduce spending without reducing the quality of care or improve the quality of patient care without increasing spending. Expansion may only occur if VA determines that expansion would not deny or limit the coverage or provision of benefits for individuals under 38 U.S.C. chapter 17. Expansion of a pilot program may not occur until 60 days after VA has published a document in the
Federal Register
and submitted an interim report to Congress stating its intent to expand a pilot program.
(2) VA may expand the scope of a pilot program by modifying, among other elements of a pilot program, the range of services provided, the qualifying conditions covered, the geographic location of the pilot program, or the population of eligible participants in a manner that increases participation in or benefits under a pilot program.
(3) In general, pilot programs are limited to 5 years of operation. VA may extend the duration of a pilot program by up to an additional 5 years of operation. Any pilot program extended beyond its initial 5-year period must continue to comply with the provisions of this section regarding evaluation and reporting under paragraph (g) of this section.
(i)
Modification of pilot programs.
The Secretary may modify elements of a pilot program in a manner that is consistent with the parameters of the Congressional approval of the waiver described in paragraph (e) of this section. Such modification does not require a submission to Congress for approval under paragraph (e) of this section.
(j)
Termination of pilot programs.
If VA determines that a pilot program is not producing quality enhancement or quality preservation, or is not resulting in the reduction of expenditures, and that it is not possible or advisable to modify the pilot program either through submission of a new waiver request under paragraph (e) of this section or through modification under paragraph (i) of this section, VA will
terminate the pilot program within 30 days of submitting an interim report to Congress that states such determination. VA will also publish a document in the
Federal Register
regarding the pilot program's termination.
[84 FR 57329, Oct. 25, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 60827, July 29, 2024]

# Confidentiality of Healthcare Quality Assurance Review Records

# Authority:
38 U.S.C. 5705.

# Source:
59 FR 53355, Oct. 24, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.500
General.
(a) Section 5705, title 38, United States Code was enacted to protect the integrity of the VA's medical quality assurance program by making confidential and privileged certain records and documents generated by this program and information contained therein. Disclosure of quality assurance records and documents made confidential and privileged by 38 U.S.C. 5705 and the regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511 may only be made in accordance with the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 5705 and those regulations.
(b) The purpose of the regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511 is to specify and provide for the limited disclosure of those quality assurance documents which are confidential under the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 5705.
(c) For purposes of the regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511, the VA's medical quality assurance program consists of systematic healthcare reviews carried out by or for VA for the purpose of improving the quality of medical care or improving the utilization of healthcare resources in VA medical facilities. These review activities may involve continuous or periodic data collection and may relate to either the structure, process, or outcome of health care provided in the VA.
(d) Nothing in the regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511 shall be construed as authority to withhold any record or document from a committee or subcommittee of either House of Congress or any joint committee or subcommittee of Congress, if such record or document pertains to any matter within the jurisdiction of such committee or joint committee.
(e) The regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511 do not waive the sovereign immunity of the United States, and do not waive the confidentiality provisions and disclosure restrictions of 38 U.S.C. 5705.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5705)
§ 17.501
Confidential and privileged documents.
(a) Documents and parts of documents are considered confidential and privileged if they were produced by or for the VA in the process of conducting systematic healthcare reviews for the purpose of improving the quality of health care or improving the utilization of healthcare resources in VA healthcare facilities and meet the criteria in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. The four classes of healthcare quality assurance reviews with examples are:
(1) Monitoring and evaluation reviews conducted by a facility:
(i) Medical records reviews,
(ii) Drug usage evaluations,
(iii) Blood usage reviews,
(iv) Surgical case/invasive procedure reviews,
(v) Service and program monitoring including monitoring performed by individual services or programs, several services or programs working together, or individuals from several services or programs working together as a team,
(vi) Mortality and morbidity reviews,
(vii) Infection control review and surveillance,
(viii) Occurrence screening,
(ix) Tort claims peer reviews (except reviews performed to satisfy the requirements of a governmental body or a professional health care organization which is licensing practitioners or monitoring their professional performance),
(x) Admission and continued stay reviews,
(xi) Diagnostic studies utilization reviews,
(xii) Reports of special incidents (VA Form 10-2633 or similar forms) and follow-up documents unless developed during or as a result of a Board of Investigation;
(2) Focused reviews which address specific issues or incidents and which are designated by the reviewing office at the outset of the review as protected by 38 U.S.C. 5705 and the regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511; focused reviews may be either:
(i) Facility focused reviews;
(ii) VA Central Office or Regional focused reviews;
(3) VA Central Office or Regional general oversight reviews to assess facility compliance with VA program requirements if the reviews are designated by the reviewing office at the outset of the review as protected by 38 U.S.C. 5705 and the regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511; and
(4) Contracted external reviews of care, specifically designated in the contract or agreement as reviews protected by 38 U.S.C. 5705 and the regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511.
(b) The Under Secretary for Health, Regional Director or facility Director will describe in advance in writing those quality assurance activities included under the classes of healthcare quality assurance reviews listed in paragraph (a) of this section. Only documents and parts of documents resulting from those activities which have been so described are protected by 38 U.S.C. 5705 and the regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511. If an activity is not described in a VA Central Office or Regional policy document, this requirement may be satisfied at the facility level by description in advance of the activity and its designation as protected in the facility quality assurance plan or other policy document.
(c) Documents and parts of documents generated by activities which meet the criteria in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be confidential and privileged only if they:
(1) Identify, either implicitly or explicitly, individual practitioners, patients, or reviewers except as provided in paragraph (g)(6) of this section; or
(2) Contain discussions relating to the quality of VA medical care or utilization of VA medical resources by healthcare evaluators during the course of a review of quality assurance information or data, even if they do not identify practitioners, patients, or reviewers; or
(3) Are individual committee, service, or study team minutes, notes, reports, memoranda, or other documents either produced by healthcare evaluators in deliberating on the findings of healthcare reviews, or prepared for purposes of discussion or consideration by healthcare evaluators during a quality assurance review; or
(4) Are memoranda, letters, or other documents from the medical facility to the Regional Director or VA Central Office which contain information generated by a quality assurance activity meeting the criteria in § 17.501 (a) and (b); or
(5) Are memoranda, letters, or other documents produced by the Regional Director or VA Central Office which either respond to or contain information generated by a quality assurance activity meeting the criteria in § 17.501 (a) and (b).
(d) Documents which meet the criteria in this section are confidential and privileged whether they are produced at the medical facility, Regional or VA Central Office levels, or by external contractors performing healthcare quality assurance reviews.
(e) Documents which are confidential and privileged may be in written, computer, electronic, photographic or any other form.
(f) Documents which contain confidential and privileged material in one part, but not in others, such as Clinical Executive Board minutes, should be filed and maintained as if the entire document was protected by 38 U.S.C. 5705. This is not required if the confidential and privileged material is deleted.
(g) The following records and documents and parts of records and documents are not confidential even if they meet the criteria in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section:
(1) Statistical information regarding VA healthcare programs or activities that does not implicitly or explicitly identify individual VA patients or VA employees or individuals involved in the quality assurance process;
(2) Summary documents or records which only identify study topics, the period of time covered by the study, criteria, norms, and/or major overall
findings, but which do not identify individual healthcare practitioners, even by implication;
(3) The contents of Credentialing and Privileging folders as described in VACO policy documents (38 U.S.C. 5705-protected records shall not be filed in Credentialing and Privileging folders);
(4) Records and documents developed during or as a result of Boards of Investigations;
(5) Completed patient satisfaction survey questionnaires and findings from patient satisfaction surveys;
(6) Records and documents which only indicate the number of patients treated by a practitioner, either by diagnosis or in aggregate, or number of procedures performed by a practitioner, either by procedure or in aggregate;
(7) Records and documents developed during or as a result of reviews performed to satisfy the requirements of a governmental body or a professional healthcare organization which is licensing practitioners or monitoring their professional performance, e.g., National Practitioner Data Bank, Federation of State Medical Boards, and National Council of State Boards of Nursing;
(8) Documents and reports developed during or as a result of site visits by the Office of the Medical Inspector except to the extent that the documents and reports contain information that meets the criteria described in this section and are produced by or for VA by other than the Office of Medical Inspector;
(9) External reviews conducted by VA Central Office or a Region other than those designated by the reviewing office under paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section as protected by 38 U.S.C. 5705 and the regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511;
(10) Documents and reports of Professional Standards Boards, Credentialing Committees, Executive Committees of Medical Staff, and similar bodies, insofar as the documents relate to the credentialing and privileging of practitioners;
(11) Documents and reports developed during or as a result of data validation activities;
(12) Documents and reports developed during or as a result of occupational health monitoring;
(13) Documents and reports developed during or as a result of safety monitoring not directly related to the care of specified individual patients;
(14) Documents and reports developed during or as a result of resource management activities not directly related to the care of specified individual patients; and
(15) Information and records derived from patient medical records or facility administrative records, which are not protected by 38 U.S.C. 5705 and the regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511, may be sent or communicated to a third party payor who has asked for this information in response to a VA request for reimbursement based on Public Law 99-272 and Public Law 101-508. Reviews conducted at the request of the third party payor do not generate records protected by 38 U.S.C. 5705 and the regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511 since the reviews are not undertaken as part of the VA's quality assurance program.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5705)
§ 17.502
Applicability of other statutes.
(a) Disclosure of quality assurance records and documents which are not confidential and privileged under 38 U.S.C. 5705 and the confidentiality regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511 will be governed by the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, and, if applicable, the Privacy Act and any other VA or federal confidentiality statutes.
(b) When included in a quality assurance review, confidential records protected by other confidentiality statutes such as 5 U.S.C. 552a (the Privacy Act), 38 U.S.C. 7332 (drug and alcohol abuse, sickle cell anemia, HIV infection), and 38 U.S.C. 5701 (veterans' names and addresses) retain whatever confidentiality protection they have under these laws and applicable regulations and will be handled accordingly. To the extent that information protected by 38 U.S.C. 5701 or 7332 or the Privacy Act is incorporated into quality assurance records, the information
in the quality assurance records is still protected by these statutes.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5705)
§ 17.503
Improper disclosure.
(a) Improper disclosure is the disclosure of confidential and privileged healthcare quality assurance review records or documents (or information contained therein), as defined in § 17.501, to any person who is not authorized access to the records or documents under the statute and the regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511.
(b) “Disclosure” means the communication, transmission, or conveyance in any way of any confidential and privileged quality assurance records or documents or information contained in them to any individual or organization in any form by any means.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5705)
§ 17.504
Disclosure methods.
(a) Disclosure of confidential and privileged quality assurance records and documents or the information contained therein outside VA, where permitted by the statute and the regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511, will always be by copies, abstracts, summaries, or similar records or documents prepared by the Department of Veterans Affairs and released to the requestor. The original confidential and privileged quality assurance records and documents will not be removed from the VA facility by any person, VA employee or otherwise, except in accordance with § 17.508(c) or where otherwise legally required.
(b) Disclosure of confidential and privileged quality assurance records and documents to authorized individuals under either § 17.508 or § 17.509 shall bear the following statement: “These documents or records (or information contained herein) are confidential and privileged under the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 5705, which provide for fines up to $20,000 for unauthorized disclosures thereof, and the implementing regulations. This material shall not be disclosed to anyone without authorization as provided for by that law or the regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511.”
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5705)
§ 17.505
Disclosure authorities.
The VA medical facility Director, Regional Director, Under Secretary for Health, or their designees are authorized to disclose any confidential and privileged quality assurance records or documents under their control to other agencies, organizations, or individuals where 38 U.S.C. 5705 or the regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511 expressly provide for disclosure.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5705)
§ 17.506
Appeal of decision by Veterans Health Administration to deny disclosure.
When a request for records or documents subject to the regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511 is denied in whole or in part by the VA medical facility Director, Regional Director or Under Secretary for Health, the VA official denying the request in whole or in part will notify the requestor in writing of the right to appeal this decision to the General Counsel of the Department of Veterans Affairs within 60 days of the date of the denial letter. The final Department decision will be made by the General Counsel or the Deputy General Counsel.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5705)
§ 17.507
Employee responsibilities.
(a) All VA employees and other individuals who have access to records designated as confidential and privileged under 38 U.S.C. 5705 and the regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511 will treat the findings, views, and actions relating to quality assurance in a confidential manner.
(b) All individuals who have had access to records designated as confidential and privileged under 38 U.S.C. 5705 and the regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511 will not disclose such records or information therein to any person or organization after voluntary or involuntary termination of their relationship to the VA.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5705)
§ 17.508
Access to quality assurance records and documents within the agency.
(a) Access to confidential and privileged quality assurance records and
documents within the Department pursuant to this section is restricted to VA employees (including consultants and contractors of VA) who have a need for such information to perform their government duties or contractual responsibilities and who are authorized access by the VA medical facility Director, Regional Director, the Under Secretary for Health, or their designees or by the regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511.
(b) To foster continuous quality improvement, practitioners on VA rolls, whether paid or not, will have access to confidential and privileged quality assurance records and documents relating to evaluation of the care they provided.
(c) Any quality assurance record or document, whether confidential and privileged or not, may be provided to the General Counsel or any attorney within the Office of General Counsel, wherever located. These documents may also be provided to a Department of Justice (DOJ) attorney who is investigating a claim or potential claim against the VA or who is preparing for litigation involving the VA. If necessary, such a record or document may be removed from the VA medical facility to the site where the General Counsel or any attorney within the Office of General Counsel or the DOJ attorney is conducting an investigation or preparing for litigation.
(d) Any quality assurance record or document or the information contained therein, whether confidential and privileged or not, will be provided to the Department of Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General upon request. A written request is not required.
(e) To the extent practicable, documents accessed under paragraph (b) of this section will not include the identity of peer reviewers. Reasonable efforts will be made to edit documents so as to protect the identities of reviewers, but the inability to completely do so will not bar access under paragraph (b).
(f) No individual shall be permitted access to confidential and privileged quality assurance records and documents identified in § 17.501 unless such individual has been informed of the penalties for unauthorized disclosure. Any misuse of confidential and privileged quality assurance records or documents shall be reported to the appropriate VHA official, e.g., Service Chief, Medical Center Director.
(g) In general, confidential and privileged quality assurance records and documents will be maintained for a minimum of 3 years and may be held longer if needed for research studies or quality assurance or legal purposes.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5705)
§ 17.509
Authorized disclosure: Non-Department of Veterans Affairs requests.
(a) Requests for confidential and privileged quality assurance records and documents from organizations or individuals outside VA must be made to the Department and must specify the nature and content of the information requested, to whom the information should be transmitted or disclosed, and the purpose listed in paragraphs (b) through (j) of this section for which the information requested will be used. In addition, the requestor will specify to the extent possible the beginning and final dates of the period for which disclosure or access is requested. The request must be in writing and signed by the requestor. Except as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, these requests should be forwarded to the Director of the facility in possession of the records or documents for response. The procedures outlined in 38 U.S.C. 5701, 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a, and 38 CFR 1.500 through 1.582 will be followed where applicable.
(b) Disclosure shall be made to Federal agencies upon their written request to permit VA's participation in healthcare programs including healthcare delivery, research, planning, and related activities with the requesting agencies. Any Federal agency may apply to the Under Secretary for Health for approval. If the VA decides to participate in the healthcare program with the requestor, the requesting agency will enter into an agreement with VA to ensure that the agency and its staff will ensure the confidentiality of any quality assurance records or documents shared with the agency.
(c) Qualified persons or organizations, including academic institutions, engaged in healthcare program activities shall, upon request to and approval by the Under Secretary for Health, Regional Director, medical facility Director, or their designees, have access to confidential and privileged medical quality assurance records and documents to permit VA participation in a healthcare activity with the requestor, provided that no records or documents are removed from the VA facility in possession of the records.
(d) When a request under paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section concerns access for research purposes, the request, together with the research plan or protocol, shall first be submitted to and approved by an appropriate VA medical facility Research and Development Committee and then approved by the Director of the VA medical facility. The VA medical facility staff together with the qualified person(s) conducting the research shall be responsible for the preservation of the anonymity of the patients, clients, and providers and shall not disseminate any records or documents which identify such individuals directly or indirectly without the individual's consent. This applies to the handling of data or information as well as reporting or publication of findings. These requirements are in addition to other applicable protections for the research.
(e) Individually identified patient medical record information which is protected by another statute as provided in § 17.502 may not be disclosed to a non-VA person or organization, including disclosures for research purposes under paragraph (d), except as provided in that statute.
(f) Under paragraph (b), the Under Secretary for Health or designee or under paragraph (c), the Under Secretary for Health, Regional Director, medical facility Director, or their designees may approve a written request if it meets the following criteria:
(1) Participation by VA will benefit VA patient care; or
(2) Participation by VA will enhance VA medical research; or
(3) Participation by VA will enhance VA health services research; or
(4) Participation by VA will enhance VA healthcare planning or program development activities; or
(5) Participation by VA will enhance related VA healthcare program activities; and
(6) Access to the record by the requester is required for VA to participate in a healthcare program with the requester.
(g) Protected quality assurance records or documents, including records pertaining to a specific individual, will for purposes authorized under law be disclosed to a civil or criminal law enforcement governmental agency or instrumentality charged under applicable law with the protection of public health or safety, including state licensing and disciplinary agencies, if a written request for such records or documents is received from an official of such an organization. The request must state the purpose authorized by law for which the records will be used. The Under Secretary for Health, Regional Director, medical facility Director, or their designees will determine the extent to which the information is disclosable.
(h) Federal agencies charged with protecting the public health and welfare, federal and private agencies which engage in various monitoring and quality control activities, agencies responsible for licensure of individual health care facilities or programs, and similar organizations will be provided confidential and privileged quality assurance records and documents if a written request for such records or documents is received from an official of such an organization. The request must state the purpose for which the records will be used. The Under Secretary for Health, Regional Director, medical facility Director, or their designees will determine the extent to which the information is disclosable.
(i) JCAHO (Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations) survey teams and similar national accreditation agencies or boards and other organizations requested by VA to assess the effectiveness of quality assurance program activities or to consult regarding these programs are entitled to disclosure of confidential
and privileged quality assurance documents with the following qualifications:
(1) Accreditation agencies which are charged with assessing all aspects of medical facility patient care, e.g., JCAHO, may have access to all confidential and privileged quality assurance records and documents.
(2) Accreditation agencies charged with more narrowly focused review (e.g., College of American Pathologists, American Association of Blood Banks, Nuclear Regulatory Commission, etc.) may have access only to such confidential and privileged records and documents as are relevant to their respective focus.
(j) Confidential and privileged quality assurance records and documents shall be released to the General Accounting Office if such records or documents pertain to any matter within its jurisdiction.
(k) Confidential and privileged quality assurance records and documents shall be released to both VA and non-VA healthcare personnel upon request to the extent necessary to meet a medical emergency affecting the health or safety of any individual.
(l) For any disclosure made under paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section, the name of and other identifying information regarding any individual VA patient, employee, or other individual associated with VA shall be deleted from any confidential and privileged quality assurance record or document before any disclosure under these quality assurance regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511 is made, if disclosure of such name and identifying information would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.
(m) Disclosure of the confidential and privileged quality assurance records and documents identified in § 17.501 will not be made to any individual or agency until that individual or agency has been informed of the penalties for unauthorized disclosure or redisclosure.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5705)
[59 FR 53355, Oct. 24, 1994, as amended at 79 FR 54616, Sept. 12, 2014]
§ 17.510
Redisclosure.
No person or entity to whom a quality assurance record or document has been disclosed under § 17.508 or § 17.509 shall make further disclosure of such record or document except as provided for in 38 U.S.C. 5705 and the regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5705)
§ 17.511
Penalties for violations.
Any person who knows that a document or record is a confidential and privileged quality assurance document or record described in §§ 17.500 through 17.511 and willfully discloses such confidential and privileged quality assurance record or document or information contained therein, except as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 5705 or the regulations in §§ 17.500 through 17.511, shall be fined not more than $5,000 in the case of a first offense and not more than $20,000 in the case of each subsequent offense.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5705)

# Specialty Education Loan Repayment Program

# Source:
Sections 17.525 through 17.531 appear at 85 FR 45535, July 29, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.525
Purpose.
The purpose of §§ 17.525 through 17.531 is to establish the Specialty Education Loan Repayment Program (SELRP). The SELRP is an incentive program for certain individuals to meet VA's need for physicians in medical specialties for which VA determines that recruitment and retention of qualified personnel is difficult. Assistance under the SELRP may be in addition to other assistance available to individuals under the Educational Assistance Program under 38 U.S.C. 7601.
§ 17.526
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to §§ 17.525 through 17.530:
Educational loan
means a loan, government or commercial, made for educational purposes by institutions that are subject to examination and supervision in their capacity as lending institutions by an agency of the United
States or of the state in which the lender has its principal place of business. Loans must be for the actual costs paid for tuition, and other reasonable educational expenses such as living expenses, fees, books, supplies, educational equipment and materials, and laboratory expenses. Loans must be obtained from a government entity, a private financial institution, a school, or any other authorized entity stated in this definition. The following loans do not qualify for the SELRP:
(1) Loans obtained from family members, relatives, or friends;
(2) Loans made prior to, or after, the individual's qualifying education;
(3) Any portion of a consolidated loan that is not specifically identified with the education and purposes for which the SELRP may be authorized, such as home or auto loans merged with educational loans;
(4) Loans for which an individual incurred a service obligation for repayment or agreed to service for future cancellation;
(5) Credit card debt;
(6) Parent Plus Loans;
(7) Loans that have been paid in full;
(8) Loans that are in default, delinquent, not in a current payment status, or have been assumed by a collection agency;
(9) Loans not obtained from a bank, credit union, savings and loan association, not-for-profit organization, insurance company, school, and other financial or credit institution which is subject to examination and supervision in its capacity as a lending institution by an agency of the United States or of the state in which the lender has its principal place of business;
(10) Loans for which supporting documentation is not available;
(11) Loans that have been consolidated with loans of other individuals, such as spouses, children, friends, or other family member; or
(12) Home equity loans or other noneducational loans.
SELRP
means the Specialty Education Loan Repayment Program established in §§ 17.525 through 17.530.
State
means a State as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(20), or a political subdivision of such a State.
VA
means the Department of Veterans Affairs.
§ 17.527
Eligibility.
(a)
General.
An individual must meet the following requirements to be eligible to participate in the SELRP:
(1) Will be eligible for appointment under 38 U.S.C. 7401 to work as a physician in a medical specialty for which VA determines that recruitment or retention of qualified personnel is difficult. In determining staffing needs, VA will consider the anticipated needs of VA for a period of two to six years in the future. VA will publish these vacancies in a notice in the
Federal Register
on a yearly basis until vacancies are filled.
(2) Owes any amount of principal or interest for an educational loan where the proceeds were used by or on behalf of the individual to pay costs relating to a course of medical education or training that leads to employment as a physician and;
(3) Is:
(i) Recently graduated from an accredited medical or osteopathic school and matched to an accredited residency program in a medical specialty designated by VA; or
(ii) A physician in training with more than 2 years remaining in such training.
(b)
Applicants without a residency match.
An applicant may apply for the SELRP before receiving a residency match during the applicant's senior year of medical or osteopathic school. Once the applicant is matched with a residency specialty stated in § 17.525 and upon selection of the SELRP, VA must offer the applicant participation in the SELRP no later than 28 days after:
(1) The applicant is matched with the residency; and
(2) VA has published the residency in a Notice in the
Federal Register.
Such notices are published on a yearly basis until vacancies are filled.
(c)
Preferences.
VA will give preference to eligible participants who:
(1) Are, or will be, participating in residency programs in health care facilities that are:
(i) Located in rural areas;
(ii) Operated by Indian tribes, tribal organizations, or the Indian Health Services; or
(iii) Are affiliated with underserved health care facilities of VA; or
(2) Veterans.
§ 17.528
Application.
(a)
General.
A complete application for the SELRP consists of a completed application form, letters of reference, and personal statement.
(b)
References.
The applicant must provide the following letters of reference and sign a release of information form for VA to contact such references:
(1) One letter of reference from the Program Director of the core program in which the applicant is training, which indicates that the applicant is in good to excellent standing, or, for individuals who have yet to initiate training, a letter of reference from a faculty member or dean;
(2) One or more letters of reference from faculty members under which the applicant trained; and
(3) One letter of reference from a peer colleague who is familiar with the practice and character of the applicant.
(c)
Personal statement.
The personal statement must include the following documentation:
(1) A cover letter that provides the following information:
(i) Why the applicant is interested in VA employment;
(ii) The applicant's interest in working at a particular medical specialty and underserved area;
(iii) Likely career goals, including career goals in VA; and
(iv) A brief summary of past employment or training and accomplishments, including any particular clinical areas of interest (
e.g.,
substance abuse).
(2) The following information must be provided on a VA form or online collection system and is subject to VA verification:
(i) A summary of the applicant's educational loan, which includes the total loan amount and when the loan was acquired. The educational loan must be specific to the education that was required and used to qualify the applicant for appointment as a physician.
(ii) The name of the lending agency that provided the educational loan.
(3) A full curriculum vitae.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirement in this section under control number 2900-0879)
[85 FR 45535, July 29, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 13034, Mar. 2, 2023]
§ 17.529
Award procedures.
(a)
Repayment amount.
(1) VA may pay no more than $40,000 in educational loan repayment for each year of obligated service for a period not to exceed four years for a total payment of $160,000.00.
(2) An educational loan repayment may not exceed the actual amount of principal and interest on an educational loan or loans.
(b)
Payment.
VA will pay the participant, or the lending institution on behalf of the participant, directly for the principal and interest on the participant's educational loans. Payments will be made monthly or annually for each applicable service period, depending on the terms of the agreement. Participants must provide VA documentation that shows the amounts that were credited or posted by the lending institution to a participant's educational loan during an obligated service period. VA will issue payments after the participant commences the period of obligated service. Payments are exempt from Federal taxation.
(c)
Waiver of maximum amount of payment.
VA may waive the limitations under paragraph (a)(1) of this section to participants of the SELRP if VA determines that there is a shortage of qualified employees due to either the location of where the participant will serve the period of obligated service or the requirements of the position that the participant will hold in VA. However, the waiver may not exceed the actual amount of the principal and the interest on the participant's loans payable to or for that participant.
§ 17.530
Agreement and obligated service.
(a)
General.
In addition to any requirements under section 5379(c) of title 5, a participant in the SELRP
must agree, in writing, to the following:
(1) Obtain a license to practice medicine in a State;
(2) Successfully complete postgraduate training leading to eligibility for board certification in a medical specialty;
(3) Serve as a full-time clinical practice employee of VA for 12 months for every $40,000.00 that the participant receives payment through the SELRP, however, the participant must serve for a period of no fewer than 24 months; and
(4) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, begin obligated service as a full-time VA employee no later than 60 days after completing residency in the medical specialty described in § 17.527(a)(1).
(b)
Obligated service.
(1)
General provision.
A participant's obligated service will begin on the date on which the participant begins full-time permanent employment with VA in the qualifying field of medicine in a location determined by VA. Obligated service must be full-time permanent employment and does not include any period of temporary or contractual employment.
(2)
Location and position of obligated service.
VA will provide SELRP participants a list of qualifying medical facility locations. A participant may select a service location from that list. However, VA reserves the right to make final decisions on the location and position of the obligated service.
(c)
Exception to commencement of obligated service.
If a participant receives an accredited fellowship in a medical specialty other than the specialty described in § 17.27(a)(1), the participant may request, in writing, a delayed commencement of the period of obligated service until after the participant completes the fellowship. However, the period of obligated service will begin no later than 60 days after completion of such fellowship in the medical specialty described in § 17.527(a)(1).
§ 17.531
Failure to comply with terms and conditions of agreement.
A participant of the SELRP who fails to satisfy the period of obligated service will owe the United States government an amount determined by the formula A = B × ((T−S) ÷ T)), where:
(a) “A” is the amount the participant owes the United States government.
(b) “B” is the sum of all payments to or for the participant under the SELRP.
(c) “T” is the number of months in the period of obligated service of the participant.
(d) “S” is the number of whole months of such period of obligated service served by the participant.

# Educational Assistance for Certain Former Members of the Armed Forces

# Source:
Sections 17.535 through 17.539 appear at 86 FR 56651, Oct. 12, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.535
Purpose.
The purpose of §§ 17.535 through 17.539 is to establish the Educational Assistance for Certain Former Members of the Armed Forces (EACFMAF). The EACFMAF will provide a scholarship to certain former members of the Armed Forces for the education and training leading to employment as a VA physician assistant.
§ 17.536
Eligibility.
(a)
Military and Training requirements.
An individual is eligible to participate in the EACFMAF if such individual is a former member of the Armed Forces who was discharged or released therefrom under conditions other than dishonorable and meets one of the following criteria:
(1) Has medical or military health experience gained while serving as a member of the Armed Forces;
(2) Has received a certificate, associate degree, baccalaureate degree, master's degree, or post baccalaureate training in a science relating to health care; or
(3) Has participated in the delivery of health care services or related medical services, including participation in military training relating to the identification, evaluation, treatment, and prevention of disease and disorders.
(b)
School and Individual requirements.
To be eligible for the EACFMAF, an applicant must:
(1) Be unconditionally accepted for enrollment or be enrolled as a full-time student in an accredited school located in a State;
(2) Be pursuing a degree leading to employment as a physician assistant;
(3) Be a citizen of the United States; and
(4) Submit an application to participate in the Scholarship Program together with a signed agreement as specified in
§ 17.538.
§ 17.537
Award procedures.
(a)
Priority.
In awarding EACFMAF, VA will give priority to eligible individuals who agree to be employed as physician assistants in a VA medical facility that:
(1) Is located in a community that is designated as a medically underserved population under 42 U.S.C. 254b(b)(3)(A);
(2) Is designated by VA as a medically underserved facility; and
(3) Is in a State with a per capita population of veterans of more than five percent, according to the National Center for Veterans Analysis and Statistics and the United States Census Bureau.
(b)
Amount of funds.
VA will provide a scholarship to individuals who participate in the EACFMAF to cover the costs of such individuals obtaining a master's degree in physician assistant studies or similar master's degree for a period of one to three years. All such payments to scholarship participants are exempt from Federal taxation. The payments will consist of:
(1) Tuition and required fees;
(2) Other educational expenses, including books and laboratory equipment.
§ 17.538
Agreement and obligated service.
(a)
Agreement.
Each eligible individual who accepts funds from the EACFMAF will enter into an agreement with VA where the eligible individual agrees to the following:
(1) Maintain enrollment, attendance, and acceptable level of academic standing as defined by the school;
(2) Complete a master's degree in physician assistant studies or similar master's degree; and
(3) Be employed as a full-time clinical practice employee in VA as a physician assistant for a period of obligated service for one calendar year for each school year or part thereof for which the EACFMAF was awarded, but for no less than three years.
(b)
Obligated service
—(1)
General.
An eligible individual's obligated service will begin on the date on which the eligible individual begins full-time permanent employment with VA as a clinical practice employee as a physician assistant, but no later than 90 days after the date that the eligible individual completes a master's degree in physician assistant studies or similar master's degree, or the date the eligible individual becomes licensed in a State and certified as required by the Secretary, whichever is later. VA will actively assist and monitor eligible individuals to ensure State licenses and certificates are obtained in a minimal amount of time following graduation. If an eligible individual fails to obtain his or her degree, or fails to become licensed in a State or become certified no later than 180 days after receiving the degree, the eligible individual is considered to be in breach of the acceptance agreement.
(2)
Location and position of obligated service.
VA will publish a list of VA medical facilities where the participants may perform their period of obligated service in a notice in the
Federal Register
on a yearly basis. Participants of the EACFMAF may select their preference for service from this list to serve the period of obligated service. VA reserves the right to make final decisions on the location and position of the obligated service. An eligible individual who receives an EACFMAF must be willing to relocate to another geographic location to carry out their service obligation.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0793)
§ 17.539
Failure to comply with terms and conditions of agreement.
(a)
Participant fails to satisfy terms of agreement.
If an eligible individual who accepts funding for the EACFMAF fails to satisfy the terms of agreement, the
United States is entitled to recover damages in an amount equal to the total amount of EACFMAF funding paid or is payable to or on behalf of the individual, reduced by the total number of obligated service days the individual has already served minus the total number of days in the individual's period of obligated service.
(b)
Repayment period.
The eligible individual will pay the amount of damages that the United States is entitled to recover under this section in full to the United States no later than one year after the date of the breach of the agreement.

# Readjustment Counseling Service Scholarship Program

# Source:
Sections 17.545 through 17.553 appear at 87 FR 71256, Nov. 22, 2022 unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.545
Purpose.
The purpose of §§ 17.545 through 17.553 is to establish the Readjustment Counseling Service Scholarship Program (RCSSP) as part of VA's Educational Assistance Program. For purposes of the RCSSP, the term Vet Center has the meaning given that term in 38 U.S.C. 1712A(h).
§ 17.547
Eligibility.
An individual is eligible to participate in the RCSSP if the individual meets the following requirements:
(a) Is accepted for enrollment or be currently enrolled on a full-time basis in a program of study at an accredited educational institution, school, or training program leading to a terminal doctorate degree in psychology, or a terminal masters degree in social work, marriage and family therapy, or mental health counseling that would meet the education requirements for appointment to a position in one of those fields under 38 U.S.C. 7402(b); and
(b) Enters into an agreement with the Secretary under § 17.551.
§ 17.548
Application procedures.
(a)
Availability.
VA will make awards under the RCSSP only when VA determines it is necessary to assist in alleviating shortages of psychologists, social workers, marriage and family therapists, or mental health counseling professionals in Vet Centers. VA's determination of the number of RCSSP scholarships to be awarded in a fiscal year is subject to the availability of appropriations.
(b)
Application-general.
Each individual desiring a RCSSP scholarship must submit an accurate and complete application, including a signed written acceptance agreement.
(c)
VA's duties.
VA will notify applicants prior to acceptance in the RCSSP of the following information:
(1) A fair summary of the rights and liabilities of an individual whose application is approved by VA and whose acceptance agreement is consummated by VA; and
(2) A full description of the terms and conditions that apply to participation in the RCSSP and service in VA.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0899.)
§ 17.549
Award procedures.
(a)
Priority.
In selecting individuals to participate in the RCSSP, VA will give priority to the following individuals:
(1) An individual who agrees to be employed by Vet Centers located in communities that are:
(i) Designated as a medically underserved population under section 330(b)(3) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b(b)(3)); and
(ii) In States with a per capita population of more than five percent veterans according to the National Center for Veterans Analysis and Statistics and the Bureau of the Census.
(2) A veteran.
(b)
Placement criteria.
When determining which Vet Center a scholarship recipient will be placed to carry out their service obligation, VA will consider the priority criteria in paragraph (a) of this section and the size and professional makeup of the current Vet Center staff to ensure that the Vet Center staff has health care professionals that are licensed to supervise participants of the RCSSP from the same health care profession as required by VA professional qualification standards and a requirement of some State
licensure boards for some disciplines for each of the four professions.
(c)
Amount of funds.
VA will provide a scholarship to individuals who participate in the RCSSP to cover the actual costs of such individuals obtaining a terminal degree in psychology, social work, marriage and family therapy, or professional mental health counseling for a maximum of two years. If a participant completes their terminal degree in less than two years, the period of obligated service remains unchanged.
(1) Social work, marriage and family therapy, and professional mental health counseling are master level programs that require approximately a two-year period for achieving the terminal degree. VA will fund RCSSP social work, marriage and family therapy, and professional mental health counseling participants for a maximum of two years.
(2) Psychology is a doctoral level program requiring approximately five years for completion of the terminal academic degree. In addition, psychology graduates are required to undergo a one-year internship at either an American Psychology Association (APA) or Canadian Psychological Association (CPA) accredited internship program prior to qualifying for full time VA employment. VA will fund psychology participants for the last two years of their five-year academic training to obtain a terminal doctorate degree. VA will not provide funding for the one-year APA or CPA internship under the RCSSP.
(d)
Payment of funds.
All such payments to scholarship participants are exempt from Federal taxation. The payments will consist of the actual cost of:
(1) Tuition and required fees;
(2) Other educational expenses, including books and laboratory equipment; and
(3) A monthly stipend, for the duration of the scholarship award. The Secretary may determine the amount of the stipend paid to participants, but that amount may not exceed the maximum amount provided for in 38 U.S.C. 7613(b).
§ 17.551
Agreement and obligated service.
(a)
Agreement.
Each participant who accepts funds from the RCSSP will enter into an agreement with VA where the participant agrees to the following:
(1) Maintain enrollment, attendance, and an acceptable level of academic standing as defined by the school;
(2) Obtain a terminal degree in psychology, social work, marriage and family therapy, or professional mental health counseling; and
(3) Be employed as a full-time VA employee at a Vet Center for a period of six-years as a psychologist, social worker, marriage and family therapist, or professional mental health counselor following the completion of such program of study.
(4) Psychologists must complete a one-year internship at either an American Psychological Association (APA) or Canadian Psychological Association (CPA) accredited program. Obtaining an APA or CPA accredited internship requires that an individual participate in the Association of Psychology Postdoctoral and Internship Centers (APPIC) process. If a scholarship participant does not participate in an APA or CPA accredited internship, they are in breach of their agreement.
(b)
Obligated service
—(1)
Determination of service commencement date.
VA will notify the participant of the commencement date of the period of obligated service no later than 60 days before such date.
(2)
Commencement date of obligated service
—(i)
General.
A participant's period of obligated service will begin on the date the participant begins full-time permanent employment at a Vet Center as a psychologist, social worker, marriage and family therapist, or professional mental health counselor, but no later than 180 days after the date that the participant completes a terminal degree in one of the identified disciplines. Psychology participants will commence their period of obligated service no later than 180 days after completion of their one-year APA or CPA internship, which requires completion of all academic requirements to obtain a terminal doctorate degree.
(ii)
Independent practice.
Upon receipt of the terminal degree, participants will enter VA employment at the entry level until full licensure at the independent practice level has been attained. Independent practice licensure is a requirement for all scholarship participants. Non-licensed psychologists, social workers, marriage and family therapists, and professional mental health counselors are required to serve under the supervision of a licensed health care professional of their profession and must be independently licensed by a State within the time frame specified in VA qualification standards.
(iii)
VA monitoring of participants.
VA will actively assist and monitor participants to ensure State licenses are obtained in a minimal amount of time following graduation and the required period of supervision for their profession. If a participant fails to obtain their terminal degree or fails to obtain licensure in a State at the independent practice level no later than 180 days after the required period of supervision for their profession, the participant is considered to be in breach of the acceptance agreement.
(3)
Location and position of obligated service.
VA reserves the right to make final decisions on the location and position of the obligated service. A participant who receives an RCSSP must be willing to relocate to another geographic location to carry out their service obligation in accordance with the participant's agreement. The requirement for participants to receive supervision from a licensed staff within their respective professions, as a condition for their own licensure, is a critical point for the consideration of the potential location of the obligated service.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0899.)
§ 17.553
Failure to comply with terms and conditions of agreement.
(a)
Liquidated damages.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a participant of the RCSSP who fails to accept payment or instructs the educational institution in which the participant is enrolled not to accept payment, in whole or in part, of a scholarship under the agreement entered into under § 17.551 will be liable to the United States for liquidated damages in the amount of $1,500.
(b)
Liability during program of study.
Liability under this section is in lieu of any service obligation arising under the agreement. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, a participant of the RCSSP will be liable to the United States for the amount that has been paid to or on behalf of the participant under the agreement if any of the following occurs:
(1) The participant fails to maintain an acceptable level of academic standing in the educational institution in which the participant is enrolled, as determined by the educational institution;
(2) The participant is dismissed from the educational institution for disciplinary reasons; or
(3) The participant voluntarily terminates the program of study in the educational institution before the completion of the program of study for which the RCSSP was awarded.
(c)
Liability during period of obligated service.
Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, if a participant of the RCSSP does not complete their period of obligated service, the United States will be entitled to recover from the participant an amount determined in accordance with the following formula: A = 3Φ(t−s/t), where:
(1) `A' is the amount the United States is entitled to recover;
(2) `Φ' is the sum of:
(i) The amounts paid under this subchapter to or on behalf of the participant, and
(ii) The interest on such amounts, which would be payable if at the time the amounts were paid they were loans bearing interest at the maximum legal prevailing rate, as determined by the Treasurer of the United States.
(3) `t' is the total number of months in the period of obligated service of the participant; and
(4) `s' is the number of months of such period served by the participant.
(d)
Limitation on liability for reductions-in-force.
Liability will not arise under paragraph (c) of this section if
the participant fails to maintain employment as a VA employee due to a staffing adjustment.
(e)
Repayment period.
The participant will pay the amount of damages that the United States is entitled to recover under this section in full to the United States no later than one year after the date of the breach of the agreement.

# VA Health Professional Scholarship Program

# Authority:
38 U.S.C. 7601-7619, 7633, 7634, and 7636.
§ 17.600
Purpose.
The purpose of §§ 17.600 through 17.612 is to establish the requirements for the award of scholarships under the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program (HPSP) to students pursuing a course of study leading to a degree in certain health care occupations, listed in 38 U.S.C. 7401(1) and (3), to assist in providing an adequate supply of such personnel for VA. The HPSP allows VA to provide scholarship awards to facilitate recruitment and retention of employees in several hard-to-fill health care occupations.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7601(b))
[78 FR 51069, Aug. 20, 2013]
§ 17.601
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to §§ 17.600 through 17.636:
Acceptable level of academic standing
means the level at which a participant may continue to attend school under the standards and practices of the school at which a participant is enrolled in a course of study for which an HPSP or VIOMPSP scholarship was awarded.
Acceptance agreement
means a signed legal document between VA and a participant of the HPSP or VIOMPSP that specifies the obligations of VA and the participant upon acceptance to the HPSP or VIOMPSP. An acceptance agreement must incorporate by reference, and cannot be inconsistent with, §§ 17.600 through 17.612 (for HPSP agreements) or §§ 17.626 through 17.636 (for VIOMPSP agreements), and must include:
(1) A mobility agreement.
(2) Agreement to accept payment of the scholarship.
(3) Agreement to perform obligated service.
(4) Agreement to maintain enrollment and attendance in the course of study for which the scholarship was awarded, and to maintain an acceptable level of academic standing.
Affiliation agreement
means a legal document that enables the clinical education of trainees at a VA or non-VA medical facility. An affiliation agreement is required for all education or training that involves direct patient contact, or contact with patient information, by trainees from a non-VA institution.
Citizen of the United States
means any person born, or lawfully naturalized, in the United States, subject to its jurisdiction and protection, and owing allegiance thereto.
Credential
means the licensure, registration, certification, required education, relevant training and experience, and current competence necessary to meet VA's qualification standards for employment in certain health care occupations.
Degree
represents the successful completion of the course of study for which a scholarship was awarded.
(1)
HPSP.
For the purposes of the HPSP, VA recognizes the following degrees: a doctor of medicine; doctor of osteopathy; doctor of dentistry; doctor of optometry; doctor of podiatry; or an associate, baccalaureate, master's, or doctorate degree in another health care discipline needed by VA.
(2)
VIOMPSP.
For the purposes of the VIOMPSP, VA recognizes a bachelor's, master's, education specialist or doctorate that meets the core curriculum and supervised practice requirements in visual impairment and blindness.
Full-time student
means an individual who meets the requirements for full time attendance as defined by the school in which they are enrolled.
HPSP
means the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program authorized by 38 U.S.C. 7601 through 7619.
Mobility agreement
means a signed legal document between VA and a participant of the HPSP or VIOMPSP, in which the participant agrees to accept assignment at a VA facility selected by
VA where he or she will fulfill the obligated service requirement. A mobility agreement must be included in the participant's acceptance agreement. Relocation to another geographic location may be required.
Obligated service
means the period of time during which the HPSP or VIOMPSP participant must be employed by VA in a full-time clinical occupation for which the degree prepared the participant as a requirement of the acceptance agreement.
Part-time student
—(1)
HPSP.
For the purposes of the HPSP, part-time student means an individual who is a VA employee, and who has been accepted for enrollment or enrolled for study leading to a degree on a less than full-time basis but no less than half-time basis.
(2)
VIOMPSP.
For the purposes of the VIOMPSP, part-time student means an individual who has been accepted for enrollment or enrolled for study leading to a degree on a less than full-time basis but no less than half-time basis.
Participant or scholarship program participant
means an individual whose application to the HPSP or VIOMPSP has been approved, whose acceptance agreement has been consummated by VA, and who has yet to complete the period of obligated service or otherwise satisfy the obligation or financial liabilities of such agreement.
Required fees
means those fees which are charged by the school to all students pursuing a similar curriculum in the same school.
Scholarship Program
means the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program (HPSP) authorized by 38 U.S.C. 7601 through 7619.
School
means an academic institution that is accredited by a body or bodies recognized for accreditation by the U.S. Department of Education or by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA), and that meets the following requirements:
(1) For the purposes of the HPSP, offers a course of study leading to a degree in a health care service discipline needed by VA.
(2) For the purposes of the VIOMPSP, offers a course of study leading to a degree in visual impairment or orientation and mobility.
School year
means for purposes of the HPSP and its stipend payment, and the VIOMPSP, all or part of the 12-month period that starts on the date the participant begins school as a full-time student.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Veterans Affairs or designee.
State
means one of the several States, Territories and possessions of the United States, the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
Under Secretary for Health
means the Under Secretary for Health of the Department of Veterans Affairs or designee.
VA
means the Department of Veterans Affairs.
VA employee
means an individual permanently employed by VA. A VA employee does not include an individual who is employed temporarily or on a contractual basis.
VA health care facility
means a VA medical center, independent outpatient clinic, domiciliary, nursing home (community living center), residential treatment program, and any of a variety of community based clinics (including community based outpatient clinics, rural health resource centers, primary care telehealth clinics, and Vet Centers), consolidated mail outpatient pharmacies, and research centers.
VIOMPSP
means the Visual Impairment and Orientation and Mobility Professional Scholarship Program authorized by 38 U.S.C. 7501 through 7505.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 301, 7501(a)(1), 7504, 7602(a), 7604(1)(B), 7633)
[78 FR 51069, Aug. 20, 2013]
§ 17.602
Eligibility.
(a) To be eligible for a scholarship under this program an applicant must—
(1) Be unconditionally accepted for enrollment or be enrolled as a full-time student in an accredited school located in a State;
(2) Be pursuing a degree annually designated by the Secretary for participation in the Scholarship Program;
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7602(a)(1), 7612(b)(1))
(3) Be in a discipline or program annually designated by the Secretary for
participation in the Scholarship Program;
(4) Be a citizen of the United States; and
(5) Submit an application to participate in the Scholarship Program together with a signed contract.
(6)
Clinical tours.
An applicant for a scholarship under the HPSP must agree to perform clinical tours while enrolled in the course of education or training for which the scholarship is provided. VA will determine the assignments and locations of the clinical tour.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7618(b))
(b) To be eligible for a scholarship as a part-time student under this program, an applicant must satisfy requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and in addition must—
(1) Be a full-time VA employee permanently assigned to a VA health care facility at the time of application and on the date when the scholarship is awarded;
(2) Remain a VA employee for the duration of the scholarship award.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7612(c)(3)(B))
(c) Any applicant who, at the time of application, owes a service obligation to any other entity to perform service after completion of the course of study is ineligible to receive a scholarship under the Department of Veterans Affairs Scholarship Program.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7602(b))
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2900-0793)
[47 FR 10810, Mar. 12, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 37399, Aug. 18, 1983; 54 FR 28674, July 7, 1989; 78 FR 51070, Aug. 20, 2013; 89 FR 51446, June 18, 2024]
§ 17.603
Availability of HPSP scholarships.
(a)
General.
A HPSP scholarship will be awarded only when necessary to assist VA in alleviating shortages or anticipated shortages of personnel in the health professions stated in paragraph (b) of this section. VA will determine the existence of shortage of personnel in accordance with specific criteria for each health care profession. VA has the authority to establish the number of scholarships to be awarded in a fiscal year, and the number that will be awarded to full-time and part-time students.
(b)
Qualifying fields of education
—(1)
Physicians and dentists
—(i) VA will award not less than 50 HPSP scholarships each year to individuals who are accepted for enrollment or are enrolled in a program of education or training leading to employment as a physician or dentist until such date as VA determines that the staffing shortage of physicians and dentists in VA is less than 500.
(ii) Once the staffing shortage of physicians and dentists is less than 500, VA will award HPSP scholarships to individuals in an amount equal to not less than ten percent of the staffing shortage of physicians and dentists in VA.
(2)
Mental health disciplines.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (b)(1) and (3) of this section, VA will award not less than 83 HPSP scholarships each year to individuals who are accepted for or are enrolled in a program of education or training leading to employment in a mental health discipline, including, but limited to, advanced practice nursing (with a focus on mental health or substance use disorder), psychology, or social work.
(3)
Other health care professions.
VA will grant HPSP scholarships in a course of study in those disciplines or programs other than physician or dentist where recruitment is necessary for the improvement of health care of veterans as listed in 38 U.S.C. 7401(1) and (3).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7401(1), (3), 7612(b)(2), 7612(b)(4), and 7603(b)(1))
[78 FR 51070, Aug. 20, 2013, as amended at 85 FR 13053, Mar. 6, 2020; 89 FR 51446, June 18, 2024]
§ 17.604
Application for the HPSP.
An applicant for the HPSP must submit an accurate and complete application, including a signed written acceptance agreement.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7612(c)(1)(B))
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0793)
[78 FR 51070, Aug. 20, 2013]
§ 17.605
Selection of participants.
(a)
General.
In deciding which HPSP application to approve, VA will first consider applications submitted by applicants entering their final year of education or training and applicants who previously received HPSP scholarships and who meet the conditions of paragraph (f) of this section. Except for paragraph (f) of this section, applicants will be evaluated and selected using the criteria specified in paragraph (b) of this section. If there are a larger number of equally qualified applicants than there are awards to be made, then VA will first select veterans, and then use a random method as the basis for further selection. In selecting participants to receive awards as part-time students, VA may, at VA's discretion—
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7612(b)(5))
(1) Award scholarships geographically to part-time students so that available scholarships may be distributed on a relatively equal basis to students working throughout the VA health care system, and/or
(2) Award scholarships on the basis of retention needs within the VA health care system.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7603(d))
(b)
Selection.
In evaluating and selecting participants, the Secretary will take into consideration those factors determined necessary to assure effective participation in the Scholarship Program. The factors may include, but not be limited to—
(1) Work/volunteer experience, including prior health care employment and Department of Veterans Affairs employment;
(2) Faculty and employer recommendations;
(3) Academic performance; and
(4) Career goals.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7633)
(c)
Selection of part-time students.
Factors in addition to those specified in paragraph (b) of this section, which may be considered in awarding scholarships to part-time students may include, but are not limited to:
(1) Length of service of a VA employee in a health care facility;
(2) Honors and awards received from VA, and other sources;
(3) VA work performance evaluation;
(4) A recommendation for selection for a part-time scholarship from a VA Medical District.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7452(d)(1))
(d)
Notification of approval.
VA will notify the individual in writing that his or her application has been accepted and approved. An individual becomes a participant in the program upon receipt of such approval by VA.
(e)
Duration of scholarship award.
Subject to the availability of funds for the Scholarship Program, the Secretary will award a participant a full-time scholarship under these regulations for a period of from 1 to 4 school years and a participant of a part-time scholarship for a period of 1 to 6 school years.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7612(c)(1)(A) and 7614(3))
(f)
Continuation awards.
Subject to the availability of funds for the Scholarship Program and selection, the Secretary will award a continuation scholarship for completion of the degree for which the scholarship was awarded if—
(1) The award will not extend the total period of Scholarship Program support beyond 4 years for a full-time scholarship, and beyond 6 years for a part-time scholarship; and
(2) The participant remains eligible for continued participation in the Scholarship Program.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7603(d))
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2900-0352)
[48 FR 37399, Aug. 18, 1983, as amended at 54 FR 28674, July 7, 1989; 78 FR 51070, Aug. 20, 2013]
§ 17.606
Award procedures.
(a)
Amount of scholarship.
(1) A scholarship award will consist of (i) tuition and required fees, (ii) other educational expenses, including books and laboratory equipment, and (iii) except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a monthly stipend, for the duration of the scholarship award. All such
payments to scholarship participants are exempt from Federal taxation.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7636)
(2) No stipend may be paid to a participant who is a full-time VA employee.
(3) The Secretary may determine the amount of the stipend paid to participants, whether part-time students or full-time students, but that amount may not exceed the maximum amount provided for in 38 U.S.C. 7613(b).
(4) In the case of a part-time student who is a part-time employee, the maximum stipend, if more than a nominal stipend is paid, will be reduced in accordance with the proportion that the number of credit hours carried by such participant bears to the number of credit hours required to be carried by a full-time student in the course of training being pursued by the participant.
(5) A full stipend may be paid only for the months the part-time student is attending classes.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7614(2))
(6) The Secretary may make arrangements with the school in which the participant is enrolled for the direct payment of the amount of tuition and/or reasonable educational expenses on the participant's behalf.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7613(c))
(7) A participant's eligibility for a stipend ends at the close of the month in which degree requirements are met.
(b)
Leave-of-absence, repeated course work.
The Secretary may suspend scholarship payments to or on behalf of a participant if the school (1) approves a leave-of-absence for the participant for health, personal, or other reasons, or (2) requires the participant to repeat course work for which the Secretary previously has made payments under the Scholarship Program. Additional costs relating to the repeated course work will not be paid under this program. Any scholarship payments suspended under this section will be resumed by the Secretary upon notification by the school that the participant has returned from the leave-of-absense or has satisfactorily completed the repeated course work and is proceeding as a full-time student in the course of study for which the scholarship was awarded.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7633)
[48 FR 37400, Aug. 18, 1983, as amended at 55 FR 40170, Oct. 2, 1990]
§ 17.607
Obligated service.
(a)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, each participant is obligated to provide service as a Department of Veterans Affairs employee in full-time clinical practice in the participant's discipline in an assignment or location determined by the Secretary.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7616(a))
(b)
Beginning of service.
(1)(i)
Date of employment.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a participant's obligated service will begin on the date VA appoints the participant as a full-time VA employee in a clinical occupation for which the degree prepared the participant. VA will appoint the participant to such position as soon as possible, but no later than 90 days after the date that the participant receives his or her degree, or the date the participant becomes licensed in a State or becomes certified, whichever is later. VA will actively assist and monitor participants to ensure State licenses or certificates are obtained in a minimal amount of time following graduation. If a participant fails to obtain his or her degree, or fails to become licensed in a State or become certified no later than 180 days after receiving the degree, the participant is considered to be in breach of the acceptance agreement.
(ii)
Notification.
VA will notify the participant of the work assignment and its location no later than 60 days before the date on which the participant must begin work.
(iii)
VA mentor.
VA will ensure that the participant is assigned a mentor who is employed at the same facility where the participant performs his or her obligated service at the commencement of such service.
(2) Obligated service shall begin on the degree completion date for a participant who, on that date, is a full-
time VA employee working in a capacity for which the degree program prepared the participant.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7616(b), 7616(c), 7618(a))
(c)
Duration of service
—(1)
Full-time student
—(i)
Physician or dentist.
A participant who attended school as a full-time student will agree to serve as a full-time physician or dentist in the Veterans Health Administration for 18 months for each school year or part thereof for which a scholarship was awarded.
(ii)
Other health care profession.
A participant who attended school as a full-time student in a health care profession other than physician or dentist will agree to serve as a full-time clinical employee in the Veterans Health Administration for 1 calendar year for each school year or part thereof for which a scholarship was awarded, but for no less than 2 years.
(2)
Part-time student.
Obligated service to VA for a participant who attended school as a part-time student must be satisfied by full-time clinical employment. The period of obligated service will be reduced from that which a full-time student must serve under paragraph (c)(1) of this section in accordance with the proportion that the number of credit hours carried by the part-time student in any school year bears to the number of credit hours required to be carried by a full-time student who is pursuing the same degree; however, the period of obligated service will not be for less than 1 year.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7612(c)(1)(B), 7612(c)(3)(A), 7618(c))
(d)
Location for service.
VA reserves the right to make final decisions on the location for service obligation. A participant who receives a scholarship as a full-time student must be willing to relocate to another geographic location to carry out his or her service obligation according to the participant's mobility agreement. A participant who received a scholarship as a part-time student may be allowed to serve the period of obligated service at the health care facility where the individual was assigned when the scholarship was authorized, if there is a vacant position which will satisfy the individual's mobility agreement at that facility.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7616(a))
(e)
Creditability of advanced clinical training.
No period of advanced clinical training will be credited toward satisfying the period of obligated service incurred under the Scholarship Program.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7616(b)(3)(A)(ii)
[47 FR 10810, Mar. 12, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 37400, Aug. 18, 1983; 54 FR 28675, July 7, 1989; 78 FR 51070, Aug. 20, 2013; 85 FR 13053, Mar. 6, 2020]
§ 17.608
Deferment of obligated service.
(a)
Request for deferment.
A participant receiving a degree from a school of medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, optometry, or podiatry, may request deferment of obligated service to complete an approved program of advanced clinical training. The Secretary may defer the beginning date of the obligated service to allow the participant to complete the advanced clinical training program. The period of this deferment will be the time designated for the specialty training.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7616(b)(3)(A)(i))
(b)
Deferment requirements.
Any participant whose period of obligated service is deferred shall be required to take all or part of the advanced clinical training in an accredited program in an educational institution having an Affiliation Agreement with a Department of Veterans Affairs health care facility, and such training will be undertaken in a Department of Veterans Affairs health-care facility.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7616(b)(4))
(c)
Additional service obligation.
A participant who has requested and received deferment for approved advanced clinical training may, at the time of approval of such deferment and at the discretion of the Secretary and upon the recommendation of the Under Secretary for Health, incur an additional period of obligated service—
(1) At the rate of one-half of a calendar year for each year of approved clinical training (or a proportionate
ratio thereof) if the training is in a specialty determined to be necessary to meet health care requirements of the Veterans Health Administration; Department of Veterans Affairs; or
(2) At the rate of three-quarters of a calendar year for each year of approved graduate training (or a proportionate ratio thereof) if the training is in a medical specialty determined not to be necessary to meet the health care requirements of the Veterans Health Administration. Specialties necessary to meet the health care requirements of the Veterans Health Administration will be prescribed periodically by the Secretary when, and if, this provision for an additional period of obligated service is to be used.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7616(b)(4)(B))
(d)
Altering deferment.
Before altering the length or type of approved advanced clinical training for which the period of obligated service was deferred under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, the participant must request and obtain the Secretary's written approval of the alteration.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7633)
(e)
Beginning of service after deferment.
Any participant whose period of obligated service has been deferred under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section must begin the obligated service effective on the date of appointment under title 38 in full-time clinical practice in an assignment or location in a Department of Veterans Affairs health care facility as determined by the Secretary. The assignment will be made by the Secretary within 120 days prior to or no later than 30 days following the completion of the requested graduate training for which the deferment was granted. Travel and relocation regulations will apply.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7616(b)(2))
[47 FR 10810, Mar. 12, 1982; 47 FR 13523, Mar. 31, 1982, as amended at 54 FR 28675, July 7, 1989; 61 FR 21969, May 13, 1996; 79 FR 54616, Sept. 12, 2014]
§ 17.609
Pay during period of obligated service.
The initial appointment of physicians for obligated service will be made in a grade commensurate with qualifications as determined in 38 U.S.C. 7404(b) A physician serving a period of obligated service is not eligible for incentive special pay during the first three years of such obligated service. A physician may be paid primary special pay at the discretion of the Secretary upon the recommendation of the Under Secretary for Health.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7431-7433)
[47 FR 10810, Mar. 12, 1982, as amended at 54 FR 28676, July 7, 1989; 61 FR 21969, May 13, 1996; 79 FR 54616, Sept. 12, 2014]
§ 17.610
Failure to comply with terms and conditions of participation.
(a) If a participant, other than one described in paragraph (b) of this section fails to accept payment or instructs the school not to accept payment of the scholarship provided by the Secretary, the participant must, in addition to any service or other obligation incurred under the contract, pay to the United States the amount of $1,500 liquidated damages. Payment of this amount must be made within 90 days of the date on which the participant fails to accept payment of the scholarship award or instructs the school not to accept payment.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7617(a))
(b) If a participant:
(1) Fails to maintain an acceptable level of academic standing;
(2) Is dismissed from the school for disciplinary reasons;
(3) Voluntarily terminates the course of study or program for which the scholarship was awarded including in the case of a full-time student, a reduction of course load from full-time to part-time before completing the course of study or program;
(4) Who is enrolled in a program or education or training leading to employment as a physician, fails to successfully complete post-graduate training leading to eligibility for board certification in a specialty.
(5) Fails to become licensed to practice in the discipline for which the degree program prepared the participant, if applicable, in a State within 1 year
from the date such person becomes eligible to apply for State licensure; or
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7617(b)(4))
(6) Is a part-time student and fails to maintain employment in a permanent assignment in a VA health care facility while enrolled in the course of training being pursued; the participant must instead of performing any service obligation, pay to the United States an amount equal to all scholarship funds awarded under the written contract executed in accordance with § 17.602. Payment of this amount must be made within 1 year from the date academic training terminates unless a longer period is necessary to avoid hardship. No interest will be charged on any part of this indebtedness.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7617(b))
(c) Participants who breach their contracts by failing to begin or complete their service obligation (for any reason) other than as provided for under paragraph (b) of this section are liable to repay the amount of all scholarship funds paid to them and to the school on their behalf, plus interest, multiplied by three, minus months of service obligation satisfied, as determined by the following formula:
ER25SE06.021
in which:
‘A’ is the amount the United States is entitled to recover;
‘φ’ is the sum of the amounts paid to or on behalf of the applicant and the interest on such amounts which would be payable if, at the time the amounts were paid, they were loans bearing interest at the maximum legal prevailing rate, as determined by the Treasurer of the United States;
‘t’ is the total number of months in the applicant's period of obligated service; and
‘s’ is the number of months of the period of obligated service served by the participant.
The amount which the United States is entitled to recover shall be paid within 1 year of the date on which the applicant failed to begin or complete the period of obligated service, as determined by the Secretary.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7617(c)(1)(2))
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2900-0352)
[47 FR 10810, Mar. 12, 1982; 47 FR 13523, Mar. 31, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 37400, Aug. 18, 1983; 54 FR 28676, July 7, 1989; 54 FR 46611, Nov. 6, 1989; 61 FR 24237, May 14, 1996; 85 FR 13053, Mar. 6, 2020]
§ 17.611
Bankruptcy.
Any payment obligation incurred may not be discharged in bankruptcy under title 11 U.S.C. until 5 years after the date on which the payment obligation is due. This section applies to participants in the HPSP and the VIOMPSP.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7505(d), 7634(c))
[78 FR 51071, Aug. 20, 2013]
§ 17.612
Cancellation, waiver, or suspension of obligation.
(a)
General.
(1) This section applies to participants in the HPSP or the VIOMPSP.
(2) Any obligation of a participant for service or payment will be cancelled upon the death of the participant.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7634(a))
(b)
Waivers or suspensions.
(1) A participant may seek a waiver or suspension of the obligated service or payment obligation incurred under this program by submitting a written request to VA setting forth the basis, circumstances, and causes which support the requested action. Requests for waivers or suspensions must be submitted to VA no later than 1 year after the date VA notifies the participant that he or she is in breach of his or her acceptance agreement. A participant seeking a waiver or suspension must comply with requests for additional information from VA no later than 30 days after the date of any such request.
(i)
Waivers.
A waiver is a permanent release by VA of the obligation either to repay any scholarship funds that have already been paid to or on behalf of the participant, or to fulfill any other acceptance agreement requirement. If a waiver is granted, then the waived amount of scholarship funds may be considered taxable income.
(ii)
Suspensions.
VA may approve an initial request for a suspension for a period of up to 1 year. A suspension may be extended for one additional year, after which time the participant will be in breach of his or her acceptance agreement. If a suspension is approved:
(A) VA will temporarily discontinue providing any scholarship funds to or on behalf of the participant while the participant's scholarship is in a suspended status; or
(B) VA will temporarily delay the enforcement of acceptance agreement requirements.
(2) The Secretary may waive or suspend any service or payment obligation incurred by a participant whenever compliance by the participant (i) is impossible, due to circumstances beyond the control of the participant or (ii) whenever the Secretary concludes that a waiver or suspension of compliance would be in the best interest of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7634(b))
(c) Compliance by a participant with a service or payment obligation will be considered impossible due to circumstances beyond the control of the participant if the Secretary determines, on the basis of such information and documentation as may be required, that the participant suffers from a physical or mental disability resulting in permanent inability to perform the service or other activities which would be necessary to comply with the obligation.
(d) Waivers or suspensions of service or payment obligations, when not related to paragraph (c) of this section, and when considered in the best interest of the Department of Veterans Affairs, will be determined by the Secretary on an individual basis.
(e)
Eligibility to reapply for award.
Any previous participant of any federally sponsored scholarship program who breached his or her acceptance agreement or similar agreement in such scholarship program is not eligible to apply for a HPSP or VIOMPSP. This includes participants who previously applied for, and received, a waiver under this section.
(f)
Finality of decisions.
Decisions to approve or disapprove waiver requests are final and binding determinations. Such determinations are not subject to reconsideration or appeal.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7505(c), 7634(a), 7634(b))
[47 FR 10810, Mar. 12, 1982, as amended at 78 FR 51071, Aug. 20, 2013]

# Veterans Healing Veterans Medical Access and Scholarship Program

# Source:
Sections 17.613 through 17.618 appear at 84 FR 61551, Nov. 13, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.613
Purpose.
The purpose of §§ 17.613 through 17.618 is to establish the requirement for the Veterans Healing Veterans Medical Access and Scholarship Program (VHVMASP). The VHVMASP will provide funding for the medical education of two eligible veterans from each covered medical school.
§ 17.614
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to §§ 17.613 through 17.618.
Acceptable level of academic standing
means:
(1) Maintaining a cumulative grade point average at or above passing, as determined by the medical school;
(2) Completing all required courses with a passing grade;
(3) Successfully completing the required course of study for graduation within four academic years;
(4) Successfully passing the required United States Medical Licensing Examinations steps 1 and 2, within the timeframe for graduation from medical school; and
(5) Having no final determinations of unprofessional conduct or behavior.
Covered medical school
means any of the following:
(1) Texas A
M College of Medicine.
(2) Quillen College of Medicine at East Tennessee State University.
(3) Boonshoft School of Medicine at Wright State University.
(4) Joan C. Edwards School of Medicine at Marshall University.
(5) University of South Carolina School of Medicine.
(6) Charles R. Drew University of Medicine and Science.
(7) Howard University College of Medicine.
(8) Meharry Medical College.
(9) Morehouse School of Medicine.
VA
means the Department of Veterans Affairs.
VHVMASP
means the Veterans Healing Veterans Medical Access and Scholarship Program authorized by section 304 of the VA MISSION Act of 2018, Public Law 115-182.
§ 17.615
Eligibility.
A veteran is considered eligible to receive funding for the VHVMASP if such veteran meets the following criteria.
(a) Has been discharged or released, under conditions other than dishonorable, from the Armed Forces for not more than 10 years before the date of application for admission to a covered medical school;
(b) Is not concurrently receiving educational assistance under chapter 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, or 35 of title 38 United States Code or chapter 1606 or 1607 of title 10 United States Code at the time the veteran would be receiving VHVMASP funding;
(c) Applies for admission to a covered medical school for the entering class of 2020;
(d) Indicates on the application to the covered medical school that they would like to be considered for the VHVMASP;
(e) Meets the minimum admissions criteria for the covered medical school to which the eligible veteran applies; and
(f) Agrees to the terms stated in § 17.617.
§ 17.616
Award procedures.
(a)
Distribution of funds.
(1) Each covered medical school that opts to participate in the VHVMASP will reserve two seats in the entering class of 2020 for eligible veterans who receive funds for the VHVMASP. Funding will be awarded to two eligible veterans with the highest admissions ranking among veteran applicants for such entering class for each covered medical school.
(2) If two or more eligible veterans do not apply for admission at a covered medical school for the entering class of 2020, VA will distribute the available funding to eligible veterans who applied, and are accepted, for admission at other covered medical schools.
(b)
Amount of funds.
An eligible veteran will receive funding from the VHVMASP equal to the actual cost of the following:
(1) Tuition at the covered medical school for which the veteran enrolls for a period of not more than 4 years;
(2) Books, fees, and technical equipment;
(3) Fees associated with the National Residency Match Program;
(4) Two away rotations, performed during the fourth year of school, at a VA medical facility; and
(5) A monthly stipend for the four-year period during which the eligible veteran is enrolled in a covered medical school in an amount to be determined by VA.
§ 17.617
Agreement and obligated service.
(a)
Agreement.
Each eligible veteran who accepts funds from the VHVMASP will enter into an agreement with VA where the eligible veteran agrees to the following:
(1) Maintain enrollment, attendance, and acceptable level of academic standing as defined by the covered medical school;
(2) Complete post-graduate training leading to eligibility for board certification in a physician specialty applicable to VA;
(3) After completion of medical school and post-graduate training, obtain and maintain a license to practice medicine in a State. Eligible veterans must ensure that State licenses are obtained in a minimal amount of time following completion of residency, or fellowship, if the veteran is enrolled in a fellowship program approved by VA. If a participant fails to obtain his or her degree, or fails to become licensed in a State no later than 90 days after completion of residency, or fellowship, if applicable, the participant is considered to be in breach of the acceptance agreement; and
(4) Serve as a full-time clinical practice employee in VA for a period of four years.
(b)
Obligated service
—(1)
General.
An eligible veteran's obligated service will begin on the date on which the eligible
veteran begins full-time permanent employment with VA as a clinical practice employee. VA will appoint the participant to such position as soon as possible, but no later than 90 days after the date that the participant completes residency, or fellowship, if applicable, or the date the participant becomes licensed in a State, whichever is later.
(2)
Location and position of obligated service.
VA reserves the right to make final decisions on the location and position of the obligated service.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0793.)
§ 17.618
Failure to comply with terms and conditions of agreement.
(a)
Participant fails to satisfy terms of agreement.
If an eligible veteran who accepts funding for the VHVMASP breaches the terms of the agreement stated in § 17.617, the United States is entitled to recover damages in an amount equal to the total amount of VHVMASP funding received by the eligible veteran.
(b)
Repayment period.
The eligible veteran will pay the amount of damages that the United States is entitled to recover under this section in full to the United States no later than 1 year after the date of the breach of the agreement.
(c)
Waivers.
The Under Secretary for Health, or designee, may waive or suspend any service or financial liability incurred by a participant whenever compliance by the participant is impossible, due to circumstances beyond the control of the participant, or whenever the Under Secretary for Health, or designee, concludes that a waiver or suspension of compliance is in the VA's best interest.

# Visual Impairment and Orientation and Mobility Professional Scholarship Program

# Source:
Sections 17.625 through 17.636 appear at 78 FR 51071, Aug. 20, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.625
Purpose.
The purpose of §§ 17.625 through 17.636 is to establish the requirements for the award of scholarships under the Visual Impairment and Orientation and Mobility Professional Scholarship Program (VIOMPSP) to students pursuing a program of study leading to a degree in visual impairment or orientation and mobility. The scholarship is designed to increase the supply of qualified Blind Rehabilitation Specialists and Blind Rehabilitation Outpatient Specialists available to VA. The scholarship will be publicized throughout educational institutions in the United States, with an emphasis on disseminating information to such institutions with high numbers of Hispanic students and to historically black colleges and universities.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7501)
§ 17.626
Definitions.
For the definitions that apply to §§ 17.625 through 17.636, see § 17.601.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
§ 17.627
Eligibility for the VIOMPSP.
(a)
General.
To be eligible for the VIOMPSP, an applicant must meet the following requirements:
(1) Be unconditionally accepted for enrollment or currently enrolled in a program of study leading to a degree in orientation and mobility, low vision therapy, or vision rehabilitation therapy, or a dual degree (a program in which an individual becomes certified in two of the three professional certifications offered by the Academy for Certification of Visual Rehabilitation and Education Professionals) at an accredited educational institution that is in a State;
(2) Be a citizen of the United States; and
(3) Submit an application to participate in the VIOMPSP, as described in § 17.629.
(b)
Obligated service to another entity.
Any applicant who, at the time of application, owes a service obligation to any other entity to perform service after completion of the course of study is ineligible to receive a VIOMPSP scholarship.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7501(a), 7502(a), 7504(3))
§ 17.628
Availability of VIOMPSP scholarships.
VA will make awards under the VIOMPSP only when VA determines it is necessary to assist in alleviating shortages or anticipated shortages of personnel in visual impairment or orientation and mobility programs. VA's determination of the number of VIOMPSP scholarships to be awarded in a fiscal year, and the number that will be awarded to full-time and/or part-time students, is subject to the availability of appropriations.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7501(a), 7503(c)(2))
§ 17.629
Application for the VIOMPSP.
(a)
Application-general.
Each individual desiring a VIOMPSP scholarship must submit an accurate and complete application, including a signed written acceptance agreement.
(b)
VA's duties.
VA will notify applicants prior to acceptance in the VIOMPSP of the following information:
(1) A fair summary of the rights and liabilities of an individual whose application is approved by VA and whose acceptance agreement is consummated by VA; and
(2) Full description of the terms and conditions that apply to participation in the VIOMPSP and service in VA.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(a), 7502(a)(2))
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0793)
§ 17.630
Selection of VIOMPSP participants.
(a)
General.
In deciding which VIOMPSP applications to approve, VA will first consider applications submitted by applicants entering their final year of education or training. Applicants will be evaluated and selected using the criteria specified in paragraph (b) of this section. If there are a larger number of equally qualified applicants than there are awards to be made, then VA will first select veterans, and then use a random method as the basis for further selection.
(b)
Selection criteria.
In evaluating and selecting participants, VA will take into consideration those factors determined necessary to assure effective participation in the VIOMPSP. These factors will include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Academic performance;
(2) Work/volunteer experience, including prior rehabilitation or health care employment and VA employment;
(3) Faculty and employer recommendations; or
(4) Career goals.
(c)
Notification of approval.
VA will notify the individual in writing that his or her application has been accepted and approved. An individual becomes a participant in the program upon receipt of such approval by VA.
(d)
Duration of VIOMPSP award.
VA will award a VIOMPSP scholarship for a period of time equal to the number of years required to complete a program of study leading to a degree in orientation and mobility, low vision therapy, or vision rehabilitation therapy, or a dual degree. The number of years covered by an individual scholarship award will be based on the number of school years that the participant has yet to complete his or her degree at the time the VIOMPSP scholarship is awarded. Subject to the availability of funds, VA will award the VIOMPSP as follows:
(1)
Full-time scholarship.
A full-time scholarship is awarded for a minimum of 1 school year to a maximum of 4 school years;
(2)
Part-time scholarships.
A part-time scholarship is awarded for a minimum of 1 school year to a maximum of 6 school years.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7504(3))
§ 17.631
Award procedures.
(a)
Amount of scholarship.
(1) A VIOMPSP scholarship award will not exceed the total tuition and required fees for the program of study in which the applicant is enrolled. All such payments to scholarship participants are exempt from Federal taxation.
(2) The total amount of assistance provided under the VIOMPSP for an academic year to an individual who is a full-time student may not exceed $15,000.00.
(3) The total amount of assistance provided under the VIOMPSP for an academic year to a participant who is a
part-time student shall bear the same ratio to the amount that would be paid under paragraph (a)(2) of this section if the participant were a full-time student as the coursework carried by the participant to full-time coursework.
(4) The total amount of assistance provided to an individual may not exceed $45,000.00.
(5) In the case of an individual enrolled in a program of study leading to a dual degree described in § 17.627(a)(1), such tuition and fees will not exceed the amounts necessary for the minimum number of credit hours to achieve such dual degree.
(6) Financial assistance may be provided to an individual under the VIOMPSP to supplement other educational assistance to the extent that the total amount of educational assistance received by the individual during an academic year does not exceed the total tuition and fees for such academic year.
(7) VA will make arrangements with the school in which the participant is enrolled to issue direct payment for the amount of tuition or fees on behalf of the participant.
(b)
Repeated course work.
Additional costs relating to the repeated course work will not be paid under this program. VA will resume any scholarship payments suspended under this section upon notification by the school that the participant has returned from the leave-of-absence or has satisfactorily completed the repeated course work and is pursuing the course of study for which the VIOMPSP was awarded.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7503, 7504(3))
§ 17.632
Obligated service.
(a)
General provision.
Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, each participant is obligated to provide service as a full-time clinical VA employee in the rehabilitation practice of the participant's discipline in an assignment or location determined by VA.
(b)
Beginning of service.
A participant's obligated service will begin on the date on which the participant obtains any required applicable credentials and when appointed as a full-time clinical VA employee in a position for which the degree prepared the participant. VA will appoint the participant to such position as soon as possible, but no later than 90 days after the date that the participant receives his or her degree, or the date the participant obtains any required applicable credentials, whichever is later. If a participant fails to obtain his or her degree, or fails to obtain any required applicable credentials within 180 days after receiving the degree, the participant is considered to be in breach of the acceptance agreement.
(c)
Duration of service.
The participant will agree to serve as a full-time clinical VA employee for 3 calendar years which must be completed no later than 6 years after the participant has completed the program for which the scholarship was awarded and received a degree referenced in § 17.627(a)(1).
(d)
Location and assignment of obligated service.
VA reserves the right to make final decisions on the location and assignment of the obligated service. A participant who receives a scholarship must agree as part of the participant's mobility agreement that he or she is willing to accept the location and assignment where VA assigns the obligated service. Geographic relocation may be required.
(e)
Creditability of advanced clinical training.
No period of advanced clinical training will be credited towards satisfying the period of obligated service incurred under the VIOMPSP.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7504(2)(D), 7504(3))
§ 17.633
Deferment of obligated service.
Deferment of obligated service under the VIOMPSP is treated in the same manner as deferment of obligated service under the HPSP under § 17.608.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7504(3))
§ 17.634
Failure to comply with terms and conditions of participation.
(a)
Participant refuses to accept payment of the VIOMPSP.
If a participant, other than one described in paragraph (b) of this section, refuses to accept payment or instructs the school not to accept payment of the VIOMPSP scholarship provided by VA, the participant
must, in addition to any obligation incurred under the agreement, pay to the United States the amount of $1,500 in liquidated damages. Payment of this amount must be made no later than 90 days from the date that the participant fails to accept payment of the VIOMPSP or instructs the school not to accept payment.
(b)
Participant fails to complete course of study or does not obtain certification.
A participant described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section must, instead of otherwise fulfilling the terms of his or her acceptance agreement, pay to the United States an amount equal to all VIOMPSP funds awarded under the acceptance agreement. Payment of this amount must be made no later than 1 year after the date that the participant meets any of the criteria described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, unless VA determines that a longer period is necessary to avoid hardship. No interest will be charged on any part of this indebtedness. A participant will pay such amount if one of the following criteria is met:
(1) The participant fails to maintain an acceptable level of academic standing;
(2) The participant is dismissed from the school for disciplinary reasons;
(3) The participant, for any reason, voluntarily terminates the course of study or program for which the scholarship was awarded including a reduction of course load from full-time to part-time before completing the course of study or program; or
(4) The participant fails to become certified in the discipline for which the degree prepared the participant, if applicable, no later than 180 days after the date such person becomes eligible to apply for certification.
(c)
Participant fails to perform all or any part of their service obligation.
(1) Participants who breach their agreements by failing to begin or complete their service obligation, for any reason, including the loss, revocation, suspension, restriction, or limitation of required certification, and other than provided for under paragraph (b) of this section, must repay the portion of all VIOMPSP funds paid to or on behalf of the participant, adjusted for the service that they provided. To calculate the unearned portion of VIOMPSP funds, subtract the number of months of obligated service rendered from the total months of obligated service owed, divide the remaining months by the total obligated service, then multiply by the total amount of VIOMPSP funds paid to or on behalf of the participant. The following formula may be used in determining the unearned portion:
A = P((t-s)/t) in which
“A” is the amount the United States is entitled to recover;
“P” is the amounts paid under the VIOMPSP, to or on behalf of the participant;
“t” is the total number of months in the participant's period of obligated service; and
“s” is the number of months of obligated service rendered.
(2) The amount that the United States is entitled to recover will be paid no later than 1 year after the date the applicant failed to begin or complete the period of obligated service, as determined by VA.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7505(a), 7505(b))
§ 17.635
Bankruptcy.
Bankruptcy under the VIOMPSP is treated in the same manner as bankruptcy for the HPSP under § 17.611.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7505(c), 7505(d))
§ 17.636
Cancellation, waiver, or suspension of obligation.
Cancellation, waiver, or suspension procedures under the VIOMPSP are the same as those procedures for the HPSP under § 17.612.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 7505(c))

# Program for Repayment of Educational Loans for Certain VA Psychiatrists

# Source:
81 FR 66820, Sept. 29, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.640
Purpose.
The purpose of §§ 17.640 through 17.647 is to establish the requirements for the program for the repayment of educational loans (PREL) obtained by physician residents pursuing a certification in psychiatry.
§ 17.641
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to §§ 17.640 through 17.647.
Acceptance of conditions
means a signed document between VA and a participant of the PREL, in which the participant must agree to a period of obligated service, to maintain an acceptable level of performance determined by supervisory review in the position to which VA appoints the participant, to terms and amount of payment, and to relocate, if required, to a location determined by VA at the participant's expense in exchange for educational loan repayments under the PREL. VA will provide a list of available locations for the period of obligated service in the acceptance of conditions. The applicant will choose the preferred location, in ranking order, for the completion of his or her obligated service from the locations on this list. However, VA will ultimately make the final determination as to where the applicant will perform his or her period of obligated service. A participant of the PREL must agree that he or she is willing to accept the location and position to which VA appoints the participant.
Educational loan
means a loan, government or commercial, made for educational purposes by institutions that are subject to examination and supervision in their capacity as lending institutions by an agency of the United States or of the state in which the lender has its principal place of business. Loans must be for the actual costs paid for tuition, and other reasonable educational expenses such as living expenses, fees, books, supplies, educational equipment and materials, and laboratory expenses. Loans must be obtained from a government entity, a private financial institution, a school, or any other authorized entity stated in this definition. The following loans do not qualify for the PREL:
(1) Loans obtained from family members, relatives, or friends;
(2) Loans made prior to, or after, the individual's qualifying education;
(3) Any portion of a consolidated loan that is not specifically identified with the education and purposes for which the PREL may be authorized, such as home or auto loans merged with educational loans;
(4) Loans for which an individual incurred a service obligation for repayment or agreed to service for future cancellation;
(5) Credit card debt;
(6) Parent Plus Loans;
(7) Loans that have been paid in full;
(8) Loans that are in default, delinquent, not in a current payment status, or have been assumed by a collection agency;
(9) Loans not obtained from a bank, credit union, savings and loan association, not-for-profit organization, insurance company, school, and other financial or credit institution which is subject to examination and supervision in its capacity as a lending institution by an agency of the United States or of the state in which the lender has its principal place of business;
(10) Loans for which supporting documentation is not available;
(11) Loans that have been consolidated with loans of other individuals, such as spouses, children, friends, or other family member; or
(12) Home equity loans or other non-educational loans.
PREL
means the program for the repayment of educational loans for certain VA psychiatrists established in §§ 17.640 through 17.647.
§ 17.642
Eligibility.
(a)
General.
To be eligible for the PREL, an applicant must meet all of the following requirements:
(1) Be a U.S. citizen or permanent resident.
(2) Be enrolled in the final year of a post-graduate physician residency program leading to either a specialty qualification in psychiatric medicine or a subspecialty qualification of psychiatry (the program must be accredited by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education or the American Osteopathic Association, and, by the time of VA employment, must:
(i) Have completed all psychiatry residency training;
(ii) Have received a completion certificate from the Program Director confirming successful completion of the residency program; and
(iii) Certify intention to apply for board certification in the specialty of psychiatry (through the American Board of Medical Specialties or the American Osteopathic Association) within two years after completion of residency.
(3) Be licensed or eligible for licensure to practice medicine by meeting the following requirements by the time of VA employment:
(i) Have at least one full, active, current, and unrestricted license that authorizes the licensee to practice in any State, Territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
(ii) Document graduation from a school of medicine accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education or the American Osteopathic Association; or, if an international medical graduate, verify that requirements for certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates have been met.
(b) Simultaneous participation in another repayment program. Any applicant who, at the time of application, is participating in any other program of the Federal Government that repays the educational loans of the applicant is not eligible to participate in the PREL.
§ 17.643
Application for the PREL.
(a)
General.
A complete application for the PREL consists of a completed application form, letters of reference, and personal statement.
(b)
References.
The applicant must provide the following letters of reference and sign a release of information form for VA to contact such references. The letters of reference should include the following:
(1) One letter of reference from the Program Director of the core psychiatry program in which the applicant trained or is training, or the Program Director of any psychiatry subspecialty program in which the applicant is training, which indicates that the applicant is in good to excellent standing;
(2) One or more letters of reference from faculty members under which the applicant trained;
(3) One letter of reference from a peer colleague who is familiar with the psychiatry practice and character of the applicant.
(c)
Personal statement.
The personal statement must include the following documentation:
(1) A cover letter that provides the following information:
(i) Why the applicant is interested in VA employment;
(ii) The applicant's interest in working at a particular VA medical facility;
(iii) Likely career goals, including career goals in VA; and
(iv) A brief summary of past employment or training and accomplishments, including any particular clinical areas of interest (
e.g.
, substance abuse).
(2) The following information must be provided on a VA form or online collection system and is subject to VA verification:
(i) Attestation that the applicant is not participating in any other loan repayment program.
(ii) A summary of the applicant's educational debt, which includes the total debt amount and when the debt was acquired. The health professional debt covered the loan must be specific to education that was required, used, and qualified the applicant for appointment as a psychiatrist.
(iii) The name of the lending agency that provided the educational loan.
(3) A full curriculum vitae.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirement in this section under control number 2900-0879)
[81 FR 66820, Sept. 29, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 4795, Jan. 17, 2017; 88 FR 13034, Mar. 2, 2023]
§ 17.644
Selection of participants.
(a)
Selection criteria.
In evaluating and selecting participants, VA will consider the following factors:
(1) The applicant meets all of the eligibility criteria in § 17.642 and has submitted a complete application under § 17.643;
(2) The strength of the applicant's letters of reference;
(3) The applicant is in good to excellent standing in the residency program, as determined from the Program Director letter of reference;
(4) The applicant demonstrates a strong commitment to VA's mission and core values;
(5) The applicant has personal career goals that match VA needs (
i.e.
, to work with patients suffering from traumatic brain injury, substance abuse, or post-traumatic stress disorder);
(6) The applicant's expresses a desire to work at a location that matches with VA needs; and
(7) The applicant does not have any identifiable circumstances relating to education, training, licensure, certification and review of health status, previous experience, clinical privileges, professional references, malpractice history and adverse actions, or criminal violations that would adversely affect the applicant's credentialing process.
(b)
Selection.
VA will select not less than 10 individuals who meet the requirements of this section to participate in the program for the repayment of educational loans for each year in which VA carries out the program.
(c)
Notification of selection.
VA will notify applicants that they have been selected in writing. An individual becomes a participant in the PREL once the participant submits and VA signs the acceptance of conditions.
[81 FR 66820, Sept. 29, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 4796, Jan. 17, 2017]
§ 17.645
Award procedures.
(a)
Repayment amount.
(1) VA may pay not more than $30,000 in educational loan repayment for each year of obligated service.
(2) An educational loan repayment may not exceed the actual amount of principal and interest on an educational loan or loans.
(b)
Payment.
VA will pay the participant, or the lending institution on behalf of the participant, directly for the principal and interest on the participant's educational loans. Payments will be made monthly or annually for each applicable service period, depending on the terms of the acceptance of conditions. Participants must provide VA documentation that shows the amounts that were credited or posted by the lending institution to a participant's educational loan during an obligated service period. VA will issue payments after the participant commences the period of obligated service. Payments are exempt from Federal taxation.
§ 17.646
Obligated service.
(a)
General provision.
A participant's obligated service will begin on the date on which the participant begins full-time, permanent employment with VA in the field of psychiatric medicine in a location determined by VA. Obligated service must be full-time, permanent employment and does not include any period of temporary or contractual employment.
(b)
Duration of service.
The participant will agree in the acceptance of conditions to serve for an obligated service period of 2 or more calendar years.
(c)
Location and position of obligated service.
VA reserves the right to make final decisions on the location and position of the obligated service.
§ 17.647
Failure to comply with terms and conditions of participation.
(a)
Participant fails to satisfy obligated service.
A participant of the PREL who fails to satisfy the period of obligated service will be liable to the United States, in lieu of such obligated service, for the full amount of benefit they expected to receive in the agreement, pro-rated for completed service days.
(b)
Repayment period.
The participant will pay the amount of damages that the United States is entitled to recover under this section in full to the United States no later than 1 year after the date of the breach of the agreement.

# Chaplain Services
§ 17.655
Ecclesiastical endorsing organizations.
(a)
Purpose.
This section establishes the eligibility requirements that an ecclesiastical endorsing organization must meet in order to provide ecclesiastical endorsements of individuals who are seeking employment as VA chaplains or seeking to be engaged by VA under contract or appointed as on-facility fee basis VA chaplains under 38 U.S.C. 7405. Acceptance of an ecclesiastical endorsement by VA does not
imply any approval by VA of the theology or practices of an ecclesiastical endorsing organization, nor does it obligate VA to employ the endorsed individual or any other member of the organization.
(b)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this section:
(1)
Ecclesiastical endorsement
means a written statement addressed to VA and signed by the designated endorsing official of an ecclesiastical endorsing organization certifying that an individual is in good standing with the faith group or denomination and, in the opinion of the endorsing official, is qualified to perform the full range of ministry, including all sacraments, rites, ordinances, rituals, and liturgies required by members of the faith group. Ecclesiastical endorsement is a condition of employment as a VA chaplain. An individual must obtain and maintain a full and active ecclesiastical endorsement to be employed as a VA chaplain.
(2)
Ecclesiastical endorsing official
means an individual who is authorized to provide or withdraw ecclesiastical endorsements on behalf of an ecclesiastical endorsing organization.
(3)
Ecclesiastical endorsing organization
means an organization that meets the eligibility requirements of paragraph (c) of this section and has been properly designated as an endorsing organization in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(c)
Eligibility to serve as an ecclesiastical endorsing organization.
An ecclesiastical endorsing organization must meet the following requirements before such organization can endorse an applicant for VA chaplaincy:
(1) Be organized and function exclusively or substantially to provide religious ministries to a lay constituency and possess authority to both grant and withdraw initial and subsequent ecclesiastical endorsements;
(2) Have tax-exempt status as a religious organization or church under the Internal Revenue Code, section 501(c)(3);
(3) Agree to abide by all Federal and VA laws, regulations, policies, and issuances on the qualification and endorsement of persons for service as VA chaplains;
(4) Agree to notify VA in writing of any withdrawal of an existing ecclesiastical endorsement within ten days after the date of such withdrawal;
(5) Provide VA the documents stated in paragraph (d) of this section;
(6) Notify VA in writing within 30 days of any change of the name, address or contact information of the individual that it designates as its ecclesiastical endorsing official; and
(7) An ecclesiastical endorsing organization that is part of an endorsing organization by which its members can be endorsed cannot become a separate endorsing organization without the written permission of the larger endorsing organization.
(d)
Request to designate ecclesiastical endorser.
In order for an ecclesiastical endorsing organization to be recognized by VA such organization must submit the following:
(1) A complete VA form that requests the designation of an ecclesiastical endorsing official;
(2) A copy of an Internal Revenue Service document verifying that the organization currently holds a section 501(c)(3) exempt status as a church for Federal tax purposes from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) (note “church” is used by the IRS not to denote a belief system, but to distinguish “churches” from other types of religious organizations; see IRS Instructions for Form 1023 Schedule A). Such rules stipulate that the particular religious beliefs of the organization are truly and sincerely held and that the practices and rituals associated with the organization's religious belief or creed are not illegal or contrary to clearly defined public policy. In order to determine whether a particular religious organization has properly acquired, and currently maintains, an IRS tax exempt status and does not engage in practices that are illegal or contrary to defined public policy, VA shall take appropriate steps to verify compliance with these requirements;
(3) A document verifying that the organization shall provide chaplains who shall function in a pluralistic environment, and who shall support directly
and indirectly the free exercise of religion by all veterans, their family members, and other persons authorized to be served by VA;
(4) That it agrees to abide by all VA Directives, Instructions, and other guidance, regulations and policies on the qualification and endorsement of ministers for service as VA chaplains;
(5) Documentation that states the structure of the organization, including copies of the articles of incorporation, by-laws and constitution, membership requirements of the organization, if any, the religious beliefs and practices of the organization, and the organization's requirements to become clergy; and
(6) The name and address of the individual who is applying to become a VA chaplain.
(e)
Approval of request to designate an ecclesiastical endorsing official.
If an ecclesiastical endorsing organization meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section and has submitted the documents stated in paragraph (d) of this section, VA will notify the organization in writing that such organization has been designated as an ecclesiastical endorsing organization. The designation will be for a period of 3 years from the date of notification. Once an organization is designated as an ecclesiastical endorsing organization, VA will accept ecclesiastical endorsements from that organization without requiring any further documentation from the organization during the 3 year period, unless VA receives evidence that an organization no longer meets the requirements of this section. VA will only take action on an initial request to designate an ecclesiastical endorsing official when VA receives an application from an individual who is seeking employment as a VA chaplain or is seeking to be engaged under VA contract or appointed as on-facility fee basis VA chaplains under 38 U.S.C. 7405.
(f)
Reporting requirement.
(1) To certify that VA chaplains continue to be endorsed by an ecclesiastical endorsing organization, such organization must provide VA an alphabetical listing of individuals who are endorsed by that endorsing organization and are employed as VA chaplains or are engaged by VA under contract or appointed as on-facility fee basis VA chaplains under 38 U.S.C. 7405 by January 1 of every calendar year.
(2) In order for VA to continue to recognize an ecclesiastical endorsing organization, such organization must provide written documentation that it continues to meet the requirements of this section every 3 years.
(g)
Rescission of ecclesiastical endorsing organization.
VA may rescind an organization's status as an ecclesiastical endorsing organization and refuse to accept ecclesiastical endorsements from such organization if it no longer meets the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. VA will take the following steps before it rescinds the organization's status:
(1) VA will give the ecclesiastical endorsing organization written notice stating the reasons for the rescission and give the organization 60 days to provide a written reply addressing VA's concerns.
(2) VA will notify the ecclesiastical endorsing organization and all VA chaplains endorsed by the organization in writing of its decision after VA reviews the evidence provided by the organization or after the 60 day time period has expired, whichever comes first.
(3) Ecclesiastical endorsing organizations that are notified that they may no longer endorse individuals for VA chaplaincy because they do not meet the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section must resubmit all of the evidence stated in paragraph (d) of this section in order to be reconsidered as an endorsing organization.
(4) If an ecclesiastical endorsing organization is no longer able to endorse individuals for VA chaplaincy in accordance with this section, all ecclesiastical endorsements issued by that organization are considered to be withdrawn.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0852)
[82 FR 51772, Nov. 8, 2017]

# Grants for Transportation of Veterans in Highly Rural Areas

# Authority:
Sec. 307, Pub. L. 111-163; 38 U.S.C. 501 and as noted in specific sections.

# Source:
78 FR 19593, Apr. 2, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.700
Purpose and scope.
This section establishes the Grants for Transportation of Veterans in Highly Rural Areas program. Under this program, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) provides grants to eligible entities to assist veterans in highly rural areas through innovative transportation services to travel to VA medical centers, and to otherwise assist in providing transportation services in connection with the provision of VA medical care to these veterans.
(Authority: Sec. 307, Pub. L. 111-163; 38 U.S.C. 501)
§ 17.701
Definitions.
For the purposes of §§ 17.700-17.730 and any Notice of Fund Availability issued pursuant to such sections:
Applicant
means an eligible entity that submits an application for a grant announced in a Notice of Fund Availability.
Eligible entity
means:
(1) A Veterans Service Organization, or
(2) A State veterans service agency.
Grantee
means an applicant that is awarded a grant under this section.
Highly rural area
means an area consisting of a county or counties having a population of less than seven persons per square mile.
Notice of Fund Availability
means a Notice of Fund Availability published in the
Federal Register
in accordance with § 17.710.
Participant
means a veteran in a highly rural area who is receiving transportation services from a grantee.
Provision of VA medical care
means the provision of hospital or medical services authorized under sections 1710, 1703, and 8153 of title 38, United States Code.
State veterans service agency
means the element of a State government that has responsibility for programs and activities of that government relating to veterans benefits.
Subrecipient
means an entity that receives grant funds from a grantee to perform work for the grantee in the administration of all or part of the grantee's program.
Transportation services
means the direct provision of transportation, or assistance with providing transportation, to travel to VA medical centers and other VA or non-VA facilities in connection with the provision of VA medical care.
Veteran
means a person who served in the active military, naval, or air service, and who was discharged or released therefrom under conditions other than dishonorable.
Veterans Service Organization
means an organization recognized by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the representation of veterans under section 5902 of title 38, United States Code.
(Authority: Sec. 307, Pub. L. 111-163; 38 U.S.C. 501)
§ 17.702
Grants—general.
(a)
One grant per highly rural area.
VA may award one grant per fiscal year to a grantee for each highly rural area in which the grantee provides transportation services. Transportation services may not be simultaneously provided by more than one grantee in any single highly rural area.
(b)
Maximum amount.
Grant amounts will be specified in the Notice of Funding Availability, but no grant will exceed $50,000.
(c)
No matching requirement.
A grantee will not be required to provide matching funds as a condition of receiving such grant.
(d)
Veterans will not be charged.
Transportation services provided to veterans through utilization of a grant will be free of charge.
(Authority: Sec. 307, Pub. L. 111-163; 38 U.S.C. 501)
§ 17.703
Eligibility and application.
(a)
Eligible entity.
The following may be awarded a grant:
(1) A Veterans Service Organization.
(2) A State veterans service agency.
(b)
Initial application.
To apply for an initial grant, an applicant must submit to VA a complete grant application
package, as described in the Notice of Fund Availability.
(c)
Renewal application.
Grantees may apply for one renewal grant per fiscal year, after receiving an initial grant, if the grantee's program will remain substantially the same. The grantee must submit to VA a complete renewal application as described in the Notice of Fund Availability.
(d)
Subrecipients.
Grantees may provide grant funds to other entities, if such entities are identified as subrecipients in grant applications to perform work for grantees in the administration of all or part of grantees' programs.
(Authority: Sec. 307, Pub. L. 111-163; 38 U.S.C. 501)
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirement in this section under control number 2900-0790)
§ 17.705
Scoring criteria and selection.
(a)
Initial grant scoring.
Applications will be scored using the following selection criteria:
(1) VA will award up to 40 points based on the program's plan for successful implementation, as demonstrated by the following:
(i) Program scope is defined, and applicant has specifically indicated the mode(s) or method(s) of transportation services to be provided by the applicant or identified subrecipient.
(ii) Program budget is defined, and applicant has indicated that grant funds will be sufficient to completely implement the program.
(iii) Program staffing plan is defined, and applicant has indicated that there will be adequate staffing for delivery of transportation services according to the program's scope.
(iv) Program timeframe for implementation is defined, and applicant has indicated that the delivery of transportation services will be timely.
(2) VA will award up to 30 points based on the program's evaluation plan, as demonstrated by the following:
(i) Measurable goals for determining the success of delivery of transportation services.
(ii) Ongoing assessment of paragraph (a)(2)(i), with a means of adjusting the program as required.
(3) VA will award up to 20 points based on the applicant's community relationships in the areas to receive transportation services, as demonstrated by the following:
(i) Applicant has existing relationships with state or local agencies or private entities, or will develop such relationships, and has shown these relationships will enhance the program's effectiveness.
(ii) Applicant has established past working relationships with state or local agencies or private entities which have provided transportation services similar to those offered by the program.
(4) VA will award up to 10 points based on the innovative aspects of the program, as demonstrated by the following:
(i) How program will identify and serve veterans who otherwise would be unable to obtain VA medical care through conventional transportation resources.
(ii) How program will use new or alternative transportation resources.
(b)
Initial grant selection.
VA will use the following process to award initial grants:
(1) VA will rank those applications that receive at least the minimum amount of total points and points per category set forth in the Notice of Fund Availability. The applications will be ranked in order from highest to lowest scores.
(2) VA will use the applications' ranking as the basis for awarding grants. VA will award grants for the highest ranked applications for which funding is available.
(c)
Renewal grant scoring.
Renewal applications will be scored using the following selection criteria:
(1) VA will award up to 55 points based on the success of the grantee's program, as demonstrated by the following:
(i) Application shows that the grantee or identified subrecipient provided transportation services which allowed participants to be provided medical care timely and as scheduled.
(ii) Application shows that participants were satisfied with the transportation services provided by the grantee
or identified subrecipient, as described in the Notice of Fund Availability.
(2) VA will award up to 35 points based on the cost effectiveness of the program, as demonstrated by the following:
(i) The grantee or identified subrecipient administered the program on budget.
(ii) Grant funds were utilized in a sensible manner, as interpreted by information provided by the grantee to VA under § 17.725(a)(1) through (a)(7).
(3) VA will award up to 15 points based on the extent to which the program complied with:
(i) The grant agreement.
(ii) Applicable laws and regulations.
(d)
Renewal grant selection.
VA will use the following process to award renewal grants:
(1) VA will rank those applications that receive at least the minimum amount of total points and points per category set forth in the Notice of Fund Availability. The applications will be ranked in order from highest to lowest scores.
(2) VA will use the applications' ranking as the basis for awarding grants. VA will award grants for the highest ranked applications for which funding is available.
(Authority: Sec. 307, Pub. L. 111-163; 38 U.S.C. 501)
§ 17.710
Notice of Fund Availability.
When funds are available for grants, VA will publish a Notice of Fund Availability in the
Federal Register.
The notice will identify:
(a) The location for obtaining grant applications;
(b) The date, time, and place for submitting completed grant applications;
(c) The estimated amount and type of grant funding available;
(d) The length of term for the grant award;
(e) The minimum number of total points and points per category that an applicant or grantee must receive in order for a supportive grant to be funded;
(f) The timeframes and manner for payments under the grant; and
(g) Those areas identified by VA to be the “highly rural areas” in which grantees may provide transportation services funded under this rule.
(Authority: Sec. 307, Pub. L. 111-163; 38 U.S.C. 501)
§ 17.715
Grant agreements.
(a)
General.
After a grantee is awarded a grant in accordance with § 17.705(b) or § 17.705(d), VA will draft a grant agreement to be executed by VA and the grantee. Upon execution of the grant agreement, VA will obligate the approved amount to the grantee. The grant agreement will provide that:
(1) The grantee must operate the program in accordance with the provisions of this section and the grant application.
(2) If a grantee's application identified a subrecipient, such subrecipient must operate the program in accordance with the provisions of this section and the grant application.
(3) If a grantee's application identified that funds will be used to procure or operate vehicles to directly provide transportation services, the following requirements must be met:
(i) Title to the vehicles must vest solely in the grantee or identified subrecipient, or with leased vehicles in an identified lender.
(ii) The grantee or identified subrecipient must, at a minimum, provide motor vehicle liability insurance for the vehicles to the same extent they would insure vehicles procured with their own funds.
(iii) All vehicle operators must be licensed in a U.S. State or Territory to operate such vehicles.
(iv) Vehicles must be safe and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations.
(v) Vehicles must be operated in accordance with applicable Department of Transportation regulations concerning transit requirements under the Americans with Disabilities Act.
(b)
Additional requirements.
Grantees and identified subrecipients are subject to the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards
under 2 CFR part 200, and subject to 2 CFR parts 25 and 170, if applicable.
(Authority: Sec. 307, Pub. L. 111-163; 38 U.S.C. 501)
[78 FR 19593, Apr. 2, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 43322, July 22, 2015]
§ 17.720
Payments under the grant.
Grantees are to be paid in accordance with the timeframes and manner set forth in the Notice of Fund Availability.
(Authority: Sec. 307, Pub. L. 111-163; 38 U.S.C. 501)
§ 17.725
Grantee reporting requirements.
(a)
Program efficacy.
All grantees who receive either an initial or renewed grant must submit to VA quarterly and annual reports which indicate the following information:
(1) Record of time expended assisting with the provision of transportation services.
(2) Record of grant funds expended assisting with the provision of transportation services.
(3) Trips completed.
(4) Total distance covered.
(5) Veterans served.
(6) Locations which received transportation services.
(7) Results of veteran satisfaction survey.
(b)
Quarterly fiscal report.
All grantees who receive either an initial or renewal grant must submit to VA a quarterly report which identifies the expenditures of the funds which VA authorized and obligated.
(c)
Program variations.
Any changes in a grantee's program activities which result in deviations from the grant agreement must be reported to VA.
(d)
Additional reporting.
Additional reporting requirements may be requested by VA to allow VA to fully assess program effectiveness.
(Authority: Sec. 307, Pub. L. 111-163; 38 U.S.C. 501)
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control numbers 2900-0709 and 2900-0770)
§ 17.730
Recovery of funds by VA.
(a)
Recovery of funds.
VA may recover from the grantee any funds that are not used in accordance with a grant agreement. If VA decides to recover funds, VA will issue to the grantee a notice of intent to recover grant funds, and grantee will then have 30 days to submit documentation demonstrating why the grant funds should not be recovered. After review of all submitted documentation, VA will determine whether action will be taken to recover the grant funds.
(b)
Prohibition of further grants.
When VA determines action will be taken to recover grant funds from the grantee, the grantee is then prohibited from receipt of any further grant funds.
(Authority: Sec. 307, Pub. L. 111-163; 38 U.S.C. 501)

# Transitional Housing Loan Program

# Source:
59 FR 49579, Sept. 29, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.800
Purpose.
The purpose of the Transitional Housing Loan Program regulations is to establish application provisions and selection criteria for loans to non-profit organizations for use in initial startup costs for transitional housing for veterans who are in (or have recently been in) a program for the treatment of substance abuse. This program is intended to increase the amount of transitional housing available for such veterans who need a period of supportive housing to encourage sobriety maintenance and reestablishment of social and community relationships.
§ 17.801
Definitions.
(a)
Applicant:
A non-profit organization making application for a loan under this program.
(b)
Non-profit organization:
A secular or religious organization, no part of the net earnings of which may inure to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual. The organization must include a voluntary board and must either maintain or designate an entity to maintain an accounting system which is operated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. If not named in, or approved
under Title 38 U.S.C. (United States Code), Section 5902, a non-profit organization must provide VA with documentation which demonstrates approval as a non-profit organization under Internal Revenue Code, Section 501.c(3).
(c)
Recipient:
A non-profit organization which has received a loan from VA under this program.
(d)
Veteran:
A person who served in the active military, naval, or air service, and who was discharged or released therefrom under conditions other than dishonorable.
(Authority: Sec. 8 of Pub. L. 102-54, 105 Stat 271, 38 U.S.C. 501)
§ 17.802
Application provisions.
(a) To obtain a loan under these Transitional Housing Loan Program regulations, an application must be submitted by the applicant in the form prescribed by VA in the application package. The completed application package must be submitted to the Deputy Associate Director for Psychiatric Rehabilitation Services, (302/111C), VA Medical Center, 100 Emancipation Drive, Hampton, VA 23667. An application package may be obtained by writing to the proceeding address or telephoning (804) 722-9961 x3628. (This is not a toll-free number)
(b) The application package includes exhibits to be prepared and submitted, including:
(1) Information concerning the applicant's income, assets, liabilities and credit history,
(2) Information for VA to verify the applicant's financial information,
(3) Identification of the official(s) authorized to make financial transactions on behalf of the applicant,
(4) Information concerning:
(i) The history, purpose and composition of the applicant,
(ii) The applicant's involvement with recovering substance abusers, including:
(A) Type of services provided,
(B) Number of persons served,
(C) Dates during which each type of service was provided,
(D) Names of at least two references of government or community groups whom the organization has worked with in assisting substance abusers,
(iii) The applicant's plan for the provision of transitional housing to veterans including:
(A) Means of identifying and screening potential residents,
(B) Number of occupants intended to live in the residence for which the loan assistance is requested,
(C) Residence operating policies addressing structure for democratic self-government, expulsion policies for nonpayment, alcohol or illegal drug use or disruptive behavior,
(D) Type of technical assistance available to residents in the event of house management problems,
(E) Anticipated cost of maintaining the residence, including rent and utilities,
(F) Anticipated charge, per veteran, for residing in the residence,
(G) Anticipated means of collecting rent and utilities payments from residents,
(H) A description of the housing unit for which the loan is sought to support, including location, type of neighborhood, brief floor plan description, etc., and why this residence was selected for this endeavor.
(iv) The applicant's plans for use of the loan proceeds.
(Authority: Sec. 8 of Pub. L. 102-54, 105 Stat. 271, 38 U.S.C. 501)
§ 17.803
Order of consideration.
Loan applications will be considered on a first-come-first-serve basis, subject to availability of funds for loans and awards will be made on a first-come-first-serve basis to applicants who meet the criteria for receiving a loan. If no funds are available for loans, applications will be retained in the order of receipt for consideration as funds become available.
(Authority: Sec. 8 of Pub. L. 102-54, 105 Stat. 271, 38 U.S.C. 501)
§ 17.804
Loan approval criteria.
Upon consideration of the application package, loan approval will be based on the following:
(a) Favorable financial history and status,
(1) A minimum of a two-year credit history,
(2) No open liens, judgments, and no unpaid collection accounts,
(3) No more than two instances where payments were ever delinquent beyond 60 days,
(4) Net ratio: (monthly expenses divided by monthly cash flow) that does not exceed 40%,
(5) Gross ratio: (total indebtedness divided by gross annual cash flow) that does not exceed 35%,
(6) At least two favorable credit references,
(b) Demonstrated ability to successfully address the needs of substance abusers as determined by a minimum of one year of successful experience in providing services, such as, provision of housing, vocational training, structured job seeking assistance, organized relapse prevention services, or similar activity. Such experience would involve at least twenty-five substance abusers, and would be experience which could be verified by VA inquiries of government or community groups with whom the applicant has worked in providing these services.
(c) An acceptable plan for operating a residence designed to meet the conditions of a loan under this program, which will include:
(1) Measures to ensure that residents are eligible for residency,
i.e.
, are veterans, are in (or have recently been in) a program for the treatment of substance abuse, are financially able to pay their share of costs of maintaining the residence, and agree to abide by house rules and rent/utilities payment provisions,
(2) Adequate rent/utilities collections to cover cost of maintaining the residence,
(3) Policies that ensure democratic self-run government, including expulsion policies, and
(4) Available technical assistance to residents in the event of house management problems.
(d) Selection of a suitable housing unit for use as a transitional residence in a neighborhood with no known illegal drug activity, and with adequate living space for number of veterans planned for residence (at least one large bedroom for every three veterans, at least one bathroom for every four veterans, adequate common space for entire household)
(e) Agreements, signed by an official authorized to bind the recipient, which include:
(1) The loan payment schedule in accordance with the requirements of Pub. L. 102-54, with the interest rate being the same as the rate the VA is charged to borrow these funds from the U.S. Department of Treasury and with a penalty of 4% of the amount due for each failure to pay an installment by the date specified in the loan agreement involved, and
(2) The applicant's intent to use proceeds of loan only to cover initial startup costs associated with the residence, such as security deposit, furnishings, household supplies, and any other initial startup costs.
(Authority: Sec. 8 of Pub. L. 102-54, 105 Stat. 271, 38 U.S.C. 501)
§ 17.805
Additional terms of loans.
In the operation of each residence established with the assistance of the loan, the recipient must agree to the following:
(a) The use of alcohol or any illegal drugs in the residence will be prohibited;
(b) Any resident who violates the prohibition of alcohol or any illegal drugs will be expelled from the residence;
(c) The cost of maintaining the residence, including fees for rent and utilities, will be paid by residents;
(d) The residents will, through a majority vote of the residents, otherwise establish policies governing the conditions of the residence, including the manner in which applications for residence are approved;
(e) The residence will be operated solely as a residence for not less than six veterans.
(Authority: Sec. 8 of Pub. L. 102-54, 105 Stat. 271, 38 U.S.C. 501)

# Health Care Benefits for Certain Children of Vietnam Veterans and Veterans with Covered Service in Korea—Spina Bifida and Covered Birth Defects

# Source:
68 FR 1010, Jan. 8, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.900
Definitions.
For purposes of §§ 17.900 through 17.905—
Approved health care provider
means a health care provider currently approved by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), Department of Defense TRICARE Program, Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs (CHAMPVA), The Joint Commission, or currently approved for providing health care under a license or certificate issued by a governmental entity with jurisdiction. An entity or individual will be deemed to be an approved health care provider only when acting within the scope of the approval, license, or certificate.
Child
for purposes of spina bifida means the same as
individual
as defined at § 3.814(c)(3) or § 3.815(c)(2) of this title and for purposes of covered birth defects means the same as
individual
as defined at § 3.815(c)(2) of this title.
Covered birth defect
means the same as defined at § 3.815(c)(3) of this title and also includes complications or medical conditions that are associated with the covered birth defect(s) according to the scientific literature.
Day health care
means a therapeutic program prescribed by an approved health care provider that provides necessary medical services, rehabilitation, therapeutic activities, socialization, nutrition, and transportation services in a congregate setting. Day health care may be provided as a component of outpatient care or respite care.
Habilitative and rehabilitative care
means such professional, counseling, and guidance services and such treatment programs (other than vocational training under 38 U.S.C. 1804 or 1814) as are necessary to develop, maintain, or restore, to the maximum extent practicable, the functioning of a disabled person.
Health care
means home care, hospital care, long-term care, nursing home care, outpatient care, preventive care, habilitative and rehabilitative care, case management, and respite care; and includes the training of appropriate members of a child's family or household in the care of the child; and the provision of such pharmaceuticals, supplies (including continence-related supplies such as catheters, pads, and diapers), equipment (including durable medical equipment), devices, appliances, assistive technology, direct transportation costs to and from approved health care providers (including any necessary costs for meals and lodging en route, and accompaniment by an attendant or attendants), and other materials as the Secretary determines necessary.
Health care provider
means any entity or individual that furnishes health care, including specialized clinics, health care plans, insurers, organizations, and institutions.
Health-related services
means homemaker or home health aide services furnished in the individual's home or other place of residence to the extent that those services provide assistance with Activities of Daily Living and Instrumental Activities of Daily Living that have therapeutic value.
Home care
means medical care, habilitative and rehabilitative care, preventive health services, and health-related services furnished to a child in the child's home or other place of residence.
Home health aide services
is a component of health-related services providing personal care and related support services to an individual in the home or other place of residence. Home health aide services may include assistance with Activities of Daily Living such as: Bathing; toileting; eating; dressing; aid in ambulating or transfers; active and passive exercises; assistance with medical equipment; and routine health monitoring. Home health aide services must be provided according to the individual's written plan of care and must be prescribed by an approved health care provider.
Homemaker services
is a component of health-related services encompassing certain activities that help to maintain a safe, healthy environment for an individual in the home or other place of residence. Such services contribute to the prevention, delay, or reduction of risk of harm or hospital, nursing home, or other institutional care. Homemaker services include assistance with personal care; home management; completion of simple household tasks; nutrition, including menu planning and
meal preparation; consumer education; and hygiene education. Homemaker services may include assistance with Instrumental Activities of Daily Living, such as: Light housekeeping; laundering; meal preparation; necessary services to maintain a safe and sanitary environment in the areas of the home used by the individual; and services essential to the comfort and cleanliness of the individual and ensuring individual safety. Homemaker services must be provided according to the individual's written plan of care and must be prescribed by an approved health care provider.
Hospital care
means care and treatment furnished to a child who has been admitted to a hospital as a patient.
Long-term care
means home care, nursing home care, and respite care.
Nursing home care
means care and treatment furnished to a child who has been admitted to a nursing home as a resident.
Other place of residence
includes an assisted living facility or residential group home.
Outpatient care
means care and treatment, including day health care and preventive health services, furnished to a child other than hospital care or nursing home care.
Preventive care
means care and treatment furnished to prevent disability or illness, including periodic examinations, immunizations, patient health education, and such other services as the Secretary determines necessary to provide effective and economical preventive health care.
Respite care
means care, including day health care, furnished by an approved health care provider on an intermittent basis for a limited period to an individual who resides primarily in a private residence when such care will help the individual continue residing in such private residence.
Spina bifida
means all forms and manifestations of spina bifida except spina bifida occulta (this includes complications or medical conditions that are associated with spina bifida according to the scientific literature).
Veteran with covered service in Korea
for purposes of spina bifida means the same as defined at § 3.814(c)(2) of this title.
Vietnam veteran
for purposes of spina bifida means the same as defined at § 3.814(c)(1) or § 3.815(c)(1) of this title and for purposes of covered birth defects means the same as defined at § 3.815(c)(1) of this title.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101(2), 1802-1803, 1811-1813, 1821, 1831)
[68 FR 1010, Jan. 8, 2003, as amended at 76 FR 4249, Jan. 25, 2011; 79 FR 54616, Sept. 12, 2014; 81 FR 19890, Apr. 6, 2016]
§ 17.901
Provision of health care.
(a)
Spina bifida.
VA will provide a Vietnam veteran or veteran with covered service in Korea's child who has been determined under § 3.814 or § 3.815 of this title to suffer from spina bifida with health care as the Secretary determines is needed. VA may inform spina bifida patients, parents, or guardians that health care may be available at not-for-profit charitable entities.
(b)
Covered birth defects.
VA will provide a woman Vietnam veteran's child who has been determined under § 3.815 of this title to suffer from covered birth defects (other than spina bifida) with such health care as the Secretary determines is needed by the child for the covered birth defects. However, if VA has determined for a particular covered birth defect that § 3.815(a)(2) of this title applies (concerning affirmative evidence of cause other than the mother's service during the Vietnam era), no benefits or assistance will be provided under this section with respect to that particular birth defect.
(c)
Providers of care.
Health care provided under this section will be provided directly by VA, by contract with an approved health care provider, or by other arrangement with an approved health care provider.
(d)
Submission of information.
For purposes of §§ 17.900 through 17.905:
(1) The telephone number of the Health Administration Center is (888) 820-1756;
(2) The facsimile number of the Health Administration Center is (303) 331-7807;
(3) The hand-delivery address of the Health Administration Center is 3773 Cherry Creek Drive North, Denver, CO 80246; and
(4) The mailing address of the Health Administration Center for claims submitted pursuant to either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section is P.O. Box 469065, Denver, CO 80246-9065.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101(2), 1802-1803, 1811-1813, 1831)

# Note to § 17.901:
Under this program, beneficiaries with spina bifida will receive comprehensive care through the Department of Veterans Affairs. However, the health care benefits available under this section to children with other covered birth defects are not comprehensive, and VA will furnish them only health care services that are related to their covered birth defects. With respect to covered children suffering from spina bifida, VA is the exclusive payer for services paid under 17.900 through 17.905, regardless of any third party insurer, Medicare, Medicaid, health plan, or any other plan or program providing health care coverage. As to children with other covered birth defects, any third party insurer, Medicare, Medicaid, health plan, or any other plan or program providing health care coverage would be responsible according to its provisions for payment for health care not relating to the covered birth defects.
[68 FR 1010, Jan. 8, 2003, as amended at 76 FR 4249, Jan. 25, 2011]
§ 17.902
Preauthorization.
(a) Preauthorization from VA is required for the following services or benefits under §§ 17.900 through 17.905: Rental or purchase of durable medical equipment with a total rental or purchase price in excess of $300, respectively; day health care provided as outpatient care; dental services; homemaker services; outpatient mental health services in excess of 23 visits in a calendar year; substance abuse treatment; training; transplantation services; and travel (other than mileage at the General Services Administration rate for privately owned automobiles). Authorization will only be given in spina bifida cases where it is demonstrated that the care is medically necessary. In cases of other covered birth defects, authorization will only be given where it is demonstrated that the care is medically necessary and related to the covered birth defects.Requests for provision of health care requiring preauthorization shall be made to the Health Administration Center and may be made by telephone, facsimile, mail, or hand delivery. The application must contain the following:
(1) Name of child,
(2) Child's Social Security number,
(3) Name of veteran,
(4) Veteran's Social Security number,
(5) Type of service requested,
(6) Medical justification,
(7) Estimated cost, and
(8) Name, address, and telephone number of provider.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, preauthorization is not required for a condition for which failure to receive immediate treatment poses a serious threat to life or health. Such emergency care should be reported by telephone to the Health Administration Center within 72 hours of the emergency.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101(2), 1802-1803, 1811-1813, 1831)
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0219)
[68 FR 1010, Jan. 8, 2003, as amended at 76 FR 4249, Jan. 25, 2011; 81 FR 19890, Apr. 6, 2016]
§ 17.903
Payment.
(a)(1) Payment for services or benefits under §§ 17.900 through 17.905 will be determined utilizing the same payment methodologies as provided for under the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs (CHAMPVA) (see § 17.270). For those services or benefits covered by §§ 17.900 through 17.905 but not covered by CHAMPVA we will use payment methodologies the same or similar to those used for equivalent services or benefits provided to veterans.
(2) As a condition of payment, the services must have occurred:
(i) For spina bifida, on or after October 1, 1997, and must have occurred on or after the date the child was determined eligible for benefits under § 3.814 of this title.
(ii) For covered birth defects, on or after December 1, 2001, and must have occurred on or after the date the child was determined eligible for benefits under § 3.815 of this title.
(3) Claims from approved health care providers must be filed with the Health
Administration Center in writing (facsimile, mail, hand delivery, or electronically) no later than:
(i) One year after the date of service; or
(ii) In the case of inpatient care, one year after the date of discharge; or
(iii) In the case of retroactive approval for health care, 180 days following beneficiary notification of eligibility.
(4) Claims for health care provided under the provisions of §§ 17.900 through 17.905 must contain, as appropriate, the information set forth in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (a)(4)(v) of this section.
(i) Patient identification information:
(A) Full name,
(B) Address,
(C) Date of birth, and
(D) Social Security number.
(ii) Provider identification information (inpatient and outpatient services):
(A) Full name and address (such as hospital or physician),
(B) Remittance address,
(C) Address where services were rendered,
(D) Individual provider's professional status (M.D., Ph.D., R.N., etc.), and
(E) Provider tax identification number (TIN) or Social Security number.
(iii) Patient treatment information (long-term care or institutional services):
(A) Dates of service (specific and inclusive),
(B) Summary level itemization (by revenue code),
(C) Dates of service for all absences from a hospital or other approved institution during a period for which inpatient benefits are being claimed,
(D) Principal diagnosis established, after study, to be chiefly responsible for causing the patient's hospitalization,
(E) All secondary diagnoses,
(F) All procedures performed,
(G) Discharge status of the patient, and
(H) Institution's Medicare provider number.
(iv) Patient treatment information for all other health care providers and ancillary outpatient services such as durable medical equipment, medical requisites, and independent laboratories:
(A) Diagnosis,
(B) Procedure code for each procedure, service, or supply for each date of service, and
(C) Individual billed charge for each procedure, service, or supply for each date of service.
(v) Prescription drugs and medicines and pharmacy supplies:
(A) Name and address of pharmacy where drug was dispensed,
(B) Name of drug,
(C) National Drug Code (NDC) for drug provided,
(D) Strength,
(E) Quantity,
(F) Date dispensed,
(G) Pharmacy receipt for each drug dispensed (including billed charge), and
(H) Diagnosis for which each drug is prescribed.
(b) Health care payment will be provided in accordance with the provisions of §§ 17.900 through 17.905. However, the following are specifically excluded from payment:
(1) Care as part of a grant study or research program,
(2) Care considered experimental or investigational,
(3) Drugs not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for commercial marketing,
(4) Services, procedures, or supplies for which the beneficiary has no legal obligation to pay, such as services obtained at a health fair,
(5) Services provided outside the scope of the provider's license or certification, and
(6) Services rendered by providers suspended or sanctioned by a Federal agency.
(c) Payments made in accordance with the provisions of §§ 17.900 through 17.905 shall constitute payment in full. Accordingly, the health care provider or agent for the health care provider may not impose any additional charge for any services for which payment is made by VA.
(d)
Explanation of benefits (EOB)
—(1) When a claim under the provisions of §§ 17.900 through 17.905 is adjudicated, an EOB will be sent to the beneficiary or guardian and the provider. The EOB
provides, at a minimum, the following information:
(i) Name and address of recipient,
(ii) Description of services and/or supplies provided,
(iii) Dates of services or supplies provided,
(iv) Amount billed,
(v) Determined allowable amount,
(vi) To whom payment, if any, was made, and
(vii) Reasons for denial (if applicable).
(2) [Reserved]
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101(2), 1802-1803, 1811-1813, 1831)
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0219)
[68 FR 1010, Jan. 8, 2003, as amended at 76 FR 4249, Jan. 25, 2011; 81 FR 19890, Apr. 6, 2016]
§ 17.904
Review and appeal process.
(a) This section applies only to legacy claims.
(b) For purposes of §§ 17.900 through 17.905, if a health care provider, child, or representative disagrees with a determination concerning provision of health care or with a determination concerning payment, the person or entity may request reconsideration. Such request must be submitted in writing (by facsimile, mail, or hand delivery) within one year of the date of the initial determination to the Health Administration Center (Attention: Chief, Benefit and Provider Services). The request must state why it is believed that the decision is in error and must include any new and relevant information not previously considered. Any request for reconsideration that does not identify the reason for dispute will be returned to the sender without further consideration. After reviewing the matter, including any relevant supporting documentation, a benefits advisor will issue a written determination (with a statement of findings and reasons) to the person or entity seeking reconsideration that affirms, reverses, or modifies the previous decision. If the person or entity seeking reconsideration is still dissatisfied, within 90 days of the date of the decision he or she may submit in writing (by facsimile, mail, or hand delivery) to the Health Administration Center (Attention: Director) a request for review by the Director, Health Administration Center. The Director will review the claim and any relevant supporting documentation and issue a decision in writing (with a statement of findings and reasons) that affirms, reverses, or modifies the previous decision. An appeal under this section would be considered as filed at the time it was delivered to the VA or at the time it was released for submission to the VA (for example, this could be evidenced by the postmark, if mailed).

# Note to § 17.904:
The final decision of the Director will inform the claimant of further appellate rights for an appeal to the Board of Veterans' Appeals.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101(2), 1802-1803, 1811-1813, 1831)
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0219)
[68 FR 1010, Jan. 8, 2003, as amended at 76 FR 4250, Jan. 25, 2011; 81 FR 19891, Apr. 6, 2016; 87 FR 43748, July 22, 2022]
§ 17.905
Medical records.
Copies of medical records generated outside VA that relate to activities for which VA is asked to provide payment or that VA determines are necessary to adjudicate claims under §§ 17.900 through 17.905 must be provided to VA at no cost.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101(2), 1802-1803, 1811-1813, 1831)
[68 FR 1010, Jan. 8, 2003, as amended at 76 FR 4250, Jan. 25, 2011]

# Payment or Reimbursement for Emergency Services for Nonservice-Connected Conditions in Non-VA Facilities

# Source:
66 FR 36470, July 12, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.1000
Payment or reimbursement for emergency services for nonservice-connected conditions in non-VA facilities.
Sections 17.1000 through 17.1008 constitute the requirements under 38 U.S.C. 1725 that govern VA payment or reimbursement for non-VA emergency
services furnished to a veteran for nonservice-connected conditions.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1725)

# Note to § 17.1000:
In cases where a patient is admitted for inpatient care, health care providers furnishing emergency treatment who believe they may have a basis for filing a claim with VA for payment under 38 U.S.C. 1725 should contact VA within 48-hours after admission for emergency treatment. Such contact is not a condition of VA payment. However, the contact will assist the provider in understanding the conditions for payment. The contact may also assist the provider in planning for transfer of the veteran after stabilization.
[66 FR 36470, July 12, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 3404, Jan. 24, 2003]
§ 17.1001
Definitions.
For purposes of §§ 17.1000 through 17.1008:
(a) The term
health-plan contract
means any of the following:
(1) An insurance policy or contract, medical or hospital service agreement, membership or subscription contract, or similar arrangement under which health services for individuals are provided or the expenses of such services are paid;
(2) An insurance program described in section 1811 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395c) or established by section 1831 of that Act (42 U.S.C. 1395j);
(3) A State plan for medical assistance approved under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396
et seq.
);
(4) A workers' compensation law or plan described in section 38 U.S.C. 1729(a)(2)(A); or
(b) The term
third party
means any of the following:
(1) A Federal entity;
(2) A State or political subdivision of a State;
(3) An employer or an employer's insurance carrier;
(4) An automobile accident reparations insurance carrier; or
(5) A person or entity obligated to provide, or to pay the expenses of, health services under a health-plan contract.
(c) The term
duplicate payment
means payment made, in whole or in part, for the same emergency services for which VA reimbursed or made payment.
(d) The term
stabilized
means that no material deterioration of the emergency medical condition is likely, within reasonable medical probability, to occur if the veteran is discharged or transferred to a VA or other Federal facility that VA has an agreement with to furnish health care services for veterans.
(e) The term
VA medical facility of jurisdiction
means the nearest VA medical facility to where the emergency service was provided.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1725)
[66 FR 36470, July 12, 2001, as amended at 76 FR 79071, Dec. 21, 2011; 77 FR 23617, Apr. 20, 2012]
§ 17.1002
Substantive conditions for payment or reimbursement.
Payment or reimbursement under 38 U.S.C. 1725 for emergency treatment (including medical services, professional services, ambulance services, ancillary care and medication (including a short course of medication related to and necessary for the treatment of the emergency condition that is provided directly to or prescribed for the patient for use after the emergency condition is stabilized and the patient is discharged)) will be made only if all of the following conditions are met:
(a) The emergency services were provided in a hospital emergency department or a similar facility held out as providing emergency care to the public;
(b) The claim for payment or reimbursement for the initial evaluation and treatment is for a condition of such a nature that a prudent layperson would have reasonably expected that delay in seeking immediate medical attention would have been hazardous to life or health (this standard would be met if there were an emergency medical condition manifesting itself by acute symptoms of sufficient severity (including severe pain) that a prudent layperson who possesses an average knowledge of health and medicine could reasonably expect the absence of immediate medical attention to result in placing the health of the individual in serious jeopardy, serious impairment to bodily functions, or serious
dysfunction of any bodily organ or part);
(c) A VA or other Federal facility/provider that VA has an agreement with to furnish health care services for veterans was not feasibly available and an attempt to use them beforehand would not have been considered reasonable by a prudent layperson (as an example, these conditions would be met by evidence establishing that a veteran was brought to a hospital in an ambulance and the ambulance personnel determined the nearest available appropriate level of care was at a non-VA medical center);
(d) At the time the emergency treatment was furnished, the veteran was enrolled in the VA health care system and had received medical services under authority of 38 U.S.C. chapter 17 within the 24-month period preceding the furnishing of such emergency treatment;
(e) The veteran is financially liable to the provider of emergency treatment for that treatment;
(f) The veteran does not have coverage under a health-plan contract that would fully extinguish the medical liability for the emergency treatment (this condition cannot be met if the veteran has coverage under a health-plan contract but payment is barred because of a failure by the veteran or the provider to comply with the provisions of that health-plan contract,
e.g.,
failure to submit a bill or medical records within specified time limits, or failure to exhaust appeals of the denial of payment);
(g) If the condition for which the emergency treatment was furnished was caused by an accident or work-related injury, the claimant has exhausted without success all claims and remedies reasonably available to the veteran or provider against a third party for payment of such treatment; and the veteran has no contractual or legal recourse against a third party that could reasonably be pursued for the purpose of extinguishing, in whole, the veteran's liability to the provider; and
(h) The veteran is not eligible for reimbursement under 38 U.S.C. 1728 for the emergency treatment provided (38 U.S.C. 1728 authorizes VA payment or reimbursement for emergency treatment to a limited group of veterans, primarily those who receive emergency treatment for a service-connected disability).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1725)
[66 FR 36470, July 12, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 3404, Jan. 24, 2003; 76 FR 79071, Dec. 21, 2011; 77 FR 23617, Apr. 20, 2012; 80 FR 79484, Dec. 22, 2015; 83 FR 979, Jan. 9, 2018]
§ 17.1003
Emergency transportation.
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 17.1002, payment or reimbursement under 38 U.S.C. 1725 for ambulance services, including air ambulance services, may be made for transporting a veteran to a facility only if the following conditions are met:
(a) Payment or reimbursement is authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1725 for emergency treatment provided at a non-VA facility, or payment or reimbursement would have been authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1725 for emergency treatment had:
(1) The veteran's personal liability for the emergency treatment not been fully extinguished by payment by a third party, including under a health-plan contract, or by VA; or
(2) Death had not occurred before emergency treatment could be provided;
(b) The veteran is financially liable to the provider of the emergency transportation;
(c) The veteran does not have coverage under a health-plan contract that would fully extinguish the medical liability for the emergency transportation (this condition is not met if the veteran has coverage under a health-plan contract but payment is barred because of a failure by the veteran or the provider to comply with the provisions of that health-plan contract);
(d) If the condition for which the emergency transportation was furnished was caused by an accident or work-related injury, the claimant has exhausted without success all claims and remedies reasonably available to the veteran or provider against a third party for payment of such transportation; and the veteran has no contractual or legal recourse against a third party that could reasonably be pursued
for the purpose of fully extinguishing the veteran's liability to the provider; and
(e) If the veteran is not eligible for reimbursement for any emergency treatment expenses under 38 U.S.C. 1728.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1725)
[66 FR 36470, July 12, 2001, as amended at 83 FR 979, Jan. 9, 2018; 88 FR 10841, Feb. 22, 2023]
§ 17.1004
Filing claims.
(a) A claimant for payment or reimbursement under 38 U.S.C. 1725 must be the entity that furnished the treatment, the veteran who paid for the treatment, or the person or organization that paid for such treatment on behalf of the veteran.
(b) To obtain payment or reimbursement for emergency treatment under 38 U.S.C. 1725, a claimant must submit to the VA medical facility of jurisdiction a completed standard billing form (such as a UB92 or a CMS 1500). Where the form used does not contain a false claims notice, the completed form must also be accompanied by a signed, written statement declaring that “I hereby certify that this claim meets all of the conditions for payment by VA for emergency medical services under 38 CFR 17.1002 (except for paragraph (e)) and 17.1003. I am aware that 38 U.S.C. 6102(b) provides that one who obtains payment without being entitled to it and with intent to defraud the United States shall be fined in accordance with title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not more than one year, or both.”

# Note to § 17.1004(
b

# ):
These regulations regarding payment or reimbursement for emergency services for nonservice-connected conditions in non-VA facilities also can be found on the internet at
http://www.va.gov/health/elig.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, no specific form is required for a claimant (or duly authorized representative) to claim payment or reimbursement for emergency transportation charges under 38 U.S.C. 1725. The claimant need only submit a signed and dated request for such payment or reimbursement to the VA medical facility of jurisdiction, together with a bill showing the services provided and charges for which the veteran is personally liable and a signed statement explaining who requested such transportation services and why they were necessary.
(d) To receive payment or reimbursement for emergency services, a claimant must file a claim within 90 days after the latest of the following:
(1) The date that the veteran was discharged from the facility that furnished the emergency treatment;
(2) The date of death, but only if the death occurred during transportation to a facility for emergency treatment or if the death occurred during the stay in the facility that included the provision of the emergency treatment; or
(3) The date the veteran finally exhausted, without success, action to obtain payment or reimbursement for the treatment from a third party.
(e) If after reviewing a claim the decisionmaker determines that additional information is needed to make a determination regarding the claim, such official will contact the claimant in writing and request additional information. The additional information must be submitted to the decisionmaker within 30 days of receipt of the request or the claim will be treated as abandoned, except that if the claimant within the 30-day period requests in writing additional time, the time period for submission of the information may be extended as reasonably necessary for the requested information to be obtained.
(f) Notwithstanding paragraph (d) of this section, VA will provide retroactive payment or reimbursement for emergency treatment received by the veteran, on or after February 1, 2010 but more than 90 days before February 22, 2023, if the claimant was eligible for partial payment from a health-plan contract for the emergency treatment and the claimant files a claim for reimbursement no later than 1 year after February 22, 2023.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0620)
[66 FR 36470, July 12, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 3404, Jan. 24, 2003; 77 FR 23617, Apr. 20, 2012; 84 FR 26307, June 5, 2019; 88 FR 10841, Feb. 22, 2023]
§ 17.1005
Payment limitations.
(a) Payment or reimbursement for emergency treatment (including emergency transportation) under 38 U.S.C. 1725 will be calculated as follows:
(1) If an eligible veteran has personal liability to a provider of emergency treatment and no contractual or legal recourse against a third party, including under a health-plan contract, VA will pay the lesser of the amount for which the veteran is personally liable or 70 percent of the applicable Medicare fee schedule amount for such treatment.
(2) If an eligible veteran has personal liability to a provider of emergency treatment after payment by a third party, including under a health-plan contract, VA will pay:
(i) The difference between the amount VA would have paid under paragraph (a)(1) of this section for the cost of the emergency treatment and the amount paid (or payable) by the third party, if that amount would be greater than zero, or;
(ii) If applying paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section would result in no payment by VA, the lesser of the veteran's remaining personal liability after such third-party payment or 70 percent of the applicable Medicare fee schedule amount for such treatment.
(3) In the absence of a Medicare fee schedule rate for the emergency treatment, VA payment will be the lesser of the amount for which the veteran is personally liable or the amount calculated by the VA Fee Schedule in § 17.56 (a)(2)(i)(B).
(4) Unless rejected and refunded by the provider within 30 days from the date of receipt, the provider will consider VA's payment made under paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section as payment in full and extinguish the veteran's liability to the provider. (Neither the absence of a contract or agreement between the Secretary and the provider nor any provision of a contract, agreement, or assignment to the contrary shall operate to modify, limit, or negate the requirement in the preceding sentence.)
(5) VA will not reimburse a veteran under this section for any copayment, deductible, or similar payment that the veteran owes the third party or is obligated to pay under a health-plan contract.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, VA will not approve claims for payment or reimbursement of the costs of emergency treatment not previously authorized for any period beyond the date on which the medical emergency ended. For this purpose, VA considers that an emergency ends when the designated VA clinician at the VA facility has determined that, based on sound medical judgment, a veteran who received emergency treatment:
(1) Could have been transferred from the non-VA facility to a VA medical center (or other Federal facility that VA has an agreement with to furnish health care services for veterans) for continuation of treatment, or
(2) Could have reported to a VA medical center (or other Federal facility that VA has an agreement with to furnish health care services for veterans) for continuation of treatment.
(c) Claims for payment or reimbursement of the costs of emergency treatment not previously authorized may be approved for continued, non-emergency treatment, only if:
(1) The non-VA facility notified VA at the time the veteran could be safely transferred to a VA facility (or other Federal facility that VA has an agreement with to furnish health care services for veterans) and the transfer of the veteran was not accepted, and
(2) The non-VA facility made and documented reasonable attempts to request transfer of the veteran to VA (or to another Federal facility that VA has an agreement with to furnish health care services for veterans), which means the non-VA facility contacted either the VA Transfer Coordinator, Administrative Officer of the Day, or designated staff responsible for accepting transfer of patients at a local VA (or other Federal facility) and documented such contact in the veteran's progress/physicians' notes, discharge summary, or other applicable medical record.
(d) If a stabilized veteran who requires continued non-emergency treatment refuses to be transferred to an available VA facility (or other Federal facility that VA has an agreement with
to furnish health care services for veterans), VA will make payment or reimbursement only for the expenses related to the initial evaluation and the emergency treatment furnished to the veteran up to the point of refusal of transfer by the veteran.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1725)
[66 FR 36470, July 12, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 3404, Jan. 24, 2003; 76 FR 79071, Dec. 21, 2011; 77 FR 23618, Apr. 20, 2012; 78 FR 36093, June 17, 2013; 83 FR 979, Jan. 9, 2018; 88 FR 10842, Feb. 22, 2023]
§ 17.1006
Decisionmakers.
The Chief of the Health Administration Service or an equivalent official at the VA medical facility of jurisdiction will make all determinations regarding payment or reimbursement under 38 U.S.C. 1725, except that the designated VA clinician at the VA medical facility of jurisdiction will make determinations regarding § 17.1002(b), (c), and (d). Any decision denying a benefit must be in writing and inform the claimant of VA appeal rights.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1725)
[66 FR 36470, July 12, 2001, as amended at 76 FR 79072, Dec. 21, 2011; 87 FR 43748, July 22, 2022]
§ 17.1007
Independent right of recovery.
(a) VA has the right to recover its payment under this section when, and to the extent that, a third party makes payment for all or part of the same emergency treatment for which VA reimbursed or made payment under this section.
(1) Under 38 U.S.C. 1725(d)(4), the veteran (or the veteran's personal representative, successor, dependents, or survivors) or claimant shall ensure that the Secretary is promptly notified of any payment received from any third party for emergency treatment furnished to the veteran. The veteran (or the veteran's personal representative, successor, dependents, or survivors) or claimant shall immediately forward all documents relating to such payment, cooperate with the Secretary in the investigation of such payment and assist the Secretary in enforcing the United States' right to recover any payment made and accepted under this section. The required notification and submission of documentation must be provided by the veteran or claimant to the VA medical facility of jurisdiction within three working days of receipt of notice of the duplicate payment.
(2) If the Chief Financial Officer or equivalent official at the VA medical facility of jurisdiction concludes that payment from a third party was made for all or part of the same emergency treatment for which VA reimbursed or made payment under this section, such VA official shall, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, initiate action to collect or recover the amount of the duplicate payment in the same manner as for any other debt owed the United States.
(b)(1) Any amount paid by the United States to the veteran (or the veteran's personal representative, successor, dependents, or survivors) or to any other person or organization paying for such treatment shall constitute a lien in favor of the United States against any recovery the payee subsequently receives from a third party for the same treatment.
(2) Any amount paid by the United States, and accepted by the provider that furnished the veteran's emergency treatment, shall constitute a lien against any subsequent amount the provider receives from a third party for the same emergency treatment for which the United States made payment.
(c) If it is determined that a duplicate payment was made, the Chief Financial Officer or equivalent official at the VA medical facility of jurisdiction may waive recovery of a VA payment made under this section to a veteran upon determining that the veteran has substantially complied with the provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section and that actions to recover the payment would not be cost-effective or would conflict with other litigative interests of the United States.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1725)
§ 17.1008
Balance billing prohibited.
Payment by VA under 38 U.S.C. 1725 on behalf of a veteran to a provider of emergency treatment and any non-emergency treatment that is authorized under § 17.1005(c) of this part shall,
unless rejected and refunded by the provider within 30 days of receipt, extinguish all liability on the part of the veteran for that emergency treatment and any non-emergency treatment that is authorized under § 17.1005(c) of this part. Neither the absence of a contract or agreement between VA and the provider nor any provision of a contract, agreement, or assignment to the contrary shall operate to modify, limit, or negate this requirement.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 1725)
[66 FR 36470, July 12, 2001, as amended at 76 FR 79072, Dec. 21, 2011]

# Emergent Suicide Care

# Source:
Sections 17.1200 through 17.1230 appear at 88 FR 2536, Jan. 17, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.1200
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
Sections 17.1200 through 17.1230 implement VA's authority under 38 U.S.C. 1720J to provide emergent suicide care.
(b)
Scope.
If an individual is eligible under § 17.1210, VA will provide emergent suicide care under §§ 17.1200 through 17.1230 and not under other regulations in title 38 CFR through which emergent or other care could be provided. Eligibility under § 17.1210, however, does not affect eligibility for other care under chapter 17 of title 38, U.S.C.
§ 17.1205
Definitions.
For purposes of sections §§ 17.1200 through 17.1230:
Acute suicidal crisis
means an individual was determined to be at imminent risk of self-harm by a trained crisis responder or health care provider.
Crisis residential care
means emergent suicide care provided in a residential facility other than a hospital (that is not a personal residence) that provides 24-hour medical supervision.
Crisis stabilization care
means, with respect to an individual in acute suicidal crisis, care that ensures, to the extent practicable, immediate safety and reduces: the severity of distress; the need for urgent care; or the likelihood that the severity of distress or need for urgent care will increase during the transfer of that individual from a facility at which the individual has received care for that acute suicidal crisis.
Emergent suicide care
means crisis stabilization care provided to an individual eligible under § 17.1210 pursuant to a recommendation from the Veterans Crisis Line or when such individual has presented at a VA or non-VA facility in an acute suicidal crisis.
Health care provider
means a VA or non-VA provider who is licensed to practice health care by a State and who is performing within the scope of their practice as defined by a State or VA practice standard.
Health-plan contract
has the same meaning as that term is defined in 38 U.S.C. 1725(f)(2).
Inpatient care
means care received by an individual during their admission to a hospital.
Non-VA facility
means a facility that meets the definition in 38 U.S.C. 1701(4).
Outpatient care
means care received by an individual that is not described within the definition of “inpatient care” under this section to include telehealth, and without the provision of room or board.
Provide, provided, or provision
means furnished directly by VA, paid for by VA, or reimbursed by VA.
Trained crisis responder
means an individual who responds to emergency situations in the ordinary course of their employment and therefore can be presumed to possess adequate training in crisis intervention.
VA facility
means a facility that meets the definition in 38 U.S.C. 1701(3).
Veterans Crisis Line
means the hotline under 38 U.S.C. 1720F(h).
§ 17.1210
Eligibility.
(a) An individual is eligible for emergent suicide care if they were determined to be in acute suicidal crisis and are either of the following:
(1) A veteran as that term is defined in 38 U.S.C. 101; or
(2) An individual described in 38 U.S.C. 1720I(b).
(b) VA may initiate provision of emergent suicide care for an individual in acute suicidal crisis prior to that individual's status under paragraphs
(a)(1) or (2) of this section being confirmed. If VA is unable to confirm an individual's status under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, VA shall bill that individual for the emergent suicide care provided consistent with 38 CFR 17.102(a) and (b)(1).
§ 17.1215
Periods of emergent suicide care.
(a) Unless extended under paragraph (b) of this section, emergent suicide care will be provided to an individual eligible under § 17.1210 from the date acute suicidal crisis is determined to exist:
(1) Through inpatient care or crisis residential care, as long as the care continues to be clinically necessary, but not to exceed 30 calendar days; or
(2) If care under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is unavailable, or if such care is not clinically appropriate, through outpatient care, as long as the care continues to be clinically necessary, but not to exceed 90 calendar days.
(b) VA may extend a period under paragraph (a) of this section if such period is ending and VA determines that an individual continues to require care to address the effects of the acute suicidal crisis.
§ 17.1220
Provision of emergent suicide care.
(a) Emergent suicide care will be provided to individuals eligible under § 17.1210 only if it is determined by a health care provider to be clinically necessary and in accord with generally accepted standards of medical practice.
(b) Prescription drugs, biologicals, and medical devices that may be provided during a period of emergent suicide care under § 17.1215 must be approved by the Food and Drug Administration, unless the treating VA facility or non-VA facility is conducting formal clinical trials under an Investigational Device Exemption or an Investigational New Drug application, or the drugs, biologicals, or medical devices are prescribed under a compassionate use exemption.
§ 17.1225
Payment or reimbursement for emergent suicide care.
(a) VA will not charge individuals eligible under § 17.1210 who receive care under § 17.1215 any costs for such care.
(1) For care furnished in a VA facility, VA will not charge any copayment or other costs that would otherwise be applicable under 38 CFR chapter 17.
(2) For care furnished in a non-VA facility, VA will either:
(i) Pay for the care furnished, subject to paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section; or
(ii) Reimburse an individual eligible under § 17.1210 for the costs incurred by the individual for the care received, subject to paragraph (e) of this section.
(b) The amounts paid by VA for care furnished under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section will:
(1) Be established pursuant to contracts, or agreements, or
(2) If there is no amount determinable under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, VA will pay the following amounts:
(i) For care furnished in Alaska for which a VA Alaska Fee Schedule (see 38 CFR 17.56(b)) code and amount exists: The lesser of billed charges or the VA Alaska Fee Schedule amount. The VA Alaska Fee Schedule only applies to physician and non-physician professional services. The schedule uses the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act mandated national standard coding sets.
(ii) For care not within the scope of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, and for which an applicable Medicare fee schedule or prospective payment system amount exists for the period in which the service was provided (without any changes based on the subsequent development of information under Medicare authorities) (hereafter “Medicare rate”): The lesser of billed charges or the applicable Medicare rate.
(iii) For care not within the scope of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, furnished by a facility currently designated as a Critical Access Hospital (CAH) by CMS, and for which a specific amount is determinable under the following methodology: The lesser of billed charges or the applicable CAH rate verified by VA. Data requested by
VA to support the applicable CAH rate shall be provided upon request. Billed charges are not relevant for purposes of determining whether a specific amount is determinable under the above methodology.
(iv) For care not within the scope of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section and for which there exists a VA Fee Schedule amount for the period in which the service was performed: The lesser of billed charges or the VA Fee Schedule amount for the period in which the service was performed, as posted on
VA.gov.
(v) For care not within the scope of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section: Billed charges.
(c) Payment by VA under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section shall, unless rejected and refunded within 30 calendar days of receipt, extinguish all liability on the part of the individual who received care. Neither the absence of a contract or agreement between the Secretary and the provider nor any provision of a contact, agreement, or assignment to the contrary shall operate to modify, limit, or negate this requirement.
(d) To obtain payment under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, a health care provider or non-VA facility must:
(1) If the care was provided pursuant to a contract, follow all applicable provisions and instructions in such contract to receive payment.
(2) If the care was not provided pursuant to a contract with VA, submit to VA a standard billing form and other information as required no later than 180 calendar days from the date services were furnished. Submission instructions, to include required forms and other information, can be found at
www.va.gov.
(e) To obtain reimbursement under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, an individual eligible under § 17.1210 must submit to VA a standard billing form and other information as required no later than 180 calendar days from the date the individual paid for emergent suicide care. Submission instructions, to include required forms and other information, can be found at
www.va.gov.
(f) VA may recover costs of care it has paid or reimbursed under paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, other than for such care for a service-connected disability, if the individual who received the care is entitled to the care (or payment of the care) under a health plan contract. Such recovery procedures will generally comply with 38 CFR 17.100-17.106.
§ 17.1230
Payment or reimbursement of emergency transportation.
(a) VA will pay or reimburse for the costs of emergency transportation (
i.e.,
ambulance or air ambulance) to a VA facility or non-VA facility for the provision of emergent suicide care to an eligible individual under § 17.1210.
(1) For claims submitted by providers of emergency transportation, rates of payment for emergency transportation under paragraph (a) of this section will be calculated as they are under 38 CFR 17.1005(a)(1) through (3). For purposes of this section, the term “emergency treatment” in § 17.1005(a) should be read to mean “emergency transportation.”
(2) For claims submitted by an individual eligible under § 17.1210, VA will reimburse for emergency transportation under paragraph (a) of this section the costs such individual incurred for the emergency transportation.
(b) To obtain payment for emergency transportation furnished under paragraph (a) of this section, the provider of such transportation must submit to VA a standard billing form and other information as required no later than 180 calendar days from the date transportation was furnished. Submission instructions, to include required forms and other information, can be found at
www.va.gov.
(c) To obtain reimbursement for emergency transportation under paragraph (a) of this section, an individual eligible under § 17.1210 must submit to VA a standard billing form and other information as required no later than 180 calendar days from the date the individual paid for such transportation. Submission instructions, to include required forms and other information, can be found at
www.va.gov.
(d) Payment by VA under paragraph (a) of this section shall, unless rejected and refunded within 30 calendar days of receipt, extinguish all liability on the part of the individual who received
care. No provision of a contact, agreement, or assignment to the contrary shall operate to modify, limit, or negate this requirement.

# Expanded Access to Non-VA Care Through the Veterans Choice Program

# Source:
Sections 17.1500 through 17.1540 appear at 79 FR 65585, Nov. 5, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.1500
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
Sections 17.1500 through 17.1540 implement the Veterans Choice Program, authorized by section 101 of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014.
(b)
Scope.
The Veterans Choice Program authorizes VA to furnish hospital care and medical services to eligible veterans, as defined in § 17.1510, through agreements with eligible entities or providers, as defined in § 17.1530.
(Authority: Sec. 101, Pub. L. 113-146, 128 Stat. 1754)
§ 17.1505
Definitions.
For purposes of the Veterans Choice Program under §§ 17.1500 through 17.1540:
Appointment
means an authorized and scheduled encounter with a health care provider for the delivery of hospital care or medical services. A visit to an emergency room or an unscheduled visit to a clinic is not an appointment.
Attempt to schedule
means contact with a VA scheduler or VA health care provider in which a stated request by the veteran for an appointment is made.
Episode of care
means a necessary course of treatment, including follow-up appointments and ancillary and specialty services, which lasts no longer than 1 calendar year from the date of the first appointment with a non-VA health care provider.
Full-time primary care physician
means a single VA physician whose workload, or multiple VA physicians whose combined workload, equates to 0.9 full time equivalent employee working at least 36 clinical hours a week at the VA medical facility and who provides primary care as defined by their privileges or scope of practice and licensure.
Health-care plan
means an insurance policy or contract, medical or hospital service agreement, membership or subscription contract, or similar arrangement not administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, under which health services for individuals are provided or the expenses of such services are paid; and does not include any such policy, contract, agreement, or similar arrangement pursuant to title XVIII or XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.) or chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code.
Residence
means a legal residence or personal domicile, even if such residence is seasonal. A person may maintain more than one residence but may only have one residence at a time. If a veteran lives in more than one location during a year, the veteran's residence is the residence or domicile where the person is staying at the time the veteran wants to receive hospital care or medical services through the Program. A post office box or other non-residential point of delivery does not constitute a residence.
Schedule
means identifying and confirming a date, time, location, and entity or health care provider for an appointment.
VA medical facility
means a VA hospital, a VA community-based outpatient clinic, or a VA health care center, any of which must have at least one full-time primary care physician. A Vet Center, or Readjustment Counseling Service Center, is not a VA medical facility.
Wait-time goals of the Veterans Health Administration
means, unless changed by further notice in the
Federal Register,
a date not more than 30 days from either:
(1) The date that an appointment is deemed clinically appropriate by a VA health care provider. In the event a VA health care provider identifies a time range when care must be provided (e.g., within the next 2 months), VA will use the last clinically appropriate date for determining whether or not such care is timely.
(2) Or, if no such clinical determination has been made, the date that a
veteran prefers to be seen for hospital care or medical services.
(Authority: Sec. 101, Pub. L. 113-146, 128 Stat. 1754; Sec. 4005, Pub. L. 114-41, 129 Stat. 443)
[79 FR 65585, Nov. 5, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 74995, Dec. 1, 2015]
§ 17.1510
Eligible veterans.
A veteran must meet the eligibility criteria under both paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section to be eligible for care through the Veterans Choice Program. A veteran must also provide the information required by paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(a) A veteran must be enrolled in the VA health care system under § 17.36.
(b) A veteran must also meet at least one of the following criteria:
(1) The veteran attempts, or has attempted, to schedule an appointment with a VA health care provider, but VA is unable to schedule an appointment for the veteran within:
(i) The wait-time goals of the Veterans Health Administration; or
(ii) With respect to such care or services that are clinically necessary, the period VA determines necessary for such care or services if such period is shorter than the wait-time goals of the Veterans Health Administration.
(2) The veteran's residence is more than 40 miles from the VA medical facility that is closest to the veteran's residence.
(3) The veteran's residence is both:
(i) In a state without a VA medical facility that provides hospital care, emergency medical services, and surgical care having a surgical complexity of standard (VA maintains a Web site with a list of the facilities that have been designated with at least a surgical complexity of standard. That Web site can be accessed here:
www.va.gov/health/surgery
); and
(ii) More than 20 miles from a medical facility described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.
(4) The veteran's residence is in a location, other than one in Guam, American Samoa, or the Republic of the Philippines, which is 40 miles or less from a VA medical facility and the veteran:
(i) Must travel by air, boat, or ferry to reach such a VA medical facility; or
(ii) Faces an unusual or excessive burden in traveling to such a VA medical facility based on geographical challenges, such as the presence of a body of water (including moving water and still water) or a geologic formation that cannot be crossed by road; environmental factors, such as roads that are not accessible to the general public, traffic, or hazardous weather; a medical condition that affects the ability to travel; or other factors, as determined by VA, including but not limited to:
(A) The nature or simplicity of the hospital care or medical services the veteran requires;
(B) The frequency that such hospital care or medical services need to be furnished to the veteran; and
(C) The need for an attendant, which is defined as a person who provides required aid and/or physical assistance to the veteran, for a veteran to travel to a VA medical facility for hospital care or medical services.
(c) If the veteran changes his or her residence, the veteran must update VA about the change within 60 days.
(d) A veteran must provide to VA information on any health-care plan under which the veteran is covered prior to obtaining authorization for care under the Veterans Choice Program. If the veteran changes health-care plans, the veteran must update VA about the change within 60 days.
(e) For purposes of calculating the distance between a veteran's residence and the nearest VA medical facility under this section, VA will use the driving distance between the nearest VA medical facility and a veteran's residence. VA will calculate a veteran's driving distance using geographic information system software.
(Authority: Sec. 101, Pub. L. 113-146, 128 Stat. 1754; Section 3(a)(2) of Pub. L. 114-19, 129 Stat. 215)
(The information collection requirements have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget and are pending OMB approval.)
[79 FR 65585, Nov. 5, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 22909, Apr. 24, 2015; 80 FR 74996, Dec. 1, 2015]
§ 17.1515
Authorizing non-VA care.
(a)
Electing non-VA care.
A veteran eligible for the Veterans Choice Program under § 17.1510 may choose to schedule an appointment with a VA health care provider, be placed on an electronic waiting list for VA care, or have VA authorize the veteran to receive an episode of care for hospital care or medical services under 38 CFR 17.38 from an eligible entity or provider.
(b)
Selecting a non-VA provider.
An eligible veteran may specify a particular non-VA entity or health care provider, if that entity or health care provider meets the requirements of § 17.1530. If an eligible veteran does not specify a particular eligible entity or provider, VA will refer the veteran to a specific eligible entity or provider.
(Authority: Sec. 101, Pub. L. 113-146, 128 Stat. 1754)
(The information collection requirements have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget and are pending OMB approval.)
§ 17.1520
Effect on other provisions.
(a)
General.
In general, eligibility under the Veterans Choice Program does not affect a veteran's eligibility for hospital care or medical services under the medical benefits package, as defined in § 17.38, or other benefits addressed in this part. Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, VA will pay for and fill prescriptions written by eligible providers under § 17.1530 for eligible veterans under § 17.1510, including prescriptions for drugs, including over-the-counter drugs and medical and surgical supplies available under the VA national formulary system.
(b)
Copayments.
VA will be liable for any deductibles, cost-shares, or copayments required by an eligible veteran's health-care plan for hospital care and medical services furnished under this Program, to the extent that such reimbursement does not result in expenditures by VA for the furnished care or services in excess of the rate established under § 17.1535. Veterans are also liable for a VA copayment for care furnished under this Program, as required by §§ 17.108(b)(4), 17.108(c)(4), 17.110(b)(4), and 17.111(b)(3).
(c)
Beneficiary travel.
For veterans who are eligible for beneficiary travel benefits under part 70 of this chapter, VA will provide beneficiary travel benefits for travel to and from the location of the eligible entity or provider who furnishes hospital care or medical services for an authorized appointment under the Veterans Choice Program without regard to the limitations in § 70.30(b)(2) of this chapter.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 111; Sec. 101, Pub. L. 113-146, 128 Stat. 1754)
§ 17.1525
[Reserved]
§ 17.1530
Eligible entities and providers.
(a)
General.
An entity or provider is eligible to deliver care under the Veterans Choice Program if, in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, it is accessible to the veteran and is an entity or provider identified in section 101(a)(1)(B)(i)-(iv) of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 or is an entity identified in paragraph (e) of this section, and is either:
(1) Not a part of, or an employee of, VA; or
(2) If the provider is an employee of VA, is not acting within the scope of such employment while providing hospital care or medical services through the Veterans Choice Program.
(b)
Agreement.
An entity or provider must enter into an agreement with VA to provide non-VA hospital care or medical services to eligible veterans through one of the following types of agreements: contracts, intergovernmental agreements, or provider agreements. Each form of agreement must be executed by a duly authorized Department official.
(c)
Accessibility.
An entity or provider may only furnish hospital care or medical services to an eligible veteran if the entity or provider is accessible to the eligible veteran. VA will determine accessibility by considering the following factors:
(1) The length of time the eligible veteran would have to wait to receive hospital care or medical services from the entity or provider;
(2) The qualifications of the entity or provider to furnish the hospital care or medical services to the eligible veteran; and
(3) The distance between the eligible veteran's residence and the entity or provider.
(d)
Requirements for health care providers.
(1) To be eligible to furnish care or services under the Veterans Choice Program, a health care provider must:
(i) Maintain at least the same or similar credentials and licenses as those required of VA's health care providers, as determined by the Secretary. The agreement reached under paragraph (b) of this section will clarify these requirements. Eligible health care providers must submit verification of such licenses and credentials maintained by the provider to VA at least once per 12-month period.
(ii) Not be excluded from participation in a Federal health care program (as defined in section 1128B(f) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7b(f)) under section 1128 or 1128A of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7 and 1320a-7a)), not be identified as an excluded source on the list maintained in the System for Award Management or any successor system, and not be identified on the List of Excluded Individuals and Entities that is maintained by the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
(2) Any entities that are eligible to provide care through the Program must ensure that any of their providers furnishing care and services through the Program meet the standards identified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. An eligible entity may submit this information on behalf of its providers.
(e)
Other eligible entities and providers.
In accordance with sections 101(a)(1)(B)(v) and 101(d)(5) of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 (as amended), the following entities or providers are eligible to deliver care under the Veterans Choice Program, subject to the additional criteria established in this section.
(1) A health care provider that is participating in a State Medicaid plan under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396
et seq.
), including any physician furnishing services under such program, if the health care provider has an agreement under a State plan under title XIX of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396
et seq.
) or a waiver of such a plan;
(2) An Aging and Disability Resource Center, an area agency on aging, or a State agency (as defined in section 102 of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3002)), or a center for independent living (as defined in section 702 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 796a)).
(3) A health care provider that is not identified in paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section, if that provider meets all requirements under paragraph (d) of this section.
(Authority: Sec. 101, Pub. L. 113-146, 128 Stat. 1754; Sec. 4005, Pub. L. 114-41, 129 Stat. 443)
(The information collection requirements have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget and are pending OMB approval.)
[79 FR 65585, Nov. 5, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 74996, Dec. 1, 2015; 81 FR 24027, Apr. 25, 2016]
§ 17.1535
Payment rates and methodologies.
(a)
Payment rates.
Payment rates will be negotiated and set forth in an agreement between the Secretary and an eligible entity or provider.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, payment rates may not exceed the rates paid by the United States to a provider of services (as defined in section 1861(u) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(u)) or a supplier (as defined in section 1861(d) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(d)) under the Medicare program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.) for the same care or services. These rates are known as the “Medicare Fee Schedule” for VA purposes.
(2) For eligible entities or providers in highly rural areas, the Secretary may enter into an agreement that includes a rate greater than the rate defined paragraph (a)(1) of this section for hospital care or medical services, so long as such rate is still determined by VA to be fair and reasonable. The term “highly rural area” means an area located in a county that has fewer than seven individuals residing in that county per square mile.
(3) For eligible entities or providers in Alaska, the Secretary may enter
into agreements at rates established under §§ 17.55(j) and 17.56(b).
(4) For eligible entities or providers in a State with an All-Payer Model Agreement under the Social Security Act that became effective on January 1, 2014, payment rates will be calculated based on the payment rates under such agreement.
(5) When there are no available rates as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Secretary shall, to the extent consistent with the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014, follow the process and methodology outlined in §§ 17.55 and 17.56 and pay the resulting rate.
(b)
Payment responsibilities.
Responsibility for payments will be as follows.
(1) For a nonservice-connected disability, as that term is defined at § 3.1(
l
) of this chapter, a health-care plan of an eligible veteran is primarily responsible, to the extent such care or services is covered by the health-care plan, for paying the eligible entity or provider for such hospital care or medical services as are authorized under §§ 17.1500 through 17.1540 and furnished to an eligible veteran. VA shall be responsible for promptly paying only for costs of the VA-authorized service not covered by such health-care plan, including a payment made by the veteran, except that such payment may not exceed the rate determined for such care or services pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) For hospital care or medical services furnished for a service-connected disability, as that term is defined at § 3.1(k) of this chapter, or pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 1710(e), 1720D, or 1720E, VA is solely responsible for paying the eligible entity or provider for such hospital care or medical services as are authorized under §§ 17.1500 through 17.1540 and furnished to an eligible veteran.
(c)
Authorized care.
VA will only pay for an episode of care for hospital care or medical services authorized by VA. The eligible entity or provider must contact VA to receive authorization prior to providing any hospital care or medical services the eligible non-VA entity or provider believes are necessary that are not identified in the authorization VA submits to the eligible entity or provider. VA will only pay for the hospital care or medical services that are furnished by an eligible entity or provider. There must be an actual encounter with a health care provider, who is either an employee of an entity in an agreement with VA or who is furnishing care through an agreement the health care provider has entered into with VA, and such encounter must occur after an election is made by an eligible veteran.
(Authority: Secs. 101, 105, Pub. L. 113-146, 128 Stat. 1754)
[79 FR 65585, Nov. 5, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 66428, Oct. 29, 2015]
§ 17.1540
Claims processing system.
(a) There is established within the Chief Business Office of the Veterans Health Administration a nationwide claims processing system for processing and paying bills or claims for authorized hospital care and medical services furnished to eligible veterans under §§ 17.1500 through 17.1540.
(b) The Chief Business Office is responsible for overseeing the implementation and maintenance of such system.
(c) The claims processing system will receive requests for payment from eligible entities and providers for hospital care or medical services furnished to eligible veterans. The claims processing system will provide accurate, timely payments for claims received in accordance with §§ 17.1500 through 17.1540.
(Authority: Secs. 101, 105, Pub. L. 113-146, 128 Stat. 1754)

# Vet Centers
§ 17.2000
Vet Center services.
(a)
Eligibility for readjustment counseling.
Upon request, VA will provide readjustment counseling to any individual who:
(1) Is a veteran or member of the Armed Forces, including a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces, who:
(i) Served on active duty in a theater of combat operations or an area of hostilities (
i.e.,
an area at a time during which hostilities occurred in that area); or
(ii) Provided direct emergency medical or mental health care, or mortuary services, to the causalities of combat operations or hostilities, but who at the time was located outside the theater of combat operations or area of hostilities; or
(iii) Engaged in combat with an enemy of the United States or against an opposing military force in a theater of combat operations or an area at a time during which hostilities occurred in that area by remotely controlling an unmanned aerial vehicle operations, notwithstanding whether the physical location of such veteran or member during such combat was within such theater of combat operations or area. Individuals who remotely control unmanned aerial vehicles includes, but is not limited to, individuals who pilot the unmanned aerial vehicle as well as individuals who are crew members of the unmanned aerial vehicle and participate in combat related missions. The crew members include, but are not limited to, intelligence analysts or weapons specialists who control the cameras, engage the weapon systems, as well as those individuals who are directly responsible for the mission of the unmanned aerial vehicle.
(2) Received counseling under this section before January 2, 2013.
(3) Is a family member of a veteran or member of the Armed Forces, including a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces, who is eligible for readjustment counseling under paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section. For purposes of this section, family member includes, but is not limited to, the spouse, parent, child, step-family member, extended family member, and any individual who lives with the veteran or member of the Armed Forces, including a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces, but is not a member of the veteran's or member's family.
(b)
Proof of eligibility.
With the veteran's or member's of the Armed Forces, including a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces, consent, VA will assist in obtaining proof of eligibility. For the purposes of this section, proof of service in a theater of combat operations or in an area during a period of hostilities in that area will be established by:
(1) A DD Form 214 (Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty) containing notations of service in a designated theater of combat operations; or
(2) Receipt of one of the following medals: The Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal, Service Specific Expeditionary Medal (e.g., Navy Expeditionary Medal), Combat Era Specific Expeditionary Medal (e.g., the Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal), Campaign Specific Medal (e.g., Vietnam Service Medal or Iraq Campaign Medal), or other combat theater awards established by public law or executive order; or
(3) Proof of receipt of Hostile Fire or Imminent Danger Pay (commonly referred to as “combat pay”) or combat tax exemption after November 11, 1998.
(c)
Referral and advice.
Upon request, VA will provide an individual who does not meet the eligibility requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, solely because the individual was discharged under dishonorable conditions from active military, naval, or air service, the following:
(1) Referral services to assist such individual, to the maximum extent practicable, in obtaining mental health care and services from sources outside VA; and
(2) If pertinent, advice to such individual concerning such individual's rights to apply to:
(i) The appropriate military, naval or air service for review of such individual's discharge or release from such service; and
(ii) VA for a VA benefits eligibility determination under 38 CFR 3.12.
(d)
Readjustment counseling defined.
For the purposes of this section, readjustment counseling includes, but is not limited to: Psychosocial assessment, individual counseling, group counseling, marital and family counseling for military-related readjustment issues, substance abuse assessments, medical referrals, referral for additional VA benefits, employment assessment and referral, military sexual trauma counseling and referral, bereavement counseling, and outreach. A “psychosocial assessment” under this
paragraph means the holistic assessing of an individual's psychological, social, and functional capacities as it relates to their readjustment from combat theaters. Readjustment counseling is provided to:
(1) Veterans and members of the Armed Forces, including a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces, for the purpose of readjusting to civilian life or readjustment to continued military service following participation in or in support of operations in a combat theater or area of hostility.
(2) A family member of a member of the Armed Forces, including a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces, for the purpose of coping with such member's deployment.
(3) A family member of a veteran or member of the Armed Forces, including a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces, to aid in a veteran's or member's readjustment to civilian or continued military service following participation in or in support of operations in a combat theater or area of hostility, only as it relates to the veteran's or member's military experience.
(e)
Confidentiality.
Benefits under this section are furnished solely by VA Vet Centers, which maintain confidential records independent from any other VA or Department of Defense medical records and which will not disclose such records without either the veteran's or member's of the Armed Forces, including a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces, voluntary, signed authorization, or a specific exception permitting their release. For more information, see 5 U.S.C. 552a, 38 U.S.C. 5701 and 7332, 45 CFR parts 160 and 164, and VA's System of Records 64VA15, “Readjustment Counseling Service Vet Center Program.” The term Vet Center means a facility that is operated by VA for the provision of services under this section and that is situated apart from a VA general health care facility.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1712A, 1782, and 1783)
[78 FR 57073, Sept. 17, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 46200, Aug. 4, 2015]

# Home Improvements and Structural Alterations (HISA) Program

# Source:
Sections 17.3100 through 17.3130 appear at 79 FR 71660, Dec. 3, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.3100
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of §§ 17.3100 through 17.3130 is to implement the Home Improvements and Structural Alterations (HISA) program. The purpose of the HISA benefits program is to provide eligible beneficiaries monetary benefits for improvements and structural alterations to their homes when such improvements and structural alterations:
(1) Are necessary for the continuation of the provision of home health treatment of the beneficiary's disability; or
(2) Provide the beneficiary with access to the home or to essential lavatory and sanitary facilities.
(b)
Scope.
38 CFR 17.3100 through 17.3130 apply only to the administration of the HISA benefits program, unless specifically provided otherwise.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1717(a)(2))
§ 17.3101
Definitions.
For the purposes of the HISA benefits program (§§ 17.3100 through 17.3130):
Access to essential lavatory and sanitary facilities
means having normal use of the standard structural components of those facilities.
Access to the home
means the ability of the beneficiary to enter and exit the home and to maneuver within the home to at least one bedroom and essential lavatory and sanitary facilities.
Beneficiary
means a veteran or servicemember who is awarded or who is eligible to receive HISA benefits.
Essential lavatory and sanitary facilities
means one bathroom equipped with a toilet and a shower or bath, one kitchen, and one laundry facility.
HISA benefits
means a monetary payment by VA to be used for improvements and structural alterations to the home of a beneficiary in accordance with §§ 17.3100 through 17.3130.
Home
means the primary place where the beneficiary resides or, in the case
of a servicemember, where the beneficiary intends to reside after discharge from service.
Improvement or structural alteration
means a modification to a home or to an existing feature or fixture of a home, including repairs to or replacement of previously improved or altered features or fixtures.
Undergoing medical discharge
means that a servicemember has been found unfit for duty due to a medical condition by their Service's Physical Evaluation Board, and a date of medical discharge has been issued.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1717)
§ 17.3102
Eligibility.
The following individuals are eligible for HISA benefits:
(a) A veteran who is eligible for medical services under 38 U.S.C. 1710(a).
(b) A servicemember who is undergoing medical discharge from the Armed Forces for a permanent disability that was incurred or aggravated in the line of duty in the active military, naval, or air service. A servicemember would be eligible for HISA benefits while hospitalized or receiving outpatient medical care, services, or treatment for such permanent disability.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1717)
§§ 17.3103-17.3104
[Reserved]
§ 17.3105
HISA benefit lifetime limits.
(a)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, a beneficiary's HISA benefit is limited to the lifetime amount established in paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section, as applicable. A beneficiary may use HISA benefits to pay for more than one home alteration, until the beneficiary exhausts his or her lifetime benefit. HISA benefits approved by VA for use in a particular home alteration but unused by the beneficiary will remain available for future use.
(b)
HISA benefits for a service-connected disability, a disability treated “as if” it were service connected, or for veterans with a service-connected disability rated 50 percent or more.
(1) If a veteran:
(i) Applies for HISA benefits to address a service-connected disability;
(ii) Applies for HISA benefits to address a compensable disability treated “as if” it is a service-connected disability and for which the veteran is entitled to medical services under 38 U.S.C. 1710(a)(2)(C) (
e.g.,
a disability acquired through treatment or vocational rehabilitation provided by VA); or
(iii) Applies for HISA benefits to address a nonservice-connected disability, if the beneficiary has a service-connected disability rated at least 50 percent disabling; and
(2) The veteran first applies for HISA benefits:
(i) Before May 5, 2010, then the veteran's lifetime HISA benefit limit is $4,100.
(ii) On or after May 5, 2010, then the veteran's lifetime HISA benefit limit is $6,800.
(c)
HISA benefits for any other disabilities.
If a veteran who is eligible for medical services under 38 U.S.C. 1710(a) applies for HISA benefits to address a disability that is not covered under paragraph (b) of this section, and the veteran first applies for HISA benefits:
(1) Before May 5, 2010, then the veteran's lifetime HISA benefit limit is $1,200; or
(2) On or after May 5, 2010, then the veteran's lifetime HISA benefit limit is $2,000.
(d)
Servicemembers.
If a servicemember is eligible for HISA benefits under § 17.3102(b), and the servicemember first applies:
(1) Before May 5, 2010, then the servicemember's HISA benefit lifetime limit is $4,100; or
(2) On or after May 5, 2010, then the servicemember's HISA benefit lifetime limit is $6,800.
(e)
Increases to HISA benefit lifetime limit.
(1) A veteran who received HISA benefits under paragraph (c) of this section, and who subsequently qualifies for HISA benefits under paragraph (b)(1) of this section on or after May 5, 2010, due to a new award of disability compensation based on service connection or an increased disability rating, may apply for the increased lifetime benefit amount under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section. The increased amount that will be available is $6,800
minus the amount of HISA benefits previously used by the beneficiary.
(2) A veteran who previously received HISA benefits as a servicemember is not eligible for a new lifetime HISA benefit amount based on his or her attaining veteran status, but the veteran may file a HISA claim for any HISA benefit amounts not used prior to discharge. The veteran's subsequent HISA award cannot exceed the applicable award amount under paragraphs (b), (c), or (e)(1) of this section, as applicable, minus the amount of HISA benefits awarded to the veteran while the veteran was a servicemember.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1717)
§§ 17.3106-17.3119
[Reserved]
§ 17.3120
Application for HISA benefits.
(a)
Application package.
To apply for HISA benefits, the beneficiary must submit to VA a complete HISA benefits application package. A complete HISA benefits application package includes all of the following:
(1) A prescription, which VA may obtain on the beneficiary's behalf, written or approved by a VA physician that includes all of the following:
(i) The beneficiary's name, address, and telephone number.
(ii) Identification of the prescribed improvement or structural alteration.
(iii) The diagnosis and medical justification for the prescribed improvement or structural alteration.
(2) A completed and signed VA Form 10-0103, Veterans Application for Assistance in Acquiring Home Improvement and Structural Alterations, including, if desired, a request for advance payment of HISA benefits.
(3) A signed statement from the owner of the property authorizing the improvement or structural alteration to the property. The statement must be notarized if the beneficiary submitting the HISA benefits application is not the owner of the property.
(4) A written itemized estimate of costs for labor, materials, permits, and inspections for the home improvement or structural alteration.
(5) A color photograph of the unimproved area.
(b)
Pre-award inspection of site.
The beneficiary must allow VA to inspect the site of the proposed improvement or structural alteration. VA will not approve a HISA application unless VA has either conducted a pre-award inspection or has determined that no such inspection is needed. No later than 30 days after receiving a complete HISA benefits application, VA will conduct the inspection or determine that no inspection is required.
(c)
Incomplete applications.
If VA receives an incomplete HISA benefits application, VA will notify the applicant of the missing documentation. If the missing documentation is not received by VA within 30 days after such notification, VA will close the application and notify the applicant that the application has been closed. The closure notice will indicate that the application may be re-opened by submitting the requested documentation and updating any outdated information from the original application.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1717)
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0188)
§§ 17.3121-17.3124
[Reserved]
§ 17.3125
Approving HISA benefits applications.
(a)
Approval of application.
VA will approve the HISA benefits application if:
(1) The application is consistent with §§ 17.3100 through 17.3130, and
(2) VA determines that the proposed improvement or structural alteration is reasonably designed to address the needs of the beneficiary and is appropriate for the beneficiary's home, based on documentation provided and/or through a pre-award inspection of the home.
(b)
Notification of approval.
No later than 30 days after a beneficiary submits a complete application, VA will notify the beneficiary whether an application is approved. The notification will:
(1) State the total benefit amount authorized for the improvement or structural alteration.
(2) State the amount of any advance payment, if requested by the beneficiary, and state that the advance payment must be used for the improvements or structural alterations detailed in the application. The notification will also remind beneficiaries receiving advance payment of the obligation to submit the request for final payment upon completion of the construction.
(3) Provide the beneficiary with the notice of the right to appeal if they do not agree with VA's decision regarding the award.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1717, 7104)
§ 17.3126
Disapproving HISA benefits applications.
VA will disapprove a HISA benefits application if the complete HISA benefits application does not meet all of the criteria outlined in § 17.3125(a). Notification of the decision provided to the beneficiary will include the basis for the disapproval and notice to the beneficiary of his or her right to appeal.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 7104)
§§ 17.3127-17.3129
[Reserved]
§ 17.3130
HISA benefits payment procedures.
(a)
Advance payment.
If the beneficiary has requested advance payment of HISA benefits in VA Form 10-0103, as provided in § 17.3120(a)(2), VA will make an advance payment to the beneficiary equal to 50 percent of the total benefit authorized for the improvement or structural alteration. VA will make the advance payment no later than 30 days after the HISA benefits application is approved. The beneficiary may receive only one advance payment for each approved HISA benefits application. A beneficiary must use the advance payment only for the improvement or structural alteration described in the application and must submit a final payment request, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, to document such use after the construction is finished.
(b)
Final payment request.
No later than 60 days after the application is approved or, if VA approved an advance payment, no later than 60 days after the advance payment was made, the beneficiary must submit a complete final payment request to VA for payment. The complete final payment request must include:
(1) A statement by the beneficiary that the improvement or structural alteration, as indicated in the application, was completed;
(2) A color photograph of the completed work; and
(3) Documentation of the itemized actual costs for material, labor, permits, and inspections.
(c)
VA action on final payment request.
(1) Prior to approving and remitting the final payment, VA may inspect (within 30 days after receiving the final payment request) the beneficiary's home to determine that the improvement or structural alteration was completed as indicated in the application. No payment will be made if the improvement or structural alteration has not been completed.
(2) No later than 30 days after receipt of a complete final payment request, or, if VA conducts an inspection of the home under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, no later than 30 days after the inspection, VA will make a determination on the final payment request. If approved, VA will remit a final payment to the beneficiary equal to the lesser of:
(i) The approved HISA benefit amount, less the amount of any advance payment, or
(ii) The total actual cost of the improvement or structural alteration, less the amount of any advance payment.
(3) If the total actual cost of the improvement or structural alteration is less than the amount paid to the beneficiary as an advance payment, the beneficiary will reimburse VA for the difference between the advance payment and the total actual costs.
(4) After final payment is made on a HISA benefits application, the application file will be closed and no future HISA benefits will be furnished to the beneficiary for that application. If the total actual cost of the improvement or structural alteration is less than the approved HISA benefit, the balance of the approved amount will be credited to the beneficiary's remaining HISA benefits lifetime balance.
(d)
Failure to submit a final payment request.
(1) If an advance payment was made to the beneficiary, but the beneficiary fails to submit a final payment request in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section within 60 days of the date of the advance payment, VA will send a notice to remind the beneficiary of the obligation to submit the final payment request. If the beneficiary fails to submit the final payment request or to provide a suitable update and explanation of delay within 30 days of this notice, VA may take appropriate action to collect the amount of the advance payment from the beneficiary.
(2) If an advance payment was not made to the beneficiary and the beneficiary does not submit a final payment request in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section within 60 days of the date the application was approved, the application will be closed and no future HISA benefits will be furnished to the beneficiary for that application. Before closing the application, VA will send a notice to the beneficiary of the intent to close the file. If the beneficiary does not respond with a suitable update and explanation for the delay within 30 days, VA will close the file and provide a final notice of closure. The notice will include information about the right to appeal the decision.
(e)
Failure to make approved improvements or structural alterations.
If an inspection conducted pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section reveals that the improvement or structural alteration has not been completed as indicated in the final payment request, VA may take appropriate action to collect the amount of the advance payment from the beneficiary. VA will not seek to collect the amount of the advance payment from the beneficiary if the beneficiary provides documentation indicating that the project was not completed due to the fault of the contractor, including bankruptcy or misconduct of the contractor.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1717)
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirement in this section under control number 2900-0188)

# Prosthetic and Rehabilitative Items and Services

# Source:
Sections 17.3200 through 17.3250, appear at 85 FR 84259, Dec. 28, 2020 unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.3200
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this section and §§ 17.3210 through 17.3250 is to establish eligibility and other criteria for the provision to veterans of the prosthetic and rehabilitative items and services, listed in § 17.3230, authorized as medical services under 38 U.S.C. 1701(6)(F) and 38 U.S.C. 1710(a).
(b)
Scope.
This section and §§ 17.3210 through 17.3250 apply only to items and services listed in § 17.3230(a) and authorized to be provided as medical services under 38 U.S.C. 1701(6)(F) and 38 U.S.C. 1710(a). The provision of the items or services and payments in table 1 to this paragraph (b) are authorized in whole or in part by separate statutes and controlled by other implementing regulations:
Table 1 to Paragraph (b)
Item or service
Statute
Regulation(s)
Clothing allowance
38 U.S.C. 1162
38 CFR 3.810
Service and guide dog benefits
38 U.S.C. 1714(b)
(c)
38 CFR 17.148
Sensori-neural aids
38 U.S.C. 1707(b)
38 CFR 17.149
Patient lifts and other rehabilitative devices
38 U.S.C. 1717(b)
38 CFR 17.151
Devices for deaf veterans
38 U.S.C. 1717(c)
38 CFR 17.152
Equipment for blind veterans
38 U.S.C. 1714(b)
38 CFR 17.154
Automobile adaptive equipment
38 U.S.C. 3901
et seq
.
38 CFR 17.155 through 17.159
Home improvements and structural alterations
38 U.S.C. 1717(a)(2)
38 CFR 17.3100 through 17.3130
§ 17.3210
Definitions.
For the purposes of §§ 17.3200 through 17.3250:
Activities of daily living (ADL)
means specific personal care activities that are required for basic daily maintenance and sustenance, to include eating, toileting, bathing, grooming, dressing and undressing, and mobility.
Adaptive household item
means a durable household item that has been adapted to compensate for, or that by design compensates for, loss of physical, sensory, or cognitive function and is necessary to complete one or more ADLs in the home or other residential setting. Adaptive household items include but are not limited to adaptive eating utensils, shower stools or chairs, hooks to assist in buttoning clothing, or shoe horns. This definition does not include household furniture or furnishings, improvements or structural alterations, or household appliances, unless a household appliance is necessary to complete an ADL in the home or other residential setting. VA will not furnish such items or services in such a manner as to relieve any other person or entity of a contractual obligation to furnish these items or services to the veteran.
Adaptive recreation equipment
means an item that is designed to compensate for, or that by design compensates for, loss of physical, sensory, or cognitive function and is necessary for the veteran to actively and regularly participate in a sport, recreation, or leisure activity to achieve the veteran's rehabilitation goals as documented in the veteran's medical record.
Cognitive device
means an item that compensates for a cognitive impairment and that is used to maintain or improve a veteran's functional capabilities, including but not limited to technological equipment such as tablets and smart phones, and associated technological equipment, applications or software that can assist veterans in maintaining daily scheduling of important tasks or navigating their surroundings (
e.g.,
global positioning system, or GPS).
Communication device
means an item that compensates for a communication deficiency and allows participation in daily communication activities, including but not limited to picture or symbol communication boards and an electro larynx.
Durable
means capable of, and intended for, repeat use.
Home exercise equipment
means an item used in a home or residential setting that compensates for a loss of physical, sensory, or cognitive function and that is necessary for the veteran to actively and regularly participate in aerobic, fitness, strength, or flexibility activities to achieve the veteran's rehabilitation goals as documented in the veteran's medical record, when there is no other means for the veteran to exercise to achieve the veteran's rehabilitation goals. Such equipment includes but is not limited to an upper body ergometer and a functional electrical stimulation cycle.
Home medical equipment
means an item that is a movable and durable medical device that is used in a home or residential setting to treat or support treatment of specific medical conditions. Such equipment includes but is not limited to hospital beds, portable patient lifts, portable ramps, ventilators, home dialysis equipment, and infusion, feeding, or wound therapy pumps. This definition does not include household furniture or furnishings, improvements or structural alterations, or household appliances. VA will not furnish home medical equipment in such a manner as to relieve any other person or entity of a contractual obligation to furnish these items or services to the veteran.
Home respiratory equipment
means an item used to provide oxygen therapy or to support or enhance respiratory function, including but not limited to compressed oxygen, oxygen concentrators, and continuous positive airway pressure machines.
Household appliance
means an item used in the home for performance of domestic chores or other domestic tasks, including but not limited to a refrigerator, stove, washing machine, and vacuum cleaner.
Household furniture or furnishing
means an item commonly used to make a home habitable or otherwise used to ornament a home, including but not limited to tables, chairs, desks, lamps,
cabinets, non-hospital beds, curtains, and carpet(s).
Implant
means any biological or non-biological material that:
(1) Is manufactured or processed to be placed into a surgically or naturally formed cavity on the human body;
(2) Is covered with tissue, has the potential to be covered with tissue, or is permanently embedded in tissue;
(3) Does not dissolve or dissipate within the body; and
(4) Is not a living organ, embryonic tissue, blood, or blood product.
Improvements or structural alterations
means a modification to a home or to an existing feature or fixture of a home, including repairs to or replacement of previously improved or altered features or fixtures.
Mobility aid
means an item that compensates for a mobility impairment and that is used to maintain or improve a veteran's functional capabilities to be mobile. Mobility aids include but are not limited to manual and motorized wheelchairs, canes, walkers, and equipment to assist a veteran to reach for or grasp items. This definition does not include a service or guide dog.
Orthotic device
means an item fitted externally to the body that is used to support, align, prevent, or correct deformities or to improve the function of movable parts of the body. Orthotic devices include but are not limited to leg braces, upper extremity splints and braces, and functional stimulation devices.
Primary residence
means the personal domicile or residential setting in which the veteran resides the majority of the year.
Prosthetic device
means an item that replaces a missing or defective body part. Prosthetic devices include but are not limited to artificial limbs and artificial eyes.
Replacement item
means an item that is similar or identical to an item provided under § 17.3230(a), and that takes the place of such an item.
VA-authorized vendor
means a vendor that has been authorized by VA to provide items and services under § 17.3230.
§ 17.3220
Eligibility.
A veteran is eligible to receive items and services described in § 17.3230 if:
(a) The veteran is enrolled under § 17.36 or exempt from enrollment under § 17.37(a) through (c); and
(b) The veteran is otherwise receiving care or services under chapter 17 of title 38 U.S.C. If a VA provider or an eligible entity or provider as defined in § 17.4005 prescribes an item or service for the veteran, the veteran is considered to otherwise be receiving care or services under chapter 17 of title 38 U.S.C.
§ 17.3230
Authorized items and services.
(a)(1) VA will provide veterans eligible under § 17.3220 with the following items and services if VA determines that such items and services are needed under § 17.38(b), serve as a direct and active component of the veteran's medical treatment and rehabilitation, and do not solely support the comfort or convenience of the veteran:
(i) Adaptive household items.
(ii) Adaptive recreation equipment.
(iii) Cognitive devices.
(iv) Communication devices.
(v) Home exercise equipment, where such equipment will only be provided for one location, the veteran's primary residence, unless it is clinically determined that the equipment should be provided at the veteran's non-primary residence instead of the veteran's primary residence. Prior to any installation of home exercise equipment, the owner of the residence must agree to the installation. Such equipment will only be provided to achieve the veteran's rehabilitation goals as documented in the veteran's medical record.
(vi) Home medical equipment, and if required, installation that does not amount to an improvement or structural alteration to a veteran's residence. Such equipment will only be provided for one location, the veteran's primary residence, unless it is clinically determined that the equipment should be provided at the veteran's non-primary residence instead of the veteran's primary residence. Prior to any installation of home medical
equipment, the owner of the residence must agree to the installation.
(vii) Home respiratory equipment.
(viii) Implants.
(ix) Mobility aids.
(x) Orthotic devices.
(xi) Prosthetic devices.
(xii) Repairs to items provided under paragraph (a) of this section, even if the item was not initially prescribed by VA, unless VA determines to replace the item for cost or clinical reasons.
(xiii) Replacement items, if items provided under this section have been damaged, destroyed, lost, or stolen, or if replacement is clinically indicated, subject to the following: Items that are serviceable, and that still meet the veteran's need, will not be replaced for the sole purpose of obtaining a newer model of the same or similar item.
(xiv) Specialized clothing made necessary by the wearing of a prosthetic device.
(xv) Training with and fitting of prescribed items.
(2) Paragraph (a)(1) of this section supplements the requirement in § 17.38(b) for a determination of need but only with respect to the provision of items and services listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The exclusions under § 17.38(c) will apply to the items and services provided under this section. While VA will generally provide only one item under this section, the provision of spare items may be authorized based on a clinical determination of need using the criteria set forth in this section.
(b) Unless an item provided under § 17.3230(a) is loaned to the veteran based on a clinical determination that a loan is more beneficial for the veteran, such items become the property of the veteran once the veteran takes possession of those items. If the determination is that the item will be loaned to a veteran, the veteran must agree to the terms of the loan in order to receive the item.
§ 17.3240
Furnishing authorized items and services.
(a)(1) VA providers, or eligible entities and providers as defined in § 17.4005, will prescribe items and services in accordance with § 17.3230(a) and will do so in consultation with the veteran.
(2) Once the item or service is prescribed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, VA will either fill such prescriptions directly or will pay for such prescriptions to be furnished through a VA-authorized vendor.
(3) The determination under paragraph (a)(2) of this section of whether a prescription will be filled by VA directly or will be furnished by a VA-authorized vendor will be based on, but not limited to, such factors as the veteran's clinical needs, VA capacity and availability, geographic availability, and cost.
(b) Except for emergency care under §§ 17.120 through 17.132, §§ 17.1000 through 17.1008, or § 17.4020(c), or urgent care under § 17.4600, prior authorization of items and services under § 17.3230 is required for VA to reimburse VA-authorized vendors for furnishing such items or services to veterans.
§ 17.3250
Veteran responsibilities.
(a) Veterans must use items provided under §§ 17.3230 and 17.3240 as they are prescribed, and consistent with the manufacturer's instructions and any training provided. Failure to do so may result in the item not being replaced under § 17.3230(a)(13).
(b) Except for emergency care under §§ 17.120 through 17.132, §§ 17.1000 through 17.1008, or § 17.4020(c), or urgent care under § 17.4600, veterans obtaining items and services provided under § 17.3230 must obtain prior authorization from VA in order to obtain VA reimbursement for such items and services obtained from a VA-authorized vendor. VA will not be responsible for the cost of items and services provided that are not preauthorized by VA or not covered as emergency care under §§ 17.120 through 17.132, §§ 17.1000 through 17.1008, or § 17.4020(c), or urgent care under § 17.4600.

# Clinical Laboratory Standards
§ 17.3500
VA application of 42 CFR part 493 standards for clinical laboratory operations.
Laboratory testing within VA performed for the diagnosis, prevention, or
treatment of any disease or impairment of, or health assessment of, human beings must meet, at a minimum, requirements established under the following subparts of 42 CFR part 493 as implemented by VA. Except as noted below, functions and responsibilities assigned to the Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services (CMS) in 42 CFR part 493 are implemented by VA at VA laboratories and outreach clinics, as well as with contracted laboratory services performed on site at VA laboratories or other testing sites. Provisions that are specific to oversight by state licensure programs are not applicable. VA administers the application of the relevant provisions of 42 CFR part 493 to VA laboratories as follows:
(a)
General provisions.
All provisions in subpart A of 42 CFR part 493 apply to VA with the following exceptions:
(1) Functions assigned to HHS in this subpart are performed by VA.
(2) While 42 CFR part 493 requires laboratories that perform waived, moderate and high complexity tests to meet the regulations, VA requires VA laboratories meet or exceed the requirements of 42 CFR part 493.
(b)
Certificate of waiver.
All provisions in subpart B of 42 CFR part 493 apply to VA, except that:
(1) Certificates issued by HHS under this subpart are instead issued by VA pursuant to an agreement between CMS and VA.
(2) CMS does not require remittance of a fee from laboratories for any certificate issued by the VA under this subpart.
(c)
Registration certificate, certificate for provider-performed microscopy procedures, and certificate of compliance.
All provisions in subpart C of 42 CFR part 493 apply to VA, except that:
(1) Certificates issued by HHS under this subpart are instead issued by VA pursuant to an agreement between CMS and VA.
(2) CMS does not require remittance of a fee from laboratories for any certificate issued by VA under this subpart.
(d)
Certificates of accreditation.
All provisions in subpart D of 42 CFR part 493 apply to VA, except that:
(1) Certificates issued by HHS under this subpart are instead issued by VA pursuant to an agreement between CMS and VA.
(2) CMS does not require remittance of a fee from laboratories for any certificate issued by VA under this subpart.
(e)
Accreditation by a private, nonprofit accreditation organization or exemption under an approved state laboratory program.
All provisions in subpart E of 42 CFR part 493 apply to VA, to the extent that this subpart addresses accreditation by a private, nonprofit accreditation organization. VA applies this subpart as follows:
(1) VA relies on CMS to grant deeming authority for accreditation organizations. VA uses only an accreditation agency with deeming authority to determine whether a laboratory is in compliance with standards established by the accreditation organization. VA determines whether the laboratory is in compliance with any additional standard established by VA which is:
(i) More stringent than that required for accreditation purposes, or
(ii) Not addressed by accreditation standards or 42 CFR part 493.
(2) VA uses only CMS-approved proficiency testing providers.
(3) Proficiency testing providers release proficiency testing results directly to VA.
(4) VA, rather than CMS, performs inspections of VA laboratories.
(5) Oversight and enforcement functions under this subpart are performed by VA.
(f)
General administration.
Subpart F of 42 CFR part 493 sets forth the methodology for determining the amount of the fees for issuing the appropriate certificate, and for determining compliance with the applicable standards of the Public Health Service Act and the Federal validation of accredited laboratories and of CLIA-exempt laboratories. This subpart is inapplicable to VA, as CMS does not collect fees for certification of VA laboratories.
(g)
Participation in proficiency testing for laboratories performing nonwaived testing.
All provisions in subpart H of 42 CFR part 493 apply to VA, except that all enforcement and oversight functions related to proficiency testing which are assigned to HHS in this subpart are performed by VA.
(h)
Proficiency testing programs for nonwaived testing.
All provisions in subpart I of 42 CFR part 493 apply to VA, and VA employs scoring criteria under this subpart. VA uses only CMS approved proficiency testing providers. Enforcement and oversight functions related to proficiency testing which are assigned to HHS in this subpart are performed by VA.
(i)
Facility administration for nonwaived testing.
VA applies standards established in Subpart J of 42 CFR part 493.
(j)
Quality system for nonwaived testing.
VA applies standards established in Subpart K of 42 CFR part 493.
(k)
Personnel for nonwaived testing.
VA applies standards established in subpart M of 42 CFR part 493, except that requirements regarding maintaining a license in the state where the laboratory is located are not applicable.
(l)
Inspection.
VA applies standards established in subpart Q of 42 CFR part 493, except that all enforcement and oversight functions, which are assigned to HHS in this subpart are performed by VA.
(m)
Enforcement procedures.
VA applies standards established in subpart R of 42 CFR part 493, except:
(1) Enforcement and oversight functions which are assigned to HHS in this subpart are performed by VA.
(2) Due process protections afforded by CMS to CMS certified laboratories facing sanctions are not applicable to laboratories operating under this section.
(3) Suspension of the right to Medicare or Medicaid payments as an available sanction is not applicable. VA does not participate in these programs.
(4) State onsite monitoring and monetary penalties imposed by CMS as an alternate sanction under 42 CFR 493.1806(c) are not applicable.
(5) VA may cease laboratory testing immediately at any site subject to this section upon notification of immediate jeopardy to patients.
(6) VA does not participate in laboratory registry under 42 CFR 493.1850. VA may disclose laboratory information useful in evaluating the performance of laboratories under 5 U.S.C. 552.
(n)
Consultations.
Subpart T of 42 CFR part 493 requires HHS to establish a Clinical Laboratory Improvement Advisory Committee (CLIAC) to advise and make recommendations on technical and scientific aspects of the provisions of part 493. This subpart does not apply to VA.
[86 FR 24498, May 7, 2021]

# Veterans Community Care Program

# Source:
Sections 17.4000 through 17.4040, appear as 84 FR 26307, June 5, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.4000
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
Sections 17.4000 through 17.4040 implement the Veterans Community Care Program, authorized by 38 U.S.C. 1703.
(b)
Scope.
The Veterans Community Care Program establishes when a covered veteran may elect to have VA authorize an episode of care for hospital care, medical services, or extended care services from an eligible entity or provider. Sections 17.4000 through 17.4040 do not affect eligibility for non-VA care under sections 1724, 1725, 1725A, or 1728 of title 38, United States Code.
§ 17.4005
Definitions.
For purposes of the Veterans Community Care Program under §§ 17.4000 through 17.4040:
Appointment
means an authorized and scheduled encounter, including telehealth and same-day encounters, with a health care provider for the delivery of hospital care, medical services, or extended care services.
Covered veteran
means a veteran enrolled under the system of patient enrollment in § 17.36, or a veteran who otherwise meets the criteria to receive care and services notwithstanding his or her failure to enroll in § 17.37(a) through (c).
Eligible entity or provider
means a health care entity or provider that meets the requirements of § 17.4030.
Episode of care
means a necessary course of treatment, including follow-up appointments and ancillary and specialty services, which lasts no longer than 1 calendar year.
Extended care services
include the same services as described in 38 U.S.C. 1710B(a).
Full-service VA medical facility
means a VA medical facility that provides hospital care, emergency medical services, and surgical care and having a surgical complexity designation of at least “standard.”
Note 1 to the definition of “full-service VA medical facility”: VA maintains a website with a list of the facilities that have been designated with at least a surgical complexity of “standard,” which can be accessed on VA's website.
Hospital care
has the same meaning as defined in 38 U.S.C. 1701(5).
Medical services
have the same meaning as defined in 38 U.S.C. 1701(6).
Other health-care plan contract
means an insurance policy or contract, medical or hospital service agreement, membership or subscription contract, or similar arrangement not administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, under which health services for individuals are provided or the expenses of such services are paid; and does not include any such policy, contract, agreement, or similar arrangement pursuant to title XVIII or XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395
et seq.
) or chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code.
Residence
means a legal residence or personal domicile, even if such residence is seasonal. A covered veteran may maintain more than one residence but may only have one residence at a time. If a covered veteran lives in more than one location during a year, the covered veteran's residence is the residence or domicile where they are staying at the time they want to receive hospital care, medical services, or extended care services through the Veterans Community Care Program. A post office box or other non-residential point of delivery does not constitute a residence.
Schedule
means identifying and confirming a date, time, location, and entity or health care provider for an appointment in advance of such appointment.
Note 1 to the definition of “schedule”: A VA telehealth encounter and a same-day care encounter are considered to be scheduled even if such an encounter is conducted on an ad hoc basis.
VA facility
means a VA facility that offers hospital care, medical services, or extended care services.
VA medical service line
means a specific medical service or set of services delivered in a VA facility.
§ 17.4010
Veteran eligibility.
Section 1703(d) of title 38, U.S.C., establishes the conditions under which, at the election of the veteran and subject to the availability of appropriations, VA must furnish care in the community through eligible entities and providers. VA has regulated these conditions under paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section. If VA determines that a covered veteran meets at least one or more of the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section and has provided information required by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the covered veteran may elect to receive authorized non-VA care under § 17.4020.
(a) The covered veteran requires hospital care, medical services, or extended care services and:
(1) No VA facility offers the hospital care, medical services, or extended care services the veteran requires.
(2) VA does not operate a full-service VA medical facility in the State in which the veteran resides.
(3) The veteran was eligible to receive care and services from an eligible entity or provider under section 101(b)(2)(B) of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 (Pub. L. 113-146, sec. 101, as amended; 38 U.S.C. 1701 note) as of June 5, 2018, and continues to reside in a location that would qualify the veteran under that provision, and:
(i) Resides in Alaska, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, or Wyoming; or
(ii) Does not reside in one of the States described in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, but received care or services under title 38 U.S.C. between June 6, 2017, and June 6, 2018, and is seeking care before June 6, 2020.
(4) Has contacted an authorized VA official to request the care or services the veteran requires, but VA has determined it is not able to furnish such care or services in a manner that complies with designated access standards established in § 17.4040.
(5) The veteran and the veteran's referring clinician determine it is in the best medical interest of the veteran, for the purpose of achieving improved clinical outcomes, to access the care or services the veteran requires from an eligible entity or provider, based on one or more of the following factors, as applicable:
(i) The distance between the veteran and the facility or facilities that could provide the required care or services;
(ii) The nature of the care or services required by the veteran;
(iii) The frequency the veteran requires the care or services;
(iv) The timeliness of available appointments for the required care or services;
(v) The potential for improved continuity of care;
(vi) The quality of the care provided; or
(vii) Whether the veteran faces an unusual or excessive burden in accessing a VA facility based on consideration of the following:
(A) Excessive driving distance; geographical challenges, such as the presence of a body of water (including moving water and still water) or a geologic formation that cannot be crossed by road; or environmental factors, such as roads that are not accessible to the general public, traffic, or hazardous weather.
(B) Whether care and services are available from a VA facility that is reasonably accessible.
(C) Whether a medical condition of the veteran affects the ability to travel.
(D) Whether there is a compelling reason the veteran needs to receive care and services from a non-VA facility.
(E) The need for an attendant, which is defined as a person who provides required aid and/or physical assistance to the veteran, for a veteran to travel to a VA medical facility for hospital care or medical services.
(6) In accordance with § 17.4015, VA has determined that a VA medical service line that would furnish the care or services the veteran requires is not providing such care or services in a manner that complies with VA's standards for quality.
(b) If the covered veteran changes his or her residence, the covered veteran must update VA about the change within 60 days.
(c) A covered veteran must provide to VA information on any other health-care plan contract under which the veteran is covered prior to obtaining authorization for care and services the veteran requires. If the veteran changes such other health-care plan contract, the veteran must update VA about the change within 60 days.
(d) Review of veteran eligibility determinations. The review of any decisions under paragraph (a) of this section are subject to VA's clinical appeals process, and such decisions may not be appealed to the Board of Veterans' Appeals.
(The information collection is pending Office of Management and Budget approval)
§ 17.4015
Designated VA medical service lines.
(a) VA may identify VA medical service lines that are underperforming based on the timeliness of care when compared with the same medical service line at other VA facilities and based on data related to two or more distinct and appropriate quality measures of VA's standards for quality when compared with non-VA medical service lines.
(b) VA will make determinations regarding VA medical service lines under this section using data described in paragraph (a) of this section, VA standards for quality, and based on factors identified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(c) VA will announce annually any VA medical service lines identified under paragraph (a) of this section by publishing a document in the
Federal Register.
Such document will identify and describe the standards for quality VA used to inform the determination under paragraph (a), as well as how the data described in paragraph (a) and factors identified in paragraph (e) of this section were used to make the determinations. Such document will also identify limitations, if any, concerning when and where covered veterans can receive qualifying care and services at their election in the community based on this section. Such limitations may
include a defined timeframe, a defined geographic area, and a defined scope of services. VA will also take reasonable steps to provide direct notice to covered veterans affected under this section.
(d) VA will identify no more than 3 VA medical services lines in a single VA facility under this section, and no more than 36 VA medical service lines nationally under this section.
(e) In determining whether a VA medical service line should be identified under paragraph (a) of this section, and to comply with paragraph (c) of this section, VA will consider:
(1) Whether the differences between performance of individual VA medical service lines, and between performance of VA medical service lines and non-VA medical service lines, is clinically significant.
(2) Likelihood and ease of remediation of the VA medical service line within a short timeframe.
(3) Recent trends concerning the VA medical service line or non-VA medical service line.
(4) The number of covered veterans served by the medical service line or that could be affected by the designation.
(5) The potential impact on patient outcomes.
(6) The effect that designating one VA medical service line would have on other VA medical service lines.
§ 17.4020
Authorized non-VA care.
(a)
Electing non-VA care.
Except as provided for in paragraph (d) of this section, a covered veteran eligible for the Veterans Community Care Program under § 17.4010 may choose to schedule an appointment with a VA health care provider, or have VA authorize the veteran to receive an episode of care for hospital care, medical services, or extended care services from an eligible entity or provider when VA determines such care or services are clinically necessary.
(b)
Selecting an eligible entity or provider.
A covered veteran may specify a particular eligible entity or provider. If a covered veteran does not specify a particular eligible entity or provider, VA will refer the veteran to a specific eligible entity or provider.
(c)
Authorizing emergency treatment.
This paragraph (c) applies only to emergency treatment furnished to a covered veteran by an eligible entity or provider when such treatment was not the subject of an election by a veteran under paragraph (a) of this section. This paragraph (c) does not affect eligibility for, or create any new rules or conditions affecting, reimbursement for emergency treatment under section 1725 or 1728 of title 38, United States Code.
(1) Under the conditions set forth in this paragraph (c), VA may authorize emergency treatment after it has been furnished to a covered veteran. For purposes of this paragraph (c), “emergency treatment” has the meaning defined in section 1725(f)(1) of title 38, United States Code.
(2) VA may only authorize emergency treatment under this paragraph (c) if the covered veteran, someone acting on the covered veteran's behalf, or the eligible entity or provider notifies VA within 72-hours of such care or services being furnished and VA approves the furnishing of such care or services under paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(3) VA may approve emergency treatment of a covered veteran under this paragraph (c) only if:
(i) The veteran is receiving emergency treatment from an eligible entity or provider.
(ii) The notice to VA complies with the provisions of paragraph (c)(4) of this section and is submitted within 72 hours of the beginning of such treatment.
(iii) The emergency treatment only includes services covered by VA's medical benefits package in § 17.38.
(4) Notice to VA must:
(i) Be made to the appropriate VA official at the nearest VA facility;
(ii) Identify the covered veteran; and
(iii) Identify the eligible entity or provider.
(d)
Organ and bone marrow transplant care.
(1) In the case of a covered veteran described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the Secretary will determine whether to authorize an organ or bone marrow transplant for the covered veteran through an eligible entity or provider.
(2) The Secretary will make determinations under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and the primary care provider of the veteran will make determinations concerning whether there is a medically compelling reason to travel outside the region of the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network in which the veteran resides to receive a transplant, in consideration of, but not limited to, the following factors:
(i) Specific patient factors.
(ii) Which facilities meet VA's standards for quality, including quality metrics and outcomes, for the required transplant.
(iii) The travel burden on covered veterans based upon their medical conditions and the geographic location of eligible transplant centers.
(iv) The timeliness of transplant center evaluations and management.
(3) This paragraph (d) applies to covered veterans who meet one or more conditions of eligibility under § 17.4010(a) and:
(i) Require an organ or bone marrow transplant as determined by VA based upon generally-accepted medical criteria; and
(ii) Have, in the opinion of the primary care provider of the veteran, a medically compelling reason, as determined in consideration of the factors described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, to travel outside the region of the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network in which the veteran resides, to receive such transplant.
§ 17.4025
Effect on other provisions.
(a)
General.
No provision in this section may be construed to alter or modify any other provision of law establishing specific eligibility criteria for certain hospital care, medical services, or extended care services.
(b)
Prescriptions.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, VA will:
(1) Pay for prescriptions no longer than 14 days written by eligible entities or providers for covered veterans, including over-the-counter drugs and medical and surgical supplies, available under the VA national formulary system to cover a course of treatment for an urgent or emergent condition.
(2) Fill prescriptions written by eligible entities or providers for covered veterans, including over-the-counter drugs and medical and surgical supplies, available under the VA national formulary system.
(3) Pay for prescriptions written by eligible entities or providers for covered veterans that have an immediate need for durable medical equipment and medical devices that are required for urgent or emergent conditions (
e.g.,
splints, crutches, manual wheelchairs).
(4) Fill prescriptions written by eligible entities or providers for covered veterans for durable medical equipment and medical devices that are not required for urgent or emergent conditions.
(c)
Copayments.
Covered veterans are liable for a VA copayment for care or services furnished under the Veterans Community Care Program, if required by § 17.108(b)(4) or (c)(4), § 17.110(b)(4), or § 17.111(b)(3).
§ 17.4030
Eligible entities and providers.
To be eligible to furnish care and services under the Veterans Community Care Program, entities or providers:
(a) Must enter into a contract, agreement, or other arrangement to furnish care and services under the Veterans Community Care Program under §§ 17.4000 through 17.4040.
(b) Must either:
(1) Not be a part of, or an employee of, VA; or
(2) If the provider is an employee of VA, not be acting within the scope of such employment while providing hospital care, medical services, or extended care services through the Veterans Community Care Program under §§ 17.4000 through 17.4040.
(c) Must be accessible to the covered veteran. VA will determine accessibility by considering the following factors:
(1) The length of time the covered veteran would have to wait to receive hospital care, medical services, or extended care services from the entity or provider;
(2) The qualifications of the entity or provider to furnish the hospital care,
medical services, or extended care services from the entity or provider; and
(3) The distance between the covered veteran's residence and the entity or provider.
§ 17.4035
Payment rates.
The rates paid by VA for hospital care, medical services, or extended care services (hereafter referred to as “services”) furnished pursuant to a procurement contract or an agreement authorized by §§ 17.4100 through 17.4135 will be the rates set forth in the terms of such contract or agreement. Such payment rates will comply with the following parameters:
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, payment rates will not exceed the applicable Medicare fee schedule (including but not limited to allowable rates under 42 U.S.C. 1395m) or prospective payment system amount (hereafter “Medicare rate”), if any, for the period in which the service was provided (without any changes based on the subsequent development of information under Medicare authorities).
(b) With respect to services furnished in a State with an All-Payer Model Agreement under section 1814(b)(3) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395f(b)(3)) that became effective on or after January 1, 2014, the Medicare payment rates under paragraph (a) of this section will be calculated based on the payment rates under such agreement.
(c) Payment rates for services furnished in a highly rural area may exceed the limitations set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. The term “highly rural area” means an area located in a county that has fewer than seven individuals residing in that county per square mile.
(d) Payment rates may deviate from the parameters set forth in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section when VA determines, based on patient needs, market analyses, health care provider qualifications, or other factors, that it is not practicable to limit payment for services to the rates available under paragraphs (a) through (c).
(e) Payment rates for services furnished in Alaska are not subject to paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section and will be set forth in the terms of the procurement contract or agreement authorized by §§ 17.4100 through 17.4135, pursuant to which such services are furnished. If no payment rate is set forth in the terms of such a contract or agreement pursuant to which such services are furnished, payment rates for services furnished in Alaska will follow the Alaska Fee Schedule of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
§ 17.4040
Designated access standards.
(a) The following access standards have been designated to apply for purposes of eligibility determinations to access care in the community through the Veterans Community Care Program under § 17.4010(a)(4).
(1)
Primary care, mental health care, and non-institutional extended care services.
VA cannot schedule an appointment for the covered veteran with a VA health care provider for the required care or service:
(i) Within 30 minutes average driving time of the veteran's residence; and
(ii) Within 20 days of the date of request unless a later date has been agreed to by the veteran in consultation with the VA health care provider.
(2)
Specialty care.
VA cannot schedule an appointment for the covered veteran with a VA health care provider for the required care or service:
(i) Within 60 minutes average driving time of the veteran's residence; and
(ii) Within 28 days of the date of request unless a later date has been agreed to by the veteran in consultation with the VA health care provider.
(b) For purposes of calculating average driving time from the veteran's residence in paragraph (a) of this section, VA will use geographic information system software.

# Veterans Care Agreements

# Source:
Sections 17.4100 through 17.4135 appear at 84 FR 21678, May 14, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.4100
Definitions.
For the purposes of §§ 17.4100 through 17.4135, the following definitions apply:
Contract
is any of the following: Federal procurement agreements regulated by the Federal Acquisition Regulation;
common law contracts; other transactions; or any other instrument. Veterans Care Agreements are excluded from this definition.
Covered individual
is an individual who is eligible to receive hospital care, medical services, or extended care services from a non-VA provider under title 38 U.S.C. and title 38 CFR.
Extended care services
are the services described in 38 U.S.C. 1710B(a).
Hospital care
is defined in 38 U.S.C. 1701(5).
Medical services
is defined in 38 U.S.C. 1701(6).
Sharing agreement
is an agreement, under statutory authority other than 38 U.S.C. 1703A, by which VA can obtain hospital care, medical services, or extended care services for a covered individual.
VA facility
is a point of VA care where covered individuals can receive hospital care, medical services, or extended care services, to include a VA medical center, a VA community-based outpatient clinic, a VA health care center, a VA community living center, a VA independent outpatient clinic, and other VA outpatient services sites.
Veterans Care Agreement
is an agreement authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1703A for the furnishing of hospital care, medical services, or extended care services to covered individuals.
§ 17.4105
Purpose and Scope.
(a)
Purpose.
Sections 17.4100 through 17.4135 implement 38 U.S.C. 1703A, as required under section 1703A(j). Section 1703A authorizes VA to enter into and utilize Veterans Care Agreements to furnish hospital care, medical services, and extended care services to a covered individual when such individual is eligible for and requires such care or services that are not feasibly available to the covered individual through a VA facility, a contract, or a sharing agreement.
(b)
Scope.
Sections 17.4100 through 17.4135 contain procedures, requirements, obligations, and limitations for: The process of certifying entities or providers under 38 U.S.C. 1703A; entering into, administering, furnishing care or services pursuant to, and discontinuing Veterans Care Agreements; and all disputes arising under or related to Veterans Care Agreements. Sections 17.4100 through 17.4135 apply to all entities and providers, where applicable, that are parties to a Veterans Care Agreement, participate in the certification process, or furnish hospital care, medical services, or extended care services pursuant to a Veterans Care Agreement.
§ 17.4110
Entity or provider certification.
(a)
General.
To be eligible to enter into a Veterans Care Agreement, an entity or provider must be certified by VA in accordance with the process and criteria established in paragraph (b) of this section. Additionally, an entity or provider must be actively certified while furnishing hospital care, medical services, or extended care services pursuant to a Veterans Care Agreement that the entity or provider has entered into with VA.
(b)
Process and criteria
—(1)
Application for certification.
An entity or provider must apply for certification by submitting the following information and documentation to VA:
(i) Documentation of applicable medical licenses; and
(ii) All other information and documentation required by VA. This information and documentation may include, but is not limited to, provider first and last names, legal business names, National Provider Identifier (NPI), NPI type, provider identifier type (
e.g.,
individual or group practice), tax identification number, specialty (taxonomy code), business address, billing address, phone number, and care site address.
(2)
Approval or denial of certification.
(i) VA will review all information obtained by VA, including through applicable federal and state records systems and as submitted by the applicant, and will determine eligibility for certification.
(ii) An applicant must submit all information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(iii) VA will deny an application for certification if VA determines that the entity or provider is excluded from participation in a Federal health care program (as defined in section 1128B(f) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1320a-7b(f)) under section 1128 or 1128A of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7 and 1320a-7a) or is identified as an excluded source on the System for Award Management Exclusions list described in part 9 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations, and part 180 of title 2 of such Code, or successor regulations.
(iv) VA will deny an application for certification if VA determines that the applicant is already barred from furnishing hospital care, medical services, and extended care services under chapter 17 of title 38, U.S.C., because VA has previously determined the applicant submitted to VA a fraudulent claim, as that term is defined in 38 U.S.C. 1703D(i)(4), for payment for hospital care, medical services, or extended care services.
(v) VA may deny an application for certification if VA determines that based on programmatic considerations, VA is unlikely to seek to enter into a Veterans Care Agreement with the applicant.
(vi) VA will issue a decision approving or denying an application for certification within 120 calendar days of receipt of such application, if practicable. Notices of approval will set forth the effective date and duration of the certification. Notices of denial will set forth the specific grounds for denial and supporting evidence. A denial constitutes VA's final decision on the application.
(3)
Duration of certification and application for recertification.
(i) An entity or provider's certification under this section lasts for a three-year period, unless VA revokes certification during that three-year period pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(ii) A certified entity or provider must maintain its eligibility throughout the period in which it is certified and must inform VA of any changes or events that would affect its eligibility within 30 calendar days of the change or event.
(iii) A certified entity or provider seeking certification after the end of its current three-year certification must apply for recertification at least 60 calendar days prior to the expiration of its current certification; otherwise, the procedures set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section will apply. Upon application for recertification by the entity or provider, including submitting any new or updated information within the scope of paragraph (b)(1) of this section that VA requests in conjunction with such application for recertification, VA will reassess the entity or provider under the criteria in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. VA will issue a decision approving or denying the application for recertification within 60 calendar days of receiving the application, if practicable. Notice of the decision will be furnished to the applicant in writing. Notices of recertification will set forth the effective date and duration of the certification. Notices of denial will set forth the specific grounds for denial and supporting evidence. A denial constitutes VA's final decision on the application for recertification.
(iv) If a certified entity or provider applies for recertification after the deadline in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, such application will constitute a new application for certification and will be processed in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(4)
Revocation of certification
—(i)
Standard for revocation.
VA may revoke an entity's or provider's certification in accordance with paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) through (v) of this section.
(ii)
Notice of proposed revocation.
When VA determines revocation is appropriate, VA will notify the entity or provider in writing of the proposed revocation. The notice of proposed revocation will set forth the specific grounds for the action and will notify the entity or provider that it has 30 calendar days from the date of issuance to submit a written response addressing either of the following:
(A) Documenting compliance and proving any grounds false, or
(B) Providing information and documentation that demonstrates the entity or provider has, subsequent to the notice of proposed revocation, achieved compliance with all criteria for certification set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(iii)
Decision to revoke.
Following the 30-day response period, VA will consider any information and documentation submitted by the entity or provider and will, within 30 calendar days, determine whether revocation is warranted. If VA determines that revocation is not warranted, VA will notify the entity or provider of that determination in writing. If VA determines that revocation is warranted, the entity or provider will immediately lose certified status, and VA will issue a notice of revocation to the entity or provider. Notices of revocation will set forth the specific facts and grounds for, and the effective date of, such revocation. A notice of revocation constitutes VA's final decision.
(iv)
Effect of revocation.
Revocation of certification results in such status being rendered void, and the provider or entity may not furnish services or care to a covered individual under a Veterans Care Agreement prior to applying for and obtaining certified VCA status.
(Office of Management and Budget approved the collection of information under control number 2900-0872)
[84 FR 21678, May 14, 2019, as amended at 86 FR50861, Sept. 13, 2021]
§ 17.4115
VA use of Veterans Care Agreements.
(a)
Criteria for using.
VA may furnish hospital care, medical services, or extended care services through a Veterans Care Agreement only if:
(1) Such care or services are furnished to a covered individual who is eligible for such care or services under 38 U.S.C. chapter 17 and requires such care or services; and
(2) Such care or services are not feasibly available to that covered individual through a VA facility, contract, or sharing agreement. For purposes of this subparagraph, hospital care, medical services, or extended care services are not feasibly available through a VA facility, contract, or sharing agreement when VA determines that the medical condition of the covered individual, the travel involved, the nature of the care or services, or a combination of these factors make the use of a VA facility, contract, or sharing agreement impracticable or inadvisable.
(b)
Standards of conduct and improper business practices
—(1)
General.
(i) Government business shall be conducted in a manner above reproach and, except as authorized by statute or regulation, with complete impartiality and with preferential treatment for none. Transactions relating to the expenditure of public funds require the highest degree of public trust and an impeccable standard of conduct. The general rule is to avoid strictly any conflict of interest or even the appearance of a conflict of interest in Government-contractor relationships. The conduct of Government personnel must be such that they would have no reluctance to make a full public disclosure of their actions.
(ii) VA officials and employees are reminded that there are other statutes and regulations that deal with prohibited conduct, including:
(A) The offer or acceptance of a bribe or gratuity is prohibited by 18 U.S.C. 201. The acceptance of a gift, under certain circumstances, is prohibited by 5 U.S.C. 7353, and 5 CFR part 2635;
(B)(
1
) Certain financial conflicts of interest are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. 208 and regulations at 5 CFR part 2635.
(
2
) Contacts with an entity or provider that is seeking or receives certification under section 17.4110 of this part or is seeking, enters into, and/or furnishes services or care under a Veterans Care Agreement may constitute “seeking employment,” (see Subpart F of 5 CFR part 2635). Government officers and employees (employees) are prohibited by 18 U.S.C. 208 and 5 CFR part 2635 from participating personally and substantially in any particular matter that would affect the financial interests of any person from whom the employee is seeking employment. An employee who engages in negotiations or is otherwise seeking employment with an offeror or who has an arrangement concerning future employment with an offeror must comply with the applicable disqualification requirements of 5 CFR 2635.604 and 2635.606. The statutory prohibition in 18 U.S.C. 208 also may require an employee's disqualification from participation in matters pertaining to the certification of an entity or provider or a entering into and administering a Veterans Care
Agreement with an entity or provider even if the employee's duties may not be considered “participating personally and substantially”;
(C) Post-employment restrictions are covered by 18 U.S.C. 207 and 5 CFR part 2641, that prohibit certain activities by former Government employees, including representation of an entity or provider before the Government in relation to any particular matter involving specific parties on which the former employee participated personally and substantially while employed by the Government. Additional restrictions apply to certain senior Government employees and for particular matters under an employee's official responsibility; and
(D) Using nonpublic information to further an employee's private interest or that of another and engaging in a financial transaction using nonpublic information are prohibited by 5 CFR 2635.703.
(2)
Standards and requirements for entities or providers that enter into Veterans Care Agreements.
An entity or provider that enters into a Veterans Care Agreement must comply with the following standards and requirements throughout the term of the Veterans Care Agreement:
(i) Must have a satisfactory performance record.
(ii) Must have a satisfactory record of integrity and business ethics.
(iii) Must notify VA within 30 calendar days of the existence of an indictment, charge, conviction, or civil judgment, or Federal tax delinquency in an amount that exceeds $3,500.
(iv) Must not engage in any of the following:
(A) Commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with—
(
1
) Obtaining;
(
2
) Attempting to obtain; or
(
3
) Performing a public contract or subcontract, or a Veterans Care Agreement;
(B) Violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers;
(C) Commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property;
(D) Delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,500. Federal taxes are considered delinquent for purposes of this provision if both of the following criteria apply:
(
1
) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed and all available administrative remedies and rights to judicial review have been exhausted or have lapsed.
(
2
) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded.
(E) Knowing failure by a principal, until 3 years after final payment on any Government contract awarded to the contractor (or any Veterans Care Agreement entered into with the entity or provider), to timely disclose to the Government, in connection with the award or agreement, performance, or closeout of the contract or agreement or a subcontract thereunder, credible evidence of—
(
1
) Violation of Federal criminal law involving fraud, conflict of interest, bribery, or gratuity violations found in Title 18 of the United States Code;
(
2
) Violation of the civil False Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3729-3733); or
(
3
) Significant overpayment(s) on the contract or Veterans Care Agreement, other than overpayments resulting from contract financing payments. Contract financing payments means an authorized Government disbursement of monies to a contractor prior to acceptance of supplies or services by the Government; or
(F) Commission of any other offense indicating a lack of business integrity or business honesty that seriously and directly affects the present responsibility of an entity or provider.
(v) Must not submit to VA a fraudulent claim, as that term is defined in 38 U.S.C. 1703D(i)(4), for payment for hospital care, medical services, or extended care services.
§ 17.4120
Payment rates.
The rates paid by VA for hospital care, medical services, and extended care services (hereafter in this section referred to as “services”) furnished pursuant to a Veterans Care Agreement will be the rates set forth in the price terms of the Veterans Care Agreement. Each Veterans Care Agreement will contain price terms for all services within its scope. Such payment rates will comply with the following parameters:
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, payment rates will not exceed the applicable Medicare fee schedule or prospective payment system amount (hereafter in this section referred to as “Medicare rate”), if any, for the period in which the service was provided (without any changes based on the subsequent development of information under Medicare authorities).
(b) With respect to services furnished in a State with an All-Payer Model Agreement under section 1814(b)(3) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395f(b)(3)) that became effective on or after January 1, 2014, the Medicare rate under paragraph (a) will be calculated based on the payment rates under such agreement.
(c) Payment rates for services furnished in a highly rural area may exceed the limitations set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. The term “highly rural area” means an area located in a county that has fewer than seven individuals residing in that county per square mile.
(d) Payment rates may deviate from the parameters set forth in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section when VA determines, based on patient needs, market analyses, health care provider qualifications, or other factors, that it is not practicable to limit payment for services to the rates available under paragraphs (a) through (c).
(e) Payment rates for services furnished in Alaska are not subject to paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
§ 17.4125
Review of Veterans Care Agreements.
VA will periodically review each Veterans Care Agreement that exceeds $5,000,000 annually, to determine if it is feasible and advisable to furnish the hospital care, medical services, and extended care services that VA has furnished or anticipates furnishing under such Veterans Care Agreements through a VA facility, contract, or sharing agreement instead. If VA determines it is feasible and advisable to provide any such hospital care, medical services, or extended care services in a VA facility or by contract or sharing agreement, it will take action to do so.
§ 17.4130
Discontinuation of Veterans Care Agreements.
(a) Discontinuation of the agreement by the entity or provider requires a written notice of request to discontinue, in accordance with the terms of the Veterans Care Agreement and the following notice requirements:
(1) Written notice must be received by VA at least 45 calendar days before the discontinuation date and must specify the discontinuation date; and
(2) Such notice must be delivered to the designated VA official to which such notice must be submitted under the terms of the Veterans Care Agreement, and the notice and delivery must comply with all terms of the Veterans Care Agreement.
(b)(1) Discontinuation of the agreement by VA requires a written notice of discontinuation to the entity or provider in accordance with the terms of the Veterans Care Agreement and the following notice standards:
(i) Written notice of discontinuation will be issued at least 45 calendar days before the discontinuation date, except as provided in subparagraph (ii).
(ii) Notice may be issued fewer than 45 calendar days before the discontinuation date, including notice that is effective immediately upon issuance, when VA determines such abbreviated or immediate notice is necessary to protect the health of covered individuals or when such abbreviated or immediate notice is permitted under the terms of the Veterans Care Agreement.
(2) Notice will be delivered to the entity or provider in accordance with the terms of the Veterans Care Agreement.
(3) VA may discontinue a Veterans Care Agreement for the following reasons:
(i) If VA determines the entity or provider failed to comply substantially with the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 1703A or 38 CFR 17.4100-17.4135
(ii) If VA determines the entity or provider failed to comply substantially with the provisions, terms, or conditions of the Veterans Care Agreement;
(iii) If VA determines the entity or provider is excluded from participation in a Federal health care program (as defined in section 1128B(f) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7b(f)) under section 1128 or 1128A of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7 and 1320a-7a), or is identified as an excluded source on the System for Award Management Exclusions list described in part 9 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations, and part 180 of title 2 of such Code, or successor regulations;
(iv) If VA ascertains that the entity or provider has been convicted of a felony or other serious offense under federal or state law and determines that discontinuation of the Veterans Care Agreement would be in the best interest of a covered individual or VA; or
(v) If VA determines it is reasonable to discontinue the Veterans Care Agreement based on the health care needs of a covered individual.
(Office of Management and Budget approved the collection of information under control number 2900-0872)
[84 FR 21678, May 14, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 50861, Sept. 13, 2021]
§ 17.4135
Disputes.
(a)
General.
(1) This section establishes the administrative procedures and requirements for asserting and resolving disputes arising under or related to a Veterans Care Agreement. For purposes of this section, a dispute means a disagreement, between VA and the entity or provider that entered into the subject Veterans Care Agreement with VA, that meets the following criteria:
(i) Pertains to one of the subject matters set forth in paragraph (b) of this section;
(ii) Is not resolved informally by mutual agreement of the parties; and
(iii) Culminates in one of the parties demanding or asserting, as a matter of right, the payment of money in a sum certain under the Veterans Care Agreement, the interpretation of the terms of the Veterans Care Agreement or a specific authorization thereunder, or other relief arising under or relating to the Veterans Care Agreement. However, a dispute does not encompass any demand or assertion, as a matter of right, for penalties or forfeitures prescribed by a statute or regulation that another federal agency is specifically authorized to administer, settle, or determine.
(2) The procedures established in this section should only be used when the parties to a Veterans Care Agreement have failed to resolve an issue in controversy by mutual agreement.
(3) The procedures established in this section constitute an entity's or provider's exclusive administrative remedy for disputes under this section.
(4) Disputes under this section are not considered claims for the purposes of laws that would otherwise require the application of sections 7101 through 7109 of title 41 U.S.C.
(5) An entity or provider must first exhaust the procedures established in this section before seeking judicial review under section 1346 of title 28 U.S.C.
(b)
Subject matter of disputes.
Disputes under this section must pertain to:
(1) The scope of one or more specific authorizations under the applicable Veterans Care Agreement; or
(2) Claims for payment under the applicable Veterans Care Agreement.
(c)
Procedures
—(1)
Initiation of dispute.
Disputes under this section must be initiated in accordance with the following procedures and requirements:
(i) Disputes must be initiated by submitting a notice of dispute, in writing, to the designated VA official to which notice must be submitted under the terms of the Veterans Care Agreement. The notice of dispute must comply with, and be submitted in accordance with, applicable terms of the Veterans Care Agreement.
(ii) The notice of dispute must contain all specific assertions or demands, all facts pertinent to the dispute, any specific resolutions or relief sought, and all information and documentation necessary to review and adjudicate the dispute.
(iii) The notice of dispute must be received by the designated VA official to which such notice must be submitted, in accordance with the terms of the Veterans Care Agreement, within 90 calendar days after the accrual of the dispute. For purposes of this paragraph, the accrual of the dispute is the date when all events, that fix the alleged liability of either VA or the entity or provider and permit the applicable demand(s) and assertion(s), were known or should have been known. The term “accrual of the dispute,” as defined, has the following meanings in each of the two specific circumstances that follow:
(A) When a dispute consists of an entity or provider asserting that VA has made payment in an incorrect amount, under circumstances where VA has issued a corresponding payment notice and the entity or provider has received such notice, the accrual of the dispute is the date such notice was received by the entity or provider.
(B) When a dispute consists of an entity or provider asserting that VA has improperly denied payment to which it is entitled, under circumstances where VA has issued a corresponding denial of payment notice and the entity or provider has received such notice, the accrual of the dispute is the date such notice was received by the entity or provider.
(2)
VA authority to decide and resolve disputes arising under or relating to Veterans Care Agreements.
(i) A VA official acting within the scope of authority delegated by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (hereafter referred to in this section as the “responsible VA official”) will decide and resolve disputes under this section.
(ii) The authority to decide or resolve disputes under this section does not extend to the settlement, compromise, payment, or adjustment of any claim for payment that involves fraud or misrepresentation of fact. For purposes of this paragraph, “misrepresentation of fact” means a false statement of substantive fact, or any conduct which leads to the belief of a substantive fact material to proper understanding of the matter in hand, made with intent to deceive or mislead. If the responsible VA official encounters evidence of misrepresentation of fact or fraud on the part of the entity or provider, the responsible VA official shall refer the matter to the agency official responsible for investigating fraud and may refer the matter to other federal entities as necessary.
(3)
Review of dispute and written decision.
(i) Upon receipt of a notice of dispute, the responsible VA official will review the dispute and all facts pertinent to the dispute.
(ii) If the responsible VA official determines additional information or documentation is required for review and adjudication of the dispute, the official will, within 90 calendar days of VA's receipt of the notice of dispute, provide written notice to both parties, in accordance with the notice provisions of the Veterans Care Agreement, that additional information or documentation is required for review and adjudication of the dispute. Such notice will identify and request the additional information and documentation deemed necessary to review and adjudicate the dispute.
(iii) Upon VA receipt of a notice of dispute that conforms to the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section (including containing all information and documentation necessary to review and adjudicate the dispute), the responsible VA official will take one of the following actions within 90 calendar days:
(A) Issue a written decision, in accordance with the notice provisions of the Veterans Care Agreement, to both parties. The written decision will include:
(
1
) A description of the dispute;
(
2
) A reference to the pertinent terms of the Veterans Care Agreement and any relevant authorizations;
(
3
) A statement of the factual areas of agreement and disagreement;
(
4
) A statement of the responsible official's decision, with supporting rationale; and
(
5
) A statement that the decision constitutes the final agency decision on the matter in dispute.
(B) Upon a determination that additional time is reasonably required to issue a decision, the responsible VA official will provide written notice to both parties, in accordance with the
notice provisions of the Veterans Care Agreement, of such determination and the time within which a decision will be issued. The time within which a decision will be issued must be reasonable, taking into account the complexity of the dispute and any other relevant factors, and must not exceed 150 calendar days after receipt of a notice of dispute that conforms to the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section and all information and documentation necessary to review and adjudicate the dispute. The responsible VA official will subsequently issue a written decision in accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(A) of this section.
(4)
Issuance of decision.
VA will furnish the decision to the entity or provider by any method that provides evidence of receipt.
(5)
Effect of decision.
A written decision issued by the responsible VA official constitutes the agency's final decision on the dispute.
(Office of Management and Budget approved the collection of information under control number 2900-0872)
[84 FR 21678, May 14, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 50861, Sept. 13, 2021]
§ 17.4600
Urgent care.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this section is to establish procedures for accessing urgent care. Eligible veterans may obtain urgent care, in accordance with the requirements and processes set forth in this section, from qualifying non-VA entities or providers in VA's network that are identified by VA in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(b)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this section.
(1)
Eligible veteran
means a veteran described in 38 U.S.C. 1725A(b).
(2)
Episodic care
means care or services provided in a single visit to an eligible veteran for a particular health condition, or a limited set of particular health conditions, without an ongoing relationship being established between the eligible veteran and qualifying non-VA entities or providers.
(3)
Longitudinal management of conditions
means outpatient care that addresses important disease prevention and treatment goals and is dependent upon bidirectional communications that are ongoing over an extended period of time. For purposes of this section, the term “longitudinal management of conditions” and “longitudinal care” are synonymous.
(4)
Qualifying non-VA entity or provider
means a non-VA entity or provider, including Federally-qualified health centers as defined in 42 U.S.C. 1396d(l)(2)(B), that has entered into a contract, agreement, or other arrangement with the Secretary to furnish urgent care under this section, or has entered into an agreement with a third-party administrator with whom VA has a contract to furnish such care.
(5)
Urgent care
means services provided by a qualifying non-VA entity or provider, and as further defined in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) Urgent care includes service available from entities or providers submitting claims for payment as a walk-in retail health clinic (Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Place of Service code 17) or urgent care facility (CMS Place of Service code 20);
(ii)(A) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(B) or (b)(5)(iv) of this section, urgent care does not include preventive health services, as defined in section 1701(9) of title 38, United States Code, dental care, or chronic disease management.
(B) Urgent care includes immunization against influenza (flu shots), as well as therapeutic vaccines that are necessary in the course of treatment of an otherwise included service and screenings related to the treatment of symptoms associated with an immediate illness or exposure.
(iii) Urgent care may only be furnished as episodic care for eligible veterans needing immediate non-emergent medical attention, and it does not include longitudinal care. Veterans requiring follow-up care as a result of an urgent care visit under this section must contact VA or their VA-authorized primary care provider to arrange such care.
(iv) If VA determines that the provision of additional services is in the interest of eligible veterans, based upon identified health needs, VA may offer
such additional services under this section as VA determines appropriate. Such services may be limited in duration and location. VA will inform the public through a
Federal Register
document, published as soon as practicable, and other communications, as appropriate.
(c)
Procedures.
(1)(i) Eligible veterans may receive urgent care under this section without prior approval from VA.
(ii) Eligible veterans must declare at each episode of care if they are using this benefit prior to receiving urgent care under this section.
(2) VA will publish a website providing information on urgent care, including the names, locations, and contact information for qualifying non-VA entities or providers from which urgent care is available under this section.
(3) In general, eligibility under this section does not affect eligibility for hospital care or medical services under the medical benefits package, as defined in § 17.38, or other benefits addressed in this title. Nothing in this section waives the eligibility requirements established in other statutes or regulations.
(4) Urgent care furnished under this section must meet VA's standards for quality established under 38 U.S.C. 1703C, as applicable.
(d)
Copayment.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(2) through (4) of this section, an eligible veteran, as a condition for receiving urgent care provided by VA under this section, must agree to pay VA (and is obligated to pay VA) a copayment of $30:
(i) After three visits in a calendar year if such eligible veteran is enrolled under § 17.36(b)(1) through (6), except those veterans described in § 17.36(d)(3)(iii) for all matters not covered by priority category 6.
(ii) If such eligible veteran is enrolled under § 17.36(b)(7) or (8), including veterans described in § 17.36(d)(3)(iii).
(2) An eligible veteran who receives urgent care under paragraph (b)(5)(iv) of this section or urgent care consisting solely of an immunization against influenza (flu shot) is not subject to a copayment under paragraph (d)(1) of this section and such a visit shall not count as a visit for purposes of paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.
(3) If an eligible veteran would be required to pay more than one copayment under this section, or a copayment under this section and a copayment under § 17.108 or § 17.111, on the same day, the eligible veteran will only be charged the higher copayment.
(4)(i) If an eligible veteran meets the definition of Indian or urban Indian, as defined in 25 U.S.C. 1603(13) and (28), they are exempt from copayments for all urgent care visits. To demonstrate that they meet the definition of Indian or urban Indian, the veteran must submit to VA any of the documentation described in paragraphs (d)(4)(i)(A) through (F) of this section:
(A) Documentation issued by a federally recognized Indian Tribe that shows that the veteran is a member of the Tribe;
(B) Documentation showing that the veteran, irrespective of whether they live on or near a reservation, is a member of a Tribe, band, or other organized group of Indians, including those tribes, bands, or groups terminated since 1940 and those recognized now or in the future by the State in which they reside, or who is a descendant, in the first or second degree, of any such member;
(C) Documentation showing that the veteran is an Eskimo or Aleut or other Alaska Native;
(D) Documentation issued by the Department of Interior (DOI) showing that the veteran is considered by DOI to be an Indian for any purpose;
(E) Documentation showing that the veteran is considered by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to be an Indian under that Department's regulations; or
(F) Documentation showing that the veteran resides in an urban center and meets one or more of the following criteria:
(
1
) Irrespective of whether they live on or near a reservation, is a member of a Tribe, band, or other organized group of Indians, including those tribes, bands, or groups terminated since 1940 and those recognized now or in the future by the State in which they reside, or who is a descendant, in the first or second degree, of any such member;
(
2
) Is an Eskimo or Aleut or other Alaska Native;
(
3
) Is considered by DOI to be an Indian for any purpose; or
(
4
) Is considered by HHS to be an Indian under that Department's regulations.
(ii) After VA determines the submitted documentation meets paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section and updates the veteran's record to reflect the veteran's status as an Indian or urban Indian, VA will reimburse eligible veterans exempt under paragraph (d)(4)(i) for any copayments that were paid to VA for urgent care visits provided on or after January 5, 2022, if they would have been exempt from making such copayments if paragraph (d)(4)(i) had been in effect.
(e)
Prescriptions.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, VA will:
(1) Pay for prescriptions written by qualifying non-VA entities or providers for eligible veterans, including over-the-counter drugs and medical and surgical supplies, available under the VA national formulary system to cover a course of treatment for urgent care no longer than 14 days.
(2) Fill prescriptions for urgent care written by qualifying non-VA entities or providers for eligible veterans, including over-the-counter drugs and medical and surgical supplies, available under the VA national formulary system.
(3) Pay for prescriptions written by qualifying non-VA entities or providers for eligible veterans that have an immediate need for durable medical equipment and medical devices that are required for urgent conditions (
e.g.,
splints, crutches, manual wheelchairs).
(f)
Payments.
Payments made for urgent care constitute payment in full and shall extinguish the veteran's liability to the qualifying non-VA entity or provider. The qualifying non-VA entity or provider may not impose any additional charge on a veteran or his or her health care insurer for any urgent care service for which payment is made by VA. This section does not abrogate VA's right, under 38 U.S.C. 1729, to recover or collect from a third party the reasonable charges of the care or services provided under this section.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection provisions in this section under control number 2900-0920)
[84 FR 26018, June 5, 2019, as amended at 88 FR 13034, Mar. 2, 2023; 88 FR 19873, Apr. 4, 2023; 88 FR 21478, Apr. 11, 2023]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of current CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
38 CFR (7-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
38 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter I
1 Authority citation revised
64043
1 Authority citation removed
64043
1.460 Amended; authority citation removed
64043
1.461 Authority citation removed
64043
1.479 Authority citation removed
64043
1.481 Added
64043
1.482 Added
64043
1.484 Authority citation removed
64043
1.496 Authority citation removed
64043
4.71a Amended
76460
4.71a Correction: table amended
85523
4.73 Amended
76464
4 Appendix A Amended
76464
4 Appendix B Amended
76466
4 Appendix C Amended
76467
4 Correction: appendix C amended
85523
5 Added
72570
5 Technical correction
75857
9.1 (k)(1) revised
14802
9.2 (f) added; interim
35563
9.2 Regulation at 85 FR 35563 confirmed
63209
9.2 (g) added
75859
9.24 Added
75859
17 Authority citation amended
3170145535, 71845, 84259,
17 Policy statement
42724
17.32 Revised; interim
31701
17.38 (a)(1)(viii) revised; (b) introductory text amended
84259
17.100 Added
53174
17.101 Heading and (a)(6) revised; (a)(5) amended
53176
17.106 (f)(2)(viii) added
53176
17.120 Introductory text amended
84259
17.122 Removed
84259
17.148—17.154 Undesignated center heading revised
84259
17.150 Removed
84259
17.153 Removed
84259
17.390 Correction: amended; OMB number
31983
17.419 Added; interim
71845
17.525—17.531 Undesignated center heading added
45535
17.525 Added
45535
17.526 Added
45535
17.527 Added
45535
17.528 Added
45535
17.529 Added
45535
17.530 Added
45535
17.531 Added
45535
17.603 (b) revised
13053
17.607 (c)(1) revised
13053
17.610 (b)(4) and (5) redesignated as (b)(5) and (6); new (b)(4) added
13053
17.3200—17.3250 Undesignated center heading and sections added
84259
2021
38 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter I
1.552 (a) revised
60771
3.156 (c)(2) revised
15414
3.159 (c)(4)(i)(B) revised; interim
42732
3.203 (a)(1) revised
57584
3.317 (a)(1)(i) revised; interim
51001
3.320 Added; interim
42732
3.809 (a) and (b) revised
56215
3.809a (b)(2) removed; (b)(1) introductory text through (iv) redesignated as (c) introductory text through (4); new (b) introductory text revised
56216
3.816 (f)(3) amended
68410
4.71a Correction: amended
8142
4.100 (b) revised; authority citation added
54093
4.100 Correction: Heading revised
62095
4.100 Correction: (c) removed
67654
4.104 Amended
54093
4.104 Correction: Table amended
62095
4.115a Introductory text revised; table amended
54085
4.115b table amended
54086
4 Correction: appendix A, appendix B, and appendix C amended
8143
4 Appendix A amended
54087, 54096
4 Appendix B and Appendix C amended
54088, 54097
5 Authority citation revised
30184
5.0 Revised; eff. 7-7-21
30184
5.15 (a)(1) amended; (a)(2)(viii) and (b)(1) removed; (a)(2)(ix) and (b)(2) through (4) redesignated as new (a)(2)(viii) and (b)(1) through (3); (a)(2) introductory text, (vii), (b) introductory text, new (1), and new (3) revised; eff. 7-7-21
30184
5.20 (c) revised; eff. 7-7-21
30184
5.25 Revised; eff. 7-7-21
30184
8a.1 (e)(3) amended
51275
9.2 (f)(2) revised; interim
30543
9.2 Regulation at 85 FR 35562 confirmed
46983
17 Amended
16053
17 Authority citation amended
24497
17.38 Regulation at 85 FR 84259 eff. date delayed to 2-26-21
7349
17.101 (a)(2), (3), (5), (b)(2) introductory text, (3), (d)(2) introductory text, (e)(3)(i) introductory text, (A), (B), (C), (ii), (4), (f)(4), (g)(3)(i), (i)(2)(i), (iii), (j)(2)(i), (k)(2)(i), (ii), and (l)(5)(ii) amended; (a)(7), (f)(2)(ii), (3) introductory text, (h)(2) introductory text, (i), (ii), (3), (i)(2)(ii), (3) introductory text, (l)(3) introductory text, and (iii) revised
16053
17.106 (c)(4) revised; (f)(2)(ix) added
16055
17.108 (e)(16) and (17) revised; (e)(18) added
52076
17.110 (c)(12) added
52076
17.120 Regulation at 85 FR 84259 eff. date delayed to 2-26-21
7349
17.122 Regulation at 85 FR 84259 eff. date delayed to 2-26-21
7349
17.148—17.154 Regulation at 85 FR 84259 eff. date delayed to 2-26-21
7349
17.150 Regulation at 85 FR 84259 eff. date delayed to 2-26-21
7349
17.151 Regulation at 85 FR 84259 eff. date delayed to 2-26-21
7349
17.152 Regulation at 85 FR 84259 eff. date delayed to 2-26-21
7349
17.153 Regulation at 85 FR 84259 eff. date delayed to 2-26-21
7349
17.535—17.539 Undesignated center heading added
56651
17.535 Added
56651
17.536 Added
56651
17.537 Added
56651
17.538 Added
56651
17.539 Added
56651
17.3200—17.3250 Regulation at 85 FR 84259 eff. date delayed to 2-26-21
7349
17.3250 Added
24498
17.3500 Undesignated center heading and section added
24498
17.4110 OMB number
50861
17.4130 OMB number
50861
17.4135 OMB number
50861
2022
38 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter I
0.605 Added
40452
1 Authority citation revised
5696, 37749
1 Authority citation revised
53381
1.575 (d) added
53381
1.600 Undesignated center heading and (a)(2) amended; (a)(1), (3), and (b) through (d) revised; eff. 7-25-22
37749
1.601 Revised; eff. 7-25-22
37749
1.602 Revised; eff. 7-25-22
37750
1.603 (b)(3) and (d) removed; (b)(4) through (6) and (e) redesignated as (b)(3) through (5) and (d); heading, (a), (b) introductory text, (2), new (3) through (5), (c), and new (d) revised; eff. 7-25-22
37750
1.916 (c) revised
5696
3 Policy statement
68904
3 Notification
78543
3.1 (a), (b), (d) introductory text, (2), (e), (g)(3), (h), (k), (l), (m) introductory text, and (y) introductory text amended
26125
3.2 (f) revised
68363
3.3 (a)(3)(i) through (iv) amended
26125
3.6 (a) heading amended
26125
3.7 Heading, introductory text, and (o)(1)(i) amended
26125
3.12 (g)(2) amended
26125
3.13 (c) introductory text and (1) amended
26125
3.55 (a)(9) heading removed; (a)(9)(iii) and (11) added; (a)(10) revised
68363
3.159 (c)(3) amended
26125
3.301 (d) amended
26125
3.306 (a) amended
26125
3.309 (c)(1) introductory text and (2)(ii) introductory text amended
26125
3.317 Regulation at 86 FR 51001 confirmed
6039
3.318 (a) amended
26126
3.320 Revised; interim
24429
3.341 (c) amended
8742
3.342 (c)(1) amended
8742
3.702 (d)(1) revised; (g) added
68363
3.802 Revised
68363
3.807 (a)(5)(ii) and (b) amended
26126
3.808 (a)(2) amended
26126
3.809 (a) amended
26126
3.809 (b) amended
26126
3.903 (b)(1) amended
26126
3.1701 Amended
26126
4.117 Table amended
61248
8.0 (e) revised; (f), (g), and (h) added
73653
8.1 Heading and (a) revised; (b) Note 3 added; (c) introductory text amended
73653
8.2 (c)(2) revised; (c)(3) added; eff. 7-11-22
35421
8.2 (e) added
73653
8.6 Revised
73653
8.7 Heading revised; (a) amended; (e) added
73653
8.10 (a)(3) revised
73654
8.11 Heading revised; (a) and (b) amended; (j) and (k) added
73654
8.13 (e) added
73654
8.13 (a) amended; (d) revised; eff. 7-11-22
35421
8.14 (d) added
73654
8.15 Existing text designated as (a); (b) added
73654
8.19 Existing text designated as (a); (b) added
73654
8.35 Added
73654
8.36 Added
73654
13.230 (c)(1) revised
29673
14.600 (c)(1), (2), (3), (d)(1), (2), and authority citation revised
63696
14.629 Note removed; eff. 7-25-22
37751
17 Authority citation amended
33023
17 Authority citation amended
41599, 71256
17.32 (c)(6) revised; interim
6427
17.32 Regulation at 85 FR 31701 confirmed
47100
17.37 (e) amended
8742
17.38 (c)(1) revised; interim
55296
17.132 Existing text designated as (b); (a) added
43748
17.133 (a) revised
43748
17.270 Revised
41599
17.271 (a)(3) amended; (a)(4) redesignated as (a)(5); new (a)(4) added; authority citation following new (a) and authority citation following (b)(5) removed
41600
17.272 (a)(26), (39), (57), (72), and authority citation removed; (a)(27) through (38), (40) through (56), (58) through (71), and (73) through (86) redesignated as (a)(26) through (37), (38) through (54), (55) through (68), and (69) through (82); (a)(2), (21)(ix), (30) introductory text, (v), (vi), (49), (57) through (59), (76), and (b) revised; (a)(3) introductory text amended; (a)(3)(iii), (iv), (30)(xi) through (xiv), (83), and (84) added; (a)(40)(iv) amended
41600
17.272 (a)(64) revised; (a)(65) removed; (a)(66) through (84) redesignated as (a)(65) through (83); interim
55296
17.273 Introductory text and (d) revised; (e) and authority citation removed; (f) redesignated as new (e); new (f) added
41601
17.274 (a), (b), and (c) revised; (d) heading and (e) added; authority citation removed
41601
17.275 Redesignated as 17.276; new section added
41602
17.276 Redesignated as 17.277; new section redesignated from 17.275
41602
17.276 (a) introductory text and (b) revised; (c) and (d) added; authority citation removed
41603
17.277 Redesignated as 17.278; new section redesignated from 17.276
41602
17.277 Revised
41603
17.278 Redesignated as 17.279; new section redesignated from 17.277
41602
17.278 Revised
41603
17.279 Redesignated from 17.278
41602
17.279 Authority citation removed
41603
17.395 Undesignated center heading and section added
33024
17.545—17.553 Undesignated center heading added
71256
17.545 Added
71256
17.546 Added
71256
17.547 Added
71256
17.548 Added
71256
17.549 Added
71256
17.550 Added
71256
17.551 Added
71256
17.552 Added
71256
17.553 Added
71256
17.904 Existing text designated as (b); (a) added
43748
17.1006 Amended
43748
2023
38 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter I
3.33 Undesignated center heading removed
82264
3.33 Added
82264
3.103 (b)(3)(v) revised; cross reference added
86061
3.309 (d)(3)(ii)(F) through (H) added
15278
3.320 Revised
60341
3.320 Regulation 87 FR 24429 confirmed
75500
3.654 (b) and (c) revised; authority citation added
86062
4.26 Introductory text revised; (a) heading, (b) heading, (c) heading, and (d) added; interim
22917
4.26 Regulation at 88 FR 22917 confirmed
89309
9.20 (f) removed; (c)(3), (h), and (i) through (k) redesignated as (c)(4), new (f), and (h) through (j); new (c)(3) added; (b)(1), (d)(2), (4), (e)(1), (3)(i)(C), (ii), (6), new (f), (g), and new (h) through (j) revised
15910
9.21 Redesignated as 9.22; new section added
15912
9.22 Redesignated as 9.23; new section redesignated from 9.21
15912
17 Authority citation amended
2535, 19871, 24482, 32975, 77520
17 Technical correction
3664
17 Correction: Authority citation amended
21478
17.30 (a) introductory text and (1) revised; (a)(2) and (3) redesignated as (a)(3) and (4); new (a)(2) added
24483
17.37 (l) added; authority citation removed; interim
2536
17.38 (a)(2)(x) added
24483
17.43 (b)(3) removed
32975
17.44 (a) revised
32975
17.86 (e) revised; authority citation removed
32975
17.102 Revised
32975
17.108 (e)(19) added; interim
2536
17.108 (d)(14) and (g) added
19871
17.108 Correction: Amended
21478
17.110 (c)(13) added; interim
2536
17.110 (c)(14) and (d) added
19872
17.110 Correction: Amended
21478
17.111 (f)(11) and (g) added
19872
17.111 Correction: Amended
21478
17.243—17.248 Undesignated center heading added
77520
17.243 Added
77520
17.244 Added
77520
17.245 Added
77520
17.246 Added
77520
17.247 Added
77520
17.248 Added
77520
17.528 Correction: Amended
13034
17.643 Correction: Amended
13034
17.643 Technical correction
17740
17.1003 (a)(1) revised
10841
17.1004 (f) revised
10841
17.1005 (a)(5) revised
10842
17.1200—17.1230 Undesignated center heading added; interim
2536
17.4600 Correction: (c)(1)(i)(A) and (B) redesignated as (c)(1)(i) and (ii)
13034
17.4600 (d)(1) revised; (d)(4) added
19873
17.4600 Correction: Amended
21478
2024
38 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter I
0.735-1 (a), (b)(1), and (2) revised
15451
1.582 (e) added
51443
2.6 (e)(1) through (3), (e)(4) introductory text, and (5) through (11) revised
46332
3 Notification
15753
3.12 (e) through (k) redesignated as (f) through (l); new (e), new (f) heading, and new (k) heading added; heading, (a), (b), (c) introductory text, (1), (6), (d), new (g), new (h) introductory text, new (i) introductory text, new (j), and authority citation revised; authority citation after new (i) removed
32372
3.1700—3.1713 (Subpart B) Authority citation revised
78253
3.1700 (b) revised
78253
3.1701 Section amended; authority citation revised
78253
3.1702 (a)(2), (b)(1) introductory text, (c)(2) introductory text, and authority citation revised
78254
3.1703 (a)(1) and (b)(2) revised
78254
3.1704 (c)(1) and (2) revised
78254
3.1705 (a) amended; (e) and authority citation revised
78254
3.1706 (d)(1), (2), and authority citation revised
78254
3.1707 (b) and (c) heading revised
78254
3.1708 (a) amended; (c) and authority citation revised
78254
3.1709 Heading and (a) through (c) revised; (d)(1) amended
78254
3.1711 (a) introductory text and authority citation revised; (b)(1) amended
78255
4.110 Removed
19743
4.111 Removed
19743
4.112 Revised
19743
4.114 Amended
19743
4 Appendix A amended
19749
4 Appendix B amended
19751
4 Appendix C amended
19752
8 Notification
51224
14.636 (c)(4) removed; (e), (g)(3), (h)(1)(ii), (iii), and (i) through (k) revised; (h)(1)(iv) added
85063
17 Regulation at 87 FR 55296 confirmed
15473
17 Policy statement
23518
17 Policy statement
67863
17 Authority citation amended
86248
17 Authority citation amended
51232
17 Authority citation amended; eff. 7-18-24
51446
17.36 (b)(6) amended
45601
17.43 Amended
86248
17.46 (b)(2)(vii) removed; (b)(2)(viii) redesignated as new (b)(2)(vii)
86248
17.47 (b)(1) authority citation, (c), (d)(1)(i) authority citation, (iii) authority citation, (2) authority citation, (3) authority citation, (4) authority citation, (5) authority citation, (e)(1) authority citation, (2) authority citation, (f) authority citation, (g)(1)(ii) authority citation, (2)(iv) authority citation, (i)(2)(vii) authority citation, (j) authority citation, and (k) authority citation removed; (b)(2) revised
86248
17.108 (d)(8) amended
45601
17.156 Introductory text and (b) revised; authority citation removed; eff. 7-17-24
51232
17.157 Revised; eff. 7-17-24
51232
17.158 Revised; eff. 7-17-24
51233
17.243 Amended
1034
17.272 (a)(28) and (44) revised; (a)(57) through (62) removed; (a)(63) through (83) redesignated as (a)(57) through (77)
34136
17.273 (c) removed; (d) through (f) redesignated as new (c) through (e)
34137
17.274 (f) added
34137
17.450 (a)(2) and (g) revised
60827
17.602 Amended; eff. 7-18-24
51446
17.603 (b)(2) redesignated as (b)(3); new (b)(2) added; eff. 7-18-24
51446
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through July 1, 2025)
38 CFR
90 FR
Page
Chapter I
3.320a Added; interim
29
3.320b Added; interim
1901
○
