4. In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim or statement under this section, each such person may be held jointly and severally liable for a civil penalty with respect to such claims or statements.
5. In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim under this section on which the Government has made payment (including transferred property or provided services) an assessment may be imposed against any such person or jointly and severally against any combination of such persons.

# D. Investigation
1. If the investigating official concludes that a subpoena pursuant to the authority conferred by 31 U.S.C. 3804(a) is warranted, then:
a. The subpoena so issued shall notify the person to whom it is addressed of the authority under which the subpoena is issued and shall identify the records or documents sought;
b. The investigating official may designate a person to act on his or her behalf to receive the documents sought; and
c. The person receiving such subpoena shall be required to tender to the investigating official, or to the person designated to receive the documents, a certification that the documents sought have been produced, or that such documents are not available and the reasons therefor, or that such documents, suitably identified, have been withheld based upon the assertion of an identified privilege.
2. If the investigating official concludes that an action under the PFCRA may be warranted, the investigating official shall submit a report containing the findings and conclusions of such investigation to the appropriate reviewing official(s). In instances where the false claim or false statement involves more than one authority within the Department of Defense, or where the investigating official finds that more than one case has arisen from the same set of facts, the investigating official may, at his or her sole discretion, refer the case(s) to the reviewing official of one of the affected authorities. That reviewing official shall consolidate the claims and statements and act for all. Nothing in this subsection confers any right in any party to the consolidation or severance of any case(s), although presiding officers may, at their sole discretion, entertain motions to consolidate or sever.
3. Nothing in this section shall preclude or limit an investigating official's discretion to refer allegations directly to the Department of Justice for suit under 18 U.S.C. 287 or 31 U.S.C. 3729 and 3730, False Claims Act, or other civil relief, or to preclude or limit such official's discretion to defer or postpone a report or referral to the reviewing official to avoid interference with a criminal investigation or prosecution.
4. Nothing in this section modifies any responsibility of an investigating official to report violations of criminal law to the Attorney General.
5. Nothing in this section shall preclude or limit the investigating official's authority to obtain the assistance of any investigative units of the Department of Defense, including those of the Military Departments. In this regard, appropriate investigation may be conducted by the Defense criminal investigative organizations and other investigative elements of the Military Departments and Defense Agencies.

# E. Review by the Reviewing Official
1. If, based on the report of the investigating official under subsection D.2., above, the reviewing official determines that there is adequate evidence to believe that a person is liable under section C., above, the reviewing official shall transmit to the Attorney General or his or her designated point of coordination within the Department of Justice a written notice of the reviewing official's intention to issue a complaint under section G., below.
2. Such notice shall include the following:
a. A statement of the reviewing official's reasons for issuing a complaint;
b. A statement specifying the evidence that supports the allegations of liability;
c. A description of the claims or statements upon which the allegations of liability are based;
d. An estimate of the amount of money or the value of property, services, or other benefits requested or demanded in violation of section C., above.
e. A statement of any exculpatory or mitigating circumstances that may relate to the claims or statements known by the reviewing official or the investigating official; and
f. A statement that there is a reasonable prospect of collecting an appropriate amount of penalties and assessments.

# F. Prerequisites for Issuing a Complaint
1. The reviewing official may issue a complaint under section G., below, only if:
a. The Attorney General or an Assistant Attorney General designated by the Attorney General approves the issuance of a complaint in a written statement described in 31 U.S.C. 3803(b)(1); and
b. In the case of allegations of liability under subsection C.1., above, with respect to a claim, the reviewing official determines that, with respect to such claim or a group of related claims submitted at the same time such claim is submitted (as defined in subsection 2. of this section), the amount of money or the value of property or services demanded or requested in violation of subsection C.1., above, does not exceed $150,000.00;
2. For the purposes of this section, a related group of claims submitted at the same time shall include only those claims arising from the same transaction (e.g., grant, loan, application, or contract) that are submitted simultaneously as part of a single request, demand, or submission.
3. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the reviewing official's authority to join in a single complaint against a person's claims that are unrelated or were not submitted simultaneously, regardless of the amount of money or the value of property or services demanded or requested.
4. In any case that involves claims or statements made to more than one entity within the Department of Defense or the Military Departments, or the reviewing officials having responsibility for each such entity, as stated in subsection D.2., above, shall have concurrent jurisdiction to make the required determinations under this section. In any such case, the responsible reviewing officials shall coordinate with each other prior to making any determination under this section. Where more than one case arises from the same set of facts, such cases shall be consolidated to the degree practicable, although the reviewing official shall have absolute discretion to make such determination. The requirements of this paragraph do not confer any procedural or substantive rights upon individuals, associations, corporations, or other persons or entities who might become defendants under the PFCRA.

# G. Complaint
1. On or after the date the Attorney General or an Assistant Attorney General designated by the Attorney General approves the issuance of a complaint in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3803(b)(1), the reviewing official may serve a complaint on the defendant, as provided in section H., below.
2. The complaint shall state the following:
a. The allegations of liability against the defendant, including the statutory basis for liability, an identification of the claims or statements that are the basis for the alleged liability, and the reasons why liability allegedly arises from such claims or statements;
b. The maximum amount of penalties and assessments for which the defendant may be held liable;
c. Instructions for filing an answer to a request including a specific statement of the defendant's right to request a hearing, by filing an answer and to be represented by a representative; and
d. That failure to file an answer within 30 days of service of the complaint shall result in the imposition of penalties and assessments without right to appeal, consistent with the provisions of section J., below.
3. At the same time the reviewing official serves the complaint, he or she shall notify the defendant with a copy of this part and any applicable implementing regulations.

# H. Service of Complaint
1. Service of a complaint must be made by certified or registered mail or by delivery in any manner authorized by Rule 4(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Service is complete upon receipt.
2. Proof of service, stating the name and address of the person on whom the complaint was served, and the manner and date of service may be made by the following:
a. Affidavit of the individual serving the complaint by delivery;
b. A United States Postal Service return receipt card acknowledging receipt; or
c. Written acknowledgement of receipt by the defendant or his or her representative.

# I. Answer
1. The defendant may request a hearing by filing an answer with the reviewing official within 30 days of service of the complaint. An answer shall be deemed to be a request for hearing.
2. In the answer, the defendant:
a. Shall admit or deny each of the allegations of liability made in the complaint;
b. Shall state any defense on which the defendant intends to rely;
c. May state any reasons why the defendant contends that the penalties and assessments should be less than the statutory maximum; and
d. Shall state the name, address, and telephone number of the person authorized by the defendant to act as defendant's representative, if any.
3. If the defendant is unable to file an answer meeting the requirements of paragraph 2.b of this section within the time provided, the defendant may, before the expiration of 30 days from service of the complaint, file with the reviewing official a general answer denying liability and requesting a hearing, and a request for an extension of time within which to file an answer meeting the requirements of subsection 2. of this section. The reviewing official shall, in such event, file promptly with the presiding officer the complaint, the general answer denying liability, and the request for an extension of time as provided in section K., below. For good cause shown, the presiding officer may grant the defendant additional time within which to file an answer meeting the requirements of subsection 2. of this section.
4. The 30-day limitation for filing an answer may be tolled for a reasonable period of time by written agreement of the parties and approval of the authority head to allow time for settlement.

# J. Default Upon Failure To File an Answer
1. If the defendant does not file an answer within the time prescribed in subsection I.1., above, and there is no approved written agreement as in subsection I.4, above, tolling the time prescribed, the reviewing official may then refer the complaint to the presiding officer.
2. Upon referral of the complaint pursuant to this section, the presiding officer shall promptly serve on defendant, in the manner prescribed in section H., above, a notice that an initial decision will be issued under this section.
3. Upon referral of the complaint pursuant to this section, the presiding officer shall assume the facts alleged in the complaint to be true and, if such facts establish liability under section C., above, the presiding officer shall issue an initial decision imposing penalties and assessments under the statute.
4. Except as otherwise provided in this section, by failing to file a timely answer, the defendant waives any right to further review of the penalties and assessments imposed under subsection 3. of this section, and the initial decision shall become final and binding upon the parties 30 days after it is issued.
5. If, before such an initial decision becomes final, the defendant files a motion with the presiding officer seeking to reopen on the grounds that good cause prevented the defendant from filing an answer, the initial decision shall be stayed pending the presiding officer's decision on the motion.
6. If, on a motion brought under subsection J.5., above, the defendant can demonstrate good cause excusing the failure to file a timely answer, the presiding officer shall withdraw the initial decision in subsection 3. of this section if such a decision has been issued, and shall grant the defendant an opportunity to answer the complaint.
7. A decision of the presiding officer denying a defendant's motion under subsections 5. and 6. of this section is not subject to reconsideration under section LL., below.
8. The defendant may appeal to the authority head the decision denying a motion to reopen by filing a notice of appeal with the authority head within 15 days after the presiding officer denies the motion. The timely filing of a notice of appeal shall stay the initial decision until the authority head decides the issue.
9. If the defendant files a timely notice of appeal with the authority head, the presiding officer shall forward the record of the proceeding to the authority head.
10. The authority head shall decide expeditiously whether good cause excused the defendant's failure to file a timely answer based solely on the record before the presiding officer.
11. If the authority head decides that good cause excused the defendant's failure to file a timely answer, the authority head shall remand the case to the presiding officer with instructions to grant the defendant an opportunity to answer.
12. If the authority head decides that the defendant's failure to file a timely answer is not excused, the authority head shall approve the initial decision of the presiding officer, which shall become final and binding upon the parties 30 days after the authority head issues such decision.

# K. Referral of Complaint and Answer to the Presiding Officer
1. Upon receipt of an answer, the reviewing official shall file the complaint and answer with the presiding officer.
2. To allow time for settlement, referral of complaint and answer to the presiding officer may be delayed for a reasonable period of time if there is a written agreement of the parties, approved by the authority head, in favor of such delay.

# L. Notice of Hearing
1. When the presiding officer receives the complaint and answer, the presiding officer shall promptly serve a notice of hearing upon the defendant in the manner prescribed by section H., above. At the same time, the
presiding officer shall send a copy of such notice to the representative for the Government.
2. Such notice shall include:
a. The tentative time and place, and the nature of the hearing;
b. The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held;
c. The matters of fact and law to be asserted;
d. A description of the procedures for the conduct of the hearing;
e. The name, address, and telephone number of the representative of the Government, the defendant, and other parties, if any; and
f. Such other matters as the presiding officer deems appropriate.

# M. Parties to the Hearing
The parties to the hearing shall be the defendant and the authority. The reviewing official of each authority shall, with the concurrence of the DoD Component head, designate attorneys within that authority to represent the authority in hearings conducted under this part. Attorneys appointed as authority representatives shall remain under the supervision of their DoD Component.

# N. Separation of Functions
1. The investigating official and the reviewing official, for any particular case or factually related case, may not do the following:
a. Participate in the hearing as the presiding officer;
b. Participate or advise in the initial decision or the review of the initial decision by the authority head, except as a witness or a representative in a public proceeding; or
c. Make the collecting of penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806.
2. The presiding officer shall not be responsible to, or subject to the supervision or direction of, the investigating official or the reviewing official.
3. Except as provided in subsection 1. of this section, the representative for the Government may be employed anywhere in the authority, including in the offices of either the investigating official or the reviewing official.

# O. Ex parte Contacts
No party or person (except employees of the presiding officer's office) shall communicate in any way with the presiding officer on any matter at issue in a case unless on notice and there is an opportunity for all parties to participate. This provision does not prohibit a person or party from inquiring about the status of a case or asking routine questions concerning administrative functions or procedures.

# P. Disqualification of Presiding Officer and Reviewing Official
1. A reviewing official or presiding officer in a particular case may disqualify himself or herself at any time.
2. A party may file a motion for disqualification of the presiding officer or the reviewing official. Such motion, to be filed with the presiding officer, shall be accompanied by an affidavit alleging personal bias or other reason for disqualification.
3. Such motion and affidavit shall be filed promptly upon the party's discovery of reasons requiring disqualification or such objections shall be deemed waived.
4. Such affidavit shall state specific facts that support the party's belief that personal bias or other reason for disqualification exists and the time and circumstances of the party's discovery of such facts. It shall be accompanied by a certificate of the representative of record that it is made in good faith.
5. Upon the filing of such a motion and affidavit, the presiding officer shall proceed no further in the case until he or she resolves the matter of disqualification by taking one of the following actions:
a. If the presiding officer determines that a reviewing official is disqualified, the presiding officer shall dismiss the complaint without prejudice;
b. If the presiding officer disqualifies himself or herself, the case shall be reassigned promptly to another presiding officer;
c. The presiding officer may deny a motion to disqualify. In such event, the authority head may determine the matter only as part of his or her review of the initial decision upon appeal, if any.

# Q. Rights of Parties
Except as otherwise limited by this enclosure, all parties may:
1. Be accompanied, represented, and advised by a representative;
2. Participate in any conference held by the presiding officer;
3. Conduct discovery;
4. Agree to stipulations of fact or law, which shall be made part of the record;
5. Present evidence relevant to the issues at the hearing;
6. Present and cross-examine witnesses;
7. Present oral arguments at the hearing, as permitted by the presiding officer; and
8. Submit written briefs and proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law after the hearing.

# R. Authority of the Presiding Officer
1. The presiding officer shall conduct a fair and impartial hearing, avoid delay, maintain order, and assure that a record of the proceeding is made.
2. The presiding officer has the authority to do the following:
a. Set and change the date, time, and place of the hearing upon reasonable notice to the parties;
b. Continue or recess the hearing in whole or in part for a reasonable period of time;
c. Hold conferences to identify or simplify the issues, or to consider other matters that may aid in the expeditious disposition of the proceeding;
d. Administer oaths and affirmations;
e. Issue subpoenas requiring the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents at depositions or at hearings;
f. Rule on motions and other procedural matters;
g. Regulate the scope and timing of discovery;
h. Regulate the course of the hearing and the conduct of representatives and parties;
i. Examine witnesses;
j. Receive, rule on, exclude, or limit evidence;
k. Upon motion of a party, take official notice of facts;
l. Upon motion of a party, decide cases, in whole or in part by summary judgment where there is no disputed issue of material fact;
m. Conduct any conference, argument, or hearing on motions in person or by telephone; and
n. Exercise such other authority as is necessary to carry out the responsibilities of the presiding officer under this Directive.
3. The presiding officer does not have the authority to find Federal statutes or regulations invalid.

# S. Prehearing Conferences
1. The presiding officer may schedule prehearing conferences as appropriate.
2. Upon the motion of any party, the presiding officer shall schedule at least one prehearing conference at a reasonable time in advance of the hearing.
3. The presiding officer may use prehearing conferences to discuss the following:
a. Simplification of the issues;
b. The necessity or desirability of amendments to the pleadings, including the need for a more definite statement;
c. Stipulations and admissions of fact or as to the contents and authenticity of documents;
d. Whether the parties can agree to submission of the case on a stipulated record;
e. Whether a party chooses to waive appearance at an oral hearing and to submit only documentary evidence (subject to the objections of other parties) and written argument;
f. Limitation of the number of witnesses;
g. Scheduling dates for the exchange of witness lists and of proposed exhibits;
h. Discovery;
i. The time and place for the hearing; and
j. Such other matters as may tend to expedite the fair and just disposition of the proceedings.
4. The presiding officer may issue an order containing all matters agreed upon by the parties or ordered by the presiding officer at a prehearing conference.

# T. Disclosure of Documents
1. Upon written request to the reviewing official, the defendant may review any relevant and material documents, transcripts, records, and other materials that relate to the allegations set out in the complaint and upon which the findings and conclusions of the investigating official under subsection D.2., above, are based, unless such documents are subject to a privilege under Federal law. Upon payment of fees for duplication, the defendant may obtain copies of such documents.
2. Upon written request to the reviewing official, the defendant also may obtain a copy of all exculpatory information in the possession of the reviewing official or investigating official relating to the allegations in the complaint, even if it is contained in a document that would otherwise be privileged. If the document would otherwise be privileged, only that portion containing exculpatory information must be disclosed, except if disclosure would violate Rule 6(e) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.
3. The notice sent to the Attorney General from the reviewing official as described in section E., above, is not discoverable under any circumstances.
4. The defendant may file a motion to compel disclosure of the documents subject to the provisions of this section at any time after service of the complaint.

# U. Discovery
1. The following types of discovery are authorized:
a. Requests for production of documents for inspection and copying;
b. Requests for admissions of the authenticity of any relevant document or of the truth of any relevant fact;
c. Written interrogatories; and
d. Depositions.
2. For the purpose of this section and sections V. and W., below, the term “documents” includes information, documents, reports, answers, records, accounts, papers, and other data and documentary evidence contained in a form contemplated by the definition of “document” set forth in the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, Rule 34. Nothing contained herein shall be interpreted to require the creation of a document.
3. Unless mutually agreed to by the parties, discovery is available only as ordered by the presiding officer. The presiding officer shall regulate the timing of discovery.
4. Motions for discovery may be filed with the presiding officer by the party seeking discovery.
a. Such a motion shall be accompanied by a copy of the requested discovery, or in the case of depositions, a summary of the scope of the proposed deposition.
b. Within 10 days of service, a party may file an opposition to the motion and/or a motion for protective order as provided in section X., below.
c. The presiding officer may grant a motion of discovery only if he finds that the discovery sought:
(1) Is necessary for the expeditious, fair, and reasonable consideration of the issue;
(2) Is not unduly costly or burdensome;
(3) Will not unduly delay the proceeding; and
(4) Does not seek privileged information.
d. The burden of showing that discovery should be allowed is on the party seeking discovery.
e. The presiding officer may grant discovery subject to a protective order under section X., below.
5. Depositions
a. If a motion for deposition is granted, the presiding officer shall issue a subpoena for the deponent, which may require the deponent to produce documents. The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the deposition will be held. The presiding officer may order that parties produce deponents and/or documents without the need for subpoena.
b. The party seeking to depose shall serve the subpoena in the manner prescribed in section H., above.
c. The deponent may file with the presiding officer a motion to quash the subpoena or a motion for a protective order within 10 days of service.
d. The party seeking to depose shall provide for the taking of a verbatim transcript of the deposition, which it shall make available to all parties for inspection and copying.
6. Each party shall bear its own costs of discovery.

# V. Exchange of Witness Lists, Statements, and Exhibits
1. At least 15 days before the hearing or at such other time as may be ordered by the presiding officer, the parties shall exchange witness lists, copies of prior statements of proposed witnesses, and copies of proposed hearing exhibits, including copies of any written statements that the party intends to offer in lieu of live testimony in accordance with subsection GG.2., below. At the time the above documents are exchanged, any party that intends to rely upon the transcript of deposition testimony in lieu of live testimony at the hearing, if permitted by the presiding officer, shall provide each party with a copy of the specific pages of the transcript it intends to introduce into evidence.
2. If a party objects, the presiding officer shall not admit into evidence the testimony of any witness whose name does not appear on the witness list or any exhibit not provided to the opposing party as provided above unless the presiding officer finds good cause for the failure or that there is no prejudice to the objecting party.
3. Unless another party objects within the time set by the presiding officer, documents exchanged in accordance with subsection 1. of this section shall be admitted into evidence at the hearing. Later challenges to admissibility at the hearing shall be permitted only upon a showing of good cause for the lateness.

# W. Subpoenas for Attendance at Hearing
1. A party wishing to procure the appearance and testimony of any individual at the hearing may request that the presiding officer issue a subpoena.
2. A subpoena requiring the attendance and testimony of an individual may also require the individual to produce documents at the hearing.
3. A party seeking a subpoena shall file a written request therefor not less than 15 days before the date fixed for the hearing, unless otherwise allowed by the presiding officer for good cause shown. Such request shall specify any documents to be produced and shall designate the witnesses and describe the address and location thereof with sufficient particularity to permit such witnesses to be found.
4. The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the witness is to appear and any documents the witness is to produce.
5. The party seeking the subpoena shall serve it in the manner prescribed in section H., above. A subpoena on a party or upon an individual under the control of a party may be served by first class mail.
6. A party or a representative of the individual to whom the subpoena is directed may file with the presiding officer a motion to quash the subpoena with 10 days after service or on or before the time specified in the subpoena for compliance if it is less than 10 days after service.

# X. Protective Order
1. A party or a prospective witness or deponent may file a motion for a protective order with respect to discovery sought by an opposing party or with respect to the hearing, seeking to limit the availability or disclosure of evidence.
2. In issuing a protective order, the presiding officer may make any order that justice requires to protect a party or person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression,
or undue burden or expense including one or more of the following:
a. That the discovery not be had;
b. That the discovery may be had only on specified terms and conditions, including a designation of the time or place;
c. That the discovery may be had only through a method of discovery other than that requested;
d. That classified information not be released unless prior notice and arrangements reasonably acceptable to the representative of the authority are made in coordination with the Defense Investigative Service, and the presiding officer agrees to the use;
e. That certain matters not be inquired into or that the scope of discovery be limited to certain matters;
f. That discovery be conducted with no person except persons designated by the presiding officer;
g. That the contents of discovery or evidence be sealed;
h. That the defendant comply with 32 CFR part 97 concerning official witnesses;
i. That a deposition after being sealed be opened only upon order of the presiding officer;
j. That a trade secret or other confidential research, development, commercial information, or facts pertaining to any criminal investigation, proceeding, or other administrative investigation not be disclosed or be disclosed only in a designated way; or
k. That the parties simultaneously file specified documents of information enclosed in sealed envelopes to be opened as directed by the presiding officer.

# Y. Fees
The party requesting a subpoena shall pay the cost of the witness fees and mileage of any witness subpoenaed in the amounts that would be payable to a witness in a proceeding in the United States District Court. A check for witness fees and mileage shall accompany the subpoena when served, except that when a subpoena is issued on behalf of the authority a check for witness fees and mileage need not accompany the subpoena.

# Z. Form, Filing, and Service of Papers
1. Form
a. Documents filed with the presiding officer shall include an original and two copies.
b. Every pleading and paper filed in the proceeding shall contain a caption setting forth the title of the action, the case number assigned by the presiding officer, and a designation of the paper (e.g., motion to quash subpoena).
c. Every pleading and paper shall be signed by, and shall contain the address and telephone number of, the party or the person on whose behalf the paper was filed, or his or her representative.
d. Papers are considered filed when they are mailed. Date of mailing may be established by a certificate from the party or its representative or by proof that the document was sent by certified or registered mail.
2.
Service.
A party filing a document with the presiding officer shall, at the time of filing, serve a copy of such document on every other party. Service upon any party of any document other than those required to be served as prescribed in section H., above, shall be made by delivering a copy or by placing a copy of the document in the United States mail, postage prepaid and addressed to the party's last known address. When a party is represented by a representative, service shall be made upon such representative in lieu of the actual party.
3.
Proof of service.
A certificate of the individual serving the document by personal delivery or by mail, setting forth the manner of service, shall be proof of service.

# AA. Computation of Time
1. In computing any period of time under this part or in an order issued thereunder, the time begins with the day following the act, event, or default, and includes the last day of the period, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday observed by the Federal Government, in which event it includes the next business day.
2. When the period of time allowed is less than 7 days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays observed by the Federal Government shall be excluded from the computation.
3. Where a document has been served or issued by placing it in the mail, an additional 5 days will be added to the time permitted for any response.

# BB. Motions
1. Any application to the presiding officer for an order or ruling shall be by motion. Motions shall state the relief sought, the authority relied upon, the facts alleged, and shall be filed with the presiding officer and served on all other parties.
2. Except for motions made during a prehearing conference or at the hearing, all motions shall be in writing. The presiding officer may require the oral motions be put in writing.
3. Within 15 days after a written motion is served, or such other time as may be fixed by the presiding officer, any party may file a response to such motion.
4. The presiding officer may not grant a written motion before the time for filing responses thereto has expired, except upon consent of the parties or following a hearing on the motion, but may overrule or deny such motion without awaiting a response.
5. The presiding officer shall make a reasonable effort to dispose of all outstanding
motions prior to the beginning of the hearing.
6. Failure by a party to raise defenses or objections or to make requests that must be made prior to the beginning of the hearing shall constitute waiver thereof, but the presiding officer may grant relief from the waiver for good cause shown.

# CC. Sanctions
1. The presiding officer may sanction a person, including any party or representative, for the following:
a. Failing to comply with an order, rule, or procedure governing the proceeding;
b. Failing to prosecute or defend an action; or
c. Engaging in other misconduct that interferes with the speedy, orderly, or fair conduct of the hearing.
2. Any such sanction, including but not limited to those listed in subsections 3., 4., and 5. of this section, shall reasonably relate to the severity and nature of the failure or misconduct.
3. When a party fails to comply with an order, including an order for taking a deposition, the production of evidence within the party's control, or a request for admission, the presiding officer may:
a. Draw an inference in favor of the requesting party with regard to the information sought;
b. In the case of requests for admission, deem each matter of which an admission is requested to be admitted;
c. Prohibit the party failing to comply with such order from introducing evidence concerning, or otherwise relying upon, testimony relating to the information sought; and
d. Strike any part of the pleadings or other submission of the party failing to comply with such request.
4. If a party fails to prosecute or defend an action under this part commenced by service of a notice of hearing, the presiding officer may dismiss the action or may issue an initial decision imposing penalties and assessments.
5. The presiding officer may refuse to consider any motion, request, response, brief, or other document that is not filed in a timely fashion.

# DD. The Hearing and Burden of Proof
1. The presiding officer shall conduct a hearing on the record in order to determine whether the defendant is liable for a civil penalty or assessment under section C., above, and, if so, the appropriate amount of any such civil penalty or assessment considering any aggravating or mitigating factors.
2. The authority shall prove defendant's liability and any aggravating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.
3. The defendant shall prove any affirmative defenses and any mitigating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.
4. The hearing shall be open to the public unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer for good cause shown.

# EE. Determining the Amount of Penalties and Assessments
In determining an appropriate amount of civil penalties and assessments, the presiding officer and the authority head, upon appeal, should evaluate any circumstances that mitigate or aggravate the violation and should articulate in their opinions the reasons that support the penalties and assessments they impose.

# FF. Location of Hearing
1. The hearing may be held as follows:
a. In any judicial district of the United States in which the defendant resides or transacts business;
b. In any judicial district of the United States in which the claim or statement at issue was made; or
c. In such other place, including foreign countries, as may be agreed upon by the defendant and the presiding officer.
2. Each party shall have the opportunity to petition the presiding officer with respect to the location of the hearing.
3. The hearing shall be held at the place and at the time ordered by the presiding officer.

# GG. Witnesses
1. Except as provided in subsection 2. of this section, testimony at the hearing shall be given orally by witnesses under oath or affirmation.
2. At the discretion of the presiding officer, testimony may be admitted in the form of a written or videotaped statement or deposition. Any such written or videotaped statement must be provided to all other parties along with the last known address of such witness, in a manner which allows sufficient time for other parties to subpoena such witness for deposition or cross-examination at the hearing. Prior written or videotaped statements of witnesses proposed to testify at the hearings and deposition transcripts shall be exchanged as provided in subsection V.1., above.
3. The presiding officer shall exercise reasonable control over the mode and order of interrogating witnesses and presenting evidence so as to:
a. Make the interrogation and presentation effective for the ascertainment of the truth;
b. Avoid needless consumption of time; and
c. Protect witnesses from harassment or undue embarrassment.
4. The presiding officer shall permit the parties to conduct such cross-examination as
may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
5. At the discretion of the presiding officer, a witness may be cross-examined on matters relevant to the proceeding without regard to the scope of his or her direct examination.
6. Upon motion of any party, the presiding officer shall order witnesses excluded so that they cannot hear the testimony of other witnesses. This rule does not authorize exclusion of the following:
a. A party who is an individual;
b. In the case of a party that is not an individual, an officer or employee of the party appearing for the party as its representative, or designated by the party's representative; or
c. An individual whose presence is shown by a party to be essential to the presentation of its case, including an individual employed by the Government engaged in assisting the representative for the Government.

# HH. Evidence
1. The presiding officer shall determine the admissibility of evidence.
2. Except as provided herein, the presiding officer shall not be bound by the Federal Rules of Evidence. However, the presiding officer may apply the Federal Rules of Evidence where appropriate; e.g., to exclude unreliable evidence.
3. The presiding officer shall exclude irrelevant and immaterial evidence.
4. Although relevant, evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues, or by consideration of undue delay or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.
5. Evidence shall be excluded if it is privileged under Federal law and the holder of the privilege asserts it.
6. Evidence concerning offers of compromise or settlement shall be inadmissible to the extent provided in Rule 408 of the Federal Rules of Evidence.
7. The presiding officer shall permit the parties to introduce rebuttal witnesses and evidence.
8. All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record shall be open to examination by all parties, unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer pursuant to section X., above.

# II. The Record and Finding
1. The hearing will be recorded and transcribed. Transcripts may be obtained following the hearing from the presiding officer at a cost not to exceed the actual cost of duplication.
2. The transcript of testimony, exhibits, and other evidence admitted at the hearing, and all papers and requests filed in the proceeding constitute the record for the decision by the presiding officer and the authority head.
3. The record may be inspected and copied (upon payment of a reasonable fee) by anyone, unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer.
4. Funding for the hearing and record, except for the cost of the presiding officer, shall be the responsibility of the authority in which the case arose.

# JJ. Post-hearing Briefs
The presiding officer may require or permit the parties to file post-hearing briefs. The presiding officer shall fix the time for filing any such briefs, not to exceed 60 days from the date the parties receive the transcript of the hearing or, if applicable, the stipulated record. Such briefs may be accompanied by proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. The presiding officer may permit the parties to file reply briefs.

# KK. Initial Decision
1. The presiding officer shall issue an initial decision based only on the record that shall contain findings of fact, conclusions of law, and the amount of any penalties and assessments imposed.
2. The findings of fact shall include a finding on each of the following issues:
a. Whether the claims or statements identified in the complaint, or any portions thereof, violate section C., above; and
b. If the person is liable for penalties or assessments, the appropriate amount of any such penalties or assessments.
3. The presiding officer shall promptly serve the initial decision on all parties within 90 days after the time for submission of post-hearing briefs and reply briefs (if permitted) has expired. The presiding officer shall at the same time serve all parties with a statement describing the right of any defendant determined to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment to file a motion for reconsideration with the presiding officer or a notice of appeal with the authority head. If the presiding officer fails to meet the deadline contained in this subsection, he or she shall notify the parties of the reason for the delay and shall set a new deadline.
4. Unless the initial decision of the presiding officer is timely appealed to the authority head, or a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision is timely filed, the initial decision of the presiding officer shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after it is issued by the presiding officer.

# LL. Reconsideration of Initial Decision
1. Except as provided in subsection 4. of this section, any party may file a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision within 20 days of service of the initial decision in the manner set forth in section H., above, for
service of the complaint. Service shall be proved in the manner provided in subsection H.2., above.
2. Every such motion must set forth the matters claimed to have been erroneously decided and the nature of the alleged errors. Such motion shall be accompanied by a supporting brief.
3. Responses to such motions shall be allowed only upon request of the presiding officer; however, the presiding officer shall not issue a revised initial determination without affording both parties an opportunity to be heard on the motion for reconsideration.
4. No party may file a motion for reconsideration of an initial decision that has been revised in response to a previous motion for reconsideration.
5. The presiding officer may dispose of a motion for reconsideration by denying it or by issuing a revised initial decision.
6. If the presiding officer denies a motion for reconsideration, the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the authority head and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after the presiding officer denies the motion, unless the initial decision is timely appealed to the authority head in accordance with section MM., below.
7. If the presiding officer issues a revised initial decision, that decision shall constitute the final decision of the authority head and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after it is issued, unless it is timely appealed to the authority head in accordance with section MM., below.

# MM. Appeal to Authority Head
1. Any defendant who has filed a timely answer and who is determined in an initial decision to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment may appeal such decision to the authority head by filing a notice of appeal with the authority head in accordance with this section.
2. A notice of appeal:
a. May be filed at any time within 30 days after the presiding officer issues an initial or a revised initial decision. If another party files a motion for reconsideration under section LL., above, consideration of the appeal shall be stayed automatically pending resolution of the motion for reconsideration, until the time period for filing a motion for reconsideration under section LL., above, has expired or the motion is resolved;
b. If a motion for reconsideration is timely filed, a notice of appeal may be filed within 30 days after the presiding officer denies the motion or issues a revised initial decision, whichever applies;
c. The authority head may extend the initial 30-day period for an additional 30 days if the defendant files with the authority head a request for an extension within the initial 30-day period and shows good cause.
3. If the defendant files a timely notice of appeal with the authority head, the presiding officer shall forward the record of the proceeding to the authority head when:
a. The time for filing a motion for reconsideration expires without the filing of such a motion, or
b. The motion for reconsideration is denied. Issuance of a revised initial decision upon motion for reconsideration shall require filing of a new notice of appeal.
4. A notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a written brief specifying exceptions to the initial decision and reasons supporting the exceptions.
5. The representative for the Government may file a brief in opposition to the exceptions within 30 days of receiving the notice of appeal and accompanying brief.
6. There is no right to appear personally before the authority head, although the authority head may at his or her discretion require the parties to appear for an oral hearing on appeal.
7. There is no right to appeal any interlocutory ruling by the presiding officer.
8. In reviewing the initial decision, the authority head shall not consider any objection that was not raised before the presiding officer, unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary circumstances causing the failure to raise the objection.
9. If any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the authority head that additional evidence not presented at such hearing is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to present such evidence at such hearing, the authority head shall remand the matter to the presiding officer for consideration of such additional evidence.
10. The authority head may affirm, reduce, reverse, compromise, remand, or settle any penalty or assessment determined by the presiding officer in any initial decision.
11. The authority head shall promptly serve each party to the appeal with a copy of the decision of the authority head and a statement describing the right of any person determined to be liable for a penalty or assessment to seek judicial review.
12. Unless a petition for review is filed as provided in 32 U.S.C. 3805 after a defendant has exhausted all administrative remedies under this part and within 60 days after the date on which the authority head serves the defendant with a copy of the authority head's decision, a determination that a defendant is liable under section C., above, is final and is not subject to judicial review.
13. The authority heads (or their designees) may designate an officer or employee of the authority, who is serving in the grade of GS-17 or above under the General Schedule, or in the Senior Executive Service, to carry out these appellate responsibilities; however, the
authority to compromise, settle, or otherwise discretionarily dispose of the case on appeal provided pursuant to subsection MM.10, hereof, may not be so redelegated pursuant to this subsection.

# NN. Stays Ordered by the Department of Justice
If at any time, the Attorney General or an Assistant Attorney General designated by the Attorney General transmits to the authority head a written finding that continuation of the administrative process described in this Directive with respect to a claim or statement may adversely affect any pending or potential criminal or civil action related to such claim or statement, the authority head shall stay the process immediately. The authority head may order the process resumed only upon receipt of the written authorization of the Attorney General.

# OO. Stay Pending Appeal
1. An initial decision is stayed automatically pending disposition of a motion for reconsideration or of an appeal to the authority head.
2. No administrative stay is available following a final decision of the authority head.

# PP. Judicial Review.
31 U.S.C. 3805 authorizes judicial review by an appropriate United States District Court of a final decision of the authority head imposing penalties or assessment under this part and specifies the procedures for such review.

# QQ. Collection of Civil Penalties and Assessments
31 U.S.C. 3806 and 3808(b) authorize actions for collection of civil penalties and assessments imposed under this part and specify the procedures for such actions.

# RR. Right to Administrative Offset
The amount of any penalty or assessment that has become final, or for which a judgment has been entered under section QQ., above, or any amount agreed upon in a compromise or settlement under section TT., below, may be collected by administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, except that an administrative offset may not be made under this section against a refund of an overpayment of Federal taxes then or later owing by the United States to the defendant.

# SS. Deposit in Treasury of United States
All amounts collected pursuant to this part shall be deposited as miscellaneous receipts in the Treasury of the United States, except as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3806(g).

# TT. Compromise or Settlement
1. Parties may make offers of compromise or settlement at any time.
2. The reviewing official has the exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any time after the date on which the reviewing official is permitted to issue a complaint and before the date on which the presiding officer issues an initial decision.
3. The authority head has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this Directive at any time after the date on which the presiding officer issues an initial decision, except during the pendency of any review under section PP., above, or during the pendency of any action to collect penalties as assessments under section QQ., above.
4. The Attorney General has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part during the pendency of any review under section PP., above, of any action to recover penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806.
5. The investigating official may recommend settlement terms to the reviewing official or the Attorney General, as appropriate. The reviewing official may recommend settlement terms to the Attorney General, as appropriate.
6. Any compromise or settlement must be in writing.

# UU. Limitations
1. The notice of hearing with respect to a claim or settlement must be served in the manner specified in section H., above, within 6 years after the date on which such claim or statement is made.
2. If the defendant fails to file a timely answer, service of a notice under subsection J.2., above, shall be deemed a notice of hearing for purposes of this section.
3. If at any time during the course of proceedings brought pursuant to this section, the authority head receives or discovers any specific information concerning bribery, gratuities, conflict of interest, or other corruption or similar activity in relation to a false claim or statement, the authority head shall immediately report such information to the Attorney General and to the Inspector General, Department of Defense.

# VV. Delegations
The General Counsel for the Department of Defense is designated to carry out the responsibilities of the authority head of the Department of Defense for the issuance of additional implementing regulations that are necessary to implement PFCRA and this part to decide cases upon appeal, and to hire or designate employees of the Department of Defense to decide cases on appeal. The General Counsel, Department of Defense, is also
designated to appoint presiding officers for the Department of Defense, and may assist in the appointment of presiding officers on detail from other Agencies for all authorities within the Department of Defense.
Pt. 281

# PART 281—SETTLING PERSONNEL AND GENERAL CLAIMS AND PROCESSING ADVANCE DECISION REQUESTS
Sec.
281.1
Purpose.
281.2
Applicability and scope.
281.3
Definitions.
281.4
Policy.
281.5
Responsibilities.
Appendix to Part 281—Claims Description.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 2575, 2771, 4712, 9712; 24 U.S.C. 420; 31 U.S.C. 3529, 3702; 32 U.S.C. 714; 37 U.S.C. 554.

# Source:
71 FR 57426, Sept. 29, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 281.1
Purpose.
This part establishes policy and assigns responsibilities for settling personnel and general claims (under 31 U.S.C. 3702; 10 U.S.C. 2575, 2771, 4712, and 9712; 24 U.S.C. 420; 37 U.S.C. 554, and 32 U.S.C. 714) and for processing requests for an advance decision under 31 U.S.C. 3529.
§ 281.2
Applicability and scope.
This part applies to:
(a) The Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities in the Department of Defense (hereafter referred to collectively as “the DoD Components”).
(b) The Coast Guard, when it is not operating as a Service in the Navy under agreement with the Department of Homeland Security, and the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service (PHS) and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), under agreements with the Departments of Health and Human Services and Commerce (hereafter referred to collectively as “the non-DoD Components”).
§ 281.3
Definitions.
Armed Forces.
The Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps, and the Coast Guard.
Claim.
A demand for money or property under 31 U.S.C. 3702; 10 U.S.C. 2575, 2771, 4712, and 9712; 24 U.S.C. 420; 37 U.S.C. 554, and 32 U.S.C. 714.
Secretary concerned.
The Secretary of the Army, addressing matters concerning the Army. The Secretary of the Navy, addressing matters concerning the Navy, the Marine Corps, and the Coast Guard when it is operating as a Service in the Navy. The Secretary of the Air Force, addressing matters concerning the Air Force. The Secretary of Homeland Security, addressing matters concerning the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a Service in the Navy. The Secretary of Health and Human Services, addressing matters concerning the PHS. The Secretary of Commerce, addressing matters concerning the NOAA.
Settlement.
A claim and the amount due that is administratively determined to be valid.
Uniformed Services.
The Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps, the Coast Guard, and the Commissioned Corps of the PHS and the NOAA.
§ 281.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy that:
(a) The claim settlement and advance decision authorities that, by statute or delegation, are vested in the Department of Defense or the Secretary of Defense shall be exercised by the officials designated in this part. The appendix to this part describes the claims included under these functional authorities.
(b) Claims shall be settled and advance decisions shall be rendered in accordance with pertinent statutes and regulations, and after consideration of other relevant authorities.
§ 281.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The
General Counsel of the Department of Defense
shall:
(1) Settle claims that the Secretary of Defense is authorized to settle under 31 U.S.C. 3702; 10 U.S.C. 2575, 2771, 4712, and 9712; 24 U.S.C. 420; 37 U.S.C. 554, and 32 U.S.C. 714.
(2) Consider, and grant or deny, a request under 31 U.S.C. 3702 to waive the time limit for submitting certain claims.
(3) Render advance decisions under 31 U.S.C. 3529 that the Secretary of Defense is authorized to render, and oversee the submission of requests for an advance decision arising from the activity of a DoD Component that are addressed to officials outside the Department of Defense.
(4) Develop overall claim settlement and advance decision policies; and promulgate procedures for settling claims, processing requests for an advance decision (including overseeing the submission of requests for an advance decision arising from the activity of a DoD Component that are addressed to officials outside the Department of Defense), and rendering advance decisions. Procedures for settling claims shall include an initial determination process and a process to appeal an initial determination.
(b) The
Heads of the DoD Components
shall:
(1) Establish procedures within their organization for processing claims and for submitting requests for an advance decision arising from it's activity in accordance with this part and responsibilities promulgated under paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(2) Pay claims under 10 U.S.C. 2771 and 32 U.S.C. 714, if applicable.
(3) Ensure compliance with this part and policies and responsibilities promulgated under (a)(4) of this section.
(c) The
Heads of the Non-DoD Components,
concerning claims arising from that Component's activity under 31 U.S.C. 3702, 10 U.S.C. 2575, 10 U.S.C. 2771 or 37 U.S.C. 554, shall:
(1) Establish procedures within their organization for processing claims and for submitting requests for an advance decision in accordance with this part and responsibilities promulgated under paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(2) Pay claims under 10 U.S.C. 2771, if applicable.
Pt. 281, App.

# Appendix to Part 281—Claims Description
The Secretary of Defense is authorized to perform the claim settlement and advance decision functions for claims under the following statutes:
(a) 31 U.S.C. 3702, concerning claims in general when there is no other settlement authority specifically provided for by law.
1
1
This includes claims involving Uniformed Services members' pay, allowances, travel, transportation, payment for unused accrued leave, retired pay, and survivor benefits, and claims for refunds by carriers for amounts collected from them for loss or damage to property they transported at Government expense; also included are other claims arising from the activity of a DoD Component. However, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management performs these functions for claims involving civilian employees' compensation and leave; and the Administrator of General Services performs these functions for claims involving civilian employees' travel, transportation, and relocation expenses.
(b) 10 U.S.C. 2575, concerning the disposition of unclaimed personal property on a military installation.
(c) 10 U.S.C. 2771, concerning the final settlement of accounts of deceased members of the armed forces (but not the National Guard).
2
2
Claims under this statute are actually settled under the authority in 31 U.S.C. 3702 because there is no specific settlement authority in the statute.
(d) 24 U.S.C. 420, 10 U.S.C. 4712, and 10 U.S.C. 9712, concerning the disposition of the effects of a deceased person who was subject to military law at a place or command under the jurisdiction of the Army or Air Force or of deceased residents of the Armed Forces Retirement Home.
(e) 37 U.S.C. 554, concerning the sale of personal property of members of the Uniformed Services who are in a missing status.
(f) 32 U.S.C. 714, concerning the final settlement of accounts of deceased members of the National Guard.
2
Pt. 282

# PART 282—PROCEDURES FOR SETTLING PERSONNEL AND GENERAL CLAIMS AND PROCESSING ADVANCE DECISION REQUESTS
Sec.
282.1
Purpose.
282.2
Applicability and scope.
282.3
Definitions.
282.4
Policy.
282.5
Responsibilities.
Appendix A to Part 282—Guidance
Appendix B to Part 282—Claims Description
Appendix C to Part 282—Submitting a Claim
Appendix D to Part 282—Processing a Claim
Appendix E to Part 282—Appeals
Appendix F to Part 282—Requests for an Advance Decision

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552; 10 U.S.C. 2575; 10 U.S.C. 2771; 10 U.S.C. 4712; 10 U.S.C. 9712; 24 U.S.C. 420; 31 U.S.C. 3529; 31 U.S.C. 3702; 32 U.S.C. 714; and 37 U.S.C. 554.

# Source:
69 FR 38843, June 29, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 282.1
Purpose.
This part implements policy under 32 CFR part 281 and prescribes procedures for processing and settling personnel and general claims under 31 U.S.C. 3702, 10 U.S.C. 2575, 10 U.S.C. 2771, 24 U.S.C. 420, 10 U.S.C. 4712, 10 U.S.C. 9712, 37 U.S.C. 554, 32 U.S.C. 714 and for processing requests for an advance decision under 31 U.S.C. 3529.
§ 282.2
Applicability and scope.
This part applies to:
(a) The Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities in the Department of Defense (hereafter referred to collectively as “the DoD Components”).
(b) The Coast Guard, when it is not operating as a Service in the Navy under agreement with the Department of Homeland Security, and the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service (PHS) and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), under agreements with the Departments of Health and Human Services and Commerce (hereafter referred to collectively as “the non-DoD Components”).
§ 282.3
Definitions.
(a)
Armed Forces.
The Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps, and the Coast Guard.
(b)
Claim.
A demand for money or property under one of the following statutes: 31 U.S.C. 3702, 10 U.S.C. 2575, 10 U.S.C. 2771, 24 U.S.C. 420, 10 U.S.C. 4712, 10 U.S.C. 9712, 37 U.S.C. 554, or 32 U.S.C. 714.
(c)
Committee.
The person or persons invested, by order of a proper court, with the guardianship of a minor or incompetent person and /or the estate of a minor or incompetent person.
(d)
Component Concerned.
The agency/activity (as well as the official designated by the Head of the agency/activity) required to perform the function or take the action indicated or from whose activity a claim arose.
(e)
Final Action.
A finding by the appropriate official under this part concerning a claim from which there is no right to appeal or request reconsideration, or concerning which the time limit prescribed in this part for submitting an appeal or request for reconsideration has expired without such a submission.
(f)
Member.
A member or former member of the Uniformed Services.
(g)
Secretary Concerned.
The Secretary of the Army, addressing matters concerning the Army. The Secretary of the Navy, addressing matters concerning the Navy, the Marine Corps, and the Coast Guard when it is operating as a Service in the Navy. The Secretary of the Air Force, addressing matters concerning the Air Force. The Secretary of Homeland Security, addressing matters concerning the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a Service in the Navy. The Secretary of Health and Human Services, addressing matters concerning the PHS. The Secretary of Commerce, addressing matters concerning the NOAA.
(h)
Settlement.
A claim and the amount due that is administratively determined to be valid.
(i)
Uniformed Services.
The Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps, the Coast Guard, and the Commissioned Corps of the PHS and the NOAA.
§ 282.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy that:
(a) Claims shall be settled and advance decisions rendered in accordance with all pertinent statutes and regulations, and after consideration of other relevant authorities.
(b) This part applies to certain claim settlement and advance decision functions that, by statute or delegation,
are vested in the Department of Defense or the Secretary of Defense. Appendix B to this part describes the claims included under these functional authorities.
§ 282.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The
General Counsel of the Department of Defense
(GC, DoD), or designee, shall:
(1) Upon the request of the Director, Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA), consult on, or render legal opinions concerning, questions of law that arise in the course of the performance of the Director's responsibilities under paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) Render advance decisions under 31 U.S.C. 3529 and oversee the submission of requests for an advance decision arising from the activity of a DoD Component that are addressed to the Director of the Office of Personnel Management or the Administrator General Services in accordance with this part.
(b) The
Director, Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals
(DOHA), or designee, under the GC, DoD (as the
Director, Defense Legal Services Agency
), shall:
(1) Consider, and grant or deny, a request by the Secretary concerned under 31 U.S.C. 3702(e) to waive the time limit for submitting certain claims in accordance with 32 CFR part 281 and this part.
(2) Consider appeals from an initial determination, and affirm, modify, reverse, or remand the initial determination in accordance with 32 CFR part 281, this part, and relevant DoD Office of General Counsel opinions.
(c) The
Heads of the DoD Components
, or designees, shall:
(1) Process claims under 31 U.S.C. 3702, 10 U.S.C. 2575, 10 U.S.C. 2771, 24 U.S.C. 420, 10 U.S.C. 4712, 10 U.S.C. 9712, 37 U.S.C. 554, and 32 U.S.C. 714 in accordance with this part.
(2) Ensure that requests for an advance decision that originate in their organizations are prepared and submitted in accordance with this part.
(3) Pay claims as provided in a final action in accordance with this part.
(d) The
Heads of the Non-DoD Components
, or designees, shall:
(1) Process claims under 31 U.S.C. 3702, 10 U.S.C. 2575, 10 U.S.C. 2771, or 37 U.S.C. 554 in accordance with this part.
(2) Ensure that requests for an advance decision that originate in their organizations are prepared and submitted in accordance with this part.
(3) Pay claims as provided in a final action in accordance with this part.
Pt. 282, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 282—Guidance
(a)
Submitting a claim.
The procedures a claimant must follow to submit a claim are at Appendix C to this part.
(b)
Processing a claim.
The procedures a DoD Component must follow in processing a claim are at Appendix D to this part.
1
1
Contact the appropriate non-DoD Component for the procedures it follows in processing a claim.
(c)
Appeals.
The procedures for appealing initial determinations are at Appendix E to this part.
(d)
Disposition of claims upon settlement in general.
(1) The appropriate official for the Component concerned shall pay a claim in accordance with the final action concerning the claim.
(2) Where state law requires, a committee must be appointed for a minor or incompetent person in accordance with State law before payment may be made.
(e)
Requests for an advance decision.
Procedures for requesting an advance decision under 31 U.S.C. 3529 concerning the propriety of a payment or voucher certification related to claims addressed in this part are at Appendix F to this part.
(f)
Publication.
In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552, the Director, DOHA, or designee, shall make redacted copies of responses to requests for reconsideration and advance decisions by the GC, DoD, or designee, available for public inspection and copying at DOHA's public reading room and on the worldwide web.
Pt. 282, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 282—Claims Description
The Secretary of Defense is authorized to perform the claims settlement and advance decision functions for claims under the following statutes:
(a) 31 U.S.C. 3702 concerning claims in general when there is no other settlement authority specifically provided for by law.
1
1
This includes claims involving Uniformed Services members' pay, allowances, travel, transportation, payment for unused accrued leave, retired pay, and survivor benefits, and claims for refund by carriers for amounts collected from them for loss or damage to property they transported at Government
expense; also included are other claims arising from the activity of a DoD Component. However, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management performs these functions for claims involving civilian employees' compensation and leave; and the Administrator of General Services performs these functions for claims involving civilian employees' travel, transportation, and relocation expenses.
(b) 10 U.S.C. 2575 concerning the disposition of unclaimed personal property on a military installation.
(c) 10 U.S.C. 2771 concerning the final settlement of accounts of deceased members of the Armed Forces (but not the National Guard).
2
2
Claims under this statute are actually settled under the authority in 31 U.S.C. 3702 because there is no specific settlement authority in the statute.
(d) 24 U.S.C. 420, 10 U.S.C. 4712, and 10 U.S.C. 9712 concerning the disposition of the effects of a deceased person who was subject to military law at a place or Command under the jurisdiction of the Army or the Air Force or of a deceased resident of the Armed Forces Retirement Home.
(e) 37 U.S.C. 554 concerning the sale of personal property of members of the Uniformed Services who are in a missing status.
(f) 32 U.S.C. 714 concerning the final settlement of accounts of deceased members of the National Guard.
3
3
Claims under this statute are actually settled under the authority in 31 U.S.C. 3702 because there is no specific settlement authority in the statute.
Pt. 282, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 282—Submitting a Claim
(a)
Who May Submit a Claim.
Any person (“claimant”) may submit a claim who has a demand for money or property against the Government under 31 U.S.C. 3702, 10 U.S.C. 2575, 10 U.S.C. 2771, 24 U.S.C. 420, 10 U.S.C. 4712, 10 U.S.C. 9712, 37 U.S.C. 554, or 32 U.S.C. 714.
(b)
Where to Submit a Claim.
A claimant must submit a claim to the Component concerned in accordance with guidance provided by that Component. A claim that is submitted somewhere other than to the Component concerned does not stop the running of the time limit in paragraph (f) of this Appendix. It is the claimant's responsibility to submit a claim properly.
(c)
Format of a Claim.
A claimant must submit a claim in the format prescribed by the Component concerned. It must be written and be signed by the claimant (in the case of a claim on behalf of a minor or incompetent person, there are additional requirements explained at paragraph (e) of this Appendix) or by the claimant's authorized agent or attorney (there are additional requirements explained at paragraph (d) of this Appendix). In addition, it should:
(1) Provide the claimant's mailing address.
(2) Provide the claimant's telephone number.
(3) State the amount claimed.
(4) State the reasons why the Government owes the claimant that amount.
(5) Have attached copies of documents referred to in the claim.
(6) Include or have attached statements (that are attested to be true and correct to the best of the individual's knowledge and belief) of the claimant or other persons in support of the claim.
(d)
Claim Submitted by Agent or Attorney.
In addition to the requirements in paragraph (c) of this Appendix, a claim submitted by the claimant's agent or attorney must include or have attached a duly executed power of attorney or other documentary evidence of the agent's or attorney's right to act for the claimant.
(e)
Claim Submitted on Behalf of a Minor or Incompetent Person.
In addition to the requirements in paragraph (c) of this Appendix:
(1) If a guardian or committee has not been appointed, a claim submitted on behalf of a minor or incompetent person must:
(i) State the claimant's relationship to the minor or incompetent person.
(ii) Provide the name and address of the person having care and custody of the minor or incompetent person.
(iii) Include an affirmation that any moneys received shall be applied to the use and benefit of the minor or incompetent person, and that the appointment of a guardian or committee is not contemplated.
(2) If a guardian or committee has been appointed, a claim on behalf of a minor or incompetent person must include or have attached a certificate of the court showing the appointment and qualification of the guardian or committee.
(f)
When to Submit a Claim.
A claimant must submit a claim so that it is received by the Component concerned within the time limit allowed by statute.
(1) Claimants must submit claims within these statutory time limits:
1
1
Under Section 501
et seq.
of title 50 Appendix, United States Code, periods of active military service are not included in calculating whether a claim has been received within these statutory time limits.
(i) Claims on account of Treasury checks under 31 U.S.C. 3702(c) must be received within 1 year after the date of issuance.
(ii) Claims under 31 U.S.C. 3702 (b), 10 U.S.C. 2771 and 32 U.S.C. 714 must be received within 6 years of the date the claim accrued. (A claim accrues on the date when everything necessary to give rise to the claim has
occurred.) The time limit for claims of members of the Armed Forces that accrue during war or within 5 years before war begins, is 6 years from the date the claim accrued or 5 years after peace is established, whichever is later.
(iii) Claims under 10 U.S.C. 2575(d)(3) must be received within 5 years after the date of the disposal of the property to which the claim relates.
(iv) Claims under 24 U.S.C. 420(d)(1), 10 U.S.C. 4712, and 10 U.S.C. 9712 must be received within 6 years after the death of the deceased resident.
(v) Claims under 37 U.S.C. 554(h) must be received before the end of the 5-year period from the date the net proceeds from the sale of the missing person's personal property are covered into the Treasury.
(2) The time limits set by statute may not be extended or waived.
2
Although the issue of timeliness normally shall be raised upon initial submission (as explained at Appendix D to this part, paragraph (b)), the issue may be raised at any point during the claim settlement process.
2
There is an exception for certain claims described in 31 U.S.C. 3702(e). In those cases, the Secretary of Defense may waive the time limits in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this Appendix. Appendix D of this part, paragraph (d), explains which claims qualify and the procedures that apply.
(g)
Claimant Must Prove the Claim.
The claimant must prove, by clear and convincing evidence, on the written record that the United States is liable to the claimant for the amount claimed. All relevant evidence to prove the claim should be presented when a claim is first submitted. In the absence of compelling circumstances, evidence that is presented at later stages of the administrative process will not be considered.
Pt. 282, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 282—Processing a Claim
(a)
Initial Component Processing.
Upon receipt of a claim, the Component concerned must:
(1) Date stamp the claim on the date received.
(2) Determine whether the claim was received within the required time limit (time limits are summarized at Appendix C to this part, paragraph (f)) and follow the procedures in paragraph (b) of this Appendix if the claim was not timely.
(3) Investigate the claim.
(4) Decide whether the claimant provided clear and convincing evidence that proves all or part of the claim.
(5) Issue an initial determination that grants the claim to the extent proved or denies the claim, as appropriate. The initial determination must state how much of the claim is granted and how much is denied, and must explain the reasons for the determination.
(6) Notify the claimant of the initial determination. The Component must send the claimant a copy of the initial determination and a notice that explains:
(i) The action the Component shall take on the claim, if the initial determination is or becomes a final action (the finality of an initial determination is explained at paragraph (c) of this Appendix); and
(ii) The procedures the claimant must follow to appeal an initial determination that denies all or part of the claim (those appeal procedures are explained at Appendix E to this part), if applicable.
(b)
Untimely Claims.
When the Component concerned determines that a claim was not received within the statutory time limit, the Component must make an initial determination of untimely receipt. (The statutory time limits are explained in Appendix C to this part, paragraph (f).)
(1) The initial determination must cite the applicable statute and explain the reasons for the finding of untimely receipt. The Component must send the initial determination to the claimant with a notice that:
(i) States the claim was not received within the statutory time limit and, therefore, may not be considered, unless that finding is reversed on appeal, and explains how the claimant may appeal the finding (those appeal procedures are explained at Appendix E to this part); and either
(ii) If the claim does not qualify under 31 U.S.C. 3702(e), states that the statutory time limit may not be extended or waived; or
(iii) If the claim does qualify under 31 U.S.C. 3702(e), states that the claim may be further considered only if the time limit is waived, and explains how the claimant may apply for a waiver. (Paragraph (d) of this Appendix explains which claims qualify and the procedures for applying for a waiver).
(2) Except in cases where a claimant has applied under paragraph (d) of this Appendix to request a waiver of the time limit, the Component must return the claim to the claimant when the initial determination becomes a final action with a notice that the finding in the initial determination is final and, therefore, the claim may not be considered. If the claim qualifies under 31 U.S.C. 3702(e), the notice must also state that the claimant may resubmit the claim with an application under paragraph (d) of this Appendix.
(c)
Finality of an Initial Determination.
An initial determination that grants all of a claim is a final action when it is issued. Otherwise, an initial determination (including one of untimely receipt) is a final action if the Component concerned does not receive an appeal within 30 days of the date of the initial determination (plus any extension of
up to 30 additional days granted by the Component concerned for good cause shown).
(d)
Waiver of Certain Time Limits.
When the Component concerned determines that a claim was not received within the statutory time limit in 31 U.S.C. 3702(b) or (c), the claimant may request a waiver of the time limit. Waiver is permitted only for those claims that satisfy the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3702(e).
1
This provision confers no right or entitlement on a claimant. It is solely within the discretion of the Secretary of Defense whether to grant such a waiver in a particular case.
1
When this part was issued, 31 U.S.C. 3702(e) allowed time limit waivers only for claims up to $25,000 for Uniformed Service member's pay, allowances, travel, transportation, payments for unused accrued leave, retired pay, and survivors benefits. Since 31 U.S.C. 3702(e) could be amended at any time to modify these restrictions, always consult the current provisions of that Section to determine which claims are included.
(1) The claim must contain the information and documents that are generally required for claims (those requirements are explained at Appendix C to this part, paragraph (c)).
(2) The Component concerned must investigate the claim and make an initial determination concerning the merits of the claim.
(3) If the initial determination grants all or part of the claim, and if the Secretary concerned agrees with the determination, the Secretary may request or recommend that the time limit be waived.
2
Requests and recommendations must be in writing and signed by the Secretary concerned. (This authority may not be delegated below the level of an Assistant Secretary.)
2
31 U.S.C. 3702(e) currently requires a Secretarial request only in the case of a claim by or with respect to a member of the Uniformed Services who is not under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of a Military Department. As a matter of policy, the Department of Defense currently requires a Secretarial recommendation in all other cases.
(i) The Secretary concerned shall forward the request or recommendation to the following address: Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals, Claims Division, P.O. Box 3656, Arlington, VA 22203-1995.
(ii) The entire record concerning the claim, including the initial determination, must be attached to the request.
(4) The Director, DOHA, must review the request and the written record and must:
(i) Grant the request and waive the statutory time limit, if the Director finds that all or part of the claim has been proven. The Director may also modify the finding concerning the amount of the claim that has been proven.
(ii) Deny the request, if the Director finds that no part of the claim has been proven.
(iii) Notify the Secretary concerned and the claimant of the decision and the reasons for the findings.
(5) In the event the Director, DOHA, denies the request, or grants the request but modifies the finding concerning the amount of the claim proven, the Secretary concerned or the claimant may request reconsideration (the procedures are explained at Appendix E to this part). The Director's decision is a final action if the Director does not receive a request for reconsideration within 30 days of the date of the Director's decision (plus any extension of up to 30 additional days granted by the Director for good cause shown).
Pt. 282, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 282—Appeals
(a)
Who May Appeal.
A claimant may appeal if an initial determination denies all or part of a claim or finds that the claim was not received by the Component concerned within the time limit required by statute; however, the decision of the Secretary concerned not to request or recommend waiver of the time limit is not appealable except to the Secretary concerned, if the Secretary as a matter of discretion provides for such appeals.
(b)
When and Where to Submit an Appeal.
A claimant's appeal must be received by the Component concerned within 30 days of the date of the initial determination. The Component may extend this period for up to an additional 30 days for good cause shown. No appeal may be accepted after this time has expired. An appeal sent directly to the DOHA is not properly submitted.
(c)
Content of an Appeal.
No specific format is required; however, the appeal must be written and be signed by the claimant, the claimant's authorized agent, or the claimant's attorney. It also should:
(1) Provide the claimant's mailing address;
(2) Provide the claimant's telephone number;
(3) State the amount claimed on appeal, or that the appeal is from a finding of untimely receipt, whichever applies;
(4) Identify specific:
(i) Errors or omissions of material and relevant fact;
(ii) Legal considerations that were overlooked or misapplied; and
(iii) Conclusions that were arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion;
(5) Present evidence of the correct or additional facts alleged;
(6) Explain the reasons the findings or conclusions should be reversed or modified;
(7) Have attached copies of documents referred to in the appeal; and
(8) Include or have attached statements (that are attested to be true and correct to the best of the individual's knowledge and
belief) by the claimant or other persons in support of the appeal.
(d)
Component's Review.
The Component concerned must review a claimant's appeal, and affirm, modify, or reverse the initial determination.
(1) If the appeal concerns the denial of all or part of the claim and the Component grants the entire claim, or grants the claim to the extent requested in the appeal, the Component must notify the claimant in writing and explain the action the Component shall take on the claim. This is a final action.
(2) If the appeal concerns the untimely receipt of the claim and the Component determines that the claim was received within the time limit required by statute, the Component must notify the claimant in writing and process the claim on the merits.
(3) In all other cases, the Component must forward the appeal to the DOHA in accordance with paragraph (e) of this Appendix. If the appeal concerns an initial determination of untimely receipt, the Component should not investigate, or issue an initial determination concerning, the merits of the claim before forwarding the appeal. The Component must prepare a recommendation and administrative report (as explained in paragraph (f) of this Appendix). The Component must send a copy of the administrative report to the claimant, with a notice that the claimant may submit a rebuttal to the Component (as explained in paragraph (g) of this Appendix).
(e)
Submission of Appeal to DOHA.
No earlier than 31 days after the date of the administrative report, or the day after the claimant's rebuttal period, as extended, expires, the Component must send the entire record along with the recommendation and the administrative report required by paragraph (f) of this Appendix to the following address: Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals, Claims Division, P.O. Box 3656, Arlington, Virginia 22203-1995.
The record sent to the DOHA shall include specific identification of any major policy issue(s) and a statement as to whether the amount in controversy exceeds $100,000 either in the instant claim or in the aggregate for directly related claims. If the amount in controversy exceeds $100,000, a full description of the financial impact shall be provided.
(f)
Recommendation and Administrative Report.
The recommendation and administrative report required by paragraph (d) of this Appendix must include the following:
(1) The name of the claimant;
(2) The Component's file reference number;
(3) The Component's recommendation (and the reasons for it) for the disposition of the claim;
(4) Relevant and material documents (such as correspondence, business records, and witness statements), as attachments; and
(5) Complete copies of regulations, instructions, memorandums of understanding, tariffs and/or tenders, solicitations, contracts, or rules cited by the claimant or the Component, if a copy has not been previously provided, or is not available readily via electronic means.
(g)
Claimant's Rebuttal.
A claimant may submit a written rebuttal, signed by the claimant or the claimant's agent or attorney, in response to the recommendation and administrative report. The rebuttal must be submitted to the Component within 30 days of the date of the recommendation and administrative report. The Component may grant an extension of up to an additional 30 days for good cause shown. The rebuttal should include:
(1) An explanation of the points and reasons for disagreeing with the report;
(2) The Component's file reference number;
(3) Any documents referred to in the rebuttal; and
(4) Statements (that are attested to be true and correct to the best of the individual's knowledge and belief) by the claimant or other persons in support of the rebuttal.
(h)
Action by the Component.
The Component must:
(1) Date stamp the claimant's rebuttal on the date it is received;
(2) Send the entire record to the DOHA, but no earlier than 31 days after the date of the report, or the day after the claimant's rebuttal period, as extended, expires (as explained in paragraph (e) of this Appendix).
(i)
DOHA Appeal Decision.
Except as provided in paragraph (p) of this Appendix, the DOHA must base its decision on the written record, including the recommendation and administrative report and any rebuttal by the claimant. The DOHA shall coordinate its decision in advance with the GC, DoD when the appeal decision affects:
(1) Major policy issues;
(2) Involves a claim that is quasi-contractual in nature and arises from the activity of a DoD Component, but the claim was not settled under usual acquisition procedures; or
(3) When the amounts in controversy exceed $100,000, either for the instant claim or in the aggregate for directly related claims. The written decision must:
(i) Affirm, modify, reverse, or remand the Component's determination (and, if the issue is untimely receipt and there is a finding that the claim was timely received, may either consider and decide the claim on the merits or return the claim to the Component concerned for investigation and initial determination on the merits);
(ii) State the amount of the claim that is granted and the amount that is denied and/or
state that the claim was or was not received within the statutory time limit, as appropriate; and
(iii) Explain the reasons for the decision.
(j)
Processing After the Appeal Decision.
After issuing an appeal decision, the DOHA must:
(1) Send the claimant the decision and notify the claimant of:
(i) The appropriate Component action on the claim as a consequence of the decision, if it is or becomes a final action (as explained in paragraph (k) of this Appendix); and
(ii) The procedures under this appendix to request reconsideration (as explained in paragraphs (l) through (n) of this Appendix), if the decision does not grant the claim to the extent requested, or does not contain a finding of timely receipt, as the case may be.
(2) Notify the Component concerned of the decision, and of the appropriate Component action on the claim as a consequence of the decision.
(k)
Finality of a DOHA Appeal Decision.
An appeal decision that finds that the claim was timely received is a final action when issued. Otherwise, an appeal decision is a final action if the DOHA does not receive a request for reconsideration within 30 days of the date of the appeal decision (plus any extension of up to 30 additional days granted by the DOHA for good cause shown).

# Note:
In the case of a DOHA appeal decision issued before the effective date of this part that denied all or part of the claim, a request for reconsideration by the GC, DoD may be submitted within 60 days of the effective date of this part. The GC, DoD shall consider such requests and affirm, modify, reverse, or remand the DOHA appeal decision. Requests for reconsideration by the GC, DoD received more than 60 days after the effective date of this part shall not be accepted. Requests must be submitted to the address in paragraph (e) of this appendix. The provisions of paragraph (n) of this appendix apply.
(l)
Who May Request Reconsideration.
A claimant or the Component concerned, or both, may request reconsideration of a DOHA appeal decision.
(m)
When and Where to Submit a Request for Reconsideration.
The DOHA must receive a request for reconsideration within 30 days of the date of the appeal decision.
1
The DOHA may extend this period for up to an additional 30 days for good cause shown. No request for reconsideration may be accepted after this time has expired. A request for reconsideration must be sent to the DOHA at the address in paragraph (e) of this Appendix.
1
With respect to appeal decisions issued before the effective date of this part, the request for reconsideration by the GC, DoD must be received by the DOHA within 60 days of the effective date of this part as explained in paragraph (k) of this Appendix.
(n)
Content of a Request for Reconsideration.
The requirements of paragraph (c) of this Appendix, concerning the contents of an appeal, apply to requests for reconsideration.
(o)
DOHA's Review of a Request for Reconsideration.
(1) No earlier than 31 days after the date of the appeal decision, or the day after the last period for submitting a request, as extended, expires, the DOHA must:
(i) Consider a request or requests for reconsideration;
(ii) Affirm, modify, reverse, or remand the appeal decision (and, if the issue is untimely receipt and there is a finding that the claim was timely received, may either consider and decide the claim on the merits or return the claim to the Component concerned for investigation and initial determination on the merits);
(iii) Prepare a response that explains the reasons for the finding; and
(iv) Send the response to the claimant and the Component concerned and notify both of the appropriate action on the claim.
(2) The response is a final action. It is precedent in the consideration of all claims covered by this part unless otherwise stated in the document.
(p)
Consideration of Appeals and Requests for Reconsideration.
When considering an appeal or request for reconsideration, the DOHA may:
(1) Take administrative notice of matters that are generally known or are capable of confirmation by resort to sources whose accuracy cannot reasonably be questioned.
(2) Remand a matter to the Component with instructions to provide additional information.
Pt. 282, App. F

# Appendix F to Part 282—Requests for an Advance Decision
(a)
Who May Request an Advance Decision.
A disbursing or certifying official or the Head of a Component may request an advance decision on a question involving:
(1) A payment the disbursing official or Head of the Component shall make; or
(2) A voucher presented to a certifying official for certification.
(b)
Who May Render an Advance Decision.
The following officials are authorized to render an advance decision concerning the matters indicated:
(1) The Secretary of Defense for requests involving claims under:
(i) 31 U.S.C. 3702 for Uniformed Services members' pay, allowances, travel, transportation, retired pay, and survivor benefits, and by carriers for amounts collected from them for loss or damage to property they transported at Government expense.
(ii) 31 U.S.C. 3702 that are not described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this Appendix and that arise from the activity of a DoD Component, when there is no other settlement authority specifically provided by law.
(iii) 10 U.S.C. 2575, 10 U.S.C. 2771, 24 U.S.C. 420, 10 U.S.C. 4712, 10 U.S.C. 9712, 37 U.S.C. 554, and 32 U.S.C. 714. Appendix B to this part describes these claims.
(2) The Director of the Office of Personnel Management for requests involving claims for civilian employees' compensation and leave.
(3) The Administrator of General Services for requests involving claims for civilian employees' travel, transportation, and relocation expenses.
(c)
Where to Submit a Request.
All requests described in paragraph (b)(1) of this Appendix and all other requests arising from the activity of a DoD Component (even if addressed to an official outside the Department of Defense) must be sent through the General Counsel of the Component concerned to the following address: General Counsel, Department of Defense, 1600 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301-1600.
(d)
Content of a Request.
Requests for an advance decision must:
(1) Specifically request an advance decision pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3529;
(2) Describe all the relevant facts;
(3) Explain the reasons (both factual and legal) the requester considers the proposed payment to be questionable;
(4) Have attached vouchers, if any, and copies of all other relevant documents relating to the proposed payment;
(5) Have attached a legal memorandum from the General Counsel of the Component concerned that discusses the legality of the proposed payment under the circumstances presented in the request; and
(6) Comply with any other requirements established by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management or the Administrator of General Services.
(e)
Advance Decisions.
The GC, DoD must take action under paragraphs (e)(1), (e)(2), or (e)(3) of this Appendix, whichever applies.
(1) If the request is described in paragraph (b)(1) of this Appendix, the GC, DoD must review the request and issue an advance decision, unless the GC, DoD elects to proceed under paragraph (e)(3) of this Appendix.
(i) The GC, DoD must send the decision, through the General Counsel of the Component concerned, to the requester, and must send a copy of the decision to the Director, DOHA for publication according to Appendix A to this part, paragraph (f).
(ii) The decision is controlling in the case; the reliance of certifying and disbursing officials on it in their disposition of the case is evidence that those officials have exercised due diligence in the performance of their duties.
(iii) An advance decision is precedent in similar claims under this part unless otherwise stated in the decision.
(2) If the request is not described in paragraph (b)(1) of this Appendix, the GC, DoD must review the request and either:
(i) Forward the request to the appropriate advance decision authority and notify the requester of that action; or
(ii) Return the request, through the General Counsel of the Component concerned, to the requester, with a memorandum explaining that under existing legal authorities a request for an advance decision is not necessary. After considering the memorandum, the requester may resubmit the request, through the General Counsel of the Component concerned, to the GC, DoD. The GC, DoD must forward the request to the appropriate advance decision authority, and notify the requester of that action.
(3) If the request is described in paragraph (b)(1) of this Appendix, and the claim is for not more than $250, the GC, DoD may refer the request to the General Counsel, Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS). The General Counsel, DFAS, shall review the request and issue an advance decision.
(i) The General Counsel, DFAS, must send the decision, through the General Counsel of the Component concerned, to the requester, and must send a copy of the decision to the GC, DoD.
(ii) The decision is controlling in the case; the reliance of certifying and disbursing officials on it in their disposition of the case is evidence that those officials have exercised due diligence in the performance of their duties.
(iii) An advance decision issued by the General Counsel, DFAS, under this paragraph is not precedent in similar claims under this part.
Pt. 283

# PART 283—WAIVER OF DEBTS RESULTING FROM ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS OF PAY AND ALLOWANCES
Sec.
283.1
Purpose.
283.2
Applicability and scope.
283.3
Definitions.
283.4
Policy.
283.5
Responsibilities.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 2575, 2771, 4712, 9712; 24 U.S.C. 420; 31 U.S.C. 3529, 3702; 32 U.S.C. 714; 37 U.S.C. 554.

# Source:
71 FR 57427, Sept. 29, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 283.1
Purpose.
This part establishes policy and assigns responsibilities for considering
applications for the waiver of debts resulting from erroneous payments of pay and allowances (including travel and transportation allowances) to or on behalf of members of the Uniformed Services and civilian DoD employees under 10 U.S.C. 2774, 32 U.S.C. 716, 5 U.S.C. 5584.
§ 283.2
Applicability and scope.
This part applies to:
(a) The Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities in the Department of Defense (hereafter referred to collectively as the “DoD Components”).
(b) The Coast Guard, when it is not operating as a Service in the Navy under the agreement with the Department of Homeland Security, and the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service (PHS) and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) under agreements with the Departments of Health and Human Services and Commerce (hereafter referred to collectively as the “non-DoD Components”).
§ 283.3
Definitions.
Debt.
An amount an individual owes the Government as the result of erroneous payments of pay and allowances (including travel and transportation allowances) to or on behalf of members of the Uniformed Services or civilian DoD employees.
Erroneous Payment.
A payment that is not in strict conformity with applicable laws or regulations.
Uniformed Services.
The Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps, the Coast Guard, and the Commissioned Corps of the PHS and the NOAA.
Waiver Application.
A request that the United States relinquishes its claim against an individual for a debt resulting from erroneous payments of pay or allowances (including travel and transportation allowances) under 10 U.S.C. 2774, 32 U.S.C. 716, or 5 U.S.C. 5584.
§ 283.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy that:
(a) The officials designated in this part exercise waiver authority that, by statute or delegation, is vested in the Department of Defense.
(b) Waiver applications shall be processed in accordance with all pertinent statutes and regulations, and after consideration of other relevant authorities.
§ 283.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The
General Counsel of the Department of Defense
shall:
(1) If the aggregate amount of the debt is more than $1,500, deny or grant all or part of a waiver application.
(2) Decide appeals in accordance with procedures promulgated under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(3) Develop overall waiver policies and promulgate procedures for considering waiver applications, including an initial determination process and a process to appeal an initial determination.
(b) The
Heads of the DoD Components
shall:
(1) Consistent with responsibilities promulgated under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, establish procedures within the DoD Component for the submission of waiver applications relating to debts resulting from the DoD Component's activity, which shall be referred to the appropriate official for consideration as set forth in paragraphs (a), (d), (e), or (f) of this section.
(3) Ensure compliance with this part and policies and procedures promulgated under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(c) The
Heads of the Non-DoD Components
concerning debts resulting from that Component's activity shall:
(1) If the aggregate amount of the debt is $1,500 or less, deny or grant all or part of a waiver application pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2774.
(2) If the aggregate amount of the debt is more than $1,500:
(i) Deny a waiver application in its entirety; or
(ii) Refer a waiver application for consideration with a recommendation that all or part of the application be granted, in accordance with procedures
promulgated under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(d) The
Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller)/Chief Financial Officer
concerning debts (except those described in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section) resulting from DoD Component activity shall:
(1) If the aggregate amount of the debt is $1,500 or less, deny or grant all or part of a waiver application pursuant to enclosure 2 of DoD Directive 5118.3.
1
1
Available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/.
(2) If the aggregate amount of the debt is more than $1,500:
(i) Deny a waiver application in its entirety; or
(ii) Refer a waiver application for consideration with a recommendation that all or part of the application be granted, in accordance with procedures promulgated under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(e) The
Director, Department of Defense Education Activity
, under the
Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness
concerning debts of civilian employees resulting from that Component's activity shall:
(1) If the aggregate amount of the debt is $1,500 or less, deny or grant all or part of a waiver application pursuant to enclosure 2 of DoD Directive 1342.6.
2
2
Available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/.
(2) If the aggregate amount of the debt is more than $1,500:
(i) Deny a waiver application in its entirety; or
(ii) Refer a waiver application for consideration with a recommendation that all or part of the application be granted, in accordance with procedures promulgated under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(f) The
Director, National Security Agency
, under the
Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence
concerning debts resulting from that Component's activity shall:
(1) If the aggregate amount of the debt is $1,500 or less, deny or grant all or part of a waiver application.
(2) If the aggregate amount of the debt is more than $1,500:
(i) Deny a waiver application in its entirety; or
(ii) Refer a waiver application for consideration with a recommendation that all or part of the application be granted, in accordance with procedures promulgated under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
Pt. 284

# PART 284—WAIVER PROCEDURES FOR DEBTS RESULTING FROM ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS OF PAY AND ALLOWANCES
Sec.
284.1
Purpose.
284.2
Applicability and scope.
284.3
Definitions.
284.4
Policy.
284.5
Responsibilities.
Appendix A to Part 284—Overview of Waiver Application Process.
Appendix B to Part 284—Standards for Waiver Determinations.
Appendix C to Part 284—Submitting a Waiver Application.
Appendix D to Part 284—Processing a Waiver Application When the Debt is $1,500 or Less.
Appendix E to Part 284—Processing a Waiver Application When the Debt is More than $1,500.
Appendix F to Part 284—Appeals.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 2575, 2771, 4712, 9712; 24 U.S.C. 420; 31 U.S.C. 3529, 3702; 32 U.S.C. 714; 37 U.S.C. 554.

# Source:
71 FR 59375, Oct. 10, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 284.1
Purpose.
This part implements policy under 32 CFR part 283 and prescribes procedures for considering waiver applications under 10 U.S.C. 2774, 32 U.S.C. 716, and 5 U.S.C. 5584.
§ 284.2
Applicability and scope.
This part applies to:
(a) The Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the Department of Defense Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the Department of Defense (hereafter referred to collectively as the “DoD Components”).
(b) The Coast Guard, when it is not operating as a Service in the Navy under agreement with the Department of Homeland Security, the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service (PHS) and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) under agreements with the Departments of Health and Human Services and Commerce, respectively (hereafter referred to collectively as the “non-DoD Components”).
(c) Certain functions for considering waiver applications that, by statute or delegation, are vested in the Department of Defense or the Secretary of Defense.
§ 284.3
Definitions.
Committee.
The person or persons invested, by order of a proper court, with the guardianship of a minor or incompetent person and/or the estate of a minor or incompetent person.
Component concerned.
The agency/activity (as well as the official designated by the Head of the agency/activity) required to perform the function or take the action indicated or that notifies the individual of the debt that is the subject of a waiver application.
Debt.
An amount an individual owes the Government as the result of erroneous payments of pay and allowances (including travel and transportation allowances) to or on behalf of members of the Uniformed Services or civilian DoD employees.
Employee.
A person who is or was an officer or employee as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2104 and 2105.
Erroneous payment.
A payment that is not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations.
Final action.
A finding by the appropriate official under this part concerning a waiver application from which there is no right to appeal or request reconsideration, or for which the time limit prescribed in this part for submitting an appeal or request for reconsideration has expired without such a submission.
Member.
A member or former member of the Uniformed Services.
Waiver application.
A request that the United States relinquish its claim against an individual for a debt resulting from erroneous payments of pay or allowances (including travel and transportation allowances) under 10 U.S.C. 2774, 32 U.S.C. 716, and 5 U.S.C. 5584.
§ 284.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy under 32 CFR part 283 that waiver applications for debts resulting from erroneous payments of pay and allowances (hereafter referred to as “waiver applications”) be processed according to all pertinent statutes, regulations, and other relevant authorities.
§ 284.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The
General Counsel of the Department of Defense
(GC, DoD) or designee shall consult on, or render opinions concerning, questions of law or equity that arise in the course of the performance of the Director, Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals' (DOHA) responsibilities under paragraph (b) of this section when requested by the Director.
(b) The
Director, Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals
or designee, under the GC, DoD (as the Director, Defense Legal Services Agency), shall:
(1) Deny or grant all or part of a waiver application, if the aggregate amount of the debt is more than $1,500.
(2) Consider an appeal of an initial determination and affirm, modify, reverse, or remand the initial determination, according to this part and relevant GC, DoD opinions.
(3) Process waiver applications and appeals according to this part.
(c) The Heads of the DoD Components or designee shall process waiver applications according to this part.
(d) The
Heads of the Non-DoD Components
or designee concerning debts of Uniformed Services personnel resulting from the Component's activity; the
Director, Department of Defense Education Activity
(DoDEA) or designee, concerning debts of civilian employees resulting from that Component's activity; the
Director, National Security Agency
(NSA) or designee, concerning debts resulting from that Component's activity; and the
Director, Defense Finance and Accounting Service
(DFAS) or designee, under the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller)/Chief Financial Officer (USD(C)/CFO), concerning debts
resulting from all other DoD Components' activities shall:
(1) Deny or grant all or part of a waiver application, if the aggregate amount of the debt is $1,500 or less.
(2) If the aggregate amount of the debt is more than $1,500:
(i) Deny a waiver application in its entirety, or
(ii) Refer a waiver application for consideration with a recommendation that part or all of the application be granted, according to this part.
(3) Process waiver applications, when the aggregate amount of the debt is more than $1,500, and appeals according to this part.
(4) Resolve a debt according to the final action that results from the waiver application process provided for in this part.
Pt. 284, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 284—Overview of Waiver Application Process

# A. Standards for Waiver Determinations
The standards that must be applied in determining whether all or part of a waiver application should be granted or denied are at Appendix B to this part.

# B. Submitting a Waiver Application
The DoD Components shall ensure, if applicable, the submission and filing of waiver applications/appeals satisfy the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a. The procedures an applicant must follow to submit a waiver application are at Appendix C to this part.

# C. Processing A Waiver Application When The Debt Is $1,500 Or Less
The procedures a DoD Component must follow in processing a waiver application when the debt is $1,500 or less are at Appendix D to this part.
1
1
Contact the appropriate non-DoD Component for the procedures it follows in processing a waiver application.

# D. Processing a Waiver Application When the Debt Is More Than $1,500
The procedures a DoD Component must follow in processing a waiver application when the debt is more than $1,500 are at Appendix E to this part.

# E. Appeals
The DoD Components shall ensure, if applicable, the submission and filing of waiver applications/appeals satisfy the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a. The procedures for appealing initial determinations are at Appendix F to this part.

# F. Refund of Repaid Debts That Are Subsequently Waived
When a final action waives all or part of a debt that has been repaid, the waiver application shall be interpreted as an application for a refund and the Component concerned shall, to the extent of the waiver, refund the amount repaid.

# G. Publication
The Director, DOHA or designee shall make redacted copies of responses to requests for reconsideration available for public inspection and copying at the DOHA's public reading room and on the worldwide web according to 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a.
Pt. 284, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 284—Standards for Waiver Determinations

# A. Standards
1. Generally, persons who receive a payment erroneously from the Government acquire no right to the money. They are bound in equity and good conscience to make restitution. If a benefit is bestowed by mistake, no matter how careless the act of the Government may have been, the recipient must make restitution. In theory, restitution results in no loss to the recipient because the recipient received something for nothing. However, 10 U.S.C. 2774, 32 U.S.C. 716, and 5 U.S.C. 5584 provide authority to waive, under certain conditions debts individuals owe the Government that are the result of erroneous payments of pay and allowances (including travel and transportation allowances). A waiver is not a matter of right. It is available to provide relief as a matter of equity, if the circumstances warrant.
2. Debts may be waived only when collection would be against equity and good conscience and would not be in the best interests of the United States. There must be no indication the erroneous payment was solely or partially the result of the fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith of the applicant.
3. The fact that an erroneous payment is solely the result of administrative error or mistake on the part of the Government is not sufficient basis in and of itself for granting a waiver.
4. A waiver usually is not appropriate when a recipient knows, or reasonably should know, that a payment is erroneous. The recipient has a duty to notify an appropriate official and to set aside the funds for eventual repayment to the Government, even if the Government fails to act after such notification.
5. A waiver generally is not appropriate when a recipient of a significant unexplained
increase in pay or allowances, or of any other unexplained payment of pay or allowances, does not attempt to obtain a reasonable explanation from an appropriate official. The recipient has a duty to ascertain the reason for the payment and to set aside the funds in the event that repayment should be necessary.
6. A waiver may be inappropriate in cases where a recipient questions a payment (which ultimately is determined to be erroneous) and is mistakenly advised by an appropriate official that the payment is proper, if under the circumstances the recipient knew or reasonably should have known that the advice was erroneous.
7. Financial hardship is not a factor for consideration in determining whether a waiver is appropriate.
8. Waiver determinations under these standards depend on the facts in each case.
Pt. 284, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 284—Submitting a Waiver Application

# A. Who May Apply for Waiver
Any person (“applicant”) from whom collection is sought for a debt resulting from erroneous payments of pay or allowances (including travel and transportation allowances) may submit a waiver application under 10 U.S.C. 2774, 32 U.S.C. 716, and 5 U.S.C. 5584. Additionally, an authorized official of the Component concerned, or the Director, DOHA or designee may initiate a waiver application during the processing of a claim under 32 CFR part 281.

# B. Where To Submit A Waiver Application
An applicant must submit a waiver application to the Component concerned according to the guidance provided by that Component. A waiver application submitted somewhere other than to the Component concerned does not stop the calculation of the time limit as discussed in paragraph F to this Appendix. It is the applicant's responsibility to submit the waiver application properly.

# C. Format of a Waiver Application
An applicant must submit a waiver application in the format prescribed by the Component concerned. It must be written and signed by the applicant (in the case of an application on behalf of a minor or incompetent person, there are additional requirements explained at paragraph E to this Appendix) or by the applicant's authorized agent or attorney (there are additional requirements explained at paragraph D to this Appendix). In addition, the waiver application should include:
1. The applicant's mailing address.
2. The applicant's telephone number.
3. The applicant's social security number when required by the Component concerned.
4. The amount for which waiver is requested.
5. An explanation why a waiver should be granted under the standards explained at Appendix B to this part.
6. Copies of documents referred to in the application.
7. Statements (that are attested to be true and correct to the best of the individual's knowledge and belief) of the applicant or other persons in support of the application.

# D. Waiver Application Submitted by Agent or Attorney
In addition to the requirements in paragraph C to this Appendix, a waiver application submitted by the applicant's agent or attorney must include or have attached a duly executed power of attorney or other documentary evidence of the agent's or attorney's right to act for the applicant.

# E. Waiver Application Submitted on Behalf of a Minor or Incompetent Person
In addition to the requirements in paragraph C to this Appendix:
1. If a guardian or committee has not been appointed, a waiver application submitted on behalf of a minor or incompetent person must:
i. State the applicant's relationship to the minor or incompetent person.
ii. Provide the name and address of the person having care and custody of the minor or incompetent person.
iii. Include an affirmation that any moneys received shall be applied to the use and benefit of the minor or incompetent person, and that the appointment of a guardian or committee is not contemplated.
2. If a guardian or committee has been appointed, a waiver application on behalf of a minor or incompetent person must include or have attached a certificate of the court showing the appointment and qualification of the guardian or committee.

# F. When To Submit a Waiver Application
An applicant must submit a waiver application so that it is received by the Component concerned within three years after the erroneous payment is discovered. The date of discovery is the date it is definitely determined by an appropriate official that an erroneous payment has been made. The time limit is set by 10 U.S.C. 2774, 32 U.S.C. 716, and 5 U.S.C. 5584, whichever applies. It may not be extended or waived. Although the issue of timeliness is usually raised on initial submission (as explained in paragraph B to Appendix D in this part), the issue may be raised at any point during the waiver application consideration process.
Pt. 284, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 284—Processing a Waiver Application When the Debt Is $1,500 or Less

# A. Initial Component Processing
Upon receipt of a waiver application, the Component concerned must:
1. Date stamp the application on the date received.
2. Determine whether the application was received within three years after the discovery of the erroneous payment. If the application was not timely, follow the procedures in paragraph B to this Appendix.
3. Investigate the circumstances relating to the erroneous payment.
4. Refer the application to the appropriate determining official (see paragraph C to this Appendix) for consideration and an initial determination.

# B. Untimely Waiver Applications
When the Component concerned determines that a waiver application was not received within three years after the erroneous payment was discovered, the Component must send the applicant a notice of untimely receipt.
1. The notice must:
i. Cite the applicable statute and explain the reasons for the finding of untimely receipt.
ii. State that the application was not received within the statutory time limit and may not be considered unless that finding is reversed on appeal.
iii. Explain that the applicant may submit a rebuttal to the finding of untimely receipt (as explained in paragraph B.2.).
iv. State that the statutory time limit may not be extended or waived.
2. An applicant may submit a written rebuttal, signed by the applicant or the applicant's agent or attorney, to a notice of untimely receipt. The Component concerned must receive the rebuttal within 30 days of the date of the notice and may grant an extension of up to an additional 30 days for good cause shown. The rebuttal should:
i. Explain the points of, and reasons for, disagreement with the notice.
ii. Have any documents referred to in the rebuttal attached.
iii. Include or have attached statements (that are attested to be true and correct to the best of the individual's knowledge and belief) by the applicant or other persons in support of the rebuttal.
3. If the applicant does not submit a rebuttal within the time permitted, the notice of untimely receipt is a final action and the Component must return the application to the applicant with a notice that the finding is final and the application may not be considered.
4. If the applicant submits a timely rebuttal, the Component must consider the rebuttal.
i. If the Component finds that the application was received within the required time limit, the Component must reverse its finding of untimely receipt, notify the applicant in writing, and process the application on its merits.
ii. If the Component does not reverse the finding of untimely receipt, the Component must forward the record, including the application, notice of untimely receipt, and rebuttal, to the appropriate determining official (
see
paragraph C.1. to this Appendix) for an initial determination on the issue of untimely receipt. The Component does not need to investigate the merits of the application before forwarding the record.
5. After making an initial determination on the issue of untimely receipt, the determining official must follow the procedures in paragraph D to this Appendix. In addition, if the determining official finds that the application was timely, the official may:
i. Return the application to the Component concerned for processing on its merits according to this part, or
ii. Consider the application and make an initial determination on its merits according to paragraph C.2. to this Appendix.

# C. Initial Determinations
The standards in Appendix B to this part must be applied when considering the merits of a waiver application. After making an initial determination, the determining official must follow the procedures at paragraph D to this Appendix.
1. The officials listed and referred to in this part as determining officials shall consider waiver applications and take the appropriate action described in paragraph C.2. to this Appendix. These officials are identified as follows:
i. The Head of a non-DoD Component or designee for debts of Uniformed Services personnel resulting from that Component's activity.
ii. The Director, DoDEA or designee for debts of civilian employees resulting from that Component's activity.
iii. The Director, NSA or designee for debts resulting from that Component's activity.
iv. The Director, DFAS or designee for debts resulting from the DoD Component activity not included in paragraphs C.1.ii. and C.1.iii. to this Appendix.
2. The officials listed in paragraph C.1. to this Appendix may make an initial determination for the following:
i. Whether or not a waiver application was received within three years after the discovery of the erroneous payment.
ii. Deny a waiver application in its entirety.
iii. Grant all or part of a waiver application.

# D. Processing After An Initial Determination
After making an initial determination, the determining official must:
1. Notify the applicant. The notification must explain:
i. The determination and the reasons for it.
ii. The appropriate Component action to resolve the debt as a consequence of the determination if it is or becomes a final action (the finality of an initial determination is explained at paragraph E to this Appendix).
iii. The appeal process (as explained in Appendix F to this part) if the determination does not grant the entire application or does not contain a finding of timely receipt.
2. Notify the Component concerned if the determining official is not an official of the Component concerned when and if the determination is a final action. The notice must explain:
i. The determination and its reasons.
ii. The appropriate Component action to resolve the debt as a consequence of the determination.

# E. When an Initial Determination Is Final
A final action is an initial determination that grants the entire waiver application or finds that the application was timely received. Also, an initial determination (including one of untimely receipt) is a final action if the determining official does not receive an appeal within 30 days of the date of the initial determination (plus any extension of up to 30 additional days granted by the determining official for good cause shown).
Pt. 284, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 284—Processing a Waiver Application When the Debt Is More Than $1,500

# A. Initial Component Processing
Upon receipt of a waiver application, the Component concerned must:
1. Date stamp the application on the date received.
2. Determine whether the application was received within three years after the discovery of the erroneous payment. If the application was not timely, follow the procedures in paragraph B in this part.
3. Investigate the circumstances relating to the erroneous payment.
4. Refer the waiver application to the appropriate determining official (
see
paragraph C to this Appendix) who after applying the standards in Appendix B in this part may either:
i. Deny the application in its entirety, if appropriate, and follow the procedures in Appendix D to this part, or
ii. Refer the application with a recommendation that part or all of the application be granted to the DOHA for consideration and an initial determination under paragraph C to this Appendix. The determining official must send the entire record and prepare and submit a recommendation and administrative report (as explained in paragraphs D and E to this Appendix) with the application.

# B. Untimely Waiver Applications
When the Component concerned determines that a waiver application was not received within three years after the erroneous payment was discovered, the Component must send the applicant a notice of untimely receipt.
1. The notice must:
i. Cite the applicable statute and explain the reasons for the finding of untimely receipt.
ii. State that the application was not received within the statutory time limit and may not be considered unless that finding is reversed on appeal.
iii. Explain that the applicant may submit a rebuttal to the finding of untimely receipt (as explained in paragraph B.2. to this Appendix.).
iv. State that the statutory time limit may not be extended or waived.
2. An applicant may submit a written rebuttal, signed by the applicant or the applicant's agent or attorney, to a notice of untimely receipt. The Component concerned must receive the rebuttal within 30 days of the date of the notice and may grant an extension of up to an additional 30 days for good cause shown. The rebuttal should:
i. Explain the points of, and reasons for, disagreement with the notice.
ii. Have any documents referred to in the rebuttal attached.
iii. Include or have attached statements (that are attested to be true and correct to the best of the individual's knowledge and belief) by the applicant or other persons in support of the rebuttal.
3. If the applicant does not submit a rebuttal within the time permitted, the notice of untimely receipt is a final action and the Component must return the application to the applicant with a notice that the finding is final and the application may not be considered.
4. If the applicant submits a timely rebuttal, the Component must consider the rebuttal:
i. If the Component finds that the application was received within the required time limit, the Component must reverse its finding of untimely receipt, notify the applicant in writing, and process the application on its merits.
ii. If the Component does not reverse the finding of untimely receipt, the Component
must forward the record, including the application, notice of untimely receipt, and rebuttal, to the appropriate determining official (
see
paragraph C.1. of Appendix D to this part) for an initial determination on the issue of untimely receipt. The Component does not need to investigate the merits of the application before forwarding the record.
5. After making an initial determination on the issue of untimely receipt, the determining official must follow the procedures in Appendix D to this part. In addition, if the determining official finds that the application was timely, the official may:
i. Return the application to the Component concerned for processing on the merits according to this part, or
ii. Make a recommendation to the DOHA to grant all or part of the application as described in paragraph D to this Appendix.

# C. Initial Determinations
The standards in Appendix B to this part must be applied when considering the merits of a waiver application. After making an initial determination, the DOHA must follow the procedures at paragraph F to this Appendix and may take the following actions regarding waiver applications referred under paragraph A.4.ii. or B.5.ii. to this Appendix:
1. Make an initial determination denying a waiver application in its entirety; or
2. Make an initial determination granting all or part of a waiver application.

# D. Recommendation to the DOHA To Grant All or Part of an Application
Referrals to the DOHA must include the entire record along with the recommendation and administrative report described in paragraph E to this Appendix. The record and the report must be sent to: Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals, Claims Division, P.O. Box 3656, Arlington, VA 22203-1995.

# E. Recommendation and Administrative Report
The recommendation and administrative report required by paragraph D to this Appendix must describe the recommended action (and its reasons) and the following:
1. The names and mailing addresses of each employee, member, or other person from whom collection is sought, or a statement that the person cannot reasonably be located.
2. The aggregate amount of the debt, including an itemization showing the elements of the aggregate amount.
3. The date the erroneous payment was discovered.
4. The date the recipient was notified of the error and a statement of the erroneous amounts paid before and after receipt of such notice.
5. A summary of the facts and circumstances describing how the erroneous payment occurred; the recipient's knowledge of the erroneous nature of the payment; the steps taken by the recipient to bring the matter to the attention of the appropriate official; and the Component's response, if any.
6. A finding of whether there is any indication of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of the applicant and the reasons for such a finding.
7. Legible copies or the originals of supporting documents, such as leave and earnings statements, notifications of personnel actions, travel authorizations and vouchers, and military orders.
8. Statements (that are attested to be true and correct to the best of the individual's knowledge and belief) of the applicant or other persons in support of the application.

# F. Processing After an Initial Determination
After making an initial determination, the DOHA must:
1. Notify the applicant if all or part of the waiver application is denied. The notification must explain:
i. The determination and the reasons for it.
ii. The appropriate Component action to resolve the debt as a consequence of the determination if it is or becomes a final action (the finality of an initial determination is explained at paragraph G to this Appendix).
iii. The appeal process (as explained in Appendix F to this part) if the determination does not grant the entire application or does not contain a finding of timely receipt.
2. Notify the Component concerned when and if the determination is a final action. The notice must explain:
i. The determination and its the reasons.
ii. The appropriate Component action to resolve the debt as a consequence of the determination.

# G. When an Initial Determination Is Final
A final action is an initial determination that grants the entire waiver application or finds that the application was timely received. Also, an initial determination (including one of untimely receipt) is a final action if the determining official does not receive an appeal within 30 days of the date of the initial determination (plus any extension of up to 30 additional days granted by the determining official for good cause shown).
Pt. 284, App. F

# Appendix F to Part 284—Appeals

# A. Who May Appeal
An applicant may appeal if an initial determination denies all or part of a waiver application or finds that the application was
not received by the Component concerned within the time limit required by statute.

# B. When and Where To Submit an Appeal
1. When the determining official is not in the DOHA, the determining official must receive an applicant's appeal within 30 days of the date of the initial determination. The determining official may extend this period for up to an additional 30 days for good cause shown. No appeal may be accepted after this time has expired. The appeal shall be processed under the procedures in paragraphs C through K to this Appendix.
2. When the determining official is in the DOHA, the DOHA must receive an applicant's appeal within 30 days of the date of the initial determination. The DOHA may extend this period for up to an additional 30 days for good cause shown. No appeal may be accepted after this time has expired. The appeal shall be considered to be a request for reconsideration and shall be processed under the procedures in paragraphs L through Q of this Appendix.

# C. Content of an Appeal
No specific format for an appeal is required however it must be written and signed by the applicant, the applicant's authorized agent, or the applicant's attorney. In addition, it should:
1. Provide the applicant's mailing address.
2. Provide the applicant's telephone number.
3. Provide the applicant's social security number when required by the Component concerned.
4. Identify specific:
i. Errors or omissions of material and relevant facts.
ii. Legal or equitable (under the standards in Appendix B to this part) considerations that were overlooked or misapplied.
iii. Conclusions that were arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion.
5. Present evidence of the correct or additional facts alleged.
6. Explain the reasons why the findings or conclusions should be reversed or modified.
7. Have attached copies of documents referred to in the appeal.
8. Include or have attached statements (that are attested to be true and correct to the best of the individual's knowledge and belief) by the applicant or other persons in support of the appeal.

# D. Determining Official's Review
The determining official must review an applicant's appeal, and affirm, modify, or reverse the initial determination.
1. When the determining official grants the entire waiver appeal or grants the application to the extent requested in the appeal after review of an appeal in a case involving a debt in the aggregate amount of $1,500 or less, the determining official must notify the applicant in writing and the Component concerned if the determining official is not an official of the Component concerned. The notice must explain the appropriate action to resolve the debt. This is a final action.
2. When the determining official finds that the application was received within the time limit required by statute after review of an appeal concerning the untimely receipt of the waiver application, the determining official must notify the applicant in writing and take the appropriate action under paragraph B.5. of Appendix D to this part or paragraph B.5. of Appendix E to this part, as appropriate.
3. In all other cases, the determining official must forward the appeal to the DOHA according to paragraph E. of this Appendix. The determining official must prepare a recommendation and administrative report (as explained in paragraph F to this Appendix) and send a copy of the administrative report to the applicant with a notice that the applicant may submit a rebuttal to the determining official (as explained in paragraph G to this Appendix).
4. The determining official must date stamp the applicant's rebuttal on the date it is received.

# E. Submission of Appeal to the DOHA
The determining official must send the entire record along with the recommendation and administrative report required by paragraph F to this Appendix no earlier than 31 days after the date of the administrative report or the day after the applicant's rebuttal period, as extended, expires, to the following address: Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals, Claims Division, P.O. Box 3656, Arlington, Virginia 22203-1995.

# F. Recommendation and Administrative Report
The recommendation and administrative report required by paragraph D.3. to this Appendix must describe the recommended action (and its reasons) and include:
1. The names and mailing addresses of each employee, member, or other person from whom collection is sought, or a statement that the person cannot reasonably be located.
2. The aggregate amount of the debt, including an itemization showing the elements of the aggregate amount.
3. The date the erroneous payment was discovered.
4. The date the recipient was notified of the error and a statement of the erroneous amounts paid before and after receipt of such notice.
5. A summary of the facts and circumstances describing how the erroneous
payment occurred; the recipient's knowledge of the erroneous nature of the payment; the steps taken by the recipient to bring the matter to the attention of the appropriate official; and the Component's response;
6. A finding of whether there is any indication of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on the part of the applicant and the reasons for such a finding.
7. Legible copies or the originals of supporting documents, such as leave and earnings statements, notifications of personnel actions, travel authorizations and vouchers, and military orders.
8. Statements (that are attested to be true and correct to the best of the individual's knowledge and belief) of the applicant or other persons in support of the application.

# G. Applicant's Rebuttal
An applicant may submit a written rebuttal, signed by the applicant or the applicant's agent or attorney, in response to the recommendation and administrative report. The rebuttal must be received by the determining official within 30 days of the date of the recommendation and administrative report. The determining official may grant an extension of up to an additional 30 days for good cause shown. The rebuttal should include:
1. An explanation of the points and reasons for disagreeing with the report.
2. The file reference number.
3. Any documents referred to in the rebuttal.
4. Statements (that are attested to be true and correct to the best of the individual's knowledge and belief) by the applicant or other persons in support of the rebuttal.

# H. DOHA Appeal Decision
Except as provided in paragraph P to this Appendix, the DOHA must base its decision on the written record, including the recommendation and administrative report and any rebuttal by the applicant. The written decision must:
1. Affirm, modify, reverse, or remand the initial determination and decide the application on its merits or return the application to the Component concerned for investigation and processing for an initial determination on the merits according to Appendix D to this part.
2. State the amount of the waiver application that is granted and the amount denied and/or that the application was or was not received within the statutory time limit, as appropriate.
3. Explain the reasons for the decision.

# I. Processing After the Appeal Decision
After issuing an appeal decision, the DOHA must:
1. Send the applicant the decision and notify the applicant of:
i. The appropriate Component action to resolve the debt as a consequence of the decision if it is or becomes a final action (as explained in paragraph J to this Appendix).
ii. The procedures under this Appendix to request reconsideration (as explained in paragraphs K through M to this Appendix), if the decision does not grant the waiver application to the extent requested, or does not contain a finding of timely receipt, when applicable.
2. Notify the Component concerned of the decision and the appropriate Component action to resolve the debt as a consequence of the decision.

# J. Finality of a DOHA Appeal Decision
An appeal decision that grants the waiver application to the extent requested on appeal, or that finds that the application was timely received, when applicable, is a final action when issued. An appeal decision is a final action if the DOHA does not receive a request for reconsideration within 30 days of the date of the appeal decision (plus any extension of up to 30 additional days granted by the DOHA for good cause shown).

# Note:
In the case of a DOHA appeal decision issued before the effective date of this part that denied all or part of the waiver application, a request for reconsideration by the GC, DoD may be submitted within 60 days of the effective date of this part. The GC DoD shall consider such requests and affirm, modify, reverse, or remand the DOHA appeal decision. Requests for reconsideration by the GC, DoD received more than 60 days after the effective date of this part shall not be accepted. Requests must be submitted to the address in paragraph E.5. to this appendix. The provisions of paragraph M to this appendix apply.

# K. Who May Request Reconsideration
An applicant may request reconsideration of a DOHA appeal decision.

# L. When and Where To Submit a Request for Reconsideration
The DOHA must receive a request for reconsideration within 30 days of the date of the appeal decision.
2
The DOHA may extend this period for up to an additional 30 days for good cause shown. No request for reconsideration may be accepted after this time has expired. A request for reconsideration must be
sent to the DOHA at the address in paragraph E to this Appendix.
2
Request for reconsideration by the GC, DoD must be received by the DOHA within 60 days of the effective date of this Instruction as explained in paragraph J of this appendix for appeal decisions issued before the effective date of this Instruction.

# M. Content of a Request for Reconsideration
The requirements of paragraph C to this Appendix for the content of an appeal apply to a request for reconsideration.

# N. DOHA's Review of a Request for Reconsideration
No earlier than 31 days after the date of the appeal decision or the day after the last period for submitting a request, as extended, expires, the DOHA must:
1. Consider a request for reconsideration.
2. Affirm, modify, or reverse the appeal decision.
3. Prepare a response that explains the reasons for the finding.
4. Send the response to the applicant and the Component concerned and notify them of the appropriate action on the debt.

# O. Finality of a DOHA Reconsideration Decision
The response is a final action. It is precedent in the consideration of all waiver applications covered by this part unless otherwise stated in the document.

# P. Consideration of Appeals and Requests for Reconsideration
When considering an appeal or request for reconsideration, the DOHA may:
1. Take administrative notice of matters that are generally known or are capable of confirmation by resort to sources whose accuracy cannot reasonably be questioned.
2. Remand a matter to the Component with instructions to provide additional information.

# SUBCHAPTER N—FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT PROGRAM
Pt. 286

# PART 286—DOD FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA) PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
286.1
Purpose.
286.2
Applicability.

# Subpart B—FOIA Requests
286.3
General information.
286.4
FOIA Public Liaisons and the Office of Government Information Services.
286.5
Description of records sought.
286.6
Preservation of records.

# Subpart C—FOIA Request Processing
286.7
General provisions.
286.8
Timing of responses to requests.
286.9
Responses to requests.
286.10
Confidential Commercial Information.

# Subpart D—Appeals
286.11
Processing of appeals.

# Subpart E—Fees
286.12
Schedule of fees.
286.13
Fees for technical data.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552.

# Source:
82 FR 1197, Jan. 5, 2017, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 286.1
Purpose.
This part contains the rules that the public follows in requesting information from the Department of Defense (DoD) in accordance with the FOIA, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552, and how those requests will be processed by the DoD. These rules should be read in conjunction with the text of the FOIA and the Uniform Freedom of Information Fee Schedule and Guidelines published by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB Guidelines”). Requests made by individuals for records about themselves under the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552a, are processed in accordance with 32 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) part 310. Additionally, the Office of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Privacy, Civil Liberties, and Transparency (OATSD(PCLT)) maintains a DoD FOIA Handbook for the public to use in obtaining information from the DoD. This handbook contains information about specific procedures particular to the DoD with respect to the public requesting DoD records. This handbook includes descriptions of DoD Components and the types of records maintained by different DoD Components. It is available at
http://open.defense.gov/Transparency/FOIA/FOIAHandbook.aspx.
[82 FR 1197, Jan. 5, 2017, as amended at 88 FR 84237, Dec. 5, 2023]
§ 286.2
Applicability.
This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD (referred to collectively in this part as the “DoD Components”).

# Subpart B—FOIA Requests
§ 286.3
General information.
(a) The DoD has a decentralized system for responding to FOIA requests, with each DoD Component designating at least one FOIA Requester Service Center (RSC) to process records from that component. All DoD RSCs have the capability to receive requests electronically either through email or a web portal. To make a request for records, a requester should write directly to the DoD Component that maintains the records being sought. A request will receive the quickest possible response if it is addressed to the RSC of the DoD Component that maintains the records sought. Addresses and contact information for the RSCs are available at
https://www.foia.gov.
This Web site has the contact information
for the following DoD Components: The OSD and the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, Department of the Army, Department of the Navy, Department of the Air Force, Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals, Defense Commissary Agency, Defense Contract Audit Agency, Defense Contract Management Agency, Defense Finance and Accounting Service, Defense Health Agency, Defense Information Systems Agency, Defense Intelligence Agency, Defense Logistics Agency, Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency, Defense Technical Information Center, Defense Threat Reduction Agency, Joint Personnel Recovery Agency, DoD Education Activity, National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, National Guard Bureau, National Reconnaissance Office, National Security Agency/Central Security Service, Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, United States Africa Command, United States Central Command, United States Cyber Command, United States European Command, United States Northern Command, United States Indo-Pacific Command, United States Southern Command, United States Space Command, and United States Space Force, United States Special Operations Command, United States Strategic Command, and United States Transportation Command.
(b) The OSD/Joint Staff FOIA RSC also processes FOIA requests for several DoD agencies and field activities, as well as other DoD organizations. A list of these agencies, field activities, and DoD organizations is available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/FOID/Submit-Request/.
(c) A requester who is making a request for records about himself or herself, regardless of whether the records are in a Privacy Act system of records, must comply with the verification of identity requirements as determined by the DoD Component in accordance with 32 CFR part 310.3(c) through (e).
[82 FR 1197, Jan. 5, 2017, as amended at 88 FR 84238, Dec. 5, 2023; 89 FR 5093, Jan. 26, 2024]
§ 286.4
FOIA Public Liaisons and the Office of Government Information Services.
(a) Each DoD Component has at least one FOIA Public Liaison. FOIA Public Liaisons are responsible for working with requesters that have any concerns about the service received from a FOIA RSC, reducing delays in the processing of FOIA requests, increasing transparency and understanding of the status of requests, and assisting in the resolution of disputes. Contact information for DoD Component FOIA Public Liaisons is available at
https://www.foia.gov.
(b) Engaging in dispute resolution services provided by the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS). These dispute resolution processes are voluntary processes. If a DoD Component agrees to participate in dispute resolution services provided by the OGIS, it will actively engage as a partner to the process in an attempt to resolve the dispute.
[82 FR 1197, Jan. 5, 2017, as amended at 88 FR 84238, Dec. 5, 2023]
§ 286.5
Description of records sought.
(a) Requesters must reasonably describe the records sought and provide sufficient detail to enable personnel to locate those records with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, requesters should include specific information that may assist personnel in identifying the requested records, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, subject matter of the record, case number, file designation, or reference number. Before submitting their requests, requesters may contact the DoD Component's FOIA RSC or FOIA Public Liaison to discuss the records they are seeking and to receive assistance in describing the records. If after receiving a request the DoD Component determines that it does not reasonably describe the records sought, the DoD Component shall inform the requester what additional information is needed or why the request is otherwise insufficient. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their request with the DoD Component's FOIA contact or FOIA Public Liaison. Requesters are encouraged to make every
effort to reasonably describe the requested records in order to avoid any delays in the processing of their requests.
(b) Requesters may specify the preferred form or format (including electronic formats) for the requested records. DoD Components will accommodate the request if the record is readily reproducible in that form or format.
(c) Requesters must provide contact information, such as a telephone number, email address, and/or mailing address, to assist the DoD Component in communicating and providing released records.
§ 286.6
Preservation of records.
Each DoD Component shall preserve all correspondence pertaining to the requests that it receives under this part, as well as copies of all requested records, until disposition or destruction is authorized pursuant to title 44 of the United States Code or the General Records Schedule 4.2 of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Records shall not be disposed of or destroyed while they are the subject of a pending request, appeal, or lawsuit under the FOIA.

# Subpart C—FOIA Request Processing
§ 286.7
General provisions.
(a)
Responsibilities.
The DoD Component receiving a FOIA request for a record that it maintains is responsible for making a determination on the request and responding to the FOIA requester. In determining which records are responsive to a request, a DoD Component ordinarily will include only records in its possession as of the date that it begins its search. If any other date is used, the DoD Component shall inform the requester of that date. A record that is excluded from the requirements of the FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c), is not considered responsive to a request.
(b)
Authority to deny requests.
DoD Components will designate one or more Initial Denial Authorities (IDA) with the authority to deny any requests for records that are maintained by that agency.
(c)
Re-routing of misdirected requests.
DoD Components receiving a misdirected FOIA request for records clearly originating with another DoD Component (
e.g.
the Air Force receives a FOIA request for a Navy contract) will route the FOIA request to the appropriate DoD Component and inform them of the date the FOIA request was initially received. Additionally, it will advise the FOIA requester of the routing of the request. This routing requirement only applies to those FOIA requests directed to a DoD Component that seek documents for which the DoD is responsible. If it is known that responsibility for the requested records rests with a non-DoD Federal agency (
e.g.,
Department of State), then the DoD Component need only advise the FOIA requester to submit the FOIA request to the proper Federal agency. DoD Components will not route misdirected FOIA requests to a Defense Criminal Investigation Organization or Intelligence Community component without first contacting the other component or agency for guidance.
(d)
Consultation, referral, and coordination.
When reviewing records located in response to a request, the DoD Component may determine that another DoD Component or Federal agency also should determine whether the record is exempt from disclosure under the FOIA. As to any such record, the DoD Component shall proceed in one of the following ways:
(1)
Consultation.
When records originating with a DoD Component that is initially processing a request contain information of interest to another DoD Component or other Federal agency, the DoD Component initially processing the request should typically consult with all interested DoD Components or other Federal agencies prior to making a release determination. The DoD Component initially processing the request, under these circumstances, will ultimately respond to the requester and release any responsive material. The consulted DoD Component will notify the sending DoD Component or other Federal agency when the consultation is received and the consultation tracking number.
(2)
Referral.
(i) When the DoD Component initially processing the request
believes that a different DoD Component or other Federal agency is best able to determine whether to disclose the record, the DoD Component typically should refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding that record to that agency. Ordinarily, the agency that originated the record will be presumed to be best able to make the disclosure determination. Under these circumstances, the DoD Component or other Federal agency receiving the referral will ultimately make a release determination on the records and respond to the requester.
(ii) Whenever a DoD Component refers a record to another DoD Component or Federal agency, it will document the referral, refer a copy of the referred record, and notify the requester of the referral, informing the requester of the name and FOIA address of the DoD Component or Federal agency to which the record was referred.
(3)
Coordination.
The standard referral procedure is not appropriate where disclosure of the identity of the DoD Component or agency to which the referral would be made could harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption, such as the exemptions that protect personal privacy or national security interests. Under these circumstances, the consultation process is the appropriate means for coordination. See § 286.7(d)(1). For example, if a non-law enforcement agency responding to a request for records on a living third party locates within its files records originating with a law enforcement agency, and if the existence of that law enforcement interest in the third party was not publicly known, then to disclose that law enforcement interest could cause an unwarranted invasion of the personal privacy of the third party. Similarly, if a DoD Component locates within its files material originating with an Intelligence Community agency, and the involvement of that agency in the matter is classified and not publicly acknowledged, then to disclose or give attribution to the involvement of that Intelligence Community agency could cause national security harms. In such instances, in order to avoid harm to an interest protected by an applicable exemption, the DoD Component that received the request should coordinate with the originating DoD Component or agency to seek its views the disclosure of the record. The release determination for the record should then be conveyed to the requester by the DoD Component that originally received the request.
(4)
Timing of responses to consultations and referrals.
All consultations and referrals received by the DoD Component will be processed according to the date that the FOIA request was initially received by a Federal agency.
(5)
Agreements regarding consultations and referrals.
DoD Components may establish written agreements with other DoD Components or other Federal agencies to eliminate the need for consultations or referrals with respect to particular types of records, providing these agreements do not conflict with this rule, or another law, rule, or regulation.
[82 FR 1197, Jan. 5, 2017, as amended at 83 FR 5197, Feb. 6, 2018]
§ 286.8
Timing of responses to requests.
(a)
In general.
DoD Components ordinarily will respond to requests on a first-in/first-out basis according to their order of receipt. In instances involving misdirected requests that are re-routed pursuant to § 286.7(c), the response time will commence on the date that the request is received by the appropriate DoD Component's FOIA RSC, but in any event not later than 10 working days after the request is first received by any DoD Component's FOIA RSC that is designated to receive requests.
(b)
Multitrack processing.
All DoD Components must designate a specific track for requests that are granted expedited processing in accordance with the standards set forth in the FOIA and paragraph (e) of this section. DoD Components may also designate additional processing tracks that distinguish between simple and more complex requests based on the estimated amount of work or time needed to process the request. Among the factors a DoD Component may consider are the number of records requested, the number of pages involved in processing the request and the need for consultations or
referrals. DoD Components should advise requesters of the track into which their request falls and, when appropriate, shall offer the requesters an opportunity to narrow or modify their request so that it can be placed in a different processing track.
(c)
Unusual circumstances.
Whenever the statutory time limit for processing a request cannot be met because of “unusual circumstances,” as defined in the FOIA, and the DoD Component extends the time limit on that basis, the DoD Component must, before expiration of the 20-day period to respond, notify the requester in writing of the unusual circumstances involved and of the date by which processing of the request can be expected to be completed. See 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B). Where the extension exceeds 10 working days, the DoD Component shall, in accordance with the FOIA, provide the requester with an opportunity to modify the request or arrange an alternative time period for processing the original or modified request. Furthermore, the requester will be advised that the DoD Component FOIA Public Liaison is available for this purpose and of their right to seek dispute resolution services from OGIS.
(d)
Aggregating requests.
For the purposes of satisfying unusual circumstances under the FOIA, DoD Components may aggregate requests in cases where it reasonably appears that multiple requests, submitted either by a requester or by a group of requesters acting in concert, constitute a single request that would otherwise involve unusual circumstances. DoD Components will not aggregate multiple requests that involve unrelated matters.
(e)
Expedited processing.
(1) The FOIA establishes two reasons for expediting the processing of initial FOIA requests: Compelling need and other cases determined by the agency. See 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(E). Administrative appeals may be expedited for the same reasons. The DoD Components must make expedited processing determinations within 10 calendar days after receipt of a request that meets the criterion of reasonably describing the requested records in § 286.5(a). Once the DoD Component decides to grant expedited processing, the request is processed as soon as practicable. Adverse actions by DoD Components on requests for expedited processing, or a failure to respond to those requests in a timely manner, are subject to judicial review.
(i)
Compelling need.
Expedited processing is granted to a requester upon a specific request for such and when the requester demonstrates a compelling need for the information. A compelling need exists when:
(A) The failure to obtain requested records on an expedited basis could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual, or
(B) The information is urgently needed by an individual primarily engaged in disseminating information in order to inform the public concerning actual or alleged government activity.
(ii)
DoD additional expedited processing circumstances.
If the DoD Component decides to expedite the request for either of the following reasons, the request will be processed in the expedited track behind those requests qualifying for expedited processing as a compelling need.
(A)
Imminent loss of due process rights.
Expedited processing is granted to a requester if loss of substantial due process rights is imminent.
(B)
Humanitarian need.
Expedited processing is granted when the failure to obtain the requested information on an expedited basis could reasonably be expected to harm substantial humanitarian interests.
(2) A request for expedited processing may be made at any time. Requests for expedited processing must be submitted to the DoD Component that maintains the records. When making a request for expedited processing of an administrative appeal, the request should be submitted to the DoD Component's appellate authority.
(3) A requester who seeks expedited processing must submit a statement, certified to be true and correct, explaining in detail the basis for making the request for expedited processing. For requesters seeking expedited processing under paragraph (e)(1)(i)(B) of this section, a requester who is not a full-time member of the news media must establish that the requester is a
person whose primary professional activity or occupation is information dissemination, and not an incidental or secondary activity, though it need not be the requester's sole occupation. Such a requester also must establish a particular urgency to inform the public about the government activity involved in the request—one that extends beyond the public's right to know about government activity generally. The existence of numerous articles published on a given subject can be helpful in establishing the requirement that there be an “urgency to inform” the public on the topic. Requests for expedited processing under paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(A) of this section must include a description of the due process rights that would be lost. This statement must be with the request for expedited processing for it to be considered and responded to within the 10 calendar days required for decisions on expedited access.
(4) A DoD Component shall notify the requester within 10 calendar days of the receipt of a request for expedited processing of its decision whether to grant or deny expedited processing. If expedited processing is granted, the request shall be placed in the processing track for expedited requests, and processed as soon as practicable. If a request for expedited processing is denied, any appeal of that decision shall be acted upon expeditiously.
§ 286.9
Responses to requests.
(a)
In general.
DoD FOIA RSCs will, to the extent practicable, communicate with requesters having access to the Internet using electronic means, such as email or web portal.
(b)
Acknowledgments of requests.
DoD Components will acknowledge requests in writing and assign individualized tracking numbers. DoD Components will include these tracking numbers and any tracking numbers used by FOIA requesters in all correspondence.
(c)
Estimated dates of completion and interim responses.
Upon request, the DoD Component will provide an estimated date by which the DoD Component expects to provide a response to the requester. If a request involves a voluminous amount of material or searches in multiple locations, the DoD Component may provide interim responses, releasing the records on a rolling basis.
(d)
Grants of requests.
Once a DoD Component makes a determination to grant a request in full or in part, it shall notify the requester in writing. The DoD Component also shall inform the requester:
(1) Of any fees charged under § 286.12; and
(2) That they may contact the DoD Component FOIA Public Liaison for further assistance.
(e)
Adverse determinations of requests.
A DoD Component making an adverse determination denying a request in any respect will notify the requester of that determination in writing. Adverse determinations, or denials of requests, include decisions that the requested record is exempt, in whole or in part; the request does not reasonably describe the records sought; the information requested is not a record subject to the FOIA; the requested record does not exist, cannot be located, or has been destroyed; or the requested record is not readily reproducible in the form or format sought by the requester. Adverse determinations also include denials involving fees or fee waiver matters or denials of requests for expedited processing.
(f)
Content of denial.
The denial will include:
(1) The name and title or position of the IDA;
(2) A brief statement of the reasons for the denial, including any FOIA exemption applied and a statement detailing the application of any foreseeable harm in applying FOIA exemptions by the DoD Component in denying the request;
(3) An estimate of the volume of any records or information withheld, such as the number of pages or some other reasonable form of estimation, although such an estimate is not required if the volume is otherwise indicated by deletions marked on records that are disclosed in part or if providing an estimate would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption;
(4) For any information denied under Exemption 1, the applicable section or sections of the appropriate Executive
order on classification that establishing continued classification of the information;
(5) For any information denied under Exemption 3, the specific statute relied upon to deny the information along with a short description of the statute;
(6) A statement that the requester must appeal no later than 90 days after the date of the denial and along with instructions on how to appeal to the DoD Component appellate authority. The instructions will include the appellate authority's duty title, the mailing address for the appeal, and instructions on how the requester can appeal electronically; and
(7) A statement advising the requester of their right to seek dispute resolution services from the DoD Component FOIA Public Liaison or OGIS.
(g)
Markings on released documents.
Records disclosed in part will be marked clearly to show the amount of information deleted and the exemption under which the deletion was made unless doing so would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption. The location of the information deleted also will be indicated on the record, if technically feasible.
(h)
Use of record exclusions.
(1) In the event that a DoD Component identifies records that may be subject to exclusion from the requirements of the FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c), the DoD Component should confer with the OATSD(PCLT), which will confer with the Department of Justice, Office of Information Policy (OIP), to obtain approval to apply the exclusion.
(2) A DoD Component invoking an exclusion shall maintain an administrative record of the process of invocation and approval of the exclusion by OIP.
[82 FR 1197, Jan. 5, 2017, as amended at 88 FR 84238, Dec. 5, 2023]
§ 286.10
Confidential Commercial Information.
(a)
Definitions.
(1)
Confidential commercial information
means commercial or financial information obtained by the DoD Component from a submitter that may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4).
(2)
Submitter
means any person or entity, including a corporation, State, or foreign government, but not including another Federal Government entity, that provides confidential commercial information, either directly or indirectly to the Federal Government.
(b)
Designation of confidential commercial information.
A submitter of confidential commercial information must use good faith efforts to designate by appropriate markings, at the time of submission, any portion of its submission that it considers to be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4. These designations shall expire 10 years after the date of submission unless the submitter requests and provides justification for a longer designation period.
(c)
When notice to submitters is required.
(1) The DoD Component shall promptly provide written notice to the submitter of confidential commercial information whenever records containing such information are requested under the FOIA if the DoD Component determines that it may be required to disclose the records, provided:
(i) The requested information has been designated in good faith by the submitter as information considered protected from disclosure under Exemption 4; or
(ii) The DoD Component has a reason to believe that the requested information may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4, but has not yet determined whether the information is protected from disclosure.
(2) The notice shall include a copy of the requested records or portions of records containing the information. In cases involving a voluminous number of submitters, the DoD Component may post or publish a notice in a place or manner reasonably likely to inform the submitters of the proposed disclosure, instead of sending individual notifications.
(d)
Exceptions to submitter notice requirements.
The notice requirements of this section shall not apply if:
(1) The DoD Component determines that the information is exempt under the FOIA, and therefore will not be disclosed;
(2) The information has been lawfully published or has been officially made available to the public;
(3) Disclosure of the information is required by a statute other than the FOIA or by a regulation issued in accordance with the requirements of Executive Order 12600 of June 23, 1987; or
(4) The designation made by the submitter under paragraph (b) of this section appears obviously frivolous. In such case, the agency shall give the submitter written notice of any final decision to disclose the information within a reasonable number of days prior to a specified disclosure date.
(e)
Opportunity to object to disclosure.
(1) The DoD Component shall specify a reasonable time period within which the submitter must respond to the notice referenced in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) If a submitter has any objections to disclosure, it should provide the DoD Component a detailed written statement that specifies all grounds for withholding the particular information under any exemption of the FOIA. In order to rely on Exemption 4 as basis for nondisclosure, the submitter must explain why the information constitutes a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is confidential.
(3) A submitter who fails to respond within the time period specified in the notice shall be considered to have no objection to disclosure of the information. The DoD Component is not required to consider any information received after the date of any disclosure decision. Any information provided by a submitter under this section may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.
(f)
Analysis of objections.
The DoD Component shall consider a submitter's objections and specific grounds for nondisclosure in deciding whether to disclose the requested information.
(g)
Notice of intent to disclose.
Whenever the DoD Component decides to disclose information over the objection of a submitter, the DoD Component shall provide the submitter written notice, which shall include:
(1) A statement of the reasons why each of the submitter's disclosure objections was not sustained;
(2) A description of the information to be disclosed or copies of the records as the DoD Component intends to release them; and
(3) A specified disclosure date, which shall be a reasonable time after the notice.
(h)
Notice of FOIA lawsuit.
Whenever a requester files a lawsuit seeking to compel the disclosure of confidential commercial information, the DoD Component shall promptly notify the submitter.
(i)
Requester notification.
The DoD Component shall notify a requester whenever it provides the submitter with notice and an opportunity to object to disclosure; whenever it notifies the submitter of its intent to disclose the requested information over the submitter's objections; and whenever a submitter files a lawsuit to prevent the disclosure of the information.

# Subpart D—Appeals
§ 286.11
Processing of appeals.
(a)
Requirements for making an appeal.
A requester may appeal any adverse determinations to the DoD Component's appellate authority. Examples of adverse determinations are provided in § 286.9(e). Appeals can be submitted by mail or online in accordance with the requirements provided in the DoD Component's final response. Requesters that are not provided with appeal requirements should contact the FOIA RSC processing their request to obtain the requirements. The requester must make the appeal in writing and to be considered timely it must be postmarked, or in the case of electronic submissions, transmitted, within 90 calendar days after the date of the response. The appeal should clearly identify the determination that is being appealed and the assigned request number. To facilitate handling, the requester should mark both the appeal letter and envelope, or subject line of the electronic transmission, “Freedom of Information Act Appeal.”
(b)
Adjudication of appeals.
(1) The Heads of the following DoD Components will serve as, or appoint an appropriate official to serve as, the component's appellate authority: Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals, Department of the Army, Department of the Navy, Department of the Air
Force, Defense Commissary Agency, Defense Contract Audit Agency, Defense Contract Management Agency, Defense Finance and Accounting Service, Defense Health Agency, Defense Information Systems Agency, Defense Intelligence Agency, Defense Logistics Agency, Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency, Defense Threat Reduction Agency, National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, National Reconnaissance Office, National Security Agency/Central Security Service, and the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense.
(2) The Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Privacy, Civil Liberties, and Transparency (ATSD(PCLT)) will serve as the appellate authority for the OSD and the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, Defense Technical Information Center, Joint Personnel Recovery Agency, DoD Education Activity, National Guard Bureau, United States Africa Command, United States Central Command, United States Cyber Command, United States European Command, United States Northern Command, United States Indo-Pacific Command, United States Southern Command, United States Special Operations Command, United States Space Command, United States Strategic Command, and United States Transportation Command. The ATSD(PCLT) may delegate this authority to an appropriate official of the ATSD(PCLT) staff.
(3) An appeal will normally not be adjudicated if the request becomes a matter of FOIA litigation. This decision should be made after consultation with the Department of Justice attorney responsible for the litigation.
(c)
Decisions on appeals.
A decision on an appeal must be made in writing and signed by the appellate authority. A decision that upholds a DoD Component's determination in whole or in part will contain a statement that identifies the reasons for the affirmance, including any FOIA exemptions applied. The decision will provide the requester with notification of the statutory right to file a lawsuit. If a decision is remanded or modified on appeal, the requester will be notified of that determination in writing. The DoD Component will thereafter further process the request in accordance with that appeal determination and respond directly to the requester.
(d)
When an appeal is required.
A requester generally must first submit a timely administrative appeal before seeking review by a court of a DoD Component's adverse determination.
[82 FR 1197, Jan. 5, 2017, as amended at 88 FR 84238, Dec. 5, 2023]

# Subpart E—Fees
§ 286.12
Schedule of fees.
(a)
In general.
DoD Components shall charge for processing requests under the FOIA in accordance with the provisions of this section and with the OMB Guidelines. For purposes of assessing fees, the FOIA establishes three categories of requesters: Commercial; non-commercial scientific or educational institutions or news media; and all other requesters. Different fees are assessed depending on the category. Requesters may seek a fee waiver. DoD Components shall consider such requests in accordance with the requirements in paragraph (m) of this section. In order to resolve any fee issues that arise under this section, a DoD Component may contact a requester for additional information. DoD Components shall ensure that searches, review, and duplication are conducted in the most efficient and least expensive manner. Requesters must pay fees by check or money order made payable to the Treasury of the United States.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Commercial use request
is a request that asks for information for a use or purpose that furthers a commercial, trade, or profit interest, which can include furthering those interests through litigation. A DoD Component's decision to place a requester in the commercial use category will be made on a case-by-case basis based on the requester's intended use of the information. DoD Components will notify requesters of their placement in this category.
(2)
Direct costs
are those expenses that a DoD Component incurs in searching for and, in the case of commercial use requests, reviewing records
in order to respond to a FOIA request. DoD direct costs for human activity are at Table 1.
Table 1—FOIA Hourly Processing Fees
Type
Grade
Hourly rate
Administrative
E-9/GS-8 and below
$24
Professional
Contractor/O-1 to O-6/W-1 to W-5/GS-9 to GS-15
48
Executive
O-7 and above and Senior Executive Service
110
(3)
Duplication
is reproducing a copy of a record, or of the information contained in it, necessary to respond to a FOIA request.
(4)
Educational institution
is any school that operates a program of scholarly research. A requester in this fee category must show that the request is made in connection with his or her role at the educational institution. DoD Components may seek verification from the requester that the request is in furtherance of scholarly research and will advise requesters of their placement in this category.
(5)
Noncommercial scientific institution
is an institution that is not operated on a “commercial” basis, as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and that is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry. A requester in this category must show that the request is authorized by and is made under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are sought to further scientific research and are not for a commercial use. DoD Components will advise requesters of their placement in this category.
(6)
Representative of the news media
is any person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. The term “news” means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations that broadcast “news” to the public at large and publishers of periodicals that disseminate “news” and make their products available through a variety of means to the general public, including news organizations that disseminate solely on the Internet. A request for records supporting the news-dissemination function of the requester shall not be considered to be for a commercial use. “Freelance” journalists who demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through a news media entity shall be considered as a representative of the news media. A publishing contract would provide the clearest evidence that publication is expected; however, DoD Components shall also consider a requester's past publication record in making this determination. DoD Components will advise requesters of their placement in this category.
(7)
Review
is the examination of a record located in response to a request in order to determine whether any portion of it is exempt from disclosure. Review time includes processing any record for disclosure, such as doing all that is necessary to prepare the record for disclosure, including the process of redacting the record and marking the appropriate exemptions. Review costs are properly charged even if a record ultimately is not disclosed. Review time also includes time spent both obtaining and considering any formal objection to disclosure made by a confidential commercial information submitter under § 286.11, but it does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions.
(8)
Search
is the process of looking for and retrieving records or information responsive to a request. Search time includes page-by-page or line-by-line identification of information within records and the reasonable efforts expended to locate and retrieve information from electronic records.
(c)
Fee category.
Fees are assessed based on the category determined to be
appropriate for the requester's category. The fee category of a requester that is an attorney or any other agent representing a client is determined by the fee category of the attorney's client. If the fee category of the client is not clear, then the DoD Components should ask the requester for clarification. If an attorney does not provide enough information to determine the fee category of the client, then the DoD Component may assign commercial fee category to the requester.
(d)
Charging fees.
In responding to FOIA requests, DoD Components will charge the following fees unless a waiver or reduction of fees has been granted under paragraph (m) of this section. Because the fee amounts provided below already account for the direct costs associated with a given fee type, DoD Components should not add any additional costs to charges calculated under this section.
(1)
Search.
(i) Requests made by educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media are not subject to search fees. Search fees shall be charged for all other requesters, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (e) of this section. DoD Components may properly charge for time spent searching even if they do not locate any responsive records or if they determine that the records are entirely exempt from disclosure.
(ii) For each quarter hour spent by personnel searching for requested records, including electronic searches that do not require new programming, the fees shall be charged as listed at Table 1.
(iii) Requesters will be charged the direct costs associated with conducting any search that requires the creation of a new computer program to locate the requested records. These costs will not include the time it takes to run the program and extract data. Requesters will be notified of the costs associated with creating such a program and must agree to pay the associated costs before the costs may be incurred.
(iv) For requests that require the retrieval of records stored by a DoD Component at a Federal records center operated by NARA, additional costs will be charged in accordance with the Transactional Billing Rate Schedule established by NARA.
(2)
Duplication.
Duplication fees will be charged to all requesters, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (e) of this section. DoD Components will honor a requester's preference for receiving a record in a particular form or format where it is readily reproducible by the DoD Component in the form or format requested. Where photocopies are supplied, DoD Components will provide one copy per request at $.15 per page. For copies of records produced on tapes, disks, or other media, or other forms of duplication, DoD Components will charge the direct costs of producing the copy, including operator time in accordance with Table 1. DoD Components will charge record reproduction fees at the hourly rates in Table 1 if the creation of the electronic copies requires unique security procedures incurring considerable operator time, costing more than printing paper copies.
(3)
Review.
Review fees will be charged to requesters who make commercial use requests. Review fees shall be assessed in connection with the initial review of the record,
i.e.,
the review conducted by a DoD Component to determine whether an exemption applies to a particular record or portion of a record. No charge will be made for review at the administrative appeal stage of exemptions applied at the initial review stage. However, if a particular exemption is deemed to no longer apply, any costs associated with a DoD Component's re-review of the records in order to consider the use of other exemptions may be assessed as review fees. Review fees will be charged at the same rates as those charged for a search under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section.
(e)
Restrictions on charging fees.
(1) When a DoD Component determines that a requester is an educational institution, non-commercial scientific institution, or representative of the news media, and the records are not sought for commercial use, no search fees will be charged.
(2) If a DoD Component fails to comply with the time limits in which to respond to a request it may not charge
search fees, or, in the instances of requests from requesters described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, may not charge duplication fees except as described in (e)(2)(i) through (iii).
(i) When a DoD Component determines that unusual circumstances, as those terms are defined by the FOIA, apply to the processing of the request, and provides timely written notice to the requester, then the DoD Component is granted an additional ten days until the fee restriction in paragraph (e)(2) of this section applies.
(ii) When a DoD Component determines that unusual circumstances apply and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, provides timely written notice to the requester, and has discussed with the requester (or made three good faith attempts to do so) on how the requester can effectively limit the scope of the request, the fee restriction in paragraph (e)(2) of this section does not apply.
(iii) If a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist, as defined by the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limits shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.
(3) No search or review fees will be charged for a quarter-hour period unless more than half of that period is required for search or review.
(4) Except for requesters seeking records for a commercial use, DoD Components shall provide without charge:
(i) The first 100 pages of duplication (or the cost equivalent for other media); and
(ii) The first two hours of search.
(5) No fee will be charged when the total fee, after deducting the 100 free pages (or its cost equivalent) and the first two hours of search, is equal to or less than $25.
(f)
Notice of anticipated fees in excess of $25.00.
(1) When a DoD Component determines or estimates that the fees to be assessed in accordance with this section will exceed $25.00, the DoD Component shall notify the requester of the actual or estimated amount of the fees, including a breakdown of the fees for search, review or duplication, unless the requester has indicated a willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. If only a portion of the fee can be estimated readily, the DoD Component will advise the requester accordingly. If the requester is a noncommercial use requester, the notice shall specify that the requester is entitled to the statutory entitlements of 100 pages of duplication at no charge and, if the requester is charged search fees, two hours of search time at no charge, and will advise the requester whether those entitlements have been provided.
(2) When a requester is notified that the actual or estimated fees are in excess of $25.00, the request will not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the requester commits in writing to pay the actual or estimated total fee, or designates some amount of fees the requester is willing to pay, or in the case of a noncommercial use requester who has not yet been provided with the requester's statutory entitlements, designates that the requester seeks only that which can be provided by the statutory entitlements. The requester must provide the commitment or designation in writing, and must, when applicable, designate an exact dollar amount the requester is willing to pay. DoD Components are not required to accept payments in installments.
(3) If the requester has indicated a willingness to pay some designated amount of fees, but the DoD Component estimates that the total fee will exceed that amount, the DoD Component will toll the processing of the request when it notifies the requester of the estimated fees in excess of the amount the requester has indicated a willingness to pay. The DoD Component will inquire whether the requester wishes to revise the amount of fees the requester is willing to pay or modify the request. Once the requester responds, the time to respond will resume from where it was at the date of the notification.
(4) DoD Components will make available their FOIA Public Liaison or other FOIA professional to assist any requester in reformulating a request to meet the requester's needs at a lower cost.
(g)
Charges for other services.
Although not required to provide special
services, if a DoD Component chooses to do so as a matter of administrative discretion, the direct costs of providing the service shall be charged. Examples of such services include certifying that records are true copies, providing multiple copies of the same document, or sending records by means other than first class mail.
(h)
Charging interest.
DoD Components may charge interest on any unpaid bill starting on the 31st day following the date of billing the requester. Interest charges shall be assessed at the rate provided in 31 U.S.C. 3717 and will accrue from the billing date until payment is received by the DoD Component. DoD Components shall follow the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97-365, 96 Stat. 1749), as amended, and its administrative procedures, including the use of consumer reporting agencies, collection agencies, and offset.
(i)
Aggregating requests.
When a DoD Component reasonably believes that a requester or a group of requesters acting in concert is attempting to divide a single request into a series of requests for the purpose of avoiding fees, the DoD Component may aggregate those requests and charge accordingly. DoD Components may presume that multiple requests of this type made within a 30-day period have been made in order to avoid fees. For requests separated by a longer period, DoD Components will aggregate them only where there is a reasonable basis for determining that aggregation is warranted in view of all the circumstances involved. Multiple requests involving unrelated matters shall not be aggregated.
(j)
Advance payments.
(1) For requests other than those described in paragraphs (k)(2) or (3) of this section, a DoD Component shall not require the requester to make an advance payment before work is commenced or continued on a request.
(2) When a DoD Component determines or estimates that a total fee to be charged under this section will exceed $250.00, it may require that the requester make an advance payment up to the amount of the entire anticipated fee before beginning to process the request. A DoD Component may elect to process the request prior to collecting fees when it receives a satisfactory assurance of full payment from a requester with a history of prompt payment.
(3) Where a requester has previously failed to pay a properly charged FOIA fee to any agency within 30 calendar days of the billing date, a DoD Component may require that the requester pay the full amount due, plus any applicable interest on that prior request, and the DoD Component may require that the requester make an advance payment of the full amount of any anticipated fee before the DoD Component begins to process a new request or continues to process a pending request or any pending appeal. Where a DoD Component has a reasonable basis to believe that a requester has misrepresented the requester's identity in order to avoid paying outstanding fees, it may require that the requester provide proof of identity.
(4) In cases in which a DoD Component requires advance payment, the request shall not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the required payment is received. If the requester does not pay the advance payment within 30 calendar days after the date of the DoD Component's fee determination, the request will be closed.
(k)
Other statutes specifically providing for fees.
The fee schedule of this section does not apply to fees charged under any statute that specifically requires an agency to set and collect fees for particular types of records. In instances where records responsive to a request are subject to a statutorily-based fee schedule program, the DoD Component shall inform the requester of the contact information for that program.
(l)
Requirements for waiver or reduction of fees.
(1) Requesters may seek a waiver of fees by submitting a written application specifically demonstrating how disclosure of the requested information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
(2) A DoD Component will furnish records responsive to a request without charge or at a reduced rate when it determines, based on all available information, that the following three factors are satisfied:
(i) Disclosure of the requested information would shed light on the operations or activities of the government. The subject of the request must concern identifiable operations or activities of the Federal Government with a connection that is direct and clear, not remote or attenuated.
(ii) Disclosure of the requested information would be likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of those operations or activities. This factor is satisfied when the following criteria are met:
(A) Disclosure of the requested records must be meaningfully informative about government operations or activities. The disclosure of information that already is in the public domain, in either the same or a substantially identical form, would not be meaningfully informative if nothing new would be added to the public's understanding.
(B) The disclosure must contribute to the understanding of a reasonably broad audience of persons interested in the subject, as opposed to the individual understanding of the requester. A requester's expertise in the subject area as well as the requester's ability and intention to effectively convey information to the public shall be considered. DoD Components will presume that a representative of the news media satisfies this criterion.
(iii) The disclosure must not be primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. To determine whether disclosure of the requested information is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester, DoD Components shall consider the following criteria:
(A) DoD Components will identify whether the requester has any commercial interest that would be furthered by the requested disclosure. A commercial interest includes any commercial, trade, or profit interest. Requesters will be given an opportunity to provide explanatory information regarding this consideration.
(B) If there is an identified commercial interest, the DoD Component will determine whether that is the primary interest furthered by the request. A waiver or reduction of fees is justified when the requirements of paragraphs (m)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section are satisfied and any commercial interest is not the primary interest furthered by the request. DoD Components ordinarily will presume that when a news media requester has satisfied the factors in paragraphs (m)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, the request is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. Disclosure to data brokers or others who merely compile and market government information for direct economic return shall not be presumed to primarily serve the public interest.
(3) Where only some of the records to be released satisfy the requirements for a waiver of fees, a waiver shall be granted for those records.
(4) Requests for a waiver or reduction of fees should be made when the request is first submitted to the DoD Component and should address the criteria referenced in paragraphs (l)(1) and (2) of this section. A requester may submit a fee waiver request at a later time so long as the underlying record request is pending or on administrative appeal. When a requester who has committed to pay fees subsequently asks for a waiver of those fees and that waiver is denied, the requester is required to pay any costs incurred up to the date the fee waiver request was received.
(m)
Tracking of costs.
DoD Components will track processing costs for each FOIA request on DD Form 2086, “Record of Freedom of Information (FOI) Processing Cost,” or by using DD Form 2086-2, “Freedom of Information (FOI) Consultation and Request Summary”.
§ 286.13
Fees for technical data.
(a) Technical data shall be released to a requester after all reasonable costs of search, review, and duplication are paid by the requester as authorized by 10 U.S.C. 2328.
(b) Technical data means information (regardless of the form or method
of the recording) of a scientific or technical nature (including computer software documentation) relating to the supplies procured by the DoD. This includes information in the form of blueprints, drawings, photographs, plans, instructions or documentation. This term does not include computer software or financial, administrative, cost or pricing, or management data or other information incidental to contract administration. Examples of technical data include research and engineering data, engineering drawings, and associated lists, specifications, standards, process sheets, manuals, technical reports, catalog item identification, and computer software documentation.
(1) All reasonable costs as used in this sense are the full costs to the Federal Government of rendering the service, or fair market value of the service, whichever is higher. Fair market value shall be determined in accordance with commercial rates in the local geographical area. In the absence of a known market value, charges shall be based on recovery of full costs to the Federal Government. The full costs shall include all direct and indirect costs to conduct the search and to duplicate the records responsive to the request. Costs will be tracked on DD Form 2086-1, “Record of Freedom of Information (FOI) Processing Cost for Technical Data” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/infomgt/forms/eforms/dd2086-1.pdf
).
(2) The DoD Components will retain the fees received by the release of technical data under the FOIA, and will merge it with and make it available for the same purpose and the same time period as the appropriation from which the costs were incurred in complying with the FOIA request.
(3) Table 2 will be used to determine document production fees.
Table 2—FOIA Document Production Fees—Technical Data
Type
Cost
Aerial Photographs, Specifications, Permits, Charts, Diagrams, Technical Drawings, Blueprints, and Other Technical Documents (per page or copy)
$2.50
Engineering Data:
Aperture Cards, per card
3.00
Silver Duplicate Negative
3.50
When Keypunched and Verified
1.00
Diazo Duplicate Negative
3.50
When Keypunched and Verified
3.00
35 mm Roll Film, per frame
1.00
16 mm Roll Film, per frame
0.65
Paper Prints (engineering drawings), each (per square foot)
0.30
Paper Reprints of Microfilm Images, each
0.10
Other Technical Data Records:
Paper Copy (standard size paper up to 8
1/2
x 14, photocopier or printer)
0.15
CD/DVD
5.00
Microfiche Produced, each
3.50
Certification and Validation with Seal, each document
50.00
(c) The DoD Components will waive the payment of costs required in paragraph (a) of this section that are greater than the costs that would be required for release of this same information under § 286.12 if:
(1) The FOIA request is made by a U.S. citizen or a U.S. corporation, and such citizen or corporation certifies that the technical data requested is required to enable it to submit an offer, or to determine whether it is capable of submitting an offer, to provide the product to which the technical data relates to the United States or a U.S. contractor. However, the DoD Components may require the citizen or corporation to pay a deposit in an amount equal to but not more than the cost of complying with the FOIA request, which will be refunded upon submission of an offer by the citizen or corporation;
(2) The release of technical data is requested in order to comply with the terms of an international agreement; or
(3) The DoD Component determines, in accordance with paragraph (m) of § 286.12, that such a waiver is in the interest of the United States.
Pt. 286h

# PART 286h—RELEASE OF ACQUISITION-RELATED INFORMATION
Sec.
286h.1
Purpose.
286h.2
Applicability and scope.
286h.3
Policy.
286h.4
Responsibilities.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 101-189.

# Source:
55 FR 28614, July 12, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 286h.1
Purpose.
This part sets forth Department of Defense (DoD) policy for the release of acquisition-related information.
§ 286h.2
Applicability and scope.
(a) This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the Military Departments, the Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff and Joint Staff (CJCS), the Unified and Specified Commands, and the Defense Agencies (hereafter referred to collectively as “DoD Components”).
(b) This part is issued pursuant to section 822 of Public Law 101-189, which requires the Department of Defense to prescribe a single uniform regulation for dissemination of, and access to, acquisition information.
§ 286h.3
Policy.
(a)
General.
It is the Department of Defense's policy to make the maximum amount of acquisition-related information available to the public, and to respond promptly to specific requests from the public for such information, except for the information identified in paragraph (b) of this section, for which release is restricted.
(b)
Information for which release is restricted.
The information identified below may be released only as set forth herein.
(1)
Release subject to statutory restrictions.
This information may be released only in accordance with the applicable statutory requirements. Once the statutory requirements have been satisfied, the information may be released unless it falls within one of the categories described in the following paragraphs, in which case the policies governing release of information within those categories shall be followed.
(2)
Classified information.
(i) Any information or material, regardless of its physical form or characteristics, that is owned by, produced by or for, or under the control of the United States Government, and which, for national security purposes, must be protected against unauthorized disclosure and is so designated or marked with the appropriate classification.
(ii) Release, access, and dissemination of classified information shall be made through existing security channels in accordance with DoD 5220.22-R;
1
DoD 5220.22-M;
2
and DoD 5200.1-R,
3
which are implementing publications for safeguarding classified information release, access, and dissemination to United States and foreign concerns.
1
Copies may be obtained, at cost, from the National Technical Information Services, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161.
2
Copies may be obtained, at cost, from the Government Printing Office, ATTN: Superintendent of Documents, Washington, DC 20402.
3
See footnote 1 to § 286h.3(b)(2)(ii).
(3)
Contractor bid or proposal information.
(i) This is information prepared by or on behalf of an offeror and submitted to the Government as a part of or in support of the offeror's bid or proposal to enter into a contract with the Government, the disclosure of which would place the offeror at a competitive disadvantage or jeopardize the integrity or the successful completion of the procurement. Contractor bid or proposal information includes cost or pricing data, profit data, overhead and direct labor rates, and manufacturing processes and techniques. Contractor bid or proposal information does not include information that is available to the public.
(ii)(A)
Sealed bids.
(
1
) Prior to bid opening, no release or disclosure of contractor bid information shall be made to anyone other than those who are involved in the evaluation of the bids or to other individuals authorized by the Head of the DoD Component, or his or her designee.
(
2
) After contract award, contractor bid information may be released or disclosed by those authorized by the Head of the DoD Component, or his or her designee, to make such release or disclosure, if the information to be released or disclosed is not subject to a restrictive legend authorized by Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.215-12 or release is not otherwise restricted by law.
(
3
)
Negotiated procurements.
Prior to contract award, no release or disclosure of contractor proposal information shall be made to anyone other than those who are involved in the evaluation of the proposals or the source selection or to other individuals authorized by the Head of the DoD Component, or his or her designee. DoD Components shall adopt procedures in accordance with FAR 15.413 to protect against release or disclosure of contractor proposal information. After contract award, contractor proposal information may be released or disclosed by those authorized by the Head of the DoD Component, or his or her designee, to make such release or disclosure, if the information to be released or disclosed is not subject to a restrictive legend authorized by FAR 15.509 or FAR 52.215-12 or release is not otherwise restricted by law.
(4)
Source selection information.
(i) This is information prepared or developed for use by the Government in connection with the selection of a bid or proposal for the award of a contract. Only the following information, including copies or extracts thereof, is source selection information:
(A) Bid prices submitted in response to a Government solicitation for sealed bids or lists of such bid prices (applicable prior to bid opening only);
(B) Proposed costs or prices submitted in response to a Government solicitation prior to award of the contract, a list of proposed costs or prices;
(C) Source selection plans;
(D) Technical evaluation plans;
(E) Technical evaluations of competing proposals;
(F) Cost or price evaluations of competing proposals;
(G) Competitive range determinations;
(H) Rankings of competitors;
(I) The reports and evaluations or source selection boards, advisory councils, or the source selection authority (SSA); and
(J) Any other information which:
(
1
) If disclosed, would give an offeror a competitive advantage or jeopardize the integrity or successful completion of the procurement; and
(
2
) Is marked with the legend “Source Selection Information.”
(ii)
Release of or access to source selection information (SSI)—(A) Access to SSI.
The SSA (including the contracting officer when the contracting officer is the SSA) shall restrict access to source selection information to only those Government employees directly involved in the source selection process or to those individuals who have been authorized by the Head of the DoD Component, or his or her designee, to have access to such information. If the contracting officer or the SSA have not been appointed, the Head of the DoD Component, or his or her designee, shall assure access to such information is properly restricted. Employees supervising or managing employees directly involved in the source selection process are not themselves by virtue of their positions directly involved in the source selection process.
(B)
Release of SSI
—(
1
)
Prior to contract award.
Source selection information shall not be released prior to contract award unless the Head of the DoD Component, or his or her designee, determines that release is in the public interest and would not jeopardize the integrity or successful completion of the procurement. The information to be released shall only be released by the contracting officer. The contracting officer shall make release in a manner that does not provide any potential offeror with a competitive advantage.
(
2
)
After contract award.
The need to protect source selection information generally ends with contract award. The contracting officer may release, or authorize the release of, any source selection information related to that contract award except: Source selection information specifically developed or prepared for use with more than one solicitation when there is a continuing need to protect that information; unless otherwise permitted by law, source selection information containing contractor data or extracts thereof which are protected by law; information which would reveal the relative merits or technical standing of the competitors or the evaluation scoring; and any pre-decisional or other information not subject to release under the Freedom of Information Act. Debriefings to unsuccessful offerors shall be conducted in
accordance with FAR 15.1003 and Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) 215.1003(a).
(5)
Planning, programming, and budgetary information.
(i) Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System (PPBS) documents and supporting data bases are not to be disclosed outside the Department of Defense (DoD) and other governmental agencies directly involved in the defense planning and resource allocation process (e.g., the Office of Management and Budget). PPBS papers and associated data set forth the details of proposed programs and plans. Access to this material by those not directly involved in the PPBS process undermines the confidentiality necessary for the Secretary and Deputy Secretary to obtain candid advice on the content of the defense program. Also, access to PPBS information by private firms seeking contracts with the Department may pose ethical, even criminal, problems for those involved and reduce effective competition in the contract awards process.
(ii)(A) Requests for exceptions to this limitation may be granted on a case-by-case basis to meet compelling needs, after coordination with the Office of General Counsel, by the Head of the OSD office responsible for the PPBS phase to which the document or data base pertains; the Under Secretary of Defense (Policy) for the planning phase; the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Program Analysis and Evaluation) for programming; and the Comptroller, DoD for budgeting. A list of the current major documents and data bases for each PPBS phase is in paragraph (B)(5)(11)(C) of this section; all other PPBS materials are also controlled under this policy.
(B) Disclosure of PPBS information to Congress and the General Accounting Office (GAO) is covered by statute and other procedures.
(C) Major PPBS Documents and Data Bases by Phase.

# Planning Phase
(
1
) Defense Planning Guidance.

# Programming Phase
(
2
) Fiscal Guidance (when separate from Defense Planning Guidance);
(
3
) Program Objective Memoranda (POM);
(
4
) POM Defense Program (formerly FYDP) documents (POM Defense Program, Procurement Annex, RDT
E Annex);
(
5
) Program Review Proposals;
(
6
) Issue Papers (aka, Major Issue Papers, Tier II Issue Papers, Cover Briefs);
(
7
) Proposed Military Department Program Reductions (or Program Offsets);
(
8
) Tentative Issue Decision Memoranda;
(
9
) Program Decision Memoranda;

# Budgeting Phase
(
10
) Defense Program (formerly FYDP) documents for September and President's Budget Estimate submissions including Defense Program Procurement, RDT
E and Construction Annexes;
(
11
) Classified P-1, R-1 and C-1;
(
12
) Program Budget Decisions/Defense Management Review Decisions;
(
13
) Reports Generated by the Automated Budget Review System (BRS);
(
14
) DD Form 1414 Base for Programming;
(
15
) DD Form 1416 Report of Programs;
(
16
) Contract Award Reports;
(
17
) Congressional Data Sheets.
(iii) Contractor requests for information contained in the National Military Strategy Document (including annexes) and the Chairman's Program Assessment Document (including annexes and comments) shall be forwarded to the CJCS who shall determine on a case-by-case basis what information, if any, is releasable to the contractor.
(6)
Documents that disclose the Government's negotiating position.
Documents that would disclose the government's negotiating position (such as pre-negotiation business clearances and positions and government cost estimates) or would adversely impact the government negotiating strategy shall not be released.
(7)
Drafts and working papers.
Drafts and working papers that would otherwise be releasable under paragraph 286h.3(a) shall not be released where their release would inhibit the development of agency positions, jeopardize
the free exchange of information that is part of the deliberative process, or compromise the decision-making process.
(c)
Freedom of Information Act.
Where a request for information, the release of which is restricted under paragraph 286h.3(b) is made under the Freedom of Information Act, the request shall be forwarded to the appropriate official for disposition in accordance with DoD 5400.7-R.
4
Requests for contractor bid or proposal information pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act shall be subject to subparagraph ­5-207 a. of DoD 5400.7-R, which requires notice to a non-United States Government source of a record.
4
See footnote 1 to § 286h.3(b)(2)(ii).
§ 286h.4
Responsibilities.
(a) The Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition) shall be responsible for establishing uniform policies and procedures for the release of acquisition-related information.
(b) The Under Secretary of Defense (Policy), Assistant Secretary of Defense (Program Analysis and Evaluation) and Comptroller, DoD are responsible for adjudicating requests for access to Planning, Programming and Budgeting information pertaining to their respective phases of the PPB system.
(c) The Head of each DoD Component shall assure that procedures for the release of acquisition-related information are consistent with the policy contained in this Directive and shall not impose any additional restrictions on release of such information. These procedures shall specifically identify the individuals authorized to release and transmit acquisition-related information.

# SUBCHAPTER O—PRIVACY PROGRAM
Pt. 310

# PART 310—PROTECTION OF PRIVACY AND ACCESS TO AND AMENDEMENT OF INDIVIDUAL RECORDS UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
310.1
Purpose.
310.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Requests for Access and Amendment to Records
310.3
Requesting access to records.
310.4
Access exemptions.
310.5
Responses to requests for access to records.
310.6
Appeals from denials of requests for access to records.
310.7
Requests for amendment or correction of records.
310.8
Civil remedies.
310.9
Requests for an accounting of record disclosures.
310.10
Fees.
310.11
Other rights and services.

# Subpart C—Exemption Rules
310.12
Types of exemptions.
310.13
Exemptions for DoD-wide systems.
310.14
Department of the Air Force exemptions.
310.15
Department of the Army exemptions.
310.16
Department of the Navy exemptions.
310.17
[Reserved]
310.18
Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) exemptions.
310.19
Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) exemptions.
310.20
Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) exemptions.
310.21
Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) exemptions.
310.22
Defense Security Service (DSS) exemptions.
310.23
Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) exemptions.
310.24
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) exemptions.
310.25
National Guard Bureau (NGB) exemptions.
310.26
National Reconnaissance Office (NRO) exemptions.
310.27
National Security Agency (NSA) exemptions.
310.28
Office of the Inspector General (OIG) exemptions.
310.29
Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) exemptions.
Appendix A to Part 310—DOD Blanket Routine Uses

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552a.

# Source:
84 FR 14730, Apr. 11, 2019, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 310.1
Purpose.
This part contains the rules that the Department of Defense (Department or DoD) follows under the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a. These rules should be read together with the Privacy Act. The rules in this part apply to all records in Privacy Act systems of records maintained by the Department. They describe the procedures by which individuals may request access to records about themselves, request amendment or correction of those records, and request an accounting of disclosures of those records by the Department to other entities outside the Department. In addition, the Department processes all Privacy Act requests for access to records under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552, following the rules contained in 32 CFR part 286, giving individuals the benefit of both statutes.
§ 310.2
Definitions.
DoD Components
means the Office the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD (referred to collectively in this part as the “DoD Components”).
Individual
means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence, as defined in the Privacy Act.
Maintain
includes maintain, collect, use or disseminate, as defined in the Privacy Act.
Record
means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by an agency, including, but not limited to, his education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains his name, or the identifying number, or symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a finger or voice print or a photograph, as defined in the Privacy Act.
Request for access
to a record means a request made under subsection (d)(1) of the Privacy Act.
Request for amendment or correction
of a record means a request made under subsection (d)(2) of the Privacy Act.
Request for an accounting
means a request made under subsection (c)(3) of the Privacy Act.
Requester
means an individual who makes a request for access, a request for amendment or correction, or a request for an accounting under the Privacy Act.
System of records
means any group of records under the control of the Department of Defense from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some other identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual as defined in the Privacy Act.

# Subpart B—Requests for Access and Amendment to Records
§ 310.3
Requesting access to records.
(a) Individuals may request access to records in a system of records or request to be notified if a system of records contains records pertaining to them by writing to or appearing in person before the DoD Component that maintains the record. Written requests should be sent to the address listed in the record access procedures of the system of records notice (SORN) containing the record requested. If the name of the system of records or the address for the DoD Component that has the record is unknown, the individual may look up the SORN or the contact information for the DoD Component Privacy Office at
http://www.defense.gov/privacy.
(b) For access to the Official Personnel Files of federal civilian employees, which are maintained in the custody of the Department under the authority of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) SORN OPM/GOVT-1, individuals must contact their DoD Component FOIA Requester Service Center. Contact information for DoD Component FOIA Requester Service Centers can be found at
https://www.foia.gov/report-makerequest.html.
(c) Requesters should provide their full name, current address and email address, and when requested in the access procedures of the applicable SORN, date of birth, place of birth, and telephone number, to assist the DoD Component in responding to the request and providing released records to the requester. The requester must sign the request and have it notarized or submit the request under 28 U.S.C. 1746, a law that permits unsworn statements to be made under penalty of perjury as a substitute for notarization. To assist with the identification and location of requested records, when requested in the access procedures of the applicable SORN, the requester may also, at his or her option, include his or her DoD Identification Number (DoD ID Number) or Social Security Number (SSN). Providing a DoD ID Number or SSN should be appropriate for the type of record being sought.
(d) When making a request for access to records as the parent or guardian for an individual who is a minor or for an individual who is determined by a court to be incompetent, the parent/guardian must establish:
(1) The identity of the individual who is the subject of the record;
(2) The parent/guardian's own identity;
(3) That the requester is the parent or guardian of that individual, which may be proven by providing a copy of the individual's birth certificate showing parentage or a court order establishing the guardianship; and
(4) That the parent or guardian is acting on behalf of the individual in making the request.
(e) Members of the Military Services and married persons are not considered minors, regardless of age.
§ 310.4
Access exemptions.
DoD may deny an individual access to certain information about the individual that resides in a DoD Component's system of records when an exemption from the Privacy Act is claimed for the system of records and codified in the Code of Federal Regulations as described in § 310.12. When an exemption pursuant to subsection (j) or (k) of the Privacy Act exists, it will be listed in the SORN for the particular system in which the individual's information is located. Records compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding may be withheld pursuant to subsection (d)(5) of the Privacy Act.
§ 310.5
Responses to requests for access to records.
(a) Upon receipt of a request, a component will send an acknowledgment letter to the requester within 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) which shall confirm the requester's agreement to pay duplication fees, if any, and provide an assigned case file number for reference purposes.
(b) In some cases, the DoD Component initially receiving the request may refer the request to another DoD Component or agency. The DoD Component that initially received the request will send the requester a notice of referral that will identify each DoD Component or agency to which the request has been referred, as well as which part of the request has been referred.
(c) Access to protected health information, including medical records, is governed by the Privacy Act and DoD 6025.18-R, “DoD Health Information Privacy Regulation” (available at
http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodm/602518r.pdf
).
(d) When a DoD Component makes a determination to grant a request for access in whole or in part, the DoD Component shall notify the requester in writing or simply provide the requested record. The response to the request may be made in lieu of the acknowledgment of receipt provided the response will be made within 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays). The DoD Component shall inform the requester of any fee charged for duplication of the record(s). If the request is made in person, the individual may receive the records directly in a manner not unreasonably disruptive of the DoD Component's operations, upon payment of any applicable fee. If the individual is accompanied by another person, the individual may be required to authorize in writing any discussion of the records in the presence of the other person.
(e) A DoD Component denying a request for access in any respect shall notify the requester of that determination in writing.
(1) The notice of denial consists of:
(i) A determination to withhold any requested record in whole or in part;
(ii) A determination that a requested record does not exist or cannot be located; or
(iii) A determination that what has been requested is not a record subject to the Privacy Act.
(2) The denial notification letter shall be signed by the head of the DoD Component, or the DoD Component head's designee, and shall include:
(i) The date of the denial;
(ii) A brief statement of the reason(s) for the denial, including any Privacy Act exemption(s) applied by the DoD Component in denying the request; and
(iii) A statement that the denial can be appealed within 60 calendar days in accordance with § 310.6. The statement will include the position title and the address of the appellate authority.
§ 310.6
Appeals from denials of requests for access to records.
(a) If the requester is dissatisfied with a DoD Component's response, the requester can appeal an adverse determination denying the request to the appellate authority listed in the notification of denial letter. The appeal must be made in writing, and it must be postmarked within 60 calendar days of the date of the letter denying the initial request for records. The letter of appeal should include a copy of the DoD Component's determination (including the assigned request number, if known). For the quickest possible handling, the appeal letter and the envelope should be marked: “Privacy Act Appeal.”
(b) The appellant will be notified of the decision on his or her appeal in writing. If the decision affirms the adverse determination in whole or in part, the notification will include a brief statement of the reason(s) for the affirmation, including any exemptions applied, and will inform the appellant of the Privacy Act provisions for judicial review of the appellate authority's decision. If the adverse determination is reversed or modified, in whole or in part, the appellant will be notified in writing of this decision and the request will be reprocessed in accordance with that appeal decision.
(c) In order to seek a judicial review of a denial of a request for access to records, a requester must first file an appeal under this section.
(d) An appeal ordinarily will not be acted on if the request becomes a matter of litigation.
§ 310.7
Requests for amendment or correction of records.
(a) If the record is not subject to amendment and correction as stated in paragraph (b) of this section, an individual may make a request for amendment or correction of a DoD Component's record about that individual by writing directly to the DoD Component that maintains the record as identified in the published SORN applicable to the record. The request should identify each particular record in question, state the amendment or correction that is sought, and state why the record is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete without the correction. The individual will also need to verify identity in the same manner as described in §§ 310.3(c) through (d). Factual documentation that is helpful to the DoD Component privacy officials should be submitted with the request. If it is believed that the same record exists in more than one system of records, this should be stated in the request, and the request should be addressed to each DoD Component that maintains a system of records containing the record as noted in this paragraph.
(b) Certain records are not subject to amendment or correction under the Privacy Act:
(1) Proceedings and determinations of courts-martial, military tribunal, or Military Boards of Correction are not generally subject to amendment or correction under the Privacy Act.
(2) Records in systems of records that have been exempted from amendment and correction under the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) or (k) are not subject to amendment or correction.
(3) The amendment process is not intended to permit the alteration of records presented in the course of judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings such as the adjudication process for personnel security clearances or contesting grades in academic records. Any amendments or changes to these records normally are made through the specific procedures established for the amendment of such records.
(4) Nothing in the amendment process is intended or designed to permit a collateral attack upon what has already been the subject of a judicial or quasi-judicial determination. However, while the individual may not attack the accuracy of the judicial or quasi-judicial determination under this part, he or she may challenge the accuracy of the recording of that action.
(c) An individual requesting amendment or correction of records will receive a written acknowledgment of receipt of the request within 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays), as required by the Privacy Act. The response to the request may be made in lieu of the acknowledgment of receipt provided the response is made within 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays). The response to the request must be made promptly and indicate whether the request is granted or denied.
(d) If the request for amendment or correction is granted in whole or in part, the response to the individual will receive a description or copy of the amendment or correction made and, if a copy of the amended or corrected record is not included in the response, notification of the right to obtain a copy of the corrected or amended record in disclosable form.
(e) If the request for amendment or correction is denied in whole or in part,
the response to the individual will include a signed letter stating:
(1) The reason(s) for the denial; and
(2) The procedure for appeal of the denial under paragraph (f) of this section, including the name, position title and business address of the official who will act on the appeal.
(f) An individual may appeal the denial of a request for amendment or correction to the individual's record to the appellate authority at the address listed in the notification of denial letter, in the same manner as for a denial of a request for access to records (see § 310.6). The appeal determination shall be made within 30 working days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) from the date of the appeal, unless the period is extended for good cause. If the appeal is denied in whole or in part, the individual will be advised of the right to file a Statement of Disagreement as described in paragraph (g) of this section, and of the right under the Privacy Act for judicial review of the decision.
(g) If an appeal under this section is denied in whole or in part, the individual has the right to file a Statement of Disagreement that states the reason(s) for disagreeing with the DoD Component's denial of the request for amendment or correction. Statements of Disagreement must be concise, must clearly identify each part of any record that is disputed, and should generally be no longer than one typed page. The Statement of Disagreement must be sent to the DoD Component holding the respective record. The Statement of Disagreement will be filed or notated in the system of records, and an annotation to the record itself will indicate the existence and location of the Statement of Disagreement.
(h) Notifications of amendment/correction or statements of disagreement will be made to all persons, organizations, and agencies to which the record was previously disclosed if an accounting of that disclosure was made in accordance with subsection (c) of the Privacy Act and § 310.9. If an individual has filed a Statement of Disagreement, a copy of the statement will be appended to the disputed record whenever the record is disclosed, and a concise statement of the reason(s) for denying the request to amend or correct the record may also be appended.
§ 310.8
Civil remedies.
In addition to the right to judicial review after a denied appeal for access to or amendment of a record, the requester has the right to bring a civil action against the Department if the Department:
(a) Fails to maintain a record concerning the individual with such accuracy, relevance, timeliness and completeness as is necessary to assure fairness in any determination relating to the qualifications, character, rights, opportunities of, or benefits to the individual that may be made on the basis of such record, and consequently a determination is made which is adverse to the individual; or
(b) Fails to comply with any other provision of the Privacy Act or this rule, in such a way as to have an adverse effect on the individual.
§ 310.9
Requests for an accounting of record disclosures.
(a) An individual may make a request for an accounting of any disclosure that has been made by the Department to another person, organization, or agency of any record about the individual maintained in a system of records.
(b) This accounting contains the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure, as well as the name and address of the person, organization, or agency to which the disclosure was made. Records of disclosure accountings are maintained for five years after the disclosure or for the life of the record, whichever is longer.
(c) The request for an accounting should identify each particular record in question and should be made by writing directly to the DoD Component that maintains the record, following the procedures in § 310.3.
(d) DoD Components are not required to provide disclosure accountings when related to:
(1) Disclosures for which accountings are not required to be kept—in other words, disclosures that are made to employees within the Department who
have a need for the record in the performance of their duties and disclosures that are made under the Freedom of Information Act;
(2) Disclosures made to law enforcement agencies for authorized law enforcement activities in response to written request from the head of the agency or instrumentality of those law enforcement agencies specifying the law enforcement activities for which the disclosures are sought; or
(3) Disclosures made from systems of records that have been exempted from accounting requirements.
(e) An individual may appeal a denial of a request for a disclosure accounting to the address listed in the notification of denial letter, in the same manner as a denial of a request for access to records, following the procedures in § 310.6.
§ 310.10
Fees.
(a) When an individual makes a Privacy Act request for a copy of a record in a system of records, the request shall be considered an agreement to pay all applicable fees.
(b) There is no minimum fee for duplication, and there is no automatic charge for processing a request. Fees for duplication of records will be charged in the same manner as requests for records under the Freedom of Information Act.
(c) Normally, fees are waived automatically if the direct costs of a given request are less than the cost of processing the fee. Decisions to waive or reduce fees that exceed the waiver threshold are made on a case-by-case basis.
§ 310.11
Other rights and services.
Nothing in this part shall be construed to entitle any person, as of right, to any service or to the disclosure of any record to which such person is not entitled under the Privacy Act.

# Subpart C—Exemption Rules
§ 310.12
Types of exemptions.
(a)
Exemptions.
There are three types of exemptions permitted by the Privacy Act:
(1) An access exemption that exempts records complied in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding from the access provisions of the Act, pursuant to subsection (d)(5) of the Privacy Act;
(2) General exemptions that authorize the exemption of a system of records from all but certain specifically identified provisions of the Act, pursuant to subsection (j) of the Privacy Act; and
(3) Specific exemptions that allow a system of records to be exempted only from certain designated provisions of the Act, pursuant to subsection (k) of the Privacy Act. Nothing in the Privacy Act permits exemption of any system of records from all provisions of the Act.
(b)
Civil Action or Proceeding.
In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(5), an individual is not entitled to access information that is compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding. The term “civil action or proceeding” is intended to include court proceedings, preliminary judicial steps, and quasi-judicial administrative hearings or proceedings (
i.e.,
adversarial proceedings that are subject to rules of evidence). Any information prepared in anticipation of such actions or proceedings, including information prepared to advise DoD officials of the possible legal or other consequences of a given course of action, is protected. The exemption is similar to the attorney work-product privilege except that it applies even when the information is prepared by non-attorneys. The exemption does not apply to information compiled in anticipation of criminal actions or proceedings.
(c)
Exempt Records Systems.
Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), all systems of records maintained by DoD will be exempt from the access provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and the notification of access procedures of 5 U.S.C. 522a(e)(4)(H) to the extent that the system contains any information properly classified under Executive Order 13526, and is required by the Executive Order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy. This exemption, which may be applicable to parts of all DoD systems of records, is necessary because certain record systems not otherwise specifically designated for exemptions herein may
contain isolated items of information which have been properly classified.
(d)
Exempt records in non-exempt systems.
Exempt records temporarily in the custody of another DoD Component are considered the property of the originating DoD Component. Access to these records is controlled by the system notices and rules of the originating DoD Component. Exempt records that have been incorporated into a nonexempt system of records are still exempt but only to the extent to which the provisions of the Act for which an exemption has been claimed are identified. An exemption claimed for the system of records from which the record is obtained remains in effect when the purposes underlying the exemption for the record are still valid and necessary to protect the contents of the record. If a record is accidentally misfiled into a system of records, the system notice and rules for the system in which it should actually be filed shall govern.
§ 310.13
Exemptions for DoD-wide systems.
(a)
Use of DoD-wide exemptions.
DoD-wide exemptions for DoD-wide systems of records are established pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and (k) of the Privacy Act.
(b)
Promises of confidentiality.
(1) Only the identity of and information furnished by sources that have been given an express promise of confidentiality may be protected from disclosure under this section, consistent with (k)(2), (k)(5), and (k)(7) of the Privacy Act, as applicable. However, the identity of sources who were given implied promises of confidentiality in inquiries conducted before September 27, 1975, also may be protected from disclosure.
(2) Ensure promises of confidentiality are not automatically given but are used sparingly. Establish appropriate procedures and identify fully categories of individuals who may make such promises. Promises of confidentiality shall be made only when they are essential to obtain the information sought (see 5 CFR part 736).
(c)
Access to records for which DOD-wide exemptions are claimed.
Deny the individual access only to those portions of the records for which the claimed exemption applies.
(d)
Exempt records.
Records are only exempt from pertinent provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a to the extent that such provisions have been identified and an exemption claimed for the record and the purposes underlying the exemption for the record pertain to the record.
(e)
DoD-wide exemptions.
The following exemptions are applicable to all components of the Department of Defense for the following system(s) of records:
(1)
System identifier and name.
DUSDI 01-DoD “Department of Defense (DoD) Insider Threat Management and Analysis Center (DITMAC) and DoD Component Insider Threat Records System.”
(i)
Exemption.
This system of records is exempted from subsections (c)(3) and (4); (d)(1), (2), (3) and (4); (e)(1), (2), (3), (4)(G)(H) and (I), (5) and (8); and (g) of the Privacy Act.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) and (k)(1), (2), (4), (5), (6), and (7).
(iii)
Exemption from the particular subsections.
Exemption from the particular subsections is justified for the following reasons:
(A)
Subsection (c)(3).
To provide the subject with an accounting of disclosures of records in this system could inform that individual of the existence, nature, or scope of an actual or potential law enforcement or counterintelligence investigation, and thereby seriously impede law enforcement or counterintelligence efforts by permitting the record subject and other persons to whom he might disclose the records to avoid criminal penalties, civil remedies, or counterintelligence measures. Access to the accounting of disclosures could also interfere with a civil or administrative action or investigation which may impede those actions or investigations. Access also could reveal the identity of confidential sources incident to Federal employment, military service, contract, and security clearance determinations.
(B)
Subsection (c)(4).
This subsection is inapplicable to the extent that an exemption is being claimed for subsection (d).
(C)
Subsection (d)(1).
Disclosure of records in the system could reveal the
identity of confidential sources and result in an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others. Disclosure may also reveal information relating to actual or potential criminal investigations. Disclosure of classified national security information would cause damage to the national security of the United States. Disclosure could also interfere with a civil or administrative action or investigation; reveal the identity of confidential sources incident to Federal employment, military service, contract, and security clearance determinations; and reveal the confidentiality and integrity of Federal testing materials and evaluation materials used for military promotions when furnished by a confidential source.
(D)
Subsection (d)(2).
Amendment of the records could interfere with ongoing criminal or civil law enforcement proceedings and impose an impossible administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(E)
Subsections (d)(3) and (4).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent exemption is claimed from subsections (d)(1) and (2).
(F)
Subsection (e)(1).
It is often impossible to determine in advance if investigatory records contained in this system are accurate, relevant, timely and complete, but, in the interests of effective law enforcement and counterintelligence, it is necessary to retain this information to aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide investigative leads.
(G)
Subsection (e)(2).
To collect information from the subject individual could serve notice that he or she is the subject of a criminal investigation and thereby present a serious impediment to such investigations.
(H)
Subsection (e)(3).
To inform individuals as required by this subsection could reveal the existence of a criminal investigation and compromise investigative efforts.
(I)
Subsection (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent exemption is claimed from subsections (d)(1) and (2).
(J)
Subsection (e)(5).
It is often impossible to determine in advance if investigatory records contained in this system are accurate, relevant, timely and complete, but, in the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary to retain this information to aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide investigative leads.
(K)
Subsection (e)(8).
To serve notice could give persons sufficient warning to evade investigative efforts.
(L)
Subsection (g).
This subsection is inapplicable to the extent that the system is exempt from other specific subsections of the Privacy Act.
(iv)
Exempt records from other systems.
In addition, in the course of carrying out analysis for insider threats, exempt records from other systems of records may in turn become part of the case records maintained in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those other systems of records are maintained into this system, the DoD claims the same exemptions for the records from those other systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the original primary system of which they are a part.
(2)
System identifier and name.
DUSDI 02-DoD “Personnel Vetting Records System.”
(i)
Exemption.
This system of records is exempted from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d)(1), (d)(2), (d)(3), (d)(4), and (e)(1) of the Privacy Act.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (k)(2), (k)(3), (k)(5), (k)(6), and (k)(7).
(iii)
Exemption from the particular subsections.
Exemption from the particular subsections is justified for the following reasons:
(A)
Subsections (c)(3), (d)(1), and (d)(2)
—(
1
)
Exemption (k)(1).
Personnel investigations and vetting records may contain information properly classified pursuant to Executive Order. Application of exemption (k)(1) for such records may be necessary because access to, amendment of, or release of the accounting of disclosures of such records could disclose classified information that could be detrimental to national security.
(
2
)
Exemption (k)(2).
Personnel investigations and vetting records may contain investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes other than material within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). Application of exemption (k)(2) for such records may be necessary because access to, amendment
of, or release of the accounting of disclosures of such records could: Inform the record subject of an investigation of the existence, nature, or scope of an actual or potential law enforcement or counterintelligence investigation, and thereby seriously impede law enforcement or counterintelligence efforts by permitting the record subject and other persons to whom he might disclose the records to avoid criminal penalties, civil remedies, or counterintelligence measures; interfere with a civil or administrative action or investigation which may impede those actions or investigations; and result in an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others. Amendment of such records could also impose a highly impracticable administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(
3
)
Exemption (k)(3).
Personnel investigations and vetting records may contain information pertaining to providing protective services to the President of the United States or other individuals pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056. Application of exemption (k)(3) for such records may be necessary because access to, amendment of, or release of the accounting of disclosures of such records could compromise the safety of the individuals protected pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056 and compromise protective services provided to the President and other individuals. Amendment of such records could also impose a highly impracticable administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(
4
)
Exemption (k)(5).
Personnel investigations and vetting records may contain investigatory material compiled solely for determining suitability, eligibility, and qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information. In some cases, such records may contain information pertaining to the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the source's identity would be held in confidence (or prior to the effective date of the Privacy Act, under an implied promise). Application of exemption (k)(5) for such records may be necessary because access to, amendment of, or release of the accounting of disclosures of such records could identify these confidential sources who might not have otherwise come forward to assist the Government, could hinder the Government's ability to obtain information from future confidential sources, and result in an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others. Amendment of such records could also impose a highly impracticable administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(
5
)
Exemption (k)(6).
Personnel investigations and vetting records may contain information relating to testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service. Application of exemption (k)(6) for such records may be necessary because access to, amendment of, or release of the accounting of disclosures of such records could compromise the objectivity and fairness of the testing or examination process. Amendment of such records could also impose a highly impracticable administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(
6
)
Exemption (k)(7).
Personnel investigations and vetting records may contain evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the armed services. In some cases, such records may contain information pertaining to the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the source's identity would be held in confidence (or prior to the effective date of the Privacy Act, under an implied promise). Application of exemption (k)(7) for such records may be necessary because access to, amendment of, or release of the accounting of disclosures of such records could identify these confidential sources who might not have otherwise come forward to assist the Government, hinder the Government's ability to obtain information from future confidential sources, and result in an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others. Amendment of such records could also impose a highly impracticable administrative burden
by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(B)
Subsections (d)(3) and (4).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent an exemption is claimed from (d)(1) and (2). Moreover, applying the amendment appeal procedures toward background investigation and vetting records could impose a highly impracticable administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(C)
Subsection (e)(1).
In the collection of information for authorized vetting purposes, it is not always possible to conclusively determine the relevance and necessity of particular information in the early stages of the investigation or adjudication. In some instances, it will be only after the collected information is evaluated in light of other information that its relevance and necessity for effective investigation and adjudication can be assessed. Collection of such information permits more informed decision-making by the Department when making required suitability, eligibility, fitness, and credentialing determinations. Accordingly, application of exemptions (k)(1), (k)(2),(k)(3), (k)(5), (k)(6), and (k)(7) may be necessary.
(iv)
Exempt records from other systems.
In addition, in the course of carrying out personnel vetting, including records checks for continuous vetting, exempt records from other systems of records may in turn become part of the records maintained in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those other systems of records are maintained into this system, the DoD claims the same exemptions for the records from those other systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the original primary system of which they are a part.
(3)
System identifier and name.
DoD-0004, “Defense Repository for Common Enterprise Data (DRCED).”
(i)
Exemptions.
This system of records is exempt from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d)(1), (d)(2), (d)(3), and (d)(4) of the Privacy Act.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(iii)
Exemption from the particular subsections.
Exemption from the particular subsections is justified for the following reasons:
(A)
Subsection (c)(3) (accounting of disclosures).
Because common enterprise records may contain information properly classified pursuant to executive order, the disclosure accountings of such records may also contain information properly classified pursuant to executive order, the disclosure of which may cause damage to national security.
(B)
Subsections (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4) (record subject's right to access and amend records).
Access to and amendment of records by the record subject could disclose information properly classified pursuant to executive order. Disclosure of classified records to an individual may cause damage to national security.
(iv)
Exempt records from other systems.
In addition, in the course of carrying out the overall purpose for this system, exempt records from other system of records may in turn become part of the records maintained in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those other systems of records are maintained in this system, the DoD claims the same exemptions for the records from those other systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the prior system(s) of which they are a part, provided the reason for the exemption remains valid and necessary.
(4)
System identifier and name.
DoD-0005, “Defense Training Records.”
(i)
Exemptions.
This system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) and (6).
(iii)
Exemption from the particular subsections.
Exemption from the particular subsections is justified for the following reasons:
(A)
Subsections (c)(3), (d)(1), and (d)(2)
—(
1
)
Exemption (k)(1).
Training records in this system of records may contain information concerning DoD personnel or training materials that is properly classified pursuant to executive order. Application of exemption (k)(1) for such records may be necessary because access to and amendment of the records, or release of the accounting of disclosures for such records, could reveal classified information. Disclosure of classified records
to an individual may cause damage to national security.
(
2
)
Exemption (k)(6).
Training records in this system of records may contain information relating to testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service. Application of exemption (k)(6) for such records may be necessary when access to and amendment of the records, or release of the accounting of disclosure for such records, may compromise the objectivity and fairness of the testing or examination process. Amendment of such records could also impose a highly impracticable administrative burden by requiring testing and examinations to be continuously re-administered.
(B)
Subsections (d)(3) and (4).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent an exemption is claimed from subsection (d)(2). Moreover, applying the amendment appeal procedures to training and examination materials could impose a highly impractical administrative burden by requiring testing and examinations to be continuously re-administered.
(iv)
Exempt records from other systems.
In the course of carrying out the overall purpose for this system, exempt records from other systems of records may in turn become part of the records maintained in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those other systems of records are maintained in this system, the DoD claims the same exemptions for the records from those other systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the prior system(s) of which they are a part, provided the reason for the exemption remains valid and necessary.
(5)
System identifier and name.
DoD-0006, “Military Justice and Civilian Criminal Case Records.”
(i)
Exemptions.
This system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1); (e)(2); (e)(3); (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); (e)(5); (e)(8); (f); and (g) of the Privacy Act to the extent the records are subject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). This system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); and (f) of the Privacy Act to the extent the records are subject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) and (k)(2).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(1), and (k)(2).
(iii)
Exemption from the particular subsections.
Exemption from the particular subsections is justified for the following reasons:
(A)
Subsection (c)(3), (d)(1), and (d)(2)
—(
1
)
Exemption (j)(2).
Records in this system of records may contain investigatory material compiled for criminal law enforcement purposes to include information identifying criminal offenders and alleged offenders, information compiled for the purpose of criminal investigation, or reports compiled during criminal law enforcement proceedings. Application of exemption (j)(2) may be necessary because access to, amendment of, or release of the accounting of disclosures of such records could inform the record subject of an investigation of the existence, nature, or scope of an actual or potential law enforcement or disciplinary investigation, and thereby seriously impede law enforcement or prosecutorial efforts by permitting the record subject and other persons to whom he might disclose the records to avoid criminal penalties or disciplinary measures; reveal confidential sources who might not have otherwise come forward to assist in an investigation and thereby hinder DoD's ability to obtain information from future confidential sources and result in an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others.
(
2
)
Exemption (k)(1).
Records in this system of records may contain information that is properly classified pursuant to executive order. Application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary because access to and amendment of the records, or release of the accounting of disclosures for such records, could reveal classified information. Disclosure of classified records to an individual may cause damage to national security.
(
3
)
Exemption (k)(2).
Records in this system of records may contain investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes other than material within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). Application of exemption (k)(2) may be necessary because access
to, amendment of, or release of the accounting of disclosures of such records could inform the record subject of an investigation of the existence, nature, or scope of an actual or potential law enforcement or disciplinary investigation, and thereby seriously impede law enforcement or prosecutorial efforts by permitting the record subject and other persons to whom he might disclose the records or the accounting of records to avoid criminal penalties, civil remedies, or disciplinary measures; interfere with a civil or administrative action or investigation which may impede those actions or investigations; reveal confidential sources who might not have otherwise come forward to assist in an investigation and thereby hinder DoD's ability to obtain information from future confidential sources; and result in an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others.
(B)
Subsection (c)(4), (d)(3) and (4).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent that an exemption is being claimed from subsections (d)(1) and (2).
(C)
Subsection (e)(1).
In the collection of information for investigatory or law enforcement purposes, it is not always possible to conclusively determine the relevance and necessity of particular information in the early stages of the investigation or adjudication. In some instances, it will be only after the collected information is evaluated in light of other information that its relevance and necessity for effective investigation and adjudication can be assessed. Collection of such information permits more informed decision-making by the Department when making required disciplinary and prosecutorial determinations. Additionally, records within this system may be properly classified pursuant to executive order. Accordingly, application of exemptions (j)(2), (k)(1) and (k)(2) may be necessary.
(D)
Subsection (e)(2).
To collect information from the subject individual could serve notice that he or she is the subject of a criminal investigation and thereby present a serious impediment to such investigations. Collection of information only from the individual accused of criminal activity or misconduct could also subvert discovery of relevant evidence and subvert the course of justice. Accordingly, application of exemption (j)(2) may be necessary.
(E)
Subsection (e)(3).
To inform individuals as required by this subsection could reveal the existence of a criminal investigation and compromise investigative efforts. Accordingly, application of exemption (j)(2) may be necessary.
(F)
Subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent an exemption is claimed from subsections (d)(1) and (2).
(G)
Subsection (e)(4)(I).
To the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. Accordingly, application of exemptions (j)(2), (k)(1), and (k)(2) may be necessary.
(H)
Subsection (e)(5).
It is often impossible to determine in advance if investigatory records contained in this system are accurate, relevant, timely and complete, but, in the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary to retain this information to maintain an accurate record of the investigatory activity to preserve the integrity of the investigation and satisfy various Constitutional and evidentiary requirements, such as mandatory disclosure of potentially exculpatory information in the investigative file to a defendant. It is also necessary to retain this information to aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide investigative leads. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light and the accuracy of such information can only be determined through judicial processes. Accordingly, application of exemption (j)(2) may be necessary.
(I)
Subsection (e)(8).
To serve notice could give persons sufficient warning to evade investigative efforts. Accordingly, application of exemption (j)(2) may be necessary.
(J)
Subsection (f).
The agency's rules are inapplicable to those portions of
the system that are exempt. Accordingly, application of exemptions (j)(2), (k)(1), and (k)(2) may be necessary.
(K)
Subsection (g).
This subsection is inapplicable to the extent that the system is exempt from other specific subsections of the Privacy Act.
(iv)
Exempt records from other systems.
In the course of carrying out the overall purpose for this system, exempt records from other systems of records may in turn become part of the records maintained in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those other systems of records are maintained in this system, the DoD claims the same exemptions for the records from those other systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the prior system(s) of which they are a part, provided the reason for the exemption remains valid and necessary.
(6)
System identifier and name.
DoD 0007, “Defense Reasonable Accommodation and Assistive Technology Records.”
(i)
Exemptions.
This system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(iii)
Exemption from the particular subsections.
Exemption from the particular subsections pursuant to exemption (k)(1) is justified for the following reasons:
(A)
Subsections (c)(3), (d)(1), and (d)(2).
Records in this system of records may contain information concerning individuals that is properly classified pursuant to executive order. Application of exemption (k)(1) for such records may be necessary because access to and amendment of the records, or release of the accounting of disclosures for such records, could reveal classified information. Disclosure of classified records to an individual may cause damage to national security. Accordingly, application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary.
(B)
Subsections (d)(3) and (4).
Subsections (d)(3) and (4) are inapplicable to the extent an exemption is claimed from (d)(2).
(C)
Subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) and Subsection (f).
Subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) and subsection (f) are inapplicable to the extent exemption is claimed from the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d). Because portions of this system are exempt from the individual access and amendment provisions of subsection (d) for the reasons noted in paragraphs (e)(6)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section, DoD is not required to establish requirements, rules, or procedures with respect to such access or amendment provisions. Providing notice to individuals with respect to the existence of records pertaining to them in the system of records or otherwise setting up procedures pursuant to which individuals may access, view, and seek to amend records pertaining to themselves in the system would potentially undermine national security and the confidentiality of classified information. Accordingly, application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary.
(D)
Subsection (e)(4)(I).
To the extent that subsection (e)(4)(I) is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad information currently published in the system notice concerning categories of sources of records in the system, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect national security and the confidentiality of sources and methods, and other classified information.
(iv)
Exempt records from other systems.
In the course of carrying out the overall purpose for this system, exempt records from other systems of records may in turn become part of the records maintained in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those other systems of records are maintained in this system, the DoD claims the same exemptions for the records from those other systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the prior system(s) of which they are a part, provided the reason for the exemption remains valid and necessary.
(7)
System identifier and name:
DoD-0008, “Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act Records”
(i)
Exemptions.
This system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1); (e)(2); (e)(3); (e)(4)(G), (H), and(I); (e)(5); (e)(8); (f) and (g).
(ii)
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2), (k)(3), (k)(5), (k)(6), and (k)(7).
(iii)
Exemption from the particular subsections.
Exemption from the particular subsections is justified for the following reasons:
(A)
Subsection (c)(3), (d)(1), and (d)(2)
—(
1
)
Exemption (j)(2).
Records in this system of records may contain information recompiled from other systems of records maintained by a DoD component or other agency which performs as its principal function activities pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws and contain investigatory material compiled for criminal law enforcement purposes, including information identifying criminal offenders and alleged offenders, information compiled for the purpose of criminal investigation, or reports compiled during criminal law enforcement proceedings. Application of exemption (j)(2) may be necessary because access to, amendment of, or release of the accounting of disclosures of such records could inform the record subject of an investigation of the existence, nature, or scope of an actual or potential law enforcement or disciplinary investigation, and thereby seriously impede law enforcement or prosecutorial efforts by permitting the record subject and other persons to whom he might disclose the records to avoid criminal penalties or disciplinary measures; reveal confidential sources who might not have otherwise come forward to assist in an investigation and thereby hinder DoD or the other agency's ability to obtain information from future confidential sources and result in an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others. Amendment of such records could also impose a highly impracticable administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(
2
)
Exemption (k)(1).
Records in this system of records may contain information that is properly classified pursuant to executive order. Application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary because access to and amendment of the records, or release of the accounting of disclosures for such records, could reveal classified information. Disclosure of classified records to an individual may cause damage to national security.
(
3
)
Exemption (k)(2).
Records in this system of records may contain information recompiled from other systems of records pertaining to investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes other than material within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). Application of exemption (k)(2) may be necessary because access to, amendment of, or release of the accounting of disclosures of such records could: inform the record subject of an investigation of the existence, nature, or scope of an actual or potential law enforcement or disciplinary investigation, and thereby seriously impede law enforcement or prosecutorial efforts by permitting the record subject and other persons to whom he might disclose the records or the accounting of records to avoid criminal penalties, civil remedies, or disciplinary measures; interfere with a civil or administrative action or investigation by allowing the subject to tamper with witnesses or evidence, and to avoid detection or apprehension, which may undermine the entire investigatory process; reveal confidential sources who might not have otherwise come forward to assist in an investigation and thereby hinder DoD's ability to obtain information from future confidential sources; and result in an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others. Amendment of such records could also impose a highly impracticable administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(
4
)
Exemption (k)(3).
Records in this system of records may contain information recompiled from other systems of records pertaining to providing protective services to the President of the United States or other individuals pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056. Application of exemption (k)(3) for such records may be necessary because access to, amendment of, or release of the accounting of disclosures of such records could compromise the effectiveness of protective services, the safety of the individuals protected pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, and the safety of the personnel providing protective services.
(
5
)
Exemption (k)(5).
Records in this system of records may contain information recompiled from other systems of records concerning investigatory material compiled solely for determining suitability, eligibility, and qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information. In some cases, such records may contain information pertaining to the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the source's identity would be held in confidence (or prior to the effective date of the Privacy Act, under an implied promise). Application of exemption (k)(5) may be necessary because access to, amendment of, or release of the accounting of disclosures of such records could identify these confidential sources who might not have otherwise come forward to assist the Government; hinder the Government's ability to obtain information from future confidential sources; and result in an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others. Amendment of such records could also impose a highly impracticable administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(
6
)
Exemption (k)(6).
Records in this system of records may contain information recompiled from other systems of records relating to testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service. Application of exemption (k)(6) may be necessary when access to and amendment of the records, or release of the accounting of disclosure for such records, may compromise the objectivity and fairness of the testing or examination process. Amendment of such records could also impose a highly impracticable administrative burden by requiring testing and examinations to be continuously re-administered.
(
7
)
Exemption (k)(7).
Records in this system of records may contain evaluation material recompiled from other systems of records used to determine potential for promotion in the Armed Forces of the United States. In some cases, such records may contain information pertaining to the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the source's identity would be held in confidence (or prior to the effective date of the Privacy Act, under an implied promise). Application of exemption (k)(7) may be necessary because access to, amendment of, or release of the accounting of disclosures of such records could identify these confidential sources who might not have otherwise come forward to assist the Government; hinder the Government's ability to obtain information from future confidential sources; and result in an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others.
(B)
Subsection (c)(4), (d)(3) and (4).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent that an exemption is being claimed from subsections (d)(1) and (2).
(C)
Subsection (e)(1).
In the collection of information for investigatory or law enforcement purposes, it is not always possible to conclusively determine the relevance and necessity of particular information in the early stages of the investigation or adjudication. In some instances, it will be only after the collected information is evaluated in light of other information that its relevance and necessity for effective investigation and adjudication can be assessed. Collection of such information permits more informed decision-making by the Department when making required disciplinary and prosecutorial determinations. Additionally, records within this system may be properly classified pursuant to executive order. Further, it is not always possible to determine relevancy or necessity of specific information in the earlier stages of responding to a FOIA or Privacy Act request or in litigation case development, including with respect to records pertaining to suitability determinations or armed services promotion evaluations that contain information about sources who were granted an express promise of confidentiality, or pertaining to testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service, the disclosure of which would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the testing or examination process. Such information may later be deemed unnecessary upon
further assessment. Accordingly, application of exemptions (j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2), (k)(3), (k)(5), (k)(6), or (k)(7) may be necessary.
(D)
Subsection (e)(2).
To collect information from the subject individual could serve notice that he or she is the subject of a criminal investigation and thereby present a serious impediment to such investigations. Collection of information only from the individual accused of criminal activity or misconduct could also subvert discovery of relevant evidence and subvert the course of justice. Accordingly, application of exemption (j)(2) may be necessary.
(E)
Subsection (e)(3).
To inform individuals as required by this subsection could reveal the existence of a criminal investigation and compromise investigative efforts. Accordingly, application of exemption (j)(2) may be necessary.
(F)
Subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent an exemption is claimed from subsections (d)(1) and (2).
(G)
Subsection (e)(4)(I).
To the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad information currently published in the system notice concerning categories of sources of records in the system, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information, the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants, and testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment of promotion in the Federal service. Accordingly, application of exemptions (j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2), (k)(5), (k)(6), and (k)(7) may be necessary.
(H)
Subsection (e)(5).
It is often impossible to determine in advance if investigatory records contained in this system are accurate, relevant, timely and complete, but, in the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary to retain this information to maintain an accurate record of the investigatory activity to preserve the integrity of the investigation and satisfy various Constitutional and evidentiary requirements, such as mandatory disclosure of potentially exculpatory information in the investigative file to a defendant. It is also necessary to retain this information to aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide investigative leads. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light and the accuracy of such information can only be determined through judicial processes. Accordingly, application of exemption (j)(2) may be necessary.
(I)
Subsection (e)(8).
To serve notice could give persons sufficient warning to evade investigative efforts. Accordingly, application of exemption (j)(2) may be necessary.
(J)
Subsection (f).
To the extent that portions of the system are exempt from the provisions of the Privacy Act concerning individual access and amendment of records, DoD is not required to establish rules concerning procedures and requirements relating to such provisions. Accordingly, application of exemptions (j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2), (k)(5), (k)(6), and (k)(7) may be necessary.
(K)
Subsection (g).
This subsection is inapplicable to the extent that the system is exempt from other specific subsections of the Privacy Act to which the civil remedies provisions pertain.
(iv)
Exempt records from other systems.
In the course of carrying out the overall purpose for this system, exempt records from other systems of records may in turn become part of the records maintained in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those other systems of records are maintained in this system, the DoD claims the same exemptions for the records from those other systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the prior system(s) of which they are a part, provided the reason for the exemption remains valid and necessary.
(8)
System identifier and name.
DoD-0010, “Counterintelligence Functional Services”
(i)
Exemptions.
This system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); and (f) of the Privacy Act.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (k)(2), and (k)(5).
(iii)
Exemption from the particular subsections.
Exemption from the particular
subsections is justified for the following reasons:
(A)
Subsections (c)(3), (d)(1), and (d)(2)
—(
1
)
Exemption (k)(1).
Records in this system of records may contain information concerning individuals that is properly classified pursuant to executive order. Application of exemption (k)(1) for such records may be necessary because access to and amendment of the records, or release of the accounting of disclosures for such records, could reveal classified information. Disclosure of classified records to an individual may cause damage to national security.
(
2
)
Exemption (k)(2).
Records in this system of records may contain investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes other than material within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). Application of exemption (k)(2) may be necessary because access to, amendment of, or release of the accounting of disclosures of such records could: inform the record subject of an investigation of the existence, nature, or scope of an actual or potential law enforcement or disciplinary investigation, and thereby seriously impede law enforcement or prosecutorial efforts by permitting the record subject and other persons to whom he might disclose the records or the accounting of records to avoid criminal penalties, civil remedies, or disciplinary measures; interfere with a civil or administrative action or investigation by allowing the subject to tamper with witnesses or evidence, and to avoid detection or apprehension, which may undermine the entire investigatory process; reveal confidential sources who might not have otherwise come forward to assist in an investigation and thereby hinder DoD's ability to obtain information from future confidential sources; and result in an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others. Amendment of such records could also impose a highly impracticable administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(
3
)
Exemption (k)(5).
Records in this system of records may contain information concerning investigatory material compiled solely for determining suitability, eligibility, and qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information. In some cases, such records may contain information pertaining to the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise the source's identity would be held in confidence (or prior to the effective date of the Privacy Act, under an implied promise). Application of exemption (k)(5) may be necessary because access to, amendment of, or release of the accounting of disclosures of such records could identify these confidential sources who might not have otherwise come forward to assist the Government; hinder the Government's ability to obtain information from future confidential sources; and result in an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others. Amendment of such records could also impose a highly impracticable administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(B)
Subsections (d)(3) and (4).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent an exemption is claimed from subsections (d)(1) and (2).
(C)
Subsection (e)(1).
In the collection of information for investigatory or law enforcement purposes, it is not always possible to conclusively determine the relevance and necessity of particular information in the early stages of the investigation or adjudication. In some instances, it will be only after the collected information is evaluated in light of other information that its relevance and necessity for effective investigation and adjudication can be assessed. Collection of such information permits more informed decision-making by the Department when making required suitability, eligibility, fitness, and credentialing determinations. Accordingly, application of exemptions (k)(1), (k)(2), and (k)(5) may be necessary.
(D)
Subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent exemption is claimed from subsections (d)(1) and (2). Because portions of this system are exempt from the individual access and amendment provisions of subsection (d) forthe reasons noted above, DoD is not required to establish requirements, rules, or procedures with respect to such access
or amendment provisions. Providing notice to individuals with respect to the existence of records pertaining to them in the system of records or otherwise setting up procedures pursuant to which individuals may access,view, and seek to amend records pertaining to themselves in the system would potentially reveal classified information, undermine investigative efforts, reveal the identities of witnesses, potential witnesses, and confidential informants, and impose an undue administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continually reinvestigated. Accordingly, application of exemptions (k)(1), (k)(2), and (k)(5) may be necessary.
(E)
Subsection (e)(4)(I).
To the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, general information currently published in the system notice concerning the categories of sources of the records in the system, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect classified information, other national security information, and the confidentiality of national security, law enforcement, and investigatory sources of information, and to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. Accordingly, application of exemptions (k)(1), (k)(2) and (k)(5) may be necessary.
(F)
Subsection (f).
The agency's rules are inapplicable to those portions of the system that are exempt. Accordingly, application of exemptions (k)(1), (k)(2), and (k)(5) may be necessary.
(iv)
Exempt records from other systems.
In the course of carrying out the overall purpose for this system, exempt records from other systems of records may in turn become part of the records maintained in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those other systems of records are maintained in this system, the DoD claims the same exemptions for the records from those other systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the prior system(s) of which they are a part, provided the reason for the exemption remains valid and necessary.
(9)
System identifier and name.
DoD-0003, “Mobilization Deployment Management Information System (MDMIS).”
(i)
Exemptions.
This system of records is exempt from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d)(1), (d)(2), (d)(3), and (d)(4) of the Privacy Act.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(iii)
Exemption from the particular subsections.
Exemption from the particular subsections is justified for the following reasons:
(A)
Subsection (c)(3) (accounting of disclosures).
Because records in this system may contain information properly classified pursuant to executive order, the disclosure accountings of such records may also contain information properly classified pursuant to executive order, the disclosure of which may cause damage to national security.
(B)
Subsections (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4) (record subject's right to access and amend records).
Access to and amendment of records by the record subject could disclose information properly classified pursuant to executive order. Disclosure of classified records to an individual may cause damage to national security.
(iv)
Exempt records from other systems.
In addition, in the course of carrying out the overall purpose for this system, exempt records from other system of records may in turn become part of the records maintained in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those other systems of records are maintained in this system, the DoD claims the same exemptions for the records from those other systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the prior system(s) of which they are a part, provided the reason for the exemption remains valid and necessary.
(10)
System identifier and name.
DoD-0012, “Defense Accountability and Assessment Records”
(i)
Exemptions.
This system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(iii)
Exemption from the particular subsections.
Exemption from the particular subsections of the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, pursuant to exemption (k)(1) is justified for the following reasons:
(A)
Subsections (c)(3), (d)(1), and (d)(2).
Records in this system of records may
contain information concerning individuals that is properly classified pursuant to executive order. Application of exemption (k)(1) for such records may be necessary because access to and amendment of the records, or release of the accounting of disclosures for such records, could reveal classified information. Disclosure of classified records to an individual may cause damage to national security. Accordingly, application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary.
(B)
Subsections (d)(3) and (4).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent an exemption is claimed from (d)(2).
(C)
Subsection (e)(1).
Records within this system may be properly classified pursuant to executive order. In the collection of information to respond to natural or man-made disasters, public health emergencies, and other crises or events of concern, it is not always possible to conclusively determine the relevance and necessity of particular information in the early stages of these types of occurrences. Additionally, disclosure of classified records to an individual may cause damage to national security. Accordingly, application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary.
(D)
Subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) and Subsection (f).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent exemption is claimed from the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d). Because portions of this system are exempt from the individual access and amendment provisions of subsection (d) for the reasons noted above, DoD is not required to establish requirements, rules, or procedures with respect to such access or amendment provisions. Providing notice to individuals with respect to the existence of records pertaining to them in the system of records or otherwise setting up procedures pursuant to which individuals may access, view, and seek to amend records pertaining to themselves in the system would potentially undermine national security and the confidentiality of classified information. Accordingly, application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary.
(E)
Subsection (e)(4)(I).
To the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad information currently published in the system notice concerning categories of sources of records in the system, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect national security and the confidentiality of sources and methods, and other classified information.
(iv)
Exempt records from other systems.
In the course of carrying out the overall purpose for this system, exempt records from other systems of records may in turn become part of the records maintained in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those other systems of records are maintained in this system, the DoD claims the same exemptions for the records from those other systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the prior system(s) of which they are a part, provided the reason for the exemption remains valid and necessary.
(11)
System identifier and name.
DoD-0014, “DoD Historical Records.”
(i)
Exemptions.
This system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(iii)
Exemption from the particular subsections.
Exemption from the particular subsections of the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, pursuant to exemption (k)(1) is justified for the following reasons:
(A)
Subsections (c)(3), (d)(1), and (d)(2).
Records in this system of records may contain information concerning individuals that is properly classified pursuant to Executive order. Application of exemption (k)(1) for such records may be necessary because access to and amendment of the records, or release of the accounting of disclosures for such records, could reveal classified information. Disclosure of classified records to an individual may cause damage to national security. Accordingly, application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary.
(B)
Subsections (d)(3) and (4).
Subsections (d)(3) and (4) are inapplicable to the extent an exemption is claimed from subsection (d)(2).
(C)
Subsection (e)(1).
Records within this system may be properly classified pursuant to Executive order. In the
collection of information for historical activities, it is not always possible to conclusively determine the relevance and necessity of particular information in the early stages of these types of activities. Additionally, disclosure of classified records to an individual may cause damage to national security. Accordingly, application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary.
(D)
Subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) and subsection (f).
Subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) and subsection (f) are inapplicable to the extent exemption is claimed from the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d). Because portions of this system are exempt from the individual access and amendment provisions of subsection (d) for the reasons noted in the preceding sentence, DoD is not required to establish requirements, rules, or procedures with respect to such access or amendment provisions. Providing notice to individuals with respect to the existence of records pertaining to them in the system of records or otherwise setting up procedures pursuant to which individuals may access, view, and seek to amend records pertaining to themselves in the system would potentially undermine national security and the confidentiality of classified information. Accordingly, application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary.
(E)
Subsection (e)(4)(I).
To the extent that subsection (e)(4)(I) is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad information currently published in the system notice concerning categories of sources of records in the system, an exemption from subsection (e)(4)(I) is necessary to protect national security and the confidentiality of sources and methods, and other classified information.
(iv)
Exempt records from other systems.
In the course of carrying out the overall purpose for this system, exempt records from other systems of records may in turn become part of the records maintained in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those other systems of records are maintained in this system, the DoD claims the same exemptions for the records from those other systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the prior system(s) of which they are a part, provided the reason for the exemption remains valid and necessary.
(12)
System identifier and name.
DoD-0013, “Declared Public Health Emergency Exposure Records”
(i)
Exemptions.
This system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(iii)
Exemption from the particular subsections.
Exemption from the particular subsections of the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, pursuant to exemption (k)(1) is justified for the following reasons:
(A)
Subsections (c)(3), (d)(1), and (d)(2).
Records in this system of records may contain information concerning individuals that is properly classified pursuant to executive order. Application of exemption (k)(1) for such records may be necessary because access to and amendment of the records, or release of the accounting of disclosures for such records, could reveal classified information. Disclosure of classified records to an individual may cause damage to national security. Accordingly, application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary.
(B)
Subsections (d)(3) and (4).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent an exemption is claimed from (d)(2).
(C)
Subsection (e)(1).
Records within this system may be properly classified pursuant to executive order. In the collection of information for historical activities, it is not always possible to conclusively determine the relevance and necessity of particular information in the early stages of these types of activities. Additionally, disclosure of classified records to an individual may cause damage to national security. Accordingly, application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary.
(D)
Subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) and Subsection (f).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent exemption is claimed from the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d). Because portions of this system are exempt from the individual access and amendment provisions of subsection (d) for the reasons noted above, DoD is not required to establish requirements,
rules, or procedures with respect to such access or amendment provisions. Providing notice to individuals with respect to the existence of records pertaining to them in the system of records or otherwise setting up procedures pursuant to which individuals may access, view, and seek to amend records pertaining to themselves in the system would potentially undermine national security and the confidentiality of classified information. Accordingly, application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary.
(E)
Subsection (e)(4)(I).
To the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad information currently published in the system notice concerning categories of sources of records in the system, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect national security and the confidentiality of sources and methods, and other classified information.
(iv)
Exempt records from other systems.
In the course of carrying out the overall purpose for this system, exempt records from other systems of records may in turn become part of the records maintained in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those other systems of records are maintained in this system, the DoD claims the same exemptions for the records from those other systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the prior system(s) of which they are a part, provided the reason for the exemption remains valid and necessary.
(13)
System identifier and name.
DoD-0017, “Privacy and Civil Liberties Complaints and Correspondence.”
(i)
Exemptions.
This system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(iii)
Exemption from the particular subsections.
Exemption from the particular subsections of the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, pursuant to exemption (k)(1) is justified for the following reasons:
(A)
Subsections (c)(3), (d)(1), and (d)(2).
Records in this system of records may contain information concerning individuals that is properly classified pursuant to executive order. Application of exemption (k)(1) for such records may be necessary because access to and amendment of the records, or release of the accounting of disclosures for such records, could reveal classified information. Disclosure of classified records to an individual may cause damage to national security. Accordingly, application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary.
(B)
Subsections (d)(3) and (4).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent an exemption is claimed from (d)(1) and (d)(2).
(C)
Subsection (e)(1).
Records within this system may be properly classified pursuant to executive order. In the collection of information for privacy and civil liberties complaints or correspondence, it is not always possible to conclusively determine the relevance and necessity of particular information in the early stages of gathering information to respond to the correspondence or complaint. Additionally, disclosure of classified records to an individual may cause damage to national security. Accordingly, application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary.
(D)
Subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) and Subsection (f).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent exemption is claimed from the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d). Because portions of this system are exempt from the individual access and amendment provisions of subsection (d) for the reasons noted above, DoD is not required to establish requirements, rules, or procedures with respect to such access or amendment provisions. Providing notice to individuals with respect to the existence of records pertaining to them in the system of records or otherwise setting up procedures pursuant to which individuals may access, view, and seek to amend records pertaining to themselves in the system would potentially undermine national security and the confidentiality of classified information. Accordingly, application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary.
(E)
Subsection (e)(4)(I).
To the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad information currently published
in the system notice concerning categories of sources of records in the system, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect national security and the confidentiality of sources and methods, and other classified information.
(iv)
Exempt records from other systems.
In the course of carrying out the overall purpose for this system, exempt records from other systems of records may in turn become part of the records maintained in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those other systems of records are maintained in this system, the DoD claims the same exemptions for the records from those other systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the prior system(s) of which they are a part, provided the reason for the exemption remains valid and necessary.
(14)
System identifier and name.
DoD-0019, “Information Technology Access and Audit Records.”
(i)
Exemptions.
This system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G), (H), and(I); and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) and (2).
(iii)
Exemption from the particular subsections.
Exemption from the particular subsections is justified for the following reasons:
(A)
Subsections (c)(3), (d)(1), and (d)(2)
—(
1
)
Exemption (k)(1).
Records in this system of records may contain information that is properly classified pursuant to executive order. Application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary because access to and amendment of the records, or release of the accounting of disclosures for such records, could reveal classified information. Disclosure of classified records to an individual may cause damage to national security.
(
2
)
Exemption (k)(2).
Records in this system of records may contain investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes other than material within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). Application of exemption (k)(2) may be necessary because access to, amendment of, or release of the accounting of disclosures of such records could: inform the record subject of an investigation of the existence, nature, or scope of an actual or potential law enforcement or disciplinary investigation, and thereby seriously impede law enforcement efforts by permitting the record subject and other persons to whom he might disclose the records or the accounting of records to avoid criminal penalties, civil remedies, or disciplinary measures; interfere with a civil or administrative action or investigation by allowing the subject to tamper with witnesses or evidence, and to avoid detection or apprehension, which may undermine the entire investigatory process; reveal confidential sources who might not have otherwise come forward to assist in an investigation and thereby hinder DoD's ability to obtain information from future confidential sources; and result in an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others. Amendment of such records could also impose a highly impracticable administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(B)
Subsections (d)(3) and (4).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent an exemption is claimed from subsections (d)(1) and (2). Accordingly, exemptions from subsections (d)(3) and (4) are claimed pursuant to (k)(1) and (2).
(C)
Subsection (e)(1).
Additionally, records within this system may be properly classified pursuant to executive order. The collection of information pertaining to the use of government information technology and data systems may include classified records, and it is not always possible to conclusively determine the relevance and necessity of such information in the early stages of a collection. In some instances, it will be only after the collected information is evaluated in light of other information that its relevance and necessity can be assessed. Further, disclosure of classified records to an individual may cause damage to national security. Additionally, in the collection of information for investigatory or law enforcement purposes it is not always possible to conclusively determine the relevance and necessity of particular information in the early stages of the investigation or adjudication. In some instances, it will be only
after the collected information is evaluated in light of other information that its relevance and necessity for effective investigation and adjudication can be assessed. Collection of such information permits more informed decision-making by the Department when making required investigatory or law enforcement determinations. Accordingly, application of exemptions (k)(1) and (2) may be necessary.
(D)
Subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent exemption is claimed from subsections (d)(1) and (2).
(E)
Subsection (e)(4)(I).
To the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect national security, the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. Accordingly, application of exemptions (k)(1) and (2) may be necessary.
(F)
Subsection (f).
The agency's rules are inapplicable to those portions of the system that are exempt. Accordingly, application of exemptions (k)(1) and (2) may be necessary.
(iv)
Exempt records from other systems.
In the course of carrying out the overall purpose for this system, exempt records from other systems of records may in turn become part of the records maintained in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those other systems of records are maintained in this system, the DoD claims the same exemptions for the records from those other systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the prior system(s) of which they are a part, provided the reason for the exemption remains valid and necessary.
[84 FR 14730, Apr. 11, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 38561, July 22, 2021; 86 FR 52072, Sept. 20, 2021; 86 FR 72524, Dec. 22, 2021; 87 FR 28775, May 11, 2022; 87 FR 30417, May 19, 2022; 87 FR 51612, Aug. 23, 2022; 87 FR 54153, Sept. 2, 2022; 87 FR 76934, Dec. 16, 2022; 88 FR 11396, Feb. 23, 2023; 88 FR 24479, Apr. 21, 2023; 88 FR 60145, Aug. 31, 2023; 89 FR 17750, Mar. 12, 2024]
§ 310.14
Department of the Air Force exemptions.
(a) All systems of records maintained by the Department of the Air Force shall be exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) to the extent that the system contains any information properly classified under Executive Order 12958 and that is required by Executive Order to be kept classified in the interest of national defense or foreign policy. This exemption is applicable to parts of all systems of records including those not otherwise specifically designated for exemptions herein, which contain isolated items of properly classified information.
(b) An individual is not entitled to have access to any information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding (5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(5)).
(c) No system of records within Department of the Air Force shall be considered exempt under subsection (j) or (k) of the Privacy Act until the exemption rule for the system of records has been published as a final rule in the
Federal Register
.
(d) Consistent with the legislative purpose of the Privacy Act of 1974, the Department of the Air Force will grant access to non-exempt material in the records being maintained. Disclosure will be governed by the Department of the Air Force's Privacy Instruction, but will be limited to the extent that identity of confidential sources will not be compromised; subjects of an investigation of an actual or potential violation will not be alerted to the investigation; the physical safety of witnesses, informants and law enforcement personnel will not be endangered, the privacy of third parties will not be violated; and that the disclosure would not otherwise impede effective law enforcement. Whenever possible, information of the above nature will be deleted from the requested documents and the balance made available. The controlling principle behind this limited access is to allow disclosures except those indicated above. The decisions to release information from these systems will be made on
a case-by-case basis.
(e)
General exemptions.
The following systems of records claim an exemption
under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), with the exception of F090 AF IG B, Inspector General Records and F051 AF JA F, Courts-Martial and Article 15 Records. They claim both the (j)(2) and (k)(2) exemption, and are listed under this part:
(1)
System identifier and name.
F071 AF OSI A, Counter Intelligence Operations and Collection Records.
(2)
System identifier and name.
F071 AF OSI C, Criminal Records.
(3)
System identifier and name.
F071 AF OSI D, Investigative Support Records.
(4)
System identifier and name.
F031 AF SP E, Security Forces Management Information System (SFMIS).
(i)
Exemption.
Parts of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency which performs as its principle function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), and (I), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) To protect ongoing investigations and to protect from access criminal investigation information contained in this record system, so as not to jeopardize any subsequent judicial or administrative process taken as a result of information contained in the file.
(B) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting, for disclosures pursuant to the routine uses published for this system, would permit the subject criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(C) From subsection (c)(4) because an exemption is being claimed for subsection this subsection will not be applicable.
(D) From subsection (d) because access the records contained in this system would inform the subject of an investigation of existence of that investigation, provide subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(H) because system of records is exempt from individual access pursuant to subsection (j) of the Privacy Act of 1974.
(F) From subsection (f) because this system of records has been exempted from access provisions of subsection (d).
(5)
System identifier and name.
F031 AF SF A, Correction and Rehabilitation Records.
(i)
Exemption.
Parts of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency which performs as its principle function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. Portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (H) and (I), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting, for disclosures pursuant to the routine uses published for this system, would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (c)(4) because an exemption is being claimed for subsection (d), this subsection will not be applicable.
(C) From subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(D) From subsection (e)(3) would constitute a serious impediment to law enforcement in that it could compromise the existence of a confidential investigation, reveal the identity of confidential sources of information and
endanger the life and physical safety of confidential informants.
(E) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because this system of records is exempt from individual access pursuant to subsections (j)(2) of the Privacy Act of 1974.
(F) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(G) From subsection (e)(5) because in the collection of information for law enforcement purposes it is impossible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light and the accuracy of such information can only be determined in a court of law. The restrictions of subsection (e)(5) would restrict the ability of trained investigators and intelligence analysts to exercise their judgment reporting on investigations and impede the development of intelligence necessary for effective law enforcement.
(H) From subsection (e)(8) because the individual notice requirements of subsection (e)(8) could present a serious impediment to law enforcement as this could interfere with the ability to issue search authorizations and could reveal investigative techniques and procedures.
(I) From subsection (f) because this system of records has been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(J) From subsection (g) because this system of records compiled for law enforcement purposes and has been exempted from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(6)
System identifier and name.
F090 AF IG B, Inspector General Records.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Parts of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if the information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency which performs as its principle function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(B) Investigative material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information exempt to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
e

# )(6)(
i

# )(B).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H) and (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) and (k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of accounting of disclosure would inform a subject that he or she is under investigation. This information would provide considerable advantage to the subject in providing him or her with knowledge concerning the nature of the investigation and the coordinated investigative efforts and techniques employed by the cooperating agencies. This would greatly impede the Air Force IG's criminal law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (c)(4) and (d), because notification would alert a subject to the fact that an open investigation on that individual is taking place, and might weaken the ongoing investigation, reveal investigative techniques, and place confidential informants in jeopardy.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because the nature of the criminal and/or civil investigative function creates unique
problems in prescribing a specific parameter in a particular case with respect to what information is relevant or necessary. Also, information may be received which may relate to a case under the investigative jurisdiction of another agency. The maintenance of this information may be necessary to provide leads for appropriate law enforcement purposes and to establish patterns of activity that may relate to the jurisdiction of other cooperating agencies.
(D) From subsection (e)(2) because collecting information to the fullest extent possible directly from the subject individual may or may not be practical in a criminal and/or civil investigation.
(E) From subsection (e)(3) because supplying an individual with a form containing a Privacy Act Statement would tend to inhibit cooperation by many individuals involved in a criminal and/or civil investigation. The effect would be somewhat adverse to established investigative methods and techniques.
(F) From subsections (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I) because this system of records is exempt from the access provisions of subsection (d) and (f).
(G) From subsection (e)(5) because the requirement that records be maintained with attention to accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness would unfairly hamper the investigative process. It is the nature of law enforcement for investigations to uncover the commission of illegal acts at diverse stages. It is frequently impossible to determine initially what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and least of all complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light.
(H) From subsection (e)(8) because the notice requirements of this provision could present a serious impediment to law enforcement by revealing investigative techniques, procedures, and existence of confidential investigations.
(I) From subsection (f) because the agency's rules are inapplicable to those portions of the system that are exempt and would place the burden on the agency of either confirming or denying the existence of a record pertaining to a requesting individual might in itself provide an answer to that individual relating to an ongoing investigation. The conduct of a successful investigation leading to the indictment of a criminal offender precludes the applicability of established agency rules relating to verification of record, disclosure of the record to that individual, and record amendment procedures for this record system.
(J) From subsection (g) because this system of records should be exempt to the extent that the civil remedies relate to provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a from which this rule exempts the system.
(7) [Reserved]
(8)
System identifier and name.
F071 JTF A, Computer Network Crime Case System.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Parts of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if the information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency, which performs as its principle function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. Any portion of this system of records which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(B) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information exempt to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
e

# )(8)(
i

# )(B).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions. Any portion of this system of records which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C.
552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H) and (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) and (k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of accounting of disclosure would inform a subject that he or she is under investigation. This information would provide considerable advantage to the subject in providing him or her with knowledge concerning the nature of the investigation and the coordinated investigative efforts and techniques employed by the cooperating agencies. This would greatly impede criminal law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (c)(4) and (d), because notification would alert a subject to the fact that an open investigation on that individual is taking place, and might weaken the ongoing investigation, reveal investigative techniques, and place confidential informants in jeopardy.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because the nature of the criminal and/or civil investigative function creates unique problems in prescribing a specific parameter in a particular case with respect to what information is relevant or necessary. Also, information may be received which may relate to a case under the investigative jurisdiction of another agency. The maintenance of this information may be necessary to provide leads for appropriate law enforcement purposes and to establish patterns of activity that may relate to the jurisdiction of other cooperating agencies.
(D) From subsection (e)(2) because collecting information to the fullest extent possible directly from the subject individual may or may not be practical in a criminal and/or civil investigation.
(E) From subsection (e)(3) because supplying an individual with a form containing a Privacy Act Statement would tend to inhibit cooperation by many individuals involved in a criminal and/or civil investigation. The effect would be somewhat adverse to established investigative methods and techniques.
(F) From subsections (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I) because this system of records is exempt from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(G) From subsection (e)(5) because the requirement that records be maintained with attention to accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness would unfairly hamper the investigative process. It is the nature of law enforcement for investigations to uncover the commission of illegal acts at diverse stages. It is frequently impossible to determine initially what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and least of all complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light.
(H) From subsection (e)(8) because the notice requirements of this provision could present a serious impediment to law enforcement by revealing investigative techniques, procedures, and existence of confidential investigations.
(I) From subsection (f) because the agency's rules are inapplicable to those portions of the system that are exempt and would place the burden on the agency of either confirming or denying the existence of a record pertaining to a requesting individual might in itself provide an answer to that individual relating to an on-going investigation. The conduct of a successful investigation leading to the indictment of a criminal offender precludes the applicability of established agency rules relating to verification of record, disclosure of the record to that individual, and record amendment procedures for this record system.
(J) From subsection (g) because this system of records should be exempt to the extent that the civil remedies relate to provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a from which this rule exempts the system.
(f)
Specific exemptions.
The following systems of records are subject to the specific exemptions shown:
(1)
System identifier and name.
F036 USAFA K, Admissions Records.
(i)
Exemption.
Evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the Military Services may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7), but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
Therefore, portions of this system of records (Liaison Officer Evaluation and Selection Panel Candidate Evaluation) may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), (e)(4)(H), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
To ensure the frankness of information used to determine whether cadets are qualified for graduation and commissioning as officers in the Air Force.
(2)
System identifier and name.
F036 AFPC N, Air Force Personnel Test 851, Test Answer Sheets.
(i)
Exemption.
Testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the federal or military service may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6), if the disclosure would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the test or examination process. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d); (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6).
(iii)
Reasons.
To protect the objectivity of the promotion testing system by keeping the test questions and answers in confidence.
(3)
System identifier and name.
F036 USAFA A, Cadet Personnel Management System.
(i)
Exemption.
Evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the Military Services may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7), but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), (e)(4)(H), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
To maintain the candor and integrity of comments needed to evaluate an Air Force Academy cadet for commissioning in the Air Force.
(4)
System identifier and name.
F036 AETC I, Cadet Records.
(i)
Exemption.
Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) (Detachment Professional Officer Course Selection Rating Sheets; Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps Form 0-24—Disenrollment Review; Memoranda for Record and Staff Papers with Staff Advice, Opinions, or Suggestions) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(4)(G) and (H), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
To protect the identity of a confidential source who furnishes information necessary to make determinations about the qualifications, eligibility, and suitability of cadets for graduation and commissioning in the Air Force.
(5)
System identifier and name.
F044 AF SG Q, Family Advocacy Program Records.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigative material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information exempt to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
f

# )(5)(
i

# )(A).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions.
(B) Investigative material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5),
but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (d).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
From subsections (c)(3) and (d) because the exemption is needed to encourage those who know of exceptional medical or educational conditions or family maltreatments to come forward by protecting their identities and to protect such sources from embarrassment or recriminations, as well as to protect their right to privacy. It is essential that the identities of all individuals who furnish information under an express promise of confidentiality be protected. Granting individuals access to information relating to criminal and civil law enforcement, as well as the release of certain disclosure accounting, could interfere with ongoing investigations and the orderly administration of justice, in that it could result in the concealment, alteration, destruction, or fabrication of information; could hamper the identification of offenders or alleged offenders and the disposition of charges; and could jeopardize the safety and well being of parents and their children. Exempted portions of this system also contain information considered relevant and necessary to make a determination as to qualifications, eligibility, or suitability for Federal employment and Federal contracts, and that was obtained by providing an express or implied promise to the source that his or her identity would not be revealed to the subject of the record.
(6)
System identifier and name.
F036 AF PC A, Effectiveness/Performance Reporting System.
(i)
Exemption.
Evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the Military Services (Brigadier General Selectee Effectiveness Reports and Colonel and Lieutenant Colonel Promotion Recommendations with close out dates on or before January 31, 1991) may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7), but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(4)(H), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because making the disclosure accounting available to the individual may compromise express promises of confidentiality by revealing details about the report and identify other record sources, which may result in circumvention of the access exemption.
(B) From subsection (d) because individual disclosure compromises express promises of confidentiality conferred to protect the integrity of the promotion rating system.
(C) From subsection (e)(4)(H) because of and to the extent that portions of this record system are exempt from the individual access provisions of subsection (d).
(D) From subsection (f) because of and to the extent that portions of this record system are exempt from the individual access provisions of subsection (d).
(7)
System identifier and name.
F036 AFDP A, Files on General Officers and Colonels Assigned to General Officer Positions.
(i)
Exemption.
Evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the Military Services may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7), but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
To protect the integrity of information used in the Reserve Initial Brigadier General Screening Board, the release of which would compromise the selection process.
(8)
System identification and name.
F036 AF PC O, General Officer Personnel Data System.
(i)
Exemption.
Evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the Military Services may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7),
but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source. Therefore, portions of this system of records (Air Force General Officer Promotion and Effectiveness Reports with close out dates on or before January 31, 1991) may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7) may be exempt from following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(4)(H), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because making the disclosure accounting available to the individual may compromise express promises of confidentiality by revealing details about the report and identify other record sources, which may result in circumvention of the access exemption.
(B) From subsection (d) because individual disclosure compromises express promises of confidentiality conferred to protect the integrity of the promotion rating system.
(C) From subsection (e)(4)(H) because of and to the extent that portions of this record system are exempt from the individual access provisions of subsection (d).
(D) From subsection (f) because of and to the extent that portions of this record system are exempt from the individual access provisions of subsection (d).
(9)
System identifier and name.
F036 AFPC K, Historical Airman Promotion Master Test File.
(i)
Exemption.
Testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the federal or military service, if the disclosure would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the test or examination process may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6), if the disclosure would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the test or examination process. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6).
(iii)
Reasons.
To protect the integrity, objectivity, and equity of the promotion testing system by keeping test questions and answers in confidence.
(iv) [Reserved]
(10)
System identifier and name.
F071 AF OSI F, Investigative Applicant Processing Records.
(i)
Exemption.
Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
To protect those who gave information in confidence during Air Force Office of Special Investigations applicant inquiries. Fear of harassment could cause sources not to make frank and open responses about applicant qualifications. This could compromise the integrity of the Air Force Office of Special Investigations personnel program that relies on selecting only qualified people.
(11)
System identifier and name.
F036 USAFA B, Master Cadet Personnel Record (Active/Historical).
(i)
Exemption.
Evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the Military Services may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7), but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), (e)(4)(H), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
To maintain the candor and integrity of comments needed to evaluate a cadet for commissioning in the Air Force.
(12) [Reserved]
(13)
System identifier and name.
F071 AF OSI B, Security and Related Investigative Records.
(i)
Exemption.
Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or
qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
To protect the identity of those who give information in confidence for personnel security and related investigations. Fear of harassment could cause sources to refuse to give this information in the frank and open way needed to pinpoint those areas in an investigation that should be expanded to resolve charges of questionable conduct.
(14)-(15) [Reserved]
(16)
System identifier and name.
F036 AF PC P, Applications for Appointment and Extended Active Duty Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) from the following subsection of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
To protect the identity of confidential sources who furnish information necessary to make determinations about the qualifications, eligibility, and suitability of health care professionals who apply for Reserve of the Air Force appointment or inter-service transfer to the Air Force.
(17)
System identifier and name.
F036 AF DPG, Military Equal Opportunity and Treatment.
(i)
Exemption.
Investigative material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information exempt to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
f

# )(17)(
i

# ).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 522a(k)(2) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), (e)(4)(H), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of an investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement. In addition, granting individuals access to information collected while an Equal Opportunity and Treatment clarification/investigation is in progress conflicts with the just, thorough, and timely completion of the complaint, and could possibly enable individuals to interfere, obstruct, or mislead those clarifying/investigating the complaint.
(B) From subsection (e)(4)(H) because this system of records is exempt from individual access pursuant to subsection (k) of the Privacy Act of 1974.
(C) From subsection (f) because this system of records has been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(18)
System identifier and name.
F051 AF JA I, Commander Directed Inquiries.
(i)
Exemption.
Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will
be provided access to the information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
f

# )(18)(
i

# ).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions. Any portion of this system of records which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because to grant access to the accounting for each disclosure as required by the Privacy Act, including the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure and the identity of the recipient, could alert the subject to the existence of the investigation. This could seriously compromise case preparation by prematurely revealing its existence and nature; compromise or interfere with witnesses or make witnesses reluctant to cooperate; and lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because providing access to investigative records and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because this system of records is compiled for investigative purposes and is exempt from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(19)-21 [Reserved]
(22)
System identifier and name.
F051 AFJA E, Judge Advocate General's Professional Conduct Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
f

# )(22)(
i

# ).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions. Any portion of this system of records which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because to grant access to the accounting for each disclosure as required by the Privacy Act, including the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure and the identity of the recipient, could alert the subject to the existence of the investigation. This could seriously compromise case preparation by prematurely revealing its existence and nature; compromise or
interfere with witnesses or make witnesses reluctant to cooperate; and lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because providing access to investigative records and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because this system of records is compiled for investigative purposes and is exempt from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(23)
System identifier and name.
F033 USSC A, Information Technology and Control Records.
(i)
Exemption.
Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
f

# )(23)(
i

# ).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions. Any portion of this system of records which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because to grant access to the accounting for each disclosure as required by the Privacy Act, including the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure and the identity of the recipient, could alert the subject to the existence of the investigation. This could seriously compromise case preparation by prematurely revealing its existence and nature; compromise or interfere with witnesses or make witnesses reluctant to cooperate; and lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because providing access to investigative records and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because this system of records is compiled for investigative purposes and is exempt from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(24)
System identifier and name.
F036 AETC X, College Scholarship Program.
(i)
Exemption.
Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability but only to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source. Therefore, portions of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), and (e)(1).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) and (d) and when access to accounting disclosures and access to or amendment of records would cause the identity of a confidential sources to be revealed. Disclosure of the source's identity not only will result in the Department breaching the promise of confidentiality made to the source but it will impair the Department's future ability to compile investigatory material for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, Federal contracts, or access to classified information. Unless sources can be assured that a promise of confidentiality will be honored, they will be less likely to provide information considered essential to the Department in making the required determinations.
(B) From (e)(1) because in the collection of information for investigatory purposes, it is not always possible to determine the relevance and necessity of particular information in the early stages of the investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other information that its relevance and necessity becomes clear. Such information permits more informed decision-making by the Department when making required suitability, eligibility, and qualification determinations.
(25)
System identifier and name.
F032 AFCESA C, Civil Engineer System-Explosive Ordnance Records.
(i)
Exemption.
Records maintained in connection with providing protective services to the President and other individuals under 18 U.S.C. 3056, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(3) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(3).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because to grant access to the accounting for each disclosure as required by the Privacy Act, including the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure and the identity of the recipient, could alert the subject to the existence of the investigation. This could seriously compromise case preparation by prematurely revealing its existence and nature; compromise or interfere with witnesses or make witnesses reluctant to cooperate; and lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because providing access to investigative records and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition
of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because this system of records is compiled for investigative purposes and is exempt from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(26)
System identifier and name.
F051 AF JAA, Freedom of Information Appeal Records.
(i)
Exemption.
During the processing of a Privacy Act request, exempt materials from other systems of records may in turn become part of the case record in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those `other' systems of records are entered into this system, the Department of the Air Force hereby claims the same exemptions for the records from those `other' systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the original primary system of which they are a part.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2), (k)(3), (k)(4), (k)(5), (k)(6), and (k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
Records are only exempt from pertinent provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a to the extent such provisions have been identified and an exemption claimed for the original record, and the purposes underlying the exemption for the original record still pertain to the record which is now contained in this system of records. In general, the exemptions were claimed in order to protect properly classified information relating to national defense and foreign policy, to avoid interference during the conduct of criminal, civil, or administrative actions or investigations, to ensure protective services provided the President and others are not compromised, to protect the identity of confidential sources incident to Federal employment, military service, contract, and security clearance determinations, and to preserve the confidentiality and integrity of Federal evaluation materials. The exemption rule for the original records will identify the specific reasons why the records are exempt from specific provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a.
[84 FR 14730, Apr. 11, 2019, as amended at 87 FR 37999, June 27, 2022; 88 FR 42236, June 30, 2023]
§ 310.15
Department of the Army exemptions.
(a)
Special exemption.
5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(5)—Denies individual access to any information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding.
(b)
General and specific exemptions.
The Secretary of the Army may exempt Army systems of records from certain requirements of the Privacy Act of 1974. The two kinds of exemptions that require Secretary of the Army enactment are general and specific exemptions. The general exemption authorizes the exemption of a system of records from most requirements of the Act; the specific exemptions authorize the exemption of a system of record from only a few.
(c)
General exemptions.
Only Army activities actually engaged in the enforcement of criminal laws as their principal function may claim the general exemption. See 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). To qualify for this exemption, a system must consist of:
(1) Information compiled to identify individual criminal offenders and alleged offenders, which consists only of identifying data and arrest records; type and disposition of charges; sentencing, confinement, and release records; and parole and probation status;
(2) Information compiled for the purpose of criminal investigation including reports of informants and investigators, and associated with an identifiable individual; or
(3) Reports identifiable to an individual, compiled at any stage of the process of enforcement of the criminal laws, from arrest or indictment through release from supervision.
(d)
Specific exemptions.
The Secretary of the Army has exempted all properly classified information and systems of records that have the following kinds of information listed in this section, from certain parts of the Privacy Act. The Privacy Act exemption reference appears in parentheses after each category.
(1) Classified information in every Army system of records. Before denying any individual access to classified information, the Access and Amendment Refusal Authority must make sure that it was properly classified under the standards of Executive Orders 11652, 12065, or 12958 and that it must remain so in the interest of national defense of foreign policy (5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1)).
(2) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes (other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if this information has been used to deny someone a right, privilege or benefit to which the individual is entitled by Federal law, or for which an individual would otherwise be eligible as a result of the maintenance of the information, it must be released, unless doing so would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
d

# )(2).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions.
(3) Records maintained in connection with providing protective services to the President of the United States or other individuals protected pursuant to Title 18 U.S.C., section 3056 (5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(3)).
(4) Records maintained solely for statistical research or program evaluation purposes and which are not used to make decisions on the rights, benefits, or entitlements of individuals, except for census records which may be disclosed under Title 13 U.S.C., section 8 (5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4)).
(5) Investigatory material compiled solely to determine suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information. This information may be withheld only to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source (5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5)).
(6) Testing or examination material used solely to determine if a person is qualified for appointment or promotion in the Federal service. This information may be withheld only if disclosure would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the examination process (5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6)).
(7) Evaluation material used solely to determine promotion potential in the Armed Forces. Information may be withheld, but only to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source (5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7)).
(e)
Procedures.
When a system manager seeks an exemption for a system of records, the following information will be furnished to the Chief Information Officer, 107 Army Pentagon, Room 3E608, Washington, DC 20310-0107; applicable system notice, exemptions sought, and justification. After appropriate staffing and approval by the Secretary of the Army, a proposed rule will be published in the
Federal Register,
followed by a final rule 60 days later. No exemption may be invoked until these steps have been completed.
(f) The Army system of records notices for a particular type of record will state whether the Secretary of the Army has authorized a particular general and specific exemption to a certain type of record. The Army system of records notices are published on the Defense Privacy and Civil Liberties Division's website:
http://dpcld.defense.gov/Privacy/DODComponentArticleList/tabid/6799/Category/278/department-of-the-army.aspx.
(g)
Exempt Army records.
The following records may be exempt from certain parts of the Privacy Act:
(1)
System identifier and name.
A0020-1 SAIG, Inspector General Records.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (d) because access to such records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violations of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information is retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(F) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(2)
System identifier and name.
A0 025-400-2 0AA, Army Records Information Management System (ARIMS).
(i)
Exemption.
During the course of records management, declassification and claims research, exempt materials from other systems of records may in turn become part of the case record in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those “other” systems of records are entered into this system, the Department of the Army hereby claims the same exemptions for the records from those “other” systems.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a (j)(2) and (k)(1) through (k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
Records are only exempt from pertinent provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a to the extent such provisions have been identified and an exemption claimed for the original record and the purposes underlying the exemption for the original record still pertain to the record which is now contained in this system of records. In general, the exemptions were claimed in order to protect properly classified information relating to national defense and foreign policy, to avoid interference during the conduct of criminal, civil, or administrative actions or investigations, to ensure protective services provided to the President and others are not compromised, to protect records used solely as statistical
records, to protect the identity of confidential sources incident to Federal employment, military service, contract, and security clearance determinations, to preserve the confidentiality and integrity of Federal testing materials, and to safeguard evaluation materials used for military promotions when furnished by a confidential source. The exemption rule for the original records will identify the specific reasons why the records may be exempt from specific provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a.
(3)
System identifier and name.
A0025-55 OAA, Freedom of Information Act Program Files.
(i)
Exemption.
During the processing of Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests, exempt materials from other systems of records may in turn become part of the case record in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those “other” systems of records are entered into this system, the Department of the Army claims the same exemptions for the records from those “other” systems.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) and (k)(1) through (k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
Records are only exempt from pertinent provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a to the extent such provisions have been identified and an exemption claimed for the original record and the purposes underlying the exemption for the original record still pertain to the record which is now contained in this system of records. In general, the exemptions were claimed in order to protect properly classified information relating to national defense and foreign policy, to avoid interference during the conduct of criminal, civil, or administrative actions or investigations, to ensure protective services provided to the President and others are not compromised, to protect records used solely as statistical records, to protect the identity of confidential sources incident to Federal employment, military service, contract, and security clearance determinations, to preserve the confidentiality and integrity of Federal testing materials, and to safeguard evaluation materials used for military promotions when furnished by a confidential source. The exemption rule for the original records will identify the specific reasons why the records may be exempt from specific provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a.
(4)
System identifier and name.
A0027-1 DAJA, General Legal Files.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Information specifically authorized to be classified under E.O. 12958, as implemented by DoD 5200.1-R, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(B) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(D) Testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6), if the disclosure would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the test or examination process.
(E) Evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the Military Services may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7), but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(F) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) through (k)(7) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (k)(2), (k)(5), (k)(6), and (k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (d) because access to such records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violations of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information is retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(F) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(5)
System identifier and name.
A0027-10a DAJA, Military Justice Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Parts of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if the information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency which performs as its principal function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (c)(4) because an exemption is being claimed for subsection (d), making this subsection not applicable.
(C) From subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(D) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(E) From subsection (e)(2) because in a criminal investigation the requirement that information be collected to the greatest extent possible from the subject individual would present a serious impediment to law enforcement in that the subject of the investigation would be placed on notice of the existence of the investigation and would therefore be able to avoid detection.
(F) From subsection (e)(3) because the requirement that individuals supplying information be provided with a form stating the requirements of subsection (e)(3) would constitute a serious impediment to law enforcement in that it could compromise the existence of a confidential investigation, reveal
the identity of confidential sources of information and endanger the life and physical safety of confidential informants.
(G) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(H) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(I) From subsection (e)(5) because in the collection of information for law enforcement purposes it is impossible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light and the accuracy of such information can only be determined in a court of law. The restrictions of subsection (e)(5) would restrict the ability of trained investigators and intelligence analysts to exercise their judgment in reporting on investigations and impede the development of intelligence necessary for effective law enforcement.
(J) From subsection (e)(8) because the individual notice requirements of subsection (e)(8) could present a serious impediment to law enforcement as this could interfere with the ability to issue search authorizations and could reveal investigative techniques and procedures.
(K) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(L) From subsection (g) because portions of this system of records are compiled for law enforcement purposes and have been exempted from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(6)
System identifier and name.
A0027-10b DAJA, Courts-Martial Records and Reviews.
(i)
Exemption.
Parts of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if the information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency which performs as its principal function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (c)(4) because an exemption is being claimed for subsection (d), making this subsection not applicable.
(C) From subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(D) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(E) From subsection (e)(2) because in a criminal investigation, the requirement that information be collected to the greatest extent possible from the subject individual would present a serious impediment to law enforcement in that the subject of the investigation would be placed on notice of the existence of the investigation and would therefore be able to avoid detection.
(F) From subsection (e)(3) because the requirement that individuals supplying information be provided with a form stating the requirements of subsection (e)(3) would constitute a serious impediment to law enforcement in that it could compromise the existence of a confidential investigation, reveal the identity of confidential sources of information and endanger the life and physical safety of confidential informants.
(G) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(H) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(I) From subsection (e)(5) because in the collection of information for law enforcement purposes it is impossible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light and the accuracy of such information can only be determined in a court of law. The restrictions of subsection (e)(5) would restrict the ability of trained investigators and intelligence analysts to exercise their judgment in reporting on investigations and impede the development of intelligence necessary for effective law enforcement.
(J) From subsection (e)(8) because the individual notice requirements of subsection (e)(8) could present a serious impediment to law enforcement as this could interfere with the ability to issue search authorizations and could reveal investigative techniques and procedures.
(K) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(L) From subsection (g) because portions of this system of records are compiled for law enforcement purposes and have been exempted from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(7)
System identifier and name.
A0040-5b DASG, Army Public Health Data Repository (APHDR).
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Records maintained solely for statistical research or program evaluation purposes and which are not used to make decisions on the rights, benefits, or entitlement of an individual except for census records which may be disclosed under 13 U.S.C. 8, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4).
(C) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(4) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(4).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violations of laws or civil
obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information is retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(F) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(8)
System identifier and name.
A0190-5 OPMG, Vehicle Registration System.
(i)
Exemption.
Parts of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if the information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency which performs as its primary function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (c)(4) because an exemption is being claimed for subsection (d) making this subsection not applicable.
(C) From subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(D) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(E) From subsection (e)(2) because in a criminal investigation, the requirement that information be collected to the greatest extent possible from the subject individual would present a serious impediment to law enforcement in that the subject of the investigation would be placed on notice of the existence of the investigation and would therefore be able to avoid detection.
(F) From subsection (e)(3) because the requirement that individuals supplying information be provided with a form stating the requirements of subsection (e)(3) would constitute a serious impediment to law enforcement in that it could compromise the existence of a confidential investigation, reveal the identity of confidential sources of information and endanger the life and physical safety of confidential informants.
(G) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from access provisions of subsection (d) making these subsections not applicable.
(H) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(I) From subsection (e)(5) because in the collection of information for law enforcement purposes it is impossible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and
complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light and the accuracy of such information can only be determined in a court of law. The restrictions of subsection (e)(5) would restrict the ability of trained investigators and intelligence analysts to exercise their judgment reporting on investigations and impede the development of intelligence necessary for effective law enforcement.
(J) From subsection (e)(8) because the individual notice requirements of subsection (e)(8) could present a serious impediment to law enforcement as this could interfere with the ability to issue search authorizations and could reveal investigative techniques and procedures.
(K) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(L) From subsection (g) because portions of this system of records are compiled for law enforcement purposes and have been exempted from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(9)
System identifier and name.
A0190-9 OPMG, Absentee Case Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Parts of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if the information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency which performs as its principal function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (c)(4) because an exemption is being claimed for subsection (d), making this subsection not applicable.
(C) From subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(D) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(E) From subsection (e)(2) because in a criminal investigation, the requirement that information be collected to the greatest extent possible from the subject individual would present a serious impediment to law enforcement in that the subject of the investigation would be placed on notice of the existence of the investigation and would therefore be able to avoid detection.
(F) From subsection (e)(3) because the requirement that individuals supplying information be provided with a form stating the requirements of subsection (e)(3) would constitute a serious impediment to law enforcement in that it could compromise the existence of a confidential investigation, reveal the identity of confidential sources of information and endanger the life and physical safety of confidential informants.
(G) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(H) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal
and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(I) From subsection (e)(5) because in the collection of information for law enforcement purposes it is impossible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light and the accuracy of such information can only be determined in a court of law. The restrictions of subsection (e)(5) would restrict the ability of trained investigators and intelligence analysts to exercise their judgment reporting on investigations and impede the development of intelligence necessary for effective law enforcement.
(J) From subsection (e)(8) because the individual notice requirements of subsection (e)(8) could present a serious impediment to law enforcement as this could interfere with the ability to issue search authorizations and could reveal investigative techniques and procedures.
(K) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(L) From subsection (g) because portions of this system of records are compiled for law enforcement purposes and have been exempted from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(10)
System identifier and name.
A0190-14 OPMG, Registration and Permit Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), is exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violations of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information is retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(F) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(11)
System identifier and name.
A0190-45 OPMG, Military Police Reporting Program Records (MPRP).
(i)
Exemption.
Parts of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if the information is compiled
and maintained by a component of the agency which performs as its principal function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. Therefore, portions of the system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (c)(4) because an exemption is being claimed for subsection (d), making this subsection not applicable.
(C) From subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(D) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(E) From subsection (e)(2) because in a criminal investigation, the requirement that information be collected to the greatest extent possible from the subject individual would present a serious impediment to law enforcement in that the subject of the investigation would be placed on notice of the existence of the investigation and would therefore be able to avoid detection.
(F) From subsection (e)(3) because the requirement that individuals supplying information be provided with a form stating the requirements of subsection (e)(3) would constitute a serious impediment to law enforcement in that it could compromise the existence of a confidential investigation, reveal the identity of confidential sources of information and endanger the life and physical safety of confidential informants.
(G) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(H) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(I) From subsection (e)(5) because in the collection of information for law enforcement purposes it is impossible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light and the accuracy of such information can only be determined in a court of law. The restrictions of subsection (e)(5) would restrict the ability of trained investigators and intelligence analysts to exercise their judgment reporting on investigations and impede the development of intelligence necessary for effective law enforcement.
(J) From subsection (e)(8) because the individual notice requirements of subsection (e)(8) could present a serious impediment to law enforcement as this could interfere with the ability to issue search authorizations and could reveal investigative techniques and procedures.
(K) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(L) From subsection (g) because portions of this system of records are compiled for law enforcement purposes and have been exempted from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(12)
System identifier and name.
A0190-45a OPMG, Local Criminal Intelligence Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Parts of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if the information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency which performs as its principal function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. Therefore, portions of the system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (c)(4) because an exemption is being claimed for subsection (d), making this subsection not applicable.
(C) From subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(D) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(E) From subsection (e)(2) because in a criminal investigation, the requirement that information be collected to the greatest extent possible from the subject individual would present a serious impediment to law enforcement in that the subject of the investigation would be placed on notice of the existence of the investigation and would therefore be able to avoid detection.
(F) From subsection (e)(3) because the requirement that individuals supplying information be provided with a form stating the requirements of subsection (e)(3) would constitute a serious impediment to law enforcement in that it could compromise the existence of a confidential investigation, reveal the identity of confidential sources of information and endanger the life and physical safety of confidential informants.
(G) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(H) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(I) From subsection (e)(5) because in the collection of information for law enforcement purposes it is impossible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light and the accuracy of such information can only be determined in a court of law. The restrictions of subsection (e)(5) would restrict the ability of trained investigators and intelligence analysts to exercise their judgment reporting on investigations and impede the development of intelligence necessary for effective law enforcement.
(J) From subsection (e)(8) because the individual notice requirements of subsection (e)(8) could present a serious impediment to law enforcement as this could interfere with the ability to issue search authorizations and could reveal investigative techniques and procedures.
(K) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have
been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(L) From subsection (g) because portions of this system of records are compiled for law enforcement purposes and have been exempted from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(13)
System identifier and name.
A0190-45b OPMG, Serious Incident Reporting Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Parts of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if the information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency which performs as its principal function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. Therefore, portions of the system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (c)(4) because an exemption is being claimed for subsection (d), making this subsection not applicable.
(C) From subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(D) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(E) From subsection (e)(2) because in a criminal investigation, the requirement that information be collected to the greatest extent possible from the subject individual would present a serious impediment to law enforcement in that the subject of the investigation would be placed on notice of the existence of the investigation and would therefore be able to avoid detection.
(F) From subsection (e)(3) because the requirement that individuals supplying information be provided with a form stating the requirements of subsection (e)(3) would constitute a serious impediment to law enforcement in that it could compromise the existence of a confidential investigation, reveal the identity of confidential sources of information and endanger the life and physical safety of confidential informants.
(G) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(H) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(I) From subsection (e)(5) because in the collection of information for law enforcement purposes it is impossible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light and the accuracy of such information can only be determined in a court of law. The restrictions of subsection (e)(5) would restrict the ability of trained investigators and intelligence analysts to exercise their judgment reporting on investigations and impede the development of intelligence necessary for effective law enforcement.
(J) From subsection (e)(8) because the individual notice requirements of subsection (e)(8) could present a serious impediment to law enforcement as this
could interfere with the ability to issue search authorizations and could reveal investigative techniques and procedures.
(K) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(L) From subsection (g) because portions of this system of records are compiled for law enforcement purposes and have been exempted from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(14)
System identifier and name.
A0190-47 DAPM-ACC, Army Corrections System and Parole Board Records.
(i)
Exemption.
Parts of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if the information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency which performs as its principal function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. Therefore, portions of the system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (c)(4) because an exemption is being claimed for subsection (d), making this subsection not applicable.
(C) From subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(D) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(E) From subsection (e)(2) because in a criminal or other law enforcement investigation, the requirement that information be collected to the greatest extent possible from the subject individual would alert the subject as to the nature or existence of the investigation and thereby present a serious impediment to effective law enforcement.
(F) From subsection (e)(3) because the requirement that individuals supplying information be provided with a form stating the requirements of subsection (e)(3) would constitute a serious impediment to law enforcement in that it could compromise the existence of a confidential investigation, reveal the identity of confidential sources of information and endanger the life and physical safety of confidential informants.
(G) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because an exemption is being claimed for subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(H) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(I) From subsection (e)(5) because in the collection of information for law enforcement purposes it is impossible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light and the accuracy of such information can only be determined in a court of law. The restrictions of subsection (e)(5) would restrict the ability of trained investigators and intelligence analysts to exercise their judgment reporting on investigations and impede the development of intelligence necessary for effective law enforcement.
(J) From subsection (e)(8) because the individual notice requirements of subsection (e)(8) could present a serious impediment to law enforcement as this could interfere with the ability to issue search authorizations and could reveal investigative techniques and procedures.
(K) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(L) From subsection (g) because portions of this system of records are compiled for law enforcement purposes and have been exempted from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(15)
System identifier and name.
A0195-2a USACIDC, Source Register.
(i)
Exemption.
Parts of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if the information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency which performs as its principal function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (c)(4) because an exemption is being claimed for subsection (d), making this subsection not applicable.
(C) From subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(D) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(E) From subsection (e)(2) because in a criminal investigation, the requirement that information be collected to the greatest extent possible from the subject individual would present a serious impediment to law enforcement in that the subject of the investigation would be placed on notice of the existence of the investigation and would therefore be able to avoid detection.
(F) From subsection (e)(3) because the requirement that individuals supplying information be provided with a form stating the requirements of subsection (e)(3) would constitute a serious impediment to law enforcement in that it could compromise the existence of a confidential investigation, reveal the identity of confidential sources of information and endanger the life and physical safety of confidential informants.
(G) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(H) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(I) From subsection (e)(5) because in the collection of information for law enforcement purposes it is impossible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light and the accuracy of such information can only be determined in a court of law. The restrictions of subsection (e)(5) would restrict the ability
of trained investigators and intelligence analysts to exercise their judgment reporting on investigations and impede the development of intelligence necessary for effective law enforcement.
(J) From subsection (e)(8) because the individual notice requirements of subsection (e)(8) could present a serious impediment to law enforcement as this could interfere with the ability to issue search authorizations and could reveal investigative techniques and procedures.
(K) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(L) From subsection (g) because portions of this system of records are compiled for law enforcement purposes and have been exempted from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(16)
System identifier and name.
A0195-2b USACIDC, Criminal Investigation and Crime Laboratory Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Parts of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if the information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency which performs as its principal function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsections (c)(4) because an exemption is being claimed for subsection (d), making this subsection not applicable.
(C) From subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(D) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(E) From subsection (e)(2) because in a criminal or other law enforcement investigation, the requirement that information be collected to the greatest extent possible from the subject individual would alert the subject as to the nature or existence of the investigation and thereby present a serious impediment to effective law enforcement.
(F) From subsection (e)(3) because the requirement that individuals supplying information be provided with a form stating the requirements of subsection (e)(3) would constitute a serious impediment to law enforcement in that it could compromise the existence of a confidential investigation, reveal the identity of confidential sources of information and endanger the life and physical safety of confidential informants.
(G) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(H) From subsections (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(I) From subsection (e)(5) because the requirement that records be maintained with attention to accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness would unfairly hamper the investigative process. It is the nature of law enforcement for investigations to uncover the commission of illegal acts at
diverse stages. It is frequently impossible to determine initially what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and least of all complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light.
(J) From subsection (e)(8) because the notice requirements of this provision could present a serious impediment to criminal law enforcement by revealing investigative techniques, procedures, and the existence of confidential investigations.
(K) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(L) From subsection (g) because portions of this system of records are compiled for law enforcement purposes and have been exempted from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(17)
System identifier and name.
A0195-2c USACIDC DoD, DoD Criminal Investigation Task Force (CITF) Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Parts of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if the information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency, which performs as its principal function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (c)(4) because an exemption is being claimed for subsection (d), making this subsection not applicable.
(C) From subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(D) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(E) From subsection (e)(2) because in a criminal or other law enforcement investigation, the requirement that information be collected to the greatest extent possible from the subject individual would alert the subject as to the nature or existence of the investigation and thereby present a serious impediment to effective law enforcement.
(F) From subsection (e)(3) because the requirement that individuals supplying information be provided with a form stating the requirements of subsection (e)(3) would constitute a serious impediment to law enforcement in that it could compromise the existence of a confidential investigation, reveal the identity of confidential sources of information and endanger the life and physical safety of confidential informants.
(G) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(H) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(I) From subsection (e)(5) because the requirement that records be maintained with attention to accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness
would unfairly hamper the investigative process. It is the nature of law enforcement for investigations to uncover the commission of illegal acts at diverse stages. It is frequently impossible to determine initially what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and least of all complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light.
(J) From subsection (e)(8) because the notice requirements of this provision could present a serious impediment to criminal law enforcement by revealing investigative techniques, procedures, and the existence of confidential investigations.
(K) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(L) From subsection (g) because portions of this system of records are compiled for law enforcement purposes and have been exempted from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(18)
System identifier and name.
A0195-2d USACIDC DoD, Defense Criminal Investigation DNA Database and Sample Repository; CODIS Records.
(i)
Exemption.
Parts of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if the information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency that performs as its principal function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (c)(4) because an exemption is being claimed for subsection (d), making this subsection not applicable.
(C) From subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(D) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(E) From subsection (e)(2) because in a criminal investigation, the requirement that information be collected to the greatest extent possible from the subject individual would present a serious impediment to law enforcement in that the subject of the investigation would be placed on notice of the existence of the investigation and would therefore be able to avoid detection.
(F) From subsection (e)(3) because the requirement that individuals supplying information be provided with a form stating the requirements of subsection (e)(3) would constitute a serious impediment to law enforcement in that it could compromise the existence of a confidential investigation, reveal the identity of confidential sources of information and endanger the life and physical safety of confidential informants.
(G) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(H) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(I) From subsection (e)(5) because in the collection of information for law enforcement purposes it is impossible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light and the accuracy of such information can only be determined in a court of law. The restrictions of subsection (e)(5) would restrict the ability of trained investigators and intelligence analysts to exercise their judgment reporting on investigations and impede the development of intelligence necessary for effective law enforcement.
(J) From subsection (e)(8) because the individual notice requirements of subsection (e)(8) could present a serious impediment to law enforcement as this could interfere with the ability to issue search authorizations and could reveal investigative techniques and procedures.
(K) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(L) From subsection (g) because portions of this system of records are compiled for law enforcement purposes and have been exempted from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(19)
System identifier and name.
A0195-6 USACIDC, Criminal Investigation Accreditation and Polygraph Examiner Evaluation Files.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the Military Services may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7), but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(D) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), (k)(5), or (k)(7) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), (k)(5), and (k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsections (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (d), because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be
withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(F) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(20)
System identifier and name.
A02107 DAMO, Expelled or Barred Person Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Parts of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if the information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency, which performs as its principal function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), (e)(8), (f) and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (c)(4) because an exemption is being claimed for subsection (d), making this subsection not applicable.
(C) From subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(D) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(E) From subsection (e)(2) because in a criminal investigation, the requirement that information be collected to the greatest extent possible from the subject individual would present a serious impediment to law enforcement in that the subject of the investigation would be placed on notice of the existence of the investigation and would therefore be able to avoid detection.
(F) From subsection (e)(3) because the requirement that individuals supplying information be provided with a form stating the requirements of subsection (e)(3) would constitute a serious impediment to law enforcement in that it could compromise the existence of a confidential investigation, reveal the identity of confidential sources of information and endanger the life and physical safety of confidential informants.
(G) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(H) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(I) From subsection (e)(8) because the individual notice requirements of subsection (e)(8) could present a serious impediment to law enforcement as this could interfere with the ability to issue search authorizations and could reveal investigative techniques and procedures.
(J) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(K) From subsection (g) because portions of this system of records are compiled for law enforcement purposes and have been exempted from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(21) [Reserved]
(22)
System identifier and name.
A0351-12 DAPE, Applicants/Students, U.S. Military Academy Prep School.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the Military Services may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7), but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) It is imperative that the confidential nature of evaluation material on individuals, furnished to the U.S. Military Academy Preparatory School under an express promise of confidentiality, be maintained to ensure the candid presentation of information necessary in determinations involving admission to or retention at the United States Military Academy and suitability for commissioned military service.
(D) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) and (k)(7) subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) and (k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsections (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (d), because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(F) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(23)
System identifier and name.
A0351-17a USMA, U.S. Military Academy Candidate Files.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6), if the disclosure would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the test or examination process.
(C) Evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the Military Services may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7), but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(D) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), (k)(6) or (k)(7) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), (k)(6) and (k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsections (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (d), because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(F) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(24)
System identifier and name.
A0351-17b USMA, U.S. Military Academy Management System Records.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the Military Services may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7), but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) It is imperative that the confidential nature of evaluation and investigatory material on candidates, cadets, and graduates, furnished to the United States Military Academy under a promise of confidentiality be maintained to ensure the candid presentation of information necessary in determinations involving admissions to the Military Academy and suitability for commissioned service and future promotion.
(D) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) or (k)(7) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) and (k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsections (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (d), because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(F) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(25)
System identifier and name.
A0380-67 DAMI, Personnel Security Clearance Information Files.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Information specifically authorized to be classified under E.O. 12958, as implemented by DoD 5200.1-R, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(B) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(D) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (k)(2), or (k)(5) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I) and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (k)(2), or (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (d), because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(F) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have
been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(26)
System identifier and name.
A0381-20b DAMI, Foreign Intelligence/Counterintelligence/Information Operations/Security Files.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Information specifically authorized to be classified under E.O. 12958, as implemented by DoD 5200.1-R, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(B) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(D) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (k)(2) and (k)(5) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), and (f).
(E) To the extent that copies of exempt records from external systems of records are entered into A0381-10b DAMI, the Army hereby claims the same exemptions for those records as claimed for the original primary system of which they are a part.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), and (k)(1) through (k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (d), because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(F) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(G) For records that are copies of exempt records from external systems of records, such records are only exempt from pertinent provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a to the extent such provisions have been identified and an exemption claimed for the original record and the purposes underlying the exemption for the original record still pertain to the record which is now contained in this system of records. In general, the exemptions were claimed in order to protect properly classified information relating to national defense and foreign policy, to avoid interference during the
conduct of criminal, civil, or administrative actions or investigations, to ensure protective services provided to the President and others are not compromised, to protect records used solely as statistical records, to protect the identity of confidential sources incident to Federal employment, military service, contract, and security clearance determinations, to preserve the confidentiality and integrity of Federal testing materials, and to safeguard evaluation materials used for military promotions when furnished by a confidential source. The exemption rule for the original records will identify the specific reasons why the records are exempt from specific provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a.
(27)
System identifier and name.
A0381-100a DAMI, Intelligence/Counterintelligence Source Files.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Information specifically authorized to be classified under E.O. 12958, as implemented by DoD 5200.1-R, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(B) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(D) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (k)(2), or (k)(5) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (k)(2), and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (d), because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(F) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(28)
System identifier and name.
A0381-100b DAMI, Technical Surveillance Index.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Information specifically authorized to be classified under E.O. 12958, as implemented by DoD 5200.1-R, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(B) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(D) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (k)(2), or (k)(5) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (k)(2) or (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (d), because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(F) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(29)
System identifier and name.
A0600-20 DCSG-1, Sexual Assault (SADMS) and Sexual Harassment (SHARP) Program Records.
(i)
Exemption.
This system of records is a compilation of information from other Department of Defense/Army systems of records. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those other systems of records are entered into this system of records, the Army G-1 hereby claims the same exemptions for the records from those other systems.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), and (k)(1) through (k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
Records are only exempt from pertinent provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a to the extent such provisions have been identified and an exemption claimed for the original record and the purposes underlying the exemption for the original record still pertain to the record which is now contained in this system of records. In general, the exemptions were claimed in order to protect properly classified information relating to national defense and foreign policy, to avoid interference during the conduct of criminal, civil, or administrative actions or investigations, to ensure protective services provided to the President and others are not compromised, to protect records used solely as statistical
records, to protect the identity of confidential sources incident to Federal employment, military service, contract, and security clearance determinations, to preserve the confidentiality and integrity of Federal testing materials, and to safeguard evaluation materials used for military promotions when furnished by a confidential source. The exemption rule for the original records will identify the specific reasons why the records may be exempt from specific provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a.
(30)
System identifier and name.
A0601-141 DASG, Applications for Appointment to Army Medical Department.
(i)
Exemption.
Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source. Therefore, portions of the system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(k)(5) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (d), because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(F) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(31)
System identifier and name.
A0601-210a USAREC, Enlisted Eligibility Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (d), because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would
present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(F) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(32)
System identifier and name.
A0608-18 DASG, Army Family Advocacy Program Files.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Investigative material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Therefore, portions of the system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) or (k)(5) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I) and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (d) because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because the requirements in those subsections are inapplicable to the extent that portions of this system of records may be exempt from subsection (d), concerning individual access.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(F) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(33)
System identifier and name.
A0614-115 DAMI, Department of the Army Operational Support Activities.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Information specifically authorized to be classified under E.O. 12958, as implemented by DoD 5200.1-R, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(B) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(D) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (k)(2), or (k)(5) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I) and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (k)(2), and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (d), because access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violation of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information be retained since it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d), making these subsections not applicable.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(F) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(34)
System identifier and name.
A0025-2 PMG (DFBA) DoD, Defense Biometrics Identification Records System.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Exempt materials from other sources listed above may become part of the case records in this system of records. To the extent that copies of exempt records from other sources listed above are entered into these case records, the Department of the Army hereby claims the same exemptions, (j)(2) and (k)(2), for the records as
claimed by the source systems, specifically to the extent that copies of exempt records may become part of these records from JUSTICE/FBI-019 Terrorist Screening Records System, the Department of the Army hereby claims the same exemptions for the records as claimed at their source (JUSTICE/FBI-019, Terrorist Screening Records System).
(C) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) and (k)(2) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) and(k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or matter under investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (c)(4) because an exemption is being claimed for subsection (d), making this subsection not applicable.
(C) From subsection (d) because access to such records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(D) From subsection (e)(1) because the nature of the criminal and/or civil investigative function creates unique problems in prescribing a specific parameter in a particular case with respect to what information is relevant or necessary. Also, information may be received which may relate to a case under the investigative jurisdiction of another agency. The maintenance of this information may be necessary to provide leads for appropriate law enforcement purposes and to establish patterns of activity that may relate to the jurisdiction of other cooperating agencies.
(E) From subsection (e)(2) because in a criminal investigation, the requirement that information be collected to the greatest extent possible from the subject individual would present a serious impediment to law enforcement in that the subject of the investigation would be placed on notice of the existence of the investigation and would therefore be able to avoid detection.
(F) From subsection (e)(3) because the requirement that individuals supplying information be provided with a form stating the requirements of subsection (e)(3) would constitute a serious impediment to law enforcement in that it could compromise the existence of a confidential investigation, reveal the identity of confidential sources of information and endanger the life and physical safety of confidential informants.
(G) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because the requirements in those subsections are inapplicable to the extent that portions of this system of records may be exempt from subsection (d), concerning individual access.
(H) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(I) From subsection (e)(5) because in the collection of information for law enforcement purposes, it is impossible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light and the accuracy of such information can only be determined in a court of law. The restrictions of subsection (e)(5) would restrict the ability of trained investigators and intelligence analysts to exercise their judgment in reporting on investigations and impede the development of intelligence necessary for effective law enforcement.
(J) From subsection (e)(8) because the individual notice requirements of subsection (e)(8) could present a serious impediment to law enforcement as this could interfere with the ability to issue
search authorizations and could reveal investigative techniques and procedures.
(K) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(L) From subsection (g) because portions of this system of records are compiled for law enforcement purposes and have been exempted from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(35)
System identifier and name.
A0600-20 SAMR, Soldiers Equal Opportunity Investigative Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), is exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, such material shall be provided to the individual, except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of a criminal investigation or other investigation conducted for law enforcement purposes to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation which will present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (d) because access to such records contained in this system would inform the subject of a criminal investigation or other investigation conducted for law enforcement purposes, of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of criminal investigations or other law enforcement investigations, information is often obtained concerning the violations of laws or civil obligations of others not relating to an active case or matter. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary that this valuable information is retained because it can aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide valuable leads for other agencies and future cases that may be brought.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (e)(4)(H) because the requirements in those subsections are inapplicable to the extent that portions of this system of records may be exempted from subsection (d), concerning individual access.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(F) From subsection (f) because portions of this system of records have been exempted from the access provisions of subsections (d).
(G) For records that are copies of exempt records from external systems of records, such records are only exempt from pertinent provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a to the extent such provisions have been identified and an exemption claimed for the original record and the purposes underlying the exemption for the original record still pertain to the record that is now contained in this system of records. In general, the exemptions were claimed to properly protect classified information relating to national defense and foreign policy; to avoid interference during the conduct of criminal, civil, or administrative actions or investigations; to ensure protective services provided to the President and others are not compromised; to protect records used solely as statistical records; to protect the identity of confidential sources incident to Federal employment, military service, contract, and security clearance determinations; to preserve the confidentiality and integrity of Federal testing materials; and to safeguard evaluation materials used for military promotions when provided by a confidential source. The exemption rule for the original
records will identify the specific reasons the records are exempt from specific provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a.
(h)
Exempt OPM records.
Three Office of Personnel Management systems of records apply to Army employees, except for non-appropriated fund employees. These systems, the specific exemptions determined to be necessary and proper, the records exempted, provisions of the Privacy Act from which exempt, and justification are set forth below:
(1) Personnel Investigations Records (OPM/CENTRAL-9).
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Information specifically authorized to be classified under E.O. 12958, as implemented by DoD 5200.1-R, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(B) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Records maintained in connection with providing protective services to the President of the United States or other individuals pursuant to Title 18 U.S.C. 3056 may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(3).
(D) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(E) Testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6), if the disclosure would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the test or examination process.
(F) Evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the Military Services may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7), but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(G) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (k)(2), (k)(3), (k)(5), (k)(6), or (k)(7) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (d).
(ii)
Reasons.
(A) Personnel investigations may obtain from another Federal agency, properly classified information which pertains to national defense and foreign policy. Application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary to preclude the data subject's access to an amendment of such classified information under 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) in order to protect such information.
(B) Personnel investigations may contain investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes other than material within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), e.g., investigations into the administration of the merit system. Application of exemption (k)(2) may be necessary to preclude the data subject's access to or amendment of such records, under 552a(c)(3) and (d) because otherwise, it would inform the subject of a criminal investigation of the existence of that investigation, provide the subject of the investigation with information that might enable him to avoid detection or apprehension, and would present a serious impediment to law enforcement.
(C) Personnel investigations may obtain from another Federal agency, information that relates to providing protective services to the President of the United States or other individuals pursuant to section 3056 of title 18. Application of exemption (k)(3) may be necessary to preclude the data subject's access to or amendment of such records under 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) to ensure protective services provided to the President and others are not compromised.
(D) All information about individuals in these records that meets the criteria stated in 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) is exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (d) in order to protect the
identity of confidential sources incident to determinations of suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal employment, military service, contract, and security clearance determinations.
(E) All material and information in the records that meets the criteria stated in 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6) is exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), relating to access to and amendment of records by the data subject in order to preserve the confidentiality and integrity of Federal testing materials.
(F) All material and information in the records that meets the criteria stated in 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7) is exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), relating to access to and amendment of records by the data subject in order to safeguard evaluation materials used for military promotions when furnished by a confidential source.
(2) Recruiting, Examining, and Placement Records (OPM/GOVT-5).
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6), if the disclosure would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the test or examination process.
(C) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), or (k)(6) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (d).
(ii)
Reasons.
(A) All information about individuals in these records that meets the criteria stated in 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) is exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (d) in order to protect the identity of confidential sources incident to determinations of suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal employment, military service, contract, and security clearance determinations. These exemptions are also claimed because this system contains investigative material compiled solely for the purpose of determining the appropriateness of a request for approval of an objection to an eligible individual's qualification for employment in the Federal service.
(B) All material and information in these records that meets the criteria stated in 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6) are exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), relating to access and amendment of records by the subject, in order to preserve the confidentiality and integrity of Federal testing materials.
(3) Personnel Research Test Validation Records (OPM/GOVT-6).
(i)
Exemption.
Testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6), if the disclosure would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the test or examination process. Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(d).
(ii)
Reasons.
All material and information in these records that meets the criteria stated in 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6) is exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), relating to access to an amendment of the records by the data subject, in order to preserve the confidentiality and integrity of Federal testing materials.
(iii) Twelve Exceptions to the “No Disclosure without Consent” rule of the Privacy Act.
(A) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(1)—To DoD officers and employees who have a need for the record in the performance of their official duties. This is the “official need to know” concept.
(B) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(2)—FOIA requires release of the information pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552.
(C) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3)—For an authorized Routine Use,
i.e.
the “Routine Use Exception.” The Routine Use must be listed in the applicable system of records notice published in the
Federal Register
and the purpose of the disclosure must be compatible with the purpose for the published Routine Use.
(D) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(4)—To the Bureau of the Census to plan or carry out a census or survey, or related activity pursuant to Title 13 of the U.S. Code.
(E) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(5)—To a recipient who has provided the Department of the Army or DoD with advance adequate written assurance that the record will be used solely as a statistical research or reporting record, and the record is to be transferred in a form that is not individually identifiable.
(F) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(6)—To the National Archives and Records Administration as a record that has sufficient historical or other value to warrant its continued preservation by the U.S. Government, or for evaluation by the Archivist of the United States or the designee of the Archivist to determine whether the record has such value.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
h

# )(3)(
iii

# )(F).
Records transferred to the Federal Records Centers for storage remain under the control of the Department of the Army and no accounting for disclosure is required under the Privacy Act.
(G) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(7)—To another agency or instrumentality of any governmental jurisdiction within or under the control of the United States for a civil or criminal law enforcement activity, if the activity is authorized by law, and if the head of the agency or instrumentality has made a written request to the Department of the Army or DoD specifying the particular portion desired and the law enforcement activity for which the record is sought.
(H) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(8)—To a person pursuant to a showing of compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of an individual if upon such disclosure, notification is transmitted to the last known address of such individual.
(I) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(9)—To either House of Congress, or, to the extent the matter is within its jurisdiction, any committee or subcommittee thereof, or any joint committee of Congress or subcommittee of any such joint committee. Requests from a Congressional member acting on behalf of a constituent are not included in this exception, but may be covered by a routine use exception to the Privacy Act (See applicable Army system of records notice).
(J) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(10)—To the Comptroller General or authorized representatives, in the course of the performance of the duties of the Government Accountability Office.
(K) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(11)—Pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The order must be signed by a judge.
(L) 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(12)—To a consumer reporting agency in accordance with section 3711(e) of Title 31 of the U.S. Code. The name, address, SSN, and other information identifying the individual; amount, status, and history of the claim; and the agency or program under which the case arose may be disclosed. However, before doing so, agencies must complete a series of steps designed to validate the debt and to offer the individual an opportunity to repay it.
[84 FR 14730, Apr. 11, 2019, as amended at 88 FR 42236, June 30, 2023]
§ 310.16
Department of the Navy exemptions.
(a) All systems of records maintained by the DON shall be exempt from the requirements of the access provision of the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a(d)) under the (k)(1) exemption, to the extent that the system contains information properly classified under E.O. 12958 and that is required by that E.O. to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy. This exemption is applicable to parts of all systems of records including those not otherwise specifically designated for exemptions herein that contain isolated items of properly classified information.
(1)
System identifier and name.
N01070-9, White House Support Program.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Information specifically authorized to be classified under E.O. 12958, as implemented by DOD 5200.1-R, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(B) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance
of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Records maintained in connection with providing protective services to the President and other individuals under 18 U.S.C. 3506, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(3).
(D) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(E) Portions of this system of records are exempt from the following subsections of the Privacy Act: (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G) through (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (k)(2), (k)(3), and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
Exempted portions of this system contain information that has been properly classified under E.O. 12958, and which is required to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy. Exempted portions of this system may also contain information considered relevant and necessary to make a determination as to qualifications, eligibility, or suitability for access to classified information, and which was obtained by providing an express or implied promise to the source that his or her identity would not be revealed to the subject of the record. Exempted portions of this system may also contain information collected and maintained in connection with providing protective services to the President and other individuals protected pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056. Exempted portions of this system may also contain investigative records compiled for law enforcement purposes, the disclosure of which could reveal the identity of sources who provide information under an express or implied promise of confidentiality, compromise investigative techniques and procedures, jeopardize the life or physical safety of law-enforcement personnel, or otherwise interfere with enforcement proceedings or adjudications.
(2)
System identifier and name.
N01131-1, Officer Selection and Appointment System.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Information specifically authorized to be classified under E.O. 12958, as implemented by DOD 5200.1-R, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(B) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6), if the disclosure would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the test or examination process.
(D) Evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the Military Services may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7), but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(E) Portions of this system of records are exempt from the following subsections of the Privacy Act: (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G) through (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (k)(5), (k)(6), and (k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
Granting individuals access to portions of this system of records could result in the disclosure of classified material, or the identification of sources who provided information to the government under an express or implied promise of confidentiality. Material will be screened to permit access to unclassified material and to information that does not disclose the identity of a confidential source.
(3)
System identifier and name.
N01133-2, Recruiting Enlisted Selection System.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Information specifically authorized to be classified under E.O. 12958, as implemented by DOD 5200.1-R, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(B) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6), if the disclosure would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the test or examination process.
(D) Evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the Military Services may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7), but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(E) Portions of this system of records are exempt from the following subsections of the Privacy Act: (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G) through (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (k)(5), (k)(6), and (k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
Granting individuals access to portions of this system of records could result in the disclosure of classified material, or the identification of sources who provided information to the government under an express or implied promise of confidentiality. Material will be screened to permit access to unclassified material and to information that does not disclose the identity of a confidential source.
(4)
System identifier and name.
N01640-1, Individual Correctional Records.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Parts of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if the information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency which performs as its principle function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws.
(B) Portions of this system of records are exempt from the following subsections of the Privacy Act: (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G) through (I), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reason.
(A) Granting individuals access to portions of these records pertaining to or consisting of, but not limited to, disciplinary reports, criminal investigations, and related statements of witnesses, and such other related matter in conjunction with the enforcement of criminal laws, could interfere with the orderly investigations, with the orderly administration of justice, and possibly enable suspects to avoid detection or apprehension. Disclosure of this information could result in the concealment, destruction, or fabrication of evidence, and jeopardize the safety and well-being of informants, witnesses and their families, and law enforcement personnel and their families. Disclosure of this information could also reveal and render ineffectual investigative techniques, sources, and methods used by these components and could result in the invasion of the privacy of individuals only incidentally related to an investigation. The exemption of the individual's right of access to portions of these records, and the reasons therefore, necessitate the exemption of this system of records from the requirement of the other cited provisions.
(B) [Reserved]
(5)
System identifier and name.
N01754-3, Navy Child Development Services Program.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Portions of this system of records are exempt from the following subsections of the Privacy Act: (c)(3) and (d).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) Exemption is needed in order to encourage persons having knowledge of abusive or neglectful acts toward children to report such information, and to protect such sources from embarrassment or recrimination,
as well as to protect their right to privacy. It is essential that the identities of all individuals who furnish information under an express promise of confidentiality be protected. Additionally, granting individuals access to information relating to criminal and civil law enforcement, as well as the release of certain disclosure accountings, could interfere with ongoing investigations and the orderly administration of justice, in that it could result in the concealment, alteration, destruction, or fabrication of information; could hamper the identification of offenders and the disposition of charges; and could jeopardize the safety and well being of parents and their children.
(B) [Reserved]
(6)
System identifier and name.
N03834-1, Special Intelligence Personnel Access File.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Information specifically authorized to be classified under E.O. 12958, as implemented by DOD 5200.1-R, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(B) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Portions of this system of records are exempt from the following subsections of the Privacy Act: (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4) (G) through (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) Exempted portions of this system contain information that has been properly classified under E.O. 12356, and that is required to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy.
(B) Exempted portions of this system also contain information considered relevant and necessary to make a determination as to qualifications, eligibility, or suitability for access to classified information and was obtained by providing an express or implied assurance to the source that his or her identity would not be revealed to the subject of the record.
(7)
System identifier and name.
N04060-1, Navy and Marine Corps Exchange Sales and Security Files.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Portions of this system of records are exempt from the following subsections of the Privacy Act: (c)(3), (d), (e)(4)(G) through (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
Granting individuals access to information collected and maintained by these activities relating to the enforcement of criminal laws could interfere with orderly investigations, with orderly administration of justice, and possibly enable suspects to avoid detection or apprehension. Disclosure of this information could result in the concealment, destruction, or fabrication of evidence, and could also reveal and render ineffectual investigative techniques, sources, and methods used by these activities.
(8) [Reserved]
(9)
System identifier and name.
N05041-1, Inspector General (IG) Records.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Information specifically authorized to be classified under E.O. 12958, as implemented by DOD 5200.1-R, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(B) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Portions of this system of records may be exempt from the provisions of 5
U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) and (k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit individuals to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of the investigation and would present a serious impediment to the orderly conduct of any investigative activities. Such accounting could result in the release of properly classified information which would compromise the national defense or disrupt foreign policy.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because access to the records would inform individuals of the existence and nature of the investigation; provide information that might result in the concealment, destruction, or fabrication of evidence; possibly jeopardize the safety and well-being of informants, witnesses and their families; likely reveal and render ineffectual investigatory techniques and methods and sources of information; and possibly result in the invasion of the personal privacy of third parties. Access could result in the release of properly classified information which could compromise the national defense or disrupt foreign policy. Amendment of the records would interfere with the ongoing investigation and impose an impossible administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continually reinvestigated.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because in the course of the investigation it is not always possible, at least in the early stages of the inquiry, to determine relevance and or necessity as such determinations may only occur after the information has been evaluated. Information may be obtained concerning the actual or potential violation of laws or regulations other than those relating to the ongoing investigation. Such information should be retained as it can aid in establishing patterns of improper activity and can provide valuable leads in the conduct of other investigations.
(D) From subsection (e)(4)(G) and (H) because this system of records is exempt from individual access pursuant to subsections (k)(1) and (k)(2) of the Privacy Act of 1974.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because it is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources and to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses. Although the system is exempt from this requirement, the DON has published a notice in broad, generic terms in the belief that this is all that subsection (e)(4)(I) of the Act requires.
(10)
System identifier and name.
N05300-3, Faculty Professional Files.
(i)
Exemptions.
(A) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Portions of this system of records are exempt from the following subsections of the Privacy Act: (c)(3), (d), (e)(4)(G) and (H), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
Exempted portions of this system contain information considered relevant and necessary to make a release determination as to qualifications, eligibility, or suitability for Federal employment, and was obtained by providing an express or implied promise to the source that his or her identity would not be revealed to the subject of the record.
(11)
System identifier and name.
N05354-1, Equal Opportunity Information Management System.
(i)
Exemptions.
(A) Information specifically authorized to be classified under E.O. 12958, as implemented by DOD 5200.1-R, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(B) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Portions of this system of records are exempt from the following subsections of the Privacy Act: (c)(3), (d), (e)(4)(G) through (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
Granting access to information in this system of records could result in the disclosure of classified material, or reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express or implied promise of confidentiality. Material will be screened to permit access to unclassified material and to information that will not disclose the identity of a confidential source.
(12) [Reserved]
(13)
System identifier and name.
N05520-4, NCIS Investigative Files System.
(i)
Exemptions.
(A) Parts of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if the information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency which performs as its principal function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws.
(B) Portions of this system of records are exempt from the following subsections of the Privacy Act: (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G) through (I), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) Granting individuals access to information collected and maintained by this activity relating to the enforcement of criminal laws could interfere with the orderly investigations, with the orderly administration of justice, and possibly enable suspects to avoid detection or apprehension. Disclosure of this information could result in the concealment, destruction, or fabrication of evidence, and jeopardize the safety and well-being of informants, witnesses and their families, and law enforcement personnel and their families. Disclosure of this information could also reveal and render ineffectual investigative techniques, sources, and methods used by these components and could result in the invasion of the privacy of individuals only incidentally related to an investigation. The exemption of the individual's right of access to portions of these records, and the reasons therefore, necessitate the exemption of this system of records from the requirement of the other cited provisions.
(B) [Reserved]
(iv)
Exemptions.
(A) Information specifically authorized to be classified under E.O. 12958, as implemented by DOD 5200.1-R, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(B) Records maintained in connection with providing protective services to the President and other individuals under 18 U.S.C. 3506, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(3).
(C) Records maintained solely for statistical research or program evaluation purposes and which are not used to make decisions on the rights, benefits, or entitlement of an individual except for census records which may be disclosed under 13 U.S.C. 8, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4).
(D) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(E) Testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6), if the disclosure would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the test or examination process.
(F) Portions of this system of records are exempt from the following subsections of the Privacy Act: (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G) through (I), and (f).
(v)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (k)(3), (k)(4), (k)(5) and (k)(6).
(vi)
Reasons.
(A) The release of disclosure accountings would permit the subject of an investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation, and the information contained, or the identity of witnesses or informants, would therefore present a serious impediment to law enforcement. In addition, disclosure of the accounting would amount to notice to the individual of the existence of a record.
(B) Access to the records contained in this system would inform the subject of the existence of material compiled for law enforcement purposes, the
premature release of which could prevent the successful completion of investigation, and lead to the improper influencing of witnesses, the destruction of records, or the fabrication of testimony. Exempt portions of this system also contain information that has been properly classified under E.O. 12958, and that is required to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy.
(C) Exempt portions of this system also contain information considered relevant and necessary to make a determination as to qualifications, eligibility, or suitability for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information, and was obtained by providing an express or implied assurance to the source that his or her identity would not be revealed to the subject of the record.
(D) The notice of this system of records published in the
Federal Register
sets forth the basic statutory or related authority for maintenance of the system.
(E) The categories of sources of records in this system have been published in the
Federal Register
in broad generic terms. The identity of specific sources, however, must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the source, of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(F) This system of records is exempted from procedures for notice to an individual as to the existence of records pertaining to him/her dealing with an actual or potential civil or regulatory investigation, because such notice to an individual would be detrimental to the successful conduct and/or completion of an investigation, pending or future. Mere notice of the fact of an investigation could inform the subject or others that their activities are under, or may become the subject of, an investigation. This could enable the subjects to avoid detection, to influence witnesses improperly, to destroy records, or to fabricate testimony.
(G) Exempt portions of this system containing screening board reports.
(H) Screening board reports set forth the results of oral examination of applicants for a position as a special agent with the Naval Investigation Service Command. Disclosure of these records would reveal the areas pursued in the course of the examination and thus adversely affect the result of the selection process. Equally important, the records contain the candid views of the members composing the board. Release of the records could affect the willingness of the members to provide candid opinions and thus diminish the effectiveness of a program which is essential to maintaining the high standards of the Special Agent Corps.,
i.e.,
those records constituting examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment in the Federal Service.
(14)
System identifier and name.
N05520-5, Personnel Security Program Management Records System.
(i)
Exemptions.
(A) Information specifically authorized to be classified under E.O. 12958, as implemented by DOD 5200.1-R, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(B) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Portions of this system of records are exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a: (d)(1-5).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) Granting individuals access to information collected and maintained in this system of records could result in the disclosure of classified material; and jeopardize the safety of informants, and their families. Further, the integrity of the system must be ensured so that complete and accurate records of all adjudications are maintained. Amendment could cause alteration of the record of adjudication.
(B) [Reserved]
(15)
System identifier and name.
N05580-1, Security Incident System.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Parts of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if the information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency which performs as its principal function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws.
(B) Portions of this system of records are exempt from the following subsections of the Privacy Act: (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(2), and (e)(4)(G) through (I), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f) and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) Granting individuals access to information collected and maintained by this component relating to the enforcement of criminal laws could interfere with orderly administration of justice, and possibly enable suspects to avoid detection or apprehension. Disclosure of this information could result in concealment, destruction, or fabrication of evidence, and jeopardize the safety and well being of informants, witnesses and their families, and of law enforcement personnel and their families. Disclosure of this information could also reveal and render ineffectual investigative techniques, sources, and methods used by this component, and could result in the invasion of privacy of individuals only incidentally related to an investigation. The exemption of the individual's right of access to his or her records, and the reason therefore, necessitate the exemption of this system of records from the requirements of other cited provisions.
(B) [Reserved]
(16) [Reserved]
(17)
System identifier and name.
N05800-1, Legal Office Litigation/Correspondence Files.
(i)
Exemptions.
(A) Information specifically authorized to be classified under E.O. 12958, as implemented by DOD 5200.1-R, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(B) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(D) Testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6), if the disclosure would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the test or examination process.
(E) Evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the Military Services may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7), but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(F) Portions of this system of records are exempt from the following subsections of the Privacy Act: (d), (e)(1), and (f)(2), (3), and (4).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (k)(2), (k)(5), (k)(6), and (k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) Subsection (d) because granting individuals access to information relating to the preparation and conduct of litigation would impair the development and implementation of legal strategy. Accordingly, such records are exempt under the attorney-client privilege. Disclosure might also compromise on-going investigations and reveal confidential informants. Additionally, granting access to the record subject would seriously impair the Navy's ability to negotiate settlements or pursue other civil remedies. Amendment is inappropriate because the litigation files contain official records including transcripts, court orders, investigatory materials, evidentiary materials such as exhibits, decisional memorandum and other case-related papers. Administrative due process could not be achieved by the “ex parte” correction of such materials.
(B) Subsection (e)(1) because it is not possible in all instances to determine relevancy or necessity of specific information in the early stages of case development. What appeared relevant and necessary when collected, ultimately may be deemed unnecessary upon assessment in the context of devising legal strategy. Information collected during civil litigation investigations which is not used during subject case is often retained to provide leads in other cases or to establish patterns of activity.
(C) Subsections (f)(2), (3), and (4) because this record system is exempt from the individual access provisions of subsection (d).
(18)
System identifier and name.
N01000-5, Naval Clemency and Parole Board Files.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Parts of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if the information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency which performs as its principal function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws.
(B) Portions of this system of records are exempt from the following subsections of the Privacy Act: (c)(4), (d), (e)(4)(G), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) Granting individuals access to records maintained by this Board could interfere with internal processes by which Board personnel are able to formulate decisions and policies with regard to clemency and parole in cases involving naval prisoners and other persons under the jurisdiction of the Board. Material will be screened to permit access to all material except such records or documents as reflecting items of opinion, conclusion, or recommendation expressed by individual board members or by the board as a whole.
(B) The exemption of the individual's right to access to portions of these records, and the reasons therefore, necessitate the partial exemption of this system of records from the requirements of the other cited provisions.
(19)
System identifier and name.
N01752-1, Family Advocacy Program System.
(i)
Exemptions.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Portions of this system of records are exempt from the following subsections of the Privacy Act: (c)(3) and (d).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) Exemption is needed in order to encourage persons having knowledge of abusive or neglectful acts toward children to report such information, and to protect such sources from embarrassment or recriminations, as well as to protect their right to privacy. It is essential that the identities of all individuals who furnish information under an express promise of confidentiality be protected. Additionally, granting individuals access to information relating to criminal and civil law enforcement, as well as the release of certain disclosure accounting, could interfere with ongoing investigations and the orderly administration of justice, in that it could result in the concealment, alteration, destruction, or fabrication of information; could hamper the identification of offenders or alleged offenders and the disposition of charges; and could jeopardize the safety and well-being of parents and their children.
(B) Exempted portions of this system also contain information considered
relevant and necessary to make a determination as to qualifications, eligibility, or suitability for Federal employment and Federal contracts, and that was obtained by providing an express or implied promise to the source that his or her identity would not be revealed to the subject of the record.
(20)
System identifier and name.
N12930-1, Human Resources Group Personnel Records.
(i)
Exemptions.
(A) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6), if the disclosure would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the test or examination process.
(C) Portions of this system of records are exempt from the following subsections of the Privacy Act: (d), (e)(4)(G) and (H), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) and (k)(6).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) Exempted portions of this system contain information considered relevant and necessary to make a determination as to qualifications, eligibility, or suitability for Federal employment, and was obtained by providing express or implied promise to the source that his or her identity would not be revealed to the subject of the record.
(B) Exempted portions of this system also contain test or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal Service, the disclosure of which would comprise the objectivity or fairness of the testing or examination process.
(21)
System identifier and name.
N05813-4, Trial/Government Counsel Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Parts of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if the information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency which performs as its principle function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. Portions of this system of records that may be exempt pursuant to subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) are (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(5), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Exemption.
Information specifically authorized to be classified under E.O. 12958, as implemented by DOD 5200.1-R, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(iii)
Exemption.
Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source. Portions of this system of records that may be exempt pursuant to subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) and (k)(2) are (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f).
(iv)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(1), and (k)(2).
(v)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because release of accounting of disclosure could place the subject of an investigation on notice that he/she is under investigation and provide him/her with significant information concerning the nature of the investigation, resulting in a serious impediment to law enforcement investigations.
(B) From subsections (c)(4), (d), (e)(4)(G), and (e)(4)(H) because granting individuals access to information collected and maintained for purposes relating to the enforcement of laws could interfere with proper investigations and orderly administration of justice. Granting individuals access to information relating to the preparation and conduct of criminal prosecution would impair the development and implementation of legal strategy. Amendment is inappropriate because the trial/Government counsel files contain official records including transcripts, court orders, and investigatory materials such as exhibits, decisional memorandum
and other case-related papers. Disclosure of this information could result in the concealment, alteration or destruction of evidence, the identification of offenders or alleged offenders, nature and disposition of charges; and jeopardize the safety and well-being of informants, witnesses and their families, and law enforcement personnel and their families. Disclosure of this information could also reveal and render in effective investigation techniques, sources, and methods used by law enforcement personnel, and could result in the invasion of privacy of individuals only incidentally related to an investigation.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible in all instances to determine relevancy or necessity of specific information in the early stages of case development. Information collected during criminal investigations and prosecutions and not used during the subject case is often retained to provide leads in other cases.
(D) From subsection (e)(2) because in criminal or other law enforcement investigations, the requirement that information be collected to the greatest extent practicable from the subject individual would alert the subject as to the nature or existence of an investigation, presenting a serious impediment to law enforcement investigations.
(E) From subsection (e)(3) because compliance would constitute a serious impediment to law enforcement in that it could compromise the existence of a confidential investigation or reveal the identity of witnesses or confidential informants.
(F) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the identity of specific sources must be withheld in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of criminal and other law enforcement information. This exemption is further necessary to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(G) From subsection (e)(5) because in the collection of information for law enforcement purposes it is impossible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light and the accuracy of such information can only be determined in a court of law. The restrictions of subsection (e)(5) would restrict the ability of trained investigators and intelligence analysts to exercise their judgment in reporting on investigations and impede the development of intelligence necessary for effective law enforcement.
(H) From subsection (e)(8) because compliance would provide an impediment to law enforcement by interfering with the ability to issue warrants or subpoenas and by revealing investigative techniques, procedures, or evidence.
(I) From subsection (f) and (g) because this record system is exempt from the individual access provisions of subsection (d).
(J) Consistent with the legislative purpose of the Privacy Act of 1974, the DON will grant access to nonexempt material in the records being maintained. Disclosure will be governed by the DON's Privacy Regulation, but will be limited to the extent that the identity of confidential sources will not be compromised; subjects of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal violation will not be alerted to the investigation; the physical safety of witnesses, informants and law enforcement personnel will not be endangered, the privacy of third parties will not be violated; and that the disclosure would not otherwise impede effective law enforcement. Whenever possible, information of the above nature will be deleted from the requested documents and the balance made available. The controlling principle behind this limited access is to allow disclosures except those indicated above. The decisions to release information from these systems will be made on a case-by-case basis.
(22)-(23) [Reserved]
(24)
System identifier and name.
N05800-2, Professional Responsibility Files.
(i)
Exemptions.
Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of
maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source. Any portion of this record system which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C 552a: (c)(3), (d)(1) through (5), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2)
(ii)
Reason.
The reason for asserting this exemption (k)(2) is to ensure the integrity of the litigation process.
(25)
System identifier and name.
NM03800-1, Naval Global Maritime, Foreign, Counterterrorism and Counter Intelligence Operation Records.
(i)
Exemptions.
Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source. An exemption rule for this system has been promulgated in accordance with the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(1), (2) and (3)(c) and (e) and is published as 32 CFR part 701.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
(iii)
Reason.
The reason for asserting this exemption is ensure the integrity of the security and investigative material compiled for law enforcement purposes by the Department of the Navy and the Department of Defense.
[84 FR 14730, Apr. 11, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 31431, June 14, 2021; 88 FR 42236, June 30, 2023]
§ 310.17
[Reserved]
§ 310.18
Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) exemptions.
(a)
General information.
There are two types of exemptions, general and specific. The general exemption authorizes the exemption of a system of records from all but a few requirements of the Privacy Act. The specific exemption authorizes exemption of a system of records or portion thereof, from only a few specific requirements. If a new system of records originates for which an exemption is proposed, or an additional or new exemption for an existing system of records is proposed, the exemption shall be submitted with the system of records notice. No exemption of a system of records shall be considered automatic for all records in the system. The systems manager shall review each requested record and apply the exemptions only when this will serve significant and legitimate Government purposes.
(b)
Specific exemptions.
(1)
System identifier and name.
RDCAA 900.1, DCAA Internal Review Case Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Any portions of this system of records which fall under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a: (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because disclosures from this system could interfere with the just, thorough and timely resolution of the complaint or inquiry, and possibly enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation by concealing, destroying or fabricating evidence or documents.
(B) From subsection (d) because disclosures from this system could interfere with the just, thorough and timely resolution of the complaint or inquiry, and possibly enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation by concealing, destroying or fabricating evidence or documents. Disclosures could also subject sources and witnesses to harassment or intimidation which jeopardize the safety and well-being of themselves and their families.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because the nature of the investigation functions creates unique problems in prescribing specific parameters in a particular case as to what information is relevant or necessary. Due to close liaison and working relationships with other Federal, state, local, foreign country law enforcement agencies, and other governmental agencies, information may be received which may relate to a case under the investigative jurisdiction of another government agency.
It is necessary to maintain this information in order to provide leads for appropriate law enforcement purposes and to establish patterns of activity which may relate to the jurisdiction of other cooperating agencies.
(D) From subsection (e)(4)(G) through (H) because this system of records is exempt from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(E) From subsection (f) because the agency's rules are inapplicable to those portions of the system that are exempt and would place the burden on the agency of either confirming or denying the existence of a record pertaining to a requesting individual might in itself provide an answer to that individual relating to an on-going investigation. The conduct of a successful investigation leading to the indictment of a criminal offender precludes the applicability of established agency rules relating to verification of record, disclosure of the record to that individual, and record amendment procedures for this record system.
(2) [Reserved]
§ 310.19
Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) exemptions.
(a) Section 5 U.S.C. 552a(3)(j) and (3)(k) authorize an agency head to exempt certain systems of records or parts of certain systems of records from some of the requirements of the act. This part reserves to the Director, DISA, as head of an agency, the right to create exemptions pursuant to the exemption provisions of the act. All systems of records maintained by DISA shall be exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) to the extent that the system contains any information properly classified under Executive Order 11652, “Classification and Declassification of National Security Information and Material,” dated March 8, 1972 (37 FR 10053, May 19, 1972) and which is required by the executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy. This exemption, which may be applicable to parts of all systems of records, is necessary because certain record systems not otherwise specifically designated for exemptions may contain isolated information which has been properly classified.
(1)
System identifier and name.
K890.23, DISA Inspector General Investigative Tracker (DIGit).
(i)
Exemption.
Any portion of this record system which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(2)and (k)(5) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a: (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(2), and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
To ensure the integrity of the privacy and civil liberties process. The execution requires that information be provided in a free and open manner without fear of retribution or harassment in order to facilitate a just, thorough, and timely resolution of the complaint or inquiry. Disclosures from this system can enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation by concealing, destroying, or fabricating evidence or documents. In addition, disclosures can subject sources and witnesses to harassment or intimidation which may cause individuals not to seek redress for wrongs through privacy and civil liberties channels for fear of retribution or harassment.
(2) [Reserved]
§ 310.20
Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) exemptions.
(a) All systems of records maintained by the Director Intelligence Agency shall be exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) to the extent that the system contains any information properly classified under Executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy. This exemption, which may be applicable to parts of all systems of records, is necessary because certain record systems not specifically designated for exemption may contain isolated information which has been properly classified.
(b) The Director, Defense Intelligence Agency, designated the systems of records listed below for exemptions under the specified provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended (Pub. L. 93-579).
(1)
System identification and name:
LDIA 0271, Investigations and Complaints.
(i)
Exemption.
Any portion of this record system which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (5) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a: (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), and (e)(4)(I).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k) (2) and (5).
(iii)
Reasons.
The reasons for asserting these exemptions are to ensure the integrity of the Inspector General process within the Agency. The execution requires that information be provided in a free and open manner without fear of retribution or harassment in order to facilitate a just, thorough and timely resolution of the complaint or inquiry. Disclosures from this system can enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation by concealing, destroying or fabricating evidence or documents. Also, disclosures can subject sources and witnesses to harassment or intimidation which may cause individuals not to seek redress for wrongs through Inspector General channels for fear of retribution or harassment.
(2)
System identifier and name.
LDIA 13-0001, Conflict Management Programs.
(i)
Exemption.
Any portion of this record system which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a: (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I)
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a (k)(2) and (k)(5)
(iii)
Reasons.
Claiming these exemptions ensures the integrity of the conflict management process. The execution requires that information be provided in a free and open manner without fear of retribution or harassment in order to facilitate a just, thorough, and timely resolution of the complaint or inquiry. Disclosures from this system can enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation by concealing, destroying, or fabricating evidence or documents. In addition, disclosures can subject sources and witnesses to harassment or intimidation which may cause individuals to not seek redress for wrongs through available channels for fear of retribution or harassment.
(3)
System identifier and name.
LDIA 0660, Security and Counterintelligence Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Any portion of this record system which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), (k)(5) and (k)(6) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a: (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), and (e)(4)(I).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), (k)(5) and (k)(6).
(iii)
Reasons.
The reasons for asserting these exemptions are to ensure the integrity of the adjudication process used by the Agency to determine the suitability, eligibility or qualification for Federal service with the Agency and to make determinations concerning the questions of access to classified materials and activities. The proper execution of this function requires that the Agency have the ability to obtain candid and necessary information in order to fully develop or resolve pertinent information developed in the process. Potential sources, out of fear or retaliation, exposure or other action, may be unwilling to provide needed information or may not be sufficiently frank to be a value in personnel screening, thereby seriously interfering with the proper conduct and adjudication of such matters; and protects information used for medical, psychological evaluations, security questionnaires and polygraph testing.
(4)-(5) [Reserved]
(6)
System identifier and name.
LDIA 10-0002, Foreign Intelligence and Counterintelligence Operation Records.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information exempt to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
b

# )(6)(
i

# )(A).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions.
(B) The specific sections of 5 U.S.C. 552a from which the system is to be exempted are 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3) and (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), (e)(5), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because to grant access to an accounting of disclosures as required by the Privacy Act, including the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure and the identity of the recipient, could alert the subject to the existence of the investigation or prospective interest by DIA or other agencies. This could seriously compromise case preparation by prematurely revealing its existence and nature; compromise or interfere with witnesses or make witnesses reluctant to cooperate; and lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence.
(B) From subsections (c)(4), (d), and (f) because providing access to this information could result in the concealment, destruction or fabrication of evidence and jeopardize the safety and well being of informants, witnesses and their families, and law enforcement personnel and their families. Disclosure of this information could also reveal and render ineffectual investigative techniques, sources, and methods used by this component and could result in the invasion of privacy of individuals only incidentally related to an investigation. Investigatory material is exempt to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished the information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or prior to September 27, 1975 under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence. This exemption will protect the identities of certain sources that would be otherwise unwilling to provide information to the Government. The exemption of the individual's right of access to his/her records and the reasons therefore necessitate the exemptions of this system of records from the requirements of the other cited provisions.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsection (e)(2) because collecting information to the fullest extent possible directly from the subject individual may or may not be practical in a criminal investigation.
(E) From subsection (e)(3) because supplying an individual with a form containing a Privacy Act Statement would tend to inhibit cooperation by many individuals involved in a criminal investigation. The effect would be somewhat adverse to established investigative methods and techniques.
(F) From subsections (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I) because it will provide protection against notification of investigatory material which might alert a subject to the fact that an investigation of that individual is taking place, and the disclosure of which would weaken the on-going investigation, reveal investigatory techniques, and place confidential informants in jeopardy who furnished information under an express promise that the sources' identity would be held in confidence (or prior to the effective date of the Act, under an implied promise). In addition, this system of records is exempt from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(G) From subsection (e)(5) because the requirement that records be maintained with attention to accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness would unfairly hamper the investigative process. It is the nature of law enforcement for investigations to uncover the commission of illegal acts at diverse stages. It is frequently impossible to determine initially what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and least of all complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light.
(H) From subsection (f) because the agency's rules are inapplicable to those portions of the system that are exempt
and would place the burden on the agency of either confirming or denying the existence of a record pertaining to a requesting individual might in itself provide an answer to that individual relating to an on-going investigation. The conduct of a successful investigation leading to the indictment of a criminal offender precludes the applicability of established agency rules relating to verification of record, disclosure of the record to the individual and record amendment procedures for this record system.
(I) From subsection (g) because this system of records should be exempt to the extent that the civil remedies relate to provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a from which this rule exempts the system.
(7)-(9) [Reserved]
(10)
System identifier and name.
LDIA 0209, Litigation Case Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source. This exemption provides limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions. Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source. Any portion of this record system which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a: (c)(3), (d)(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I). Exempt materials from other systems of records may in turn become part of the case records in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those `other' systems of records are entered into this case record, the Defense Intelligence Agency hereby claims the same exemptions for the records from those `other' systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the original primary systems of records, which they are a part.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(2), (k)(3), (k)(4), (k)(5), (k)(6), and (k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
The reason for asserting these exemptions (k)(2) and (k)(5) is to ensure the integrity of the litigation process.
(11)
System identifier and name.
LDIA 10-0004 Occupational, Safety, Health, and Environmental Management Records.
(i)
Exemption.
Any portion of this record system which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) (k)(4) and (k)(5) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a: (c)(3); (d)(1), (d)(2), (d)(3), (d)(4), (d)(5); (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I); (f)(1), (f)(2), (f)(2), (f)(3), (f)(4), (f)(5).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
The reasons for asserting these exemptions are to ensure the integrity of an investigative or administrative process and to protect statistical records. The execution requires that information be provided in a free and open manner without fear of retribution or harassment in order to facilitate a just, thorough, and timely resolution during an investigation or administrative action. Disclosures from this system can enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation by concealing, destroying, or fabricating evidence or documents. In addition, disclosures can subject sources and witnesses to harassment or intimidation which may cause individuals to not to seek redress for concerns about occupational safety, health, environmental issues and accident reporting. Information is used to comply regulatory reporting requirements.
[84 FR 14730, Apr. 11, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 31431, June 14, 2021; 88 FR 42236, June 30, 2023; 89 FR 5095, Jan. 26, 2024]
§ 310.21
Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) exemptions.
(a) The Director, DLA or designee may claim an exemption from any provision of the Privacy Act from which an exemption is allowed.
(b) An individual is not entitled to access information that is compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding. The term “civil action or proceeding” is intended to include court proceedings, preliminary judicial steps, and quasi-judicial administrative hearings or proceedings (
i.e.,
adversarial proceedings that are subject to rules of evidence). Any information prepared in anticipation of such actions or proceedings, to include information prepared to advise DLA officials of the possible legal or other consequences of a given course of action, is protected. The exemption is similar to the attorney work-product privilege except that it applies even when the information is prepared by non-attorneys. The exemption does not apply to information compiled in anticipation of criminal actions or proceedings.
(c)
Exempt Records Systems.
All systems of records maintained by the Defense Logistics Agency will be exempt from the access provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and the notification of access procedures of 5 U.S.C. 522a(e)(4)(H) pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) to the extent that the system contains any information properly classified under Executive Order 13526 and which is required by the Executive Order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy. This exemption, which may be applicable to parts of all DLA systems of records, is necessary because certain record systems not otherwise specifically designated for exemptions herein may contain isolated items of information which have been properly classified.
(1)
System identifier and name.
S170.04 (Specific exemption), Debarment and Suspension Files.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). If an individual, however, is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(1)(
i

# )(A).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions.
(B) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) The specific sections of 5 U.S.C. 552a from which the system is exempt are 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d)(1) through (d)(4), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), as granting access to the accounting for each disclosure, as required by the Privacy Act, including the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure and the identity of the recipient, could alert the subject to the existence of an investigation or prosecutive interest by DLA or other agencies. This seriously could compromise case preparation by prematurely revealing its existence and nature; compromise or interfere with witnesses or making witnesses reluctant to cooperate; and lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence.
(B) From 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1) through (4) and (f), as providing access to records of a civil investigation, and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein, would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of an investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would:
Allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach to satisfy any Government claim arising from the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1), as it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G) and (H), as there is no necessity for such publication since the system of records would be exempt from the underlying duties to provide notification about and access to information in the system and to make amendments and corrections to the information in the system.
(E) From 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(I), as to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. DLA, nevertheless, will continue to publish such a notice in broad generic terms as is its current practice.
(2)
System identifier and name.
S500.10 (Specific exemption), Personnel Security Files.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Therefore, portions of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), and (e)(1).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (d), when access to accounting disclosures and access to or amendment of records would cause the identity of a confidential source to be revealed. Disclosure of the source's identity not only will result in the Department breaching the promise of confidentiality made to the source but it would impair the Department's future ability to compile investigatory material for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, Federal contracts, or access to classified information. Unless sources may be assured that a promise of confidentiality will be honored, they will be less likely to provide information considered essential to the Department in making the required determinations.
(B) From 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1), as in the collection of information for investigatory purposes, it is not always possible to determine the relevance and necessity of particular information in the early stages of the investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other information that its relevance and necessity becomes clear. Such information permits more informed decision making by the Department when making required suitability, eligibility, and qualification determinations.
(3)
System identifier and name.
S500.20 (Specific exemption), Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Criminal Incident Reporting System (DCIRS).
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). If an individual, however, is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(3)(
i

# )(A).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions.
(B) The specific sections of 5 U.S.C. 552a from which the system is to be exempted are 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3), as to grant access to an accounting of disclosures as required by the Privacy Act, including the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure and the identity of the recipient, could alert the subject to the existence of the investigation or prosecutive interest by DLA or other agencies. This could seriously compromise case preparation by: Prematurely revealing its existence and nature; compromising or interfering with witnesses or making witnesses reluctant to cooperate; and leading to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence.
(B) From 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f), as providing access to this information could result in the concealment, destruction or fabrication of evidence and jeopardize the safety and wellbeing of informants, witnesses and their families, and law enforcement personnel and their families. Disclosure of this information also could reveal and render ineffectual investigative techniques, sources, and methods used by this component and could result in the invasion of privacy of individuals only incidentally related to an investigation. Investigatory material is exempt to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished the information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence. This exemption will protect the identities of certain sources that would be otherwise unwilling to provide information to the Government. The exemption of the individual's right of access to his/her records and the reasons therefore necessitate the exemptions of this system of records from the requirements of the other cited provisions.
(C) From 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1), as it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), as it will provide protection against notification of investigatory material which might alert a subject to the fact that an investigation of that individual is taking place, and the disclosure of which would weaken the ongoing investigation, reveal investigatory techniques, and place in jeopardy confidential informants who furnished information under an express promise that the sources' identity would be held in confidence (or prior to the effective date of the Act, under an implied promise).
(4)
System identifier and name.
S500.30 (Specific exemption), Incident Investigation/Police Inquiry Files.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). If an individual, however, is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information, except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(4)(
i

# )(A).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions.
(B) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) The specific sections of 5 U.S.C. 552a from which the system is exempt are 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d)(1) through (d)(4), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), because to grant access to the accounting for each disclosure as required by the Privacy Act, including the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure and the identity of the recipient, could alert the subject to the existence of the investigation or prosecutive interest by DLA or other agencies. This could seriously compromise case preparation by: Prematurely revealing its existence and nature; compromising or interfering with witnesses or making witnesses reluctant to cooperate; and leading to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence.
(B) From 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1) through (d)(4), and (f), as providing access to records of a civil or administrative investigation, and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein, would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would: Provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach to satisfy any Government claim arising from the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1), as it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G) and (H), as this system of records is compiled for law enforcement purposes and is exempt from the access provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).
(E) From 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(I), because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. DLA, nevertheless, will continue to publish such a notice in broad generic terms as is its current practice.
(5)
System identifier and name.
S500.60 (Specific exemption), Defense Logistics Agency Enterprise Hotline Program Records.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). If an individual, however, is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information, except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(5)(
i

# )(A):
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions.
(B) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) The specific sections of 5 U.S.C. 552a from which the system is exempt are 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d)(1) through (4), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3), as to grant access to an accounting of disclosures as required by the Privacy Act, including the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure and the identity of the recipient, could alert the subject to the existence of the investigation or prosecutive interest by DLA or other agencies. This could seriously compromise case preparation by prematurely revealing its existence
and nature; compromise or interfere with witnesses or making witnesses reluctant to cooperate; and lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence.
(B) From 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1) through (4) and (f), as providing access to records of a civil or administrative investigation, and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein, would interfere seriously with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow: Interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach to satisfy any Government claim arising from the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1), as it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G) and (H), as this system of records is compiled for law enforcement purposes and is exempt from the access provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) and (f).
(E) From 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(I), as to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. DLA will, nevertheless, continue to publish such a notice in broad generic terms as is its current practice.
(6) [Reserved]
(7)
System identifier and name.
S240.28 DoD (Specific exemption), Case Adjudication Tracking System (CATS).
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Therefore, portions of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d)(1)(2)(3)(4), and (e)(1).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (d)(1)(2)(3)(4), when access to accounting disclosures and access to or amendment of records would cause the identity of a confidential source to be revealed. Disclosure of the confidential source's identity not only will result in the Department breaching the express promise of confidentiality made to the source but it would impair the Department's future ability to compile investigatory material for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, Federal contracts, or access to classified information. Unless sources may be assured that a promise of confidentiality will be honored, they will be less likely to provide information considered essential to the Department in making the required determinations.
(B) From 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1), as in the collection of information for investigatory purposes, it is not always possible to determine the relevance and necessity of particular information in the early stages of the investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other information that its relevance and necessity becomes clear. Such information permits more informed decision making by the Department when making required suitability, eligibility, and qualification determinations.
[84 FR 14730, Apr. 11, 2019; 84 FR 16210, Apr. 18, 2019; as amended at 88 FR 42236, June 30, 2023]
§ 310.22
Defense Security Service (DSS) exemptions.
(a)
General.
The Director of the Defense Security Service establishes the following exemptions of records systems (or portions thereof) from the provisions of these rules, and other indicated portions of Public Law 93-579, in this section. They may be exercised only by the Director, Defense Security Service and the Chief of the Office of FOI and Privacy. Exemptions will be exercised only when necessary for a specific, significant and legitimate reason connected with the purpose of a records system, and not simply because they are authorized by statute. Personal records releasable under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552 will not be withheld from subject individuals based on these exemptions.
(b) All systems of records maintained by DSS shall be exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) to the extent that the system contains any information properly classified under Executive Order 12958 and which is required by the Executive Order to be withheld in the interest of national defense of foreign policy. This exemption, which may be applicable to parts of all systems of records, is necessary because certain record systems not otherwise specifically designated for exemptions herein may contain items of information that have been properly classified.
(1) [Reserved]
(2)
System identifier and name.
V5-01, Investigative Files System.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Records maintained in connection with providing protective services to the President and other individuals under 18 U.S.C. 3506, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(3).
(C) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(D) Any portion of this system that falls under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), (k)(3), or (k)(5) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), (k)(3), or (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because it will enable DSS to conduct certain investigations and relay law enforcement information without compromise of the information, protection of investigative techniques and efforts employed, and identities of confidential sources who might not otherwise come forward and who furnished information under an express promise that the sources' identity would be held in confidence (or prior to the effective date of the Act, under an implied promise).
(B) From subsections (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I) because it will provide protection against notification of investigatory material including certain reciprocal investigations and counterintelligence information, which might alert a subject to the fact that an investigation of that individual is taking place, and the disclosure of which would weaken the on-going investigation, reveal investigatory techniques, and place confidential informants in jeopardy who furnished information under an express promise that the sources' identity would be held in confidence (or prior to the effective date of the Act, under an implied promise).
(C) From subsections (d) and (f) because requiring DSS to grant access to records and agency rules for access and amendment of records would unfairly impede the agency's investigation of allegations of unlawful activities. To
require DSS to confirm or deny the existence of a record pertaining to a requesting individual may in itself provide an answer to that individual relating to an on-going investigation. The investigation of possible unlawful activities would be jeopardized by agency rules requiring verification of record, disclosure of the record to the subject, and record amendment procedures.
(3)
System identifier and name.
V5-02, Defense Clearance and Investigations Index (DCII).
(i)
Exemption.
Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source. Any portion of this system that falls under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because it will enable DSS to conduct certain investigations and relay law enforcement information without compromise of the information, protection of investigative techniques and efforts employed, and identities of confidential sources who might not otherwise come forward and who furnished information under an express promise that the sources' identity would be held in confidence (or prior to the effective date of the Act, under an implied promise).
(B) From subsections (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I) because it will provide protection against notification of investigatory material including certain reciprocal investigations and counterintelligence information, which might alert a subject to the fact that an investigation of that individual is taking place, and the disclosure of which would weaken the on-going investigation, reveal investigatory techniques, and place confidential informants in jeopardy who furnished information under an express promise that the sources' identity would be held in confidence (or prior to the effective date of the Act, under an implied promise).
(C) From subsections (d) and (f) because requiring DSS to grant access to records and agency rules for access and amendment of records would unfairly impede the agency's investigation of allegations of unlawful activities. To require DSS to confirm or deny the existence of a record pertaining to a requesting individual may in itself provide an answer to that individual relating to an on-going investigation. The investigation of possible unlawful activities would be jeopardized by agency rules requiring verification of record, disclosure of the record to the subject, and record amendment procedures.
(4)
System identifier and name.
V5-03, Case Control Management System (CCMS).
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source. Any portion of this system that falls under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) or (k)(5) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a: (c)(3); (d); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because it will enable DSS to conduct certain investigations and relay law enforcement information
without compromise of the information, protection of investigative techniques and efforts employed, and identities of confidential sources who might not otherwise come forward and who furnished information under an express promise that the sources' identity would be held in confidence (or prior to the effective date of the Act, under an implied promise).
(B) From subsections (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I) because it will provide protection against notification of investigatory material including certain reciprocal investigations and counterintelligence information, which might alert a subject to the fact that an investigation of that individual is taking place, and the disclosure of which would weaken the on-going investigation, reveal investigatory techniques, and place confidential informants in jeopardy who furnished information under an express promise that the sources' identity would be held in confidence (or prior to the effective date of the Act, under an implied promise).
(C) From subsections (d) and (f) because requiring DSS to grant access to records and agency rules for access and amendment of records would unfairly impede the agency's investigation of allegations of unlawful activities. To require DSS to confirm or deny the existence of a record pertaining to a requesting individual may in itself provide an answer to that individual relating to an on-going investigation. The investigation of possible unlawful activities would be jeopardized by agency rules requiring verification of record, disclosure of the record to the subject, and record amendment procedures.
(5)-(6) [Reserved]
[84 FR 14730, Apr. 11, 2019, as amended at 88 FR 42236, June 30, 2023; 89 FR 5095, Jan. 26, 2024]
§ 310.23
Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) exemptions.
(a)
Exemption for classified material.
All systems of records maintained by the Defense Threat Reduction Agency shall be exempt under section (k)(1) of 5 U.S.C. 552a, to the extent that the systems contain any information properly classified under E.O. 12598 and that is required by that E.O. to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy. This exemption is applicable to parts of all systems of records including those not otherwise specifically designated for exemptions herein which contain isolated items of properly classified information.
(1)
System identifier and name.
HDTRA 007, Security Operations.
(i)
Exemption.
Portions of this system of records may be exempt from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d)(1) through (d)(4), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because it will enable DTRA to safeguard certain investigations and relay law enforcement information without compromise of the information, and protect the identities of confidential sources who might not otherwise come forward and who have furnished information under an express promise that the sources' identity would be held in confidence (or prior to the effective date of the Act, under an implied promise.)
(B) From subsection (d)(1) through (d)(4) and (f) because providing access to records of a civil investigation and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with, and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of security investigations. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), (I) because it will provide protection against notification of investigatory material including certain reciprocal investigations and counterintelligence information, which might alert a subject to the fact that an investigation of that individual is taking place, and the disclosure of which would
weaken the on-going investigation, reveal investigatory techniques, and place confidential informants in jeopardy who furnished information; under an express promise that the sources' identity would be held in confidence (or prior to the effective date of the Act, under an implied promise.)
(2)
System identifier and name.
HDTRA 011, Inspector General Investigation Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Portions of this system of records may be exempt from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d)(1) through (4); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because it will enable DTRA to conduct certain investigations and relay law enforcement information without compromise of the information, protection of investigative techniques and efforts employed, and identities of confidential sources who might not otherwise come forward and who furnished information under an express promise that the sources' identity would be held in confidence (or prior to the effective date of the Act, under an implied promise.)
(B) From subsection (d)(1) through (d)(4) and (f) because providing access to records of a civil investigation and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I) because it will provide protection against notification of investigatory material including certain reciprocal investigations and counterintelligence information, which might alert a subject to the fact that an investigation of that individual is taking place, and the disclosure of which would weaken the on-going investigation, reveal investigatory techniques, and place confidential informants in jeopardy who furnished information under an express promise that the sources' identity would be held in confidence (or prior to the effective date of the Act, under an implied promise).
[84 FR 14730, Apr. 11, 2019, as amended at 88 FR 42236, June 30, 2023]
§ 310.24
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) exemptions.
(a)
Exempt systems of record.
All systems of records maintained by the NGA and its components shall be exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) to the extent that the system contains any information properly classified under Executive Order 12958 and that is required by Executive Order to be withheld in the interest of national defense or foreign policy. This exemption is applicable to parts of all systems of records, including those not otherwise specifically designated for exemptions herein, which contain isolated items of properly classified information.
(1)
System identifier and name.
B0210-07, Inspector General Investigative and Complaint Files.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigative material compiled for law enforcement purposes may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Investigative material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and/or (k)(5) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H) and (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because to grant access to the accounting for each disclosure as required by the Privacy Act, including the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure and the identity of the recipient, could alert the subject to the existence of the investigation or prosecutable interest by the NGA or other agencies. This could seriously compromise case preparation by prematurely revealing its existence and nature; compromise or interfere with witnesses or make witnesses reluctant to cooperate; and lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because providing access to investigative records and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because this system of records is compiled for investigative purposes and is exempt from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. NGA will, nevertheless, continue to publish such a notice in broad generic terms, as is its current practice.
(F) Consistent with the legislative purpose of the Privacy Act of 1974, NGA will grant access to nonexempt material in the records being maintained. Disclosure will be governed by NGA's Privacy Regulation, but will be limited to the extent that the identity of confidential sources will not be compromised; subjects of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal or civil violation will not be alerted to the investigation; the physical safety of witnesses, informants and law enforcement personnel will not be endangered; the privacy of third parties will not be violated; and that the disclosure would not otherwise impede effective law enforcement. Whenever possible, information of the above nature will be deleted from the requested documents and the balance made available. The controlling principle behind this limited access is to allow disclosures except those indicated in this paragraph. The decisions to release information from these systems will be made on a case-by-case basis.
(2)
System identifier and name.
NGA-004, NGA Threat Mitigation Records.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Exempt materials from JUSTICE/FBI—019 Terrorist Screening Records System may become part of the case records in this system of records. To the extent that copies of exempt records from JUSTICE/FBI—019, Terrorist Screening Records System are entered into these Threat Mitigation case records, NGA hereby claims the same exemptions (j)(2) and (k)(2), for the records as claimed in JUSTICE/FBI—019, Terrorist Screening Records system of records of which they are a part.
(B) Information specifically authorized to be classified under E.O. 12958, as implemented by DoD 5200.1-R, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(C) Investigative material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(2), and (k)(5) NGA is claiming the following exemptions for certain records within the Threat Mitigation Records system: 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1), (2), (3), (4)(G) through (I), (5), and (8); (f), and (g). Additionally, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) and (k)(2), NGA has exempted this system from the following provisions of the Privacy Act, subject to the limitation set forth in 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d); (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I); and (f). Exemptions from these particular subsections are justified, on a case-by-case basis to be determined at the time a request is made.
(B) In addition to records under the control of NGA, the Threat Mitigation system of records may include records originating from systems of records of other law enforcement and intelligence agencies which may be exempt from certain provisions of the Privacy Act. However, NGA does not assert exemption to any provisions of the Privacy Act with respect to information submitted by or on behalf of individuals.
(C) To the extent the Threat Mitigation system contains records originating from other systems of records, NGA will rely on the exemptions claimed for those records in the originating system of records. Exemptions for certain records within the Threat Mitigation system from particular subsections of the Privacy Act are justified for the following reasons:
(
1
) From subsection (c)(3) (Accounting for Disclosures) because giving a record subject access to the accounting of disclosures from records concerning him or her could reveal investigative interest on the part of the recipient agency that obtained the record pursuant to a routine use. Disclosure of the accounting could therefore present a serious impediment to law enforcement efforts on the part of the recipient agency because the individual who is the subject of the record would learn of third agency investigative interests and could take steps to evade detection or apprehension. Disclosure of the accounting also could reveal the details of watch list matching measures under the Threat Mitigation system, as well as capabilities and vulnerabilities of the watch list matching process, the release of which could permit an individual to evade future detection and thereby impede efforts to ensure security.
(
2
) From subsection (c)(4) because portions of this system are exempt from the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d).
(
3
) From subsection (d) (Access to Records) because access to the records contained in this system of records could inform the subject of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal, civil, or regulatory violation to the existence of that investigation and reveal investigative interest on the part of Department of Homeland Security or another agency. Access to the records could permit the individual who is the subject of a record to impede the investigation, to tamper with witnesses or evidence, and to avoid detection or apprehension. Amendment of the records could interfere with ongoing investigations and law enforcement activities and would impose an unreasonable administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continually reinvestigated. In addition, permitting access and amendment to such information could disclose security sensitive information that could be detrimental to national security.
(
4
) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible for NGA or other agencies to know in advance what information is both relevant and necessary for it to complete an identity comparison between individuals and a known or suspected terrorist. In addition, because NGA and other agencies
may not always know what information about an encounter with a known or suspected terrorist will be relevant to law enforcement for the purpose of conducting an operational response.
(
5
) From subsection (e)(2) because application of this provision could present a serious impediment to counterterrorism, law enforcement, or intelligence efforts in that it would put the subject of an investigation, study or analysis on notice of that fact, thereby permitting the subject to engage in conduct designed to frustrate or impede that activity. The nature of counterterrorism, law enforcement, or intelligence investigations is such that vital information about an individual frequently can be obtained only from other persons who are familiar with such individual and his/her activities. In such investigations, it is not feasible to rely upon information furnished by the individual concerning his own activities.
(
6
) From subsection (e)(3), to the extent that this subsection is interpreted to require NGA to provide notice to an individual if NGA or another agency receives or collects information about that individual during an investigation or from a third party. Should the subsection be so interpreted, exemption from this provision is necessary to avoid impeding counterterrorism, law enforcement, or intelligence efforts by putting the subject of an investigation, study or analysis on notice of that fact, thereby permitting the subject to engage in conduct intended to frustrate or impede that activity.
(
7
) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) and (I) (Agency Requirements) and (f) (Agency Rules), because this system is exempt from the access provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d).
(
8
) From subsection (e)(5) because many of the records in this system coming from other system of records are derived from other agency record systems and therefore it is not possible for NGA to ensure their compliance with this provision, however, NGA has implemented internal quality assurance procedures to ensure that data used in the matching process is as thorough, accurate, and current as possible. In addition, in the collection of information for law enforcement, counterterrorism, and intelligence purposes, it is impossible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light. The restrictions imposed by (e)(5) would limit the ability of those agencies' trained investigators and intelligence analysts to exercise their judgment in conducting investigations and impede the development of intelligence necessary for effective law enforcement and counterterrorism efforts. However, NGA has implemented internal quality assurance procedures to ensure that the data used in the matching process is as thorough, accurate, and current as possible.
(
9
) From subsection (e)(8) because to require individual notice of disclosure of information due to compulsory legal process would pose an impossible administrative burden on NGA and other agencies and could alert the subjects of counterterrorism, law enforcement, or intelligence investigations to the fact of those investigations when not previously known.
(
10
) From subsection (f) (Agency Rules) because portions of this system are exempt from the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d).
(
11
) From subsection (g) to the extent that the system is exempt from other specific subsections of the Privacy Act.
(3)
System identifier and name.
NGA-003, National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency Enterprise Workforce System.
(i)
Exemption.
Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information exempt to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(3)(
i

# ).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained
in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a (k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), the Director of NGA has exempted this system from the following provisions of the Privacy Act, subject to the limitation set forth in 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d); (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I); and (f). Exemptions from these particular subsections are justified, on a case-by-case basis to be determined at the time a request is made, for the following reasons:
(A) From subsection (c)(3) and (c)(4) (Accounting for Disclosures) because release of the accounting of disclosures could alert the subject of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal, civil, or regulatory violation to the existence of that investigation and reveal investigative interest on the part of NGA as well as the recipient agency. Disclosure of the accounting would therefore present a serious impediment to law enforcement efforts and/or efforts to preserve national security. Disclosure of the accounting would also permit the individual who is the subject of a record to impede the investigation, to tamper with witnesses or evidence, and to avoid detection or apprehension, which would undermine the entire investigative process.
(B) From subsection (d) (Access to Records) because access to the records contained in this system of records could inform the subject of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal, civil, or regulatory violation to the existence of that investigation and reveal investigative interest on the part of NGA or another agency. Access to the records could permit the individual who is the subject of a record to impede the investigation, to tamper with witnesses or evidence, and to avoid detection or apprehension. Amendment of the records could interfere with ongoing investigations and law enforcement activities and would impose an unreasonable administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continually reinvestigated. In addition, permitting access and amendment to such information could disclose security-sensitive information that could be detrimental to homeland security.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) (Relevancy and Necessity of Information) because in the course of investigations into potential violations of Federal law, the accuracy of information obtained or introduced occasionally may be unclear, or the information may not be strictly relevant or necessary to a specific investigation. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is appropriate to retain all information that may aid in establishing patterns of unlawful activity.
(D) From subsection (e)(2) (Collection of Information from Individuals) because requiring that information be collected from the subject of an investigation would alert the subject to the nature or existence of the investigation, thereby interfering with that investigation and related law enforcement activities.
(E) From subsection (e)(3) (Notice to Subjects) because providing such detailed information could impede law enforcement by compromising the existence of a confidential investigation or reveal the identity of witnesses or confidential informants.
(F) From subsections (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), and (e)(4)(I) (Agency Requirements) and (f) (Agency Rules), because portions of this system are exempt from the individual access provisions of subsection (d) for the reasons noted above, and therefore NGA is not required to establish requirements, rules, or procedures with respect to such access. Providing notice to individuals with respect to existence of records pertaining to them in the system of records or otherwise setting up procedures pursuant to which individuals may access and view records pertaining to themselves in the system would undermine investigative efforts and reveal the identities of witnesses, and potential witnesses, and confidential informants.
(G) From subsection (e)(5) (Collection of Information) because with the collection of information for law enforcement purposes, it is impossible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. Compliance with subsection (e)(5) would preclude NGA personnel from using their investigative training
and exercise of good judgment to both conduct and report on investigations.
(H) From subsection (e)(8) (Notice on Individuals) because compliance would interfere with NGA's ability to cooperate with law enforcement who would obtain, serve, and issue subpoenas, warrants, and other law enforcement mechanisms that may be filed under seal and could result in disclosure of investigative techniques, procedures, and evidence.
(I) From subsection (g)(1) (Civil Remedies) to the extent that the system is exempt from other specific subsections of the Privacy Act.
(4)
System identifier and name.
NGA-008, National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency Polygraph Records System.
(i)
Exemption.
Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information exempt to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(4)(
i

# ).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), the Director of NGA has exempted this system from the following provisions of the Privacy Act, subject to the limitation set forth in 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d); (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I); and (f). Exemptions from these particular subsections are justified, on a case-by-case basis to be determined at the time a request is made, for the following reasons:
(A) From subsection (c)(3) and (c)(4) (Accounting for Disclosures) because release of the accounting of disclosures could alert the subject of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal, civil, or regulatory violation to the existence of that investigation and reveal investigative interest on the part of NGA as well as the recipient agency. Disclosure of the accounting would therefore present a serious impediment to law enforcement efforts and/or efforts to preserve national security. Disclosure of the accounting would also permit the individual who is the subject of a record to impede the investigation, to tamper with witnesses or evidence, and to avoid detection or apprehension, which would undermine the entire investigative process.
(B) From subsection (d) (Access to Records) because access to the records contained in this system of records could inform the subject of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal, civil, or regulatory violation to the existence of that investigation and reveal investigative interest on the part of NGA or another agency. Access to the records could permit the individual who is the subject of a record to impede the investigation, to tamper with witnesses or evidence, and to avoid detection or apprehension. Amendment of the records could interfere with ongoing investigations and law enforcement activities and would impose an unreasonable administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continually reinvestigated. In addition, permitting access and amendment to such information could disclose security-sensitive information that could be detrimental to homeland security.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) (Relevancy and Necessity of Information) because in the course of investigations into potential violations of Federal law, the accuracy of information obtained or introduced occasionally may be unclear, or the information may not be strictly relevant or necessary to a specific investigation. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is appropriate to retain all information that may aid in establishing patterns of unlawful activity.
(D) From subsection (e)(2) (Collection of Information from Individuals) because requiring that information be collected from the subject of an investigation would alert the subject to the nature or existence of the investigation, thereby interfering with that investigation and related law enforcement activities.
(E) From subsection (e)(3) (Notice to Subjects) because providing such detailed information could impede law enforcement by compromising the existence of a confidential investigation or reveal the identity of witnesses or confidential informants.
(F) From subsections (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), and (e)(4)(I) (Agency Requirements) and (f) (Agency Rules), because portions of this system are exempt from the individual access provisions of subsection (d) for the reasons noted above, and therefore NGA is not required to establish requirements, rules, or procedures with respect to such access. Providing notice to individuals with respect to existence of records pertaining to them in the system of records or otherwise setting up procedures pursuant to which individuals may access and view records pertaining to themselves in the system would undermine investigative efforts and reveal the identities of witnesses, and potential witnesses, and confidential informants.
(G) From subsection (e)(5) (Collection of Information) because with the collection of information for law enforcement purposes, it is impossible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. Compliance with subsection (e)(5) would preclude NGA personnel from using their investigative training and exercise of good judgment to both conduct and report on investigations.
(H) From subsection (e)(8) (Notice on Individuals) because compliance would interfere with NGA's ability to cooperate with law enforcement who would obtain, serve, and issue subpoenas, warrants, and other law enforcement mechanisms that may be filed under seal and could result in disclosure of investigative techniques, procedures, and evidence.
(I) From subsection (g)(1) (Civil Remedies) to the extent that the system is exempt from other specific subsections of the Privacy Act.
(5)
System identifier and name.
NGA-010, National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency Security Financial Disclosure Reporting Records System.
(i)
Exemption.
Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information exempt to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source. When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions. Investigative material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), and (k)(5) the Director of NGA has exempted this system from the following provisions of the Privacy Act, subject to the limitation set forth in 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d); (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I); and (f). Exemptions from these particular subsections are justified, on a case-by-case basis to be determined at the time a request is made, for the following reasons:
(A) From subsection (c)(3) (Accounting for Disclosures) because release of the accounting of disclosures could alert the subject of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal, civil, or regulatory violation to the existence of that investigation and reveal investigative interest on the part of NGA as well as the recipient agency. Disclosure of the accounting would therefore present a serious impediment to law enforcement efforts and/or efforts to preserve national security. Disclosure of the accounting would also permit the individual who is the subject of a record to impede the investigation, to tamper with witnesses or evidence, and to avoid detection or apprehension, which would undermine the entire investigative process. Analyst case notes
will be kept separate from the individual's data submission. Those case notes will contain investigative case leads and summaries, sensitive processes, evidence gathered from external sources and potential referrals to law enforcement agencies.
(B) From subsection (d) (Access to Records) because access to the records contained in this system of records could inform the subject of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal, civil, or regulatory violation to the existence of that investigation and reveal investigative interest on the part of NGA or another agency. Access to the records could permit the individual who is the subject of a record to impede the investigation, to tamper with witnesses or evidence, and to avoid detection or apprehension. Amendment of the records could interfere with ongoing investigations and law enforcement activities and would impose an unreasonable administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continually reinvestigated. In addition, permitting access and amendment to such information could disclose security-sensitive information that could be detrimental to homeland security.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) (Relevancy and Necessity of Information) because in the course of investigations into potential violations of Federal law, the accuracy of information obtained or introduced occasionally may be unclear, or the information may not be strictly relevant or necessary to a specific investigation. In the interests of effective law enforcement, it is appropriate to retain all information that may aid in establishing patterns of unlawful activity.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), and (e)(4)(I) (Agency Requirements) and (f) (Agency Rules), because portions of this system are exempt from the individual access provisions of subsection (d) for the reasons noted above, and therefore NGA is not required to establish requirements, rules, or procedures with respect to such access. Providing notice to individuals with respect to existence of records pertaining to them in the system of records or otherwise setting up procedures pursuant to which individuals may access and view records pertaining to themselves in the system would undermine investigative efforts and reveal the identities of witnesses, and potential witnesses, and confidential informants.
§ 310.25
National Guard Bureau (NGB) exemptions.
(a)
General information.
There are two types of exemptions, general and specific. The general exemption authorizes the exemption of a SOR from all but a few requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a. The specific exemption authorizes exemption of a SOR or portion thereof, from only a few specific requirements. If a new SOR originates for which an exemption is proposed, or an additional or new exemption for an existing SOR is proposed, the exemption shall be submitted with the SORN. No exemption of a SOR shall be considered automatic for all records in the system. The System Manager shall review each requested records and apply the exemptions only when this will serve significant and legitimate purpose of the Federal Government.
(b)
Exemption for classified material.
All SOR maintained by the NGB shall be exempt under section (k)(1) of 5 U.S.C. 552a to the extent that the systems contain any information properly classified under Executive Order 13526 and that is required by that Executive Order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy. This exemption is applicable to parts of all systems of records including those not otherwise specifically designated for exemptions herein which contain isolated items of properly classified information.
(c)
Exemption for anticipation of a civil action or proceeding.
All systems of records maintained by the NGB shall be exempt under section (d)(5) of 5 U.S.C. 552a, to the extent that the record is compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding.
(d)
General exemptions.
No SOR within the NGB shall be considered exempt under subsection (j) or (k) of 5 U.S.C. 552a until the exemption rule for the SOR has been published as a final rule in the FR.
(e)
Specific exemptions.
(1) [Reserved]
(2)
System identifier and name.
INGB 005, Special Investigation Reports and Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
e

# )(2)(
i

# ).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a SOR used in personnel or administrative actions. Any portion of this SOR which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a: (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) of 5 U.S.C. 552a because to grant access to the accounting for each disclosure as required by 5 U.S.C. 552a, including the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure and the identity of the recipient, could alert the subject to the existence of the investigation. This could seriously compromise case preparation by prematurely revealing its existence and nature; compromise or interfere with witnesses or make witnesses reluctant to cooperate; and lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) of 5 U.S.C. 552a because providing access to investigative records and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under 5 U.S.C. 552a would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) of 5 U.S.C. 552a because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) of 5 U.S.C. 552a because this SOR is compiled for investigative purposes and is exempt from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) of 5 U.S.C. 552a because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
[84 FR 14730, Apr. 11, 2019, 88 FR 42236, June 30, 2023]
§ 310.26
National Reconnaissance Office (NRO) exemptions.
(a) All systems of records maintained by the NRO shall be exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) to the extent that the system contains any information properly classified under Executive Order 12958 and which is required by the Executive Order to be withheld in the interest of national defense of foreign policy. This exemption, which may be applicable to parts of all systems of records, is necessary because certain record systems not otherwise specifically designated for exemptions herein may contain items of information that have been properly classified.
(b) No system of records within the NRO shall be considered exempt under subsection (j) or (k) of the Privacy Act until the exemption and the exemption
rule for the system of records has been published as a final rule in the
Federal Register
.
(c) An individual is not entitled to have access to any information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding (5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(5)).
(d) Proposals to exempt a system of records will be forwarded to the Defense Privacy Office, consistent with the requirements of this part, for review and action.
(1)
System identifier and name.
QNRO-23, Counterintelligence Issue Files.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and/or (k)(5) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H) and (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because to grant access to the accounting for each disclosure as required by the Privacy Act, including the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure and the identity of the recipient, could alert the subject to the identity of the recipient, could alert the subject to the existence of the investigation or prosecutable interest by NRO or other agencies. This could seriously compromise case preparation by prematurely revealing its existence and nature; compromise or interfere with witnesses or make witnesses reluctant to cooperate; and lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence.
(B) From subsections (d)(1) through (d)(4), and (f) because providing access to records of a civil or administrative investigation and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because this system of records is compiled for law enforcement purposes and is exempt from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. NRO will, nevertheless, continue to publish such a notice in broad generic terms as is its current practice.
(F) Consistent with the legislative purpose of the Privacy Act of 1974, the NRO will grant access to nonexempt
material in the records being maintained. Disclosure will be governed by NRO's Privacy Regulation, but will be limited to the extent that the identity of confidential sources will not be compromised; subjects of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal violation will not be alerted to the investigation; the physical safety of witnesses, informants and law enforcement personnel will not be endangered, the privacy of third parties will not be violated; and that the disclosure would not otherwise impede effective law enforcement. Whenever possible, information of the above nature will be deleted from the requested documents and the balance made available. The controlling principle behind this limited access is to allow disclosures except those indicated above. The decisions to release information from these systems will be made on a case-by-case basis.
(2)
System identifier and name.
QNRO-10, Inspector General Investigative Files.
(i)
Exemption.
This system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) if the information is compiled and maintained by a component of the agency which performs as its principle function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. Any portion of this system which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of accounting of disclosure would inform a subject that he or she is under investigation. This information would provide considerable advantage to the subject in providing him or her with knowledge concerning the nature of the investigation and the coordinated investigative efforts and techniques employed by the cooperating agencies. This would greatly impede the NRO IG's criminal law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (c)(4) and (d), because notification would alert a subject to the fact that an open investigation on that individual is taking place, and might weaken the on-going investigation, reveal investigative techniques, and place confidential informants in jeopardy.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because the nature of the criminal and/or civil investigative function creates unique problems in prescribing a specific parameter in a particular case with respect to what information is relevant or necessary. Also, due to NRO IG's close liaison and working relationships with other Federal, state, local and foreign country law enforcement agencies, information may be received which may relate to a case under the investigative jurisdiction of another agency. The maintenance of this information may be necessary to provide leads for appropriate law enforcement purposes and to establish patterns of activity, which may relate to the jurisdiction of other cooperating agencies.
(D) From subsection (e)(2) because collecting information to the fullest extent possible directly from the subject individual may or may not be practical in a criminal and/or civil investigation.
(E) From subsection (e)(3) because supplying an individual with a form containing a Privacy Act Statement would tend to inhibit cooperation by many individuals involved in a criminal and/or civil investigation. The effect would be somewhat adverse to established investigative methods and techniques.
(F) From subsection (e)(4) (G) through (I) because this system of records is exempt from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(G) From subsection (e)(5) because the requirement that records be maintained with attention to accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness would unfairly hamper the investigative process. It is the nature of law enforcement for investigations to uncover the commission of illegal acts at diverse stages. It is frequently impossible to determine initially what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and least of all complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light.
(H) From subsection (e)(8) because the notice requirements of this provision could present a serious impediment to law enforcement by revealing investigative techniques, procedures, and existence of confidential investigations.
(I) From subsection (f) because the agency's rules are inapplicable to those portions of the system that are exempt and would place the burden on the agency of either confirming or denying the existence of a record pertaining to a requesting individual might in itself provide an answer to that individual relating to an on-going investigation. The conduct of a successful investigation leading to the indictment of a criminal offender precludes the applicability of established agency rules relating to verification of record, disclosure of the record to that individual, and record amendment procedures for this record system.
(J) From subsection (g) because this system of records should be exempt to the extent that the civil remedies relate to provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a from which this rule exempts the system.
(iv)
Exemption.
(A) Investigative material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection (j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Investigative material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and/or (k)(5) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H) and (I), and (f).
(v)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5).
(vi)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because to grant access to the accounting for each disclosure as required by the Privacy Act, including the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure and the identity of the recipient, could alert the subject to the existence of the investigation or prosecutable interest by the NRO or other agencies. This could seriously compromise case preparation by prematurely revealing its existence and nature; compromise or interfere with witnesses or make witnesses reluctant to cooperate; and lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because providing access to investigative records and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because this system of records is compiled for investigative purposes and is exempt from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. NRO will, nevertheless, continue to publish such a notice in broad generic terms as is its current practice.
(F) Consistent with the legislative purpose of the Privacy Act of 1974, the NRO will grant access to nonexempt material in the records being maintained. Disclosure will be governed by NRO's Privacy Regulation, but will be limited to the extent that the identity of confidential sources will not be compromised; subjects of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal or civil violation will not be alerted to the investigation; the physical safety of witnesses, informants and law enforcement personnel will not be endangered, the privacy of third parties will not be violated; and that the disclosure would not otherwise impede effective law enforcement. Whenever possible, information of the above nature will be deleted from the requested documents and the balance made available. The controlling principle behind this limited access is to allow disclosures except those indicated above. The decisions to release information from these systems will be made on a case-by-case basis.
(3)
System identifier and name.
QNRO-15, Facility Security Files.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigative material compiled for law enforcement purposes may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Investigative material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and/or (k)(5) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H) and (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because to grant access to the accounting for each disclosure as required by the Privacy Act, including the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure and the identity of the recipient, could alert the subject to the existence of the investigation or prosecutable interest by the NRO or other agencies. This could seriously compromise case preparation by prematurely revealing its existence and nature; compromise or interfere with witnesses or make witnesses reluctant to cooperate; and lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence.
(B) From subsections (d)(1) through (d)(4), and (f) because providing access to investigative records and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only
after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because this system of records is compiled for investigative purposes and is exempt from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. NRO will, nevertheless, continue to publish such a notice in broad generic terms as is its current practice.
(F) Consistent with the legislative purpose of the Privacy Act of 1974, the NRO will grant access to nonexempt material in the records being maintained. Disclosure will be governed by NRO's Privacy Regulation, but will be limited to the extent that the identity of confidential sources will not be compromised; subjects of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal or civil violation will not be alerted to the investigation; the physical safety of witnesses, informants and law enforcement personnel will not be endangered; the privacy of third parties will not be violated; and that the disclosure would not otherwise impede effective law enforcement. Whenever possible, information of the above nature will be deleted from the requested documents and the balance made available. The controlling principle behind this limited access is to allow disclosures except those indicated above. The decisions to release information from these systems will be made on a case-by-case basis.
(4)
System identifier and name.
QNRO-19, Customer Security Services Personnel Security Files.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and/or (k)(5) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H) and (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because to grant access to the accounting for each disclosure as required by the Privacy Act, including the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure and the identity of the recipient, could alert the subject to the existence of the investigation or prosecutable interest by the NRO or other agencies. This could seriously compromise case preparation by prematurely revealing its existence and nature; compromise or interfere with witnesses or make witnesses reluctant to cooperate; and lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence.
(B) From subsections (d)(1) through (d)(4), and (f) because providing access to investigatory records and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of
the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because this system of records is compiled for investigatory purposes and is exempt from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. NRO will, nevertheless, continue to publish such a notice in broad generic terms as is its current practice.
(F) Consistent with the legislative purpose of the Privacy Act of 1974, the NRO will grant access to nonexempt material in the records being maintained. Disclosure will be governed by NRO's Privacy Regulation, but will be limited to the extent that the identity of confidential sources will not be compromised; subjects of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal or civil violation will not be alerted to the investigation; the physical safety of witnesses, informants and law enforcement personnel will not be endangered; the privacy of third parties will not be violated; and that the disclosure would not otherwise impede effective law enforcement. Whenever possible, information of the above nature will be deleted from the requested documents and the balance made available. The controlling principle behind this limited access is to allow disclosures except those indicated in this paragraph. The decisions to release information from these systems will be made on a case-by-case basis.
(5)
System identifier and name.
NRO-21, Personnel Security Files.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Therefore, portions of this system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and/or (k)(5) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H) and (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because to grant access to the accounting for each disclosure as required by the Privacy Act, including the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure and the identity of the recipient, could alert the subject to the existence of the investigation or prosecutable interest by the NRO or other agencies. This could seriously compromise case preparation by prematurely revealing its existence and nature; compromise or interfere with witnesses or make witnesses reluctant to cooperate; and lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence.
(B) From subsections (d)(1) through (d)(4), and (f) because providing access to records of a civil or administrative investigation and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly
and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because this system of records is compiled for law enforcement purposes and is exempt from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. NRO will, nevertheless, continue to publish such a notice in broad generic terms as is its current practice.
(F) Consistent with the legislative purpose of the Privacy Act of 1974, the NRO will grant access to nonexempt material in the records being maintained. Disclosure will be governed by NRO's Privacy Regulation, but will be limited to the extent that the identity of confidential sources will not be compromised; subjects of an investigation of an actual or potential criminal violation will not be alerted to the investigation; the physical safety of witnesses, informants and law enforcement personnel will not be endangered; the privacy of third parties will not be violated; and that the disclosure would not otherwise impede effective law enforcement. Whenever possible, information of the above nature will be deleted from the requested documents and the balance made available. The controlling principle behind this limited access is to allow disclosures except those indicated above. The decisions to release information from these systems will be made on a case-by-case basis.
(6)
System identifier and name.
QNRO-4, Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act Files.
(i)
Exemption.
During the processing of a Freedom of Information Act/Privacy Act request, exempt materials from other systems of records may in turn become part of the case record in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those “other” systems of records are entered into this system, the NRO hereby claims the same exemptions for the records from those “other” systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the original primary system of which they are a part.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2), (k)(3), (k)(4), (k)(5), (k)(6), and (k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
Records are only exempt from pertinent provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a to the extent such provisions have been identified and an exemption claimed for the original record and the purposes underlying the exemption for the original record still pertain to the record which is now contained in this system of records. In general, the exemptions were claimed in order to protect properly classified information relating to national defense and foreign policy, to avoid interference during the conduct of criminal, civil, or administrative actions or investigations, to ensure protective services provided the President and others are not compromised, to protect the identity of confidential sources incident to Federal employment, military service, contract, and security clearance determinations, and to preserve the confidentiality and integrity of Federal evaluation materials. The exemption rule for the original records will identify the specific reasons why the records are exempt from specific provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a.
(7)
System identifier and name.
QNRO-27, Legal Records.
(i)
Exemption.
Any portion of this system of records which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a (k)(2) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because to grant access to the accounting for each disclosure as required by the Privacy Act, including the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure and the identity of the recipient, could alert the subject to the existence of the investigation. This could seriously compromise case preparation by prematurely revealing its existence and nature; compromise or interfere with witnesses or make witnesses reluctant to cooperate; and lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because providing access to investigative records and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because this system of records is compiled for investigative purposes and is exempt from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
[84 FR 14730, Apr. 11, 2019; 84 FR 16210, Apr. 18, 2019]
§ 310.27
National Security Agency (NSA) exemptions.
(a)
General exemption.
The general exemption established by 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) may be claimed to protect investigative records created and maintained by law enforcement activities of the NSA.
(b)
Specific exemptions.
The specific exemptions permit certain categories of records to be exempt from certain specific provisions of the Privacy Act.
(1)
Exemption (k)(1).
Information properly classified under Executive Order 12958 and that is required by Executive Order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy.
(2)
Exemption (k)(2).
Investigatory information compiled for law-enforcement purposes by non-law enforcement activities and which is not within the scope of § 310.51(a). If an individual is denied any right, privilege or benefit that he or she is otherwise entitled by federal law or for which he or she would otherwise be eligible as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source. This subsection when claimed allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions.
(3)
Exemption (k)(3).
Records maintained in connection with providing protective services to the President and other individuals identified under 18 U.S.C. 3506.
(4)
Exemption (k)(4).
Records maintained solely for statistical research or program evaluation purposes and which are not used to make decisions on the rights, benefits, or entitlement of an individual except for census records which may be disclosed under 13 U.S.C. 8.
(5)
Exemption (k)(5).
Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information, but only to the extent such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source. This provision allows protection of confidential sources used in background investigations, employment inquiries, and similar inquiries that are for personnel screening to determine suitability, eligibility, or qualifications.
(6)
Exemption (k)(6).
Testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the federal or military service, if the disclosure would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the test or examination process.
(7)
Exemption (k)(7).
Evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the Military Services, but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(c) All systems of records maintained by the NSA/CSS and its components shall be exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) to the extent that the system contains any information properly classified under Executive Order 12958 and that is required by Executive Order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy. This exemption is applicable to parts of all systems of records including those not otherwise specifically designated for exemptions herein, which contain isolated items of properly classified information.
(1)
System identifier and name.
GNSA 01, Access, Authority and Release of Information File.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Therefore, portions of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), and (e)(1).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) and (d) when access to accounting disclosures and access to or amendment of records would cause the identity of a confidential sources to be revealed. Disclosure of the source's identity not only will result in the Department breaching the promise of confidentiality made to the source but it will impair the Department's future ability to compile investigatory material for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, Federal contracts, or access to classified information. Unless sources can be assured that a promise of confidentiality will be honored, they will be less likely to provide information considered essential to the Department in making the required determinations.
(B) From (e)(1) because in the collection of information for investigatory purposes, it is not always possible to determine the relevance and necessity of particular information in the early stages of the investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other information that its relevance and necessity becomes clear. Such information permits more informed decision-making by the Department when making required suitability, eligibility, and qualification determinations.
(2)
System identifier and name.
GNSA 02, Applicants.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent
that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Therefore, portions of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), and (e)(1).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) and (d) when access to accounting disclosures and access to or amendment of records would cause the identity of a confidential source to be revealed. Disclosure of the source's identity not only will result in the Department breaching the promise of confidentiality made to the source but it will impair the Department's future ability to compile investigatory material for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, Federal contracts, or access to classified information. Unless sources can be assured that a promise of confidentiality will be honored, they will be less likely to provide information considered essential to the Department in making the required determinations.
(B) From (e)(1) because in the collection of information for investigatory purposes, it is not always possible to determine the relevance and necessity of particular information in the early stages of the investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other information that its relevance and necessity becomes clear. Such information permits more informed decision-making by the Department when making required suitability, eligibility, and qualification determinations.
(3)
System identifier and name.
GNSA 03, Correspondence, Cases, Complaints, Visitors, Requests.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information exempt to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(3)(
i

# )(A).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions.
(B) Records maintained solely for statistical research or program evaluation purposes and which are not used to make decisions on the rights, benefits, or entitlement of an individual except for census records which may be disclosed under 13 U.S.C. 8, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4).
(C) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(D) All portions of this system of records which fall within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), (k)(4), and (k)(5) may be exempt from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I) and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), (k)(4), and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would place the subject of an investigation on notice that they are under investigation and provide them with significant information concerning the nature of the investigation, thus resulting in a serious impediment to law enforcement investigations.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because providing access to records of a civil or administrative investigation and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression,
alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because there is no necessity for such publication since the system of records will be exempt from the underlying duties to provide notification about and access to information in the system and to make amendments to and corrections of the information in the system.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. NSA will, nevertheless, continue to publish such a notice in broad generic terms, as is its current practice.
(4)
System identifier and name.
GNSA 04, Military Reserve Personnel Data Base.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Therefore, portions of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), and (e)(1).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) and (d) when access to accounting disclosures and access to or amendment of records would cause the identity of a confidential sources to be revealed. Disclosure of the source's identity not only will result in the Department breaching the promise of confidentiality made to the source but it will impair the Department's future ability to compile investigatory material for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, Federal contracts, or access to classified information. Unless sources can be assured that a promise of confidentiality will be honored, they will be less likely to provide information considered essential to the Department in making the required determinations.
(B) From (e)(1) because in the collection of information for investigatory purposes, it is not always possible to determine the relevance and necessity of particular information in the early stages of the investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other information that its relevance and necessity becomes clear. Such information permits more informed decision-making by the Department when making required suitability, eligibility, and qualification determinations.
(5)
System identifier and name.
GNSA 05, Equal Employment Opportunity Data.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information exempt to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(5)(
i

# )(A).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions.
(B) Records maintained solely for statistical research or program evaluation purposes and which are not used to make decisions on the rights, benefits, or entitlement of an individual except for census records which may be disclosed under 13 U.S.C. 8, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4).
(C) All portions of this system of records which fall within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(4) may be exempt from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I) and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(4).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would place the subject of an investigation on notice that they are under investigation and provide them with significant information concerning the nature of the investigation, thus resulting in a serious impediment to law enforcement investigations.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because providing access to records of a civil or administrative investigation and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because there is no necessity for such publication since the system of records will be exempt from the underlying duties to provide notification about and access to information in the system and to make amendments to and corrections of the information in the system.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. NSA will, nevertheless, continue to publish such a notice in broad generic terms, as is its current practice.
(6)
System identifier and name.
GNSA 06, Health, Medical and Safety Files.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6), if the disclosure would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the test or examination process.
(C) All portions of this system of records which fall within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) and (k)(6) may be exempt from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I) and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) and (k)(6).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would place the subject of an investigation on notice that they are under investigation and provide them with significant information
concerning the nature of the investigation, thus resulting in a serious impediment to law enforcement investigations.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because providing access to records of a civil or administrative investigation and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because there is no necessity for such publication since the system of records will be exempt from the underlying duties to provide notification about and access to information in the system and to make amendments to and corrections of the information in the system.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. NSA will, nevertheless, continue to publish such a notice in broad generic terms, as is its current practice.
(7)
System identifier and name.
GNSA 08, Payroll and Claims.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information exempt to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(7)(
i

# )(A).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions.
(B) All portions of this system of records which fall within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) may be exempt from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I) and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would place the subject of an investigation on notice that they are under investigation and provide them with significant information concerning the nature of the investigation, thus resulting in a serious impediment to law enforcement investigations.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because providing access to records of a civil or administrative investigation and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of
the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because there is no necessity for such publication since the system of records will be exempt from the underlying duties to provide notification about and access to information in the system and to make amendments to and corrections of the information in the system.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. NSA will, nevertheless, continue to publish such a notice in broad generic terms, as is its current practice.
(8)
System identifier and name.
GNSA 09, Personnel File.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6), if the disclosure would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the test or examination process.
(C) All portions of this system of records which fall within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) and (k)(6) may be exempt from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I) and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) and (k)(6).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would place the subject of an investigation on notice that they are under investigation and provide them with significant information concerning the nature of the investigation, thus resulting in a serious impediment to law enforcement investigations.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because providing access to records of a civil or administrative investigation and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because there is no necessity for such publication since the system of records will be exempt from the underlying duties to provide notification about and access to information in the system and to make amendments to and corrections of the information in the system.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. NSA will, nevertheless, continue to publish such a notice in broad generic terms, as is its current practice.
(9)
System identifier and name.
GNSA 10, Personnel Security File.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information exempt to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(9)(
i

# )(A).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions.
(B) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) Testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6), if the disclosure would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the test or examination process.
(D) All portions of this system of records which fall within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), (k)(5), and (k)(6) may be exempt from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I) and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), (k)(5), and (k)(6).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would place the subject of an investigation on notice that they are under investigation and provide them with significant information concerning the nature of the investigation, thus resulting in a serious impediment to law enforcement investigations.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because providing access to records of a civil or administrative investigation and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because there is no necessity for such publication since the system of records will be exempt from the underlying duties to provide notification about and access to information in the system and to make amendments to and corrections of the information in the system.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system
notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. NSA will, nevertheless, continue to publish such a notice in broad generic terms, as is its current practice.
(10)
System identifier and name.
GNSA 12, Training.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6), if the disclosure would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the test or examination process.
(C) All portions of this system of records which fall within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) and (k)(6) may be exempt from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I) and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), and (k)(6).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would place the subject of an investigation on notice that they are under investigation and provide them with significant information concerning the nature of the investigation, thus resulting in a serious impediment to law enforcement investigations.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because providing access to records of a civil or administrative investigation and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because there is no necessity for such publication since the system of records will be exempt from the underlying duties to provide notification about and access to information in the system and to make amendments to and corrections of the information in the system.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. NSA will, nevertheless, continue to publish such a notice in broad generic terms, as is its current practice.
(11)
System identifier and name.
GNSA 29 (General Exemption), NSA/CSS Office of Inspector General Investigations and Complaints.
(i)
Exemption.
Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if any individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information except to the extent
that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(11)(
i

# ).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions. Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) through (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) and (d) when access to accounting disclosures and access to or amendment of records would cause the identity of a confidential source to be revealed. Disclosure of the source's identity not only will result in the Department breaching the promise of confidentiality made to the source but it will impair the Department's future ability to compile investigatory material for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, Federal contracts, or access to classified information. Unless sources can be assured that a promise of confidentiality will be honored, they will be less likely to provide information considered essential to the Department in making the required determinations.
(B) From (e)(1) because in the collection of information for investigatory purposes, it is not always possible to determine the relevance and necessity of particular information in the early stages of the investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other information that its relevance and necessity becomes clear. Such information permits more informed decision-making by the Department when making required suitability, eligibility, and qualification determinations
(12)
System identifier and name.
GNSA 14, Library Patron File Control System.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Records maintained solely for statistical research or program evaluation purposes and which are not used to make decisions on the rights, benefits, or entitlement of an individual except for census records which may be disclosed under 13 U.S.C. 8, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4).
(B) All portions of this system of records which fall within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4) may be exempt from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I) and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would place the subject of an investigation on notice that they are under investigation and provide them with significant information concerning the nature of the investigation, thus resulting in a serious impediment to law enforcement investigations.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because providing access to records of a civil or administrative investigation and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because there is no necessity for such publication since the system of records will be exempt from the underlying duties to provide notification
about and access to information in the system and to make amendments to and corrections of the information in the system.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. NSA will, nevertheless, continue to publish such a notice in broad generic terms, as is its current practice.
(13)
System identifier and name.
GNSA 15, Computer Users Control System.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information exempt to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(13)(
i

# )(A).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions.
(B) All portions of this system of records which fall within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) may be exempt from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I) and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would place the subject of an investigation on notice that they are under investigation and provide them with significant information concerning the nature of the investigation, thus resulting in a serious impediment to law enforcement investigations.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because providing access to records of a civil or administrative investigation and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because there is no necessity for such publication since the system of records will be exempt from the underlying duties to provide notification about and access to information in the system and to make amendments to and corrections of the information in the system.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. NSA will, nevertheless, continue to publish such a notice in broad generic terms, as is its current practice.
(14)
System identifier and name.
GNSA 17, Employee Assistance Service (EAS) Case Record System.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2),
may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information exempt to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(14)(
i

# )(A).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions.
(B) Records maintained solely for statistical research or program evaluation purposes and which are not used to make decisions on the rights, benefits, or entitlement of an individual except for census records which may be disclosed under 13 U.S.C. 8, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4).
(C) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(D) All portions of this system of records which fall within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), (k)(4), and (k)(5) may be exempt from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I) and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), (k)(4), and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would place the subject of an investigation on notice that they are under investigation and provide them with significant information concerning the nature of the investigation, thus resulting in a serious impediment to law enforcement investigations.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because providing access to records of a civil or administrative investigation and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because there is no necessity for such publication since the system of records will be exempt from the underlying duties to provide notification about and access to information in the system and to make amendments to and corrections of the information in the system.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. NSA will, nevertheless, continue to publish such a notice in broad generic terms, as is its current practice.
(15)
System identifier and name.
GNSA 18, Operations Files.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he
would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information exempt to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(15)(
i

# )(A).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions.
(B) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(C) All portions of this system of records which fall within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5) may be exempt from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I) and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would place the subject of an investigation on notice that they are under investigation and provide them with significant information concerning the nature of the investigation, thus resulting in a serious impediment to law enforcement investigations.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because providing access to records of a civil or administrative investigation and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because there is no necessity for such publication since the system of records will be exempt from the underlying duties to provide notification about and access to information in the system and to make amendments and corrections to the information in the system.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. NSA will, nevertheless, continue to publish such a notice in broad generic terms, as is its current practice.
(16)
System identifier and name.
GNSA 20, NSA Police Operational Files.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information exempt to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(16)(
i

# )(A).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions.
(B) Records maintained solely for statistical research or program evaluation purposes and which are not used to make decisions on the rights, benefits, or entitlement of an individual except for census records which may be disclosed under 13 U.S.C. 8, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4).
(C) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(D) All portions of this system of records which fall within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), (k)(4), and (k)(5) may be exempt from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I) and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), (k)(4), and (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would place the subject of an investigation on notice that they are under investigation and provide them with significant information concerning the nature of the investigation, thus resulting in a serious impediment to law enforcement investigations.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because providing access to records of a civil or administrative investigation and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because this system of records is compiled for investigative purposes and is exempt from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(17) [Reserved]
(18)
System identifier and name.
GNSA 25, NSA/CSS Operations Travel Records.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information exempt to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(18)(
i

# )(A).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions.
(B) Records maintained solely for statistical research or program evaluation purposes and which are not used to make decisions on the rights, benefits, or entitlement of an individual except for census records which may be disclosed under 13 U.S.C. 8, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) (k)(4).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would place the subject of an investigation on notice that they are under investigation and provide them with significant information concerning the nature of the investigation, thus resulting in a serious impediment to law enforcement investigations.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because providing access to records of a civil or administrative investigation and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because this system of records is compiled for investigative purposes and is exempt from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(19)
System identifier and name.
GNSA 26, NSA/CSS Accounts Receivable, Indebtedness and Claims.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of the information, the individual will be provided access to the information exempt to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(19)(
i

# )(A).
When claimed, this exemption allows limited protection of investigative reports maintained in a system of records used in personnel or administrative actions.
(B) Records maintained solely for statistical research or program evaluation purposes and which are not used to make decisions on the rights, benefits, or entitlement of an individual except for census records which may be disclosed under 13 U.S.C. 8, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(4).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) (k)(4).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would place the subject of an investigation on notice that they are under investigation and provide them with significant information concerning the nature of the investigation, thus resulting in a serious impediment to law enforcement investigations.
(B) From subsections (d) and (f) because providing access to records of a civil or administrative investigation and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression,
alteration, or destruction of evidence; enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) because this system of records is compiled for investigative purposes and is exempt from the access provisions of subsections (d) and (f).
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants.
(20)
System identifier and name.
GNSA 28 (General Exemption), Freedom of Information Act, Privacy Act and Mandatory Declassification Review Records.
(i)
Exemption.
During the processing of letters and other correspondence to the National Security Agency/Central Security Service, exempt materials from other systems of records may in turn become part of the case record in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those “other” systems of records are entered into this system, the National Security Agency/Central Security Service hereby claims the same exemptions for the records from those “other” systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the original primary system of which they are a part.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) through (k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
During the course of a FOIA/Privacy Act and/or MDR action, exempt materials from other system of records may become part of the case records in this system of records. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those other systems of records are entered into these case records, NSA/CSS hereby claims the same exemptions for the records as claimed in the original primary system of records of which they are a part. The exemption rule for the original records will identify the specific reasons why the records are exempt from specific provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a.
§ 310.28
Office of the Inspector General (OIG) exemptions.
(a)
Exemption for classified records.
Any record in a system of records maintained by the Office of the Inspector General which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a: (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G) through (I) and (f) to the extent that a record system contains any record properly classified under Executive Order 12958 and that the record is required to be kept classified in the interest of national defense or foreign policy. This specific exemption rule, claimed by the Inspector General under authority of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), is applicable to all systems of records maintained, including those individually designated for an exemption herein as well as those not otherwise specifically designated for an exemption, which may contain isolated items of properly classified information.
(b) The Inspector General of the Department of Defense claims an exemption for the following record systems under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and (k)(1)-(k)(7) from certain indicated subsections of the Privacy Act of 1974. The exemptions may be invoked and exercised on a case-by-case basis by the Deputy Inspector General for Investigations or the Director, Communications and Congressional Liaison Office, and the Chief, Freedom of Information/Privacy Act Office, which serve as the Systems Program Managers. Exemptions will be exercised only when necessary for a specific, significant and legitimate reason connected with the purpose of the records system.
(c) No personal records releasable under the provisions of The Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) will be
withheld from the subject individual based on these exemptions.
(1)
System identifier and name.
CIG-04, Case Control System.
(i)
Exemption.
Any portion of this system which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a: (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G), (H), (I), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of accounting of disclosure would inform a subject that he or she is under investigation. This information would provide considerable advantage to the subject in providing him or her with knowledge concerning the nature of the investigation and the coordinated investigative efforts and techniques employed by the cooperating agencies. This would greatly impede OIG's criminal law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (c)(4) and (d), because notification would alert a subject to the fact that an open investigation on that individual is taking place, and might weaken the on-going investigation, reveal investigatory techniques, and place confidential informants in jeopardy.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because the nature of the criminal and/or civil investigative function creates unique problems in prescribing a specific parameter in a particular case with respect to what information is relevant or necessary. Also, due to OIG's close liaison and working relationships with other Federal, state, local and foreign country law enforcement agencies, information may be received which may relate to a case under the investigative jurisdiction of another agency. The maintenance of this information may be necessary to provide leads for appropriate law enforcement purposes and to establish patterns of activity which may relate to the jurisdiction of other cooperating agencies.
(D) From subsection (e)(2) because collecting information to the fullest extent possible directly from the subject individual may or may not be practical in a criminal and/or civil investigation.
(E) From subsection (e)(3) because supplying an individual with a form containing a Privacy Act Statement would tend to inhibit cooperation by many individuals involved in a criminal and/or civil investigation. The effect would be somewhat adverse to established investigative methods and techniques.
(F) From subsection (e)(4) (G) through (I) because this system of records is exempt from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(G) From subsection (e)(5) because the requirement that records be maintained with attention to accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness would unfairly hamper the investigative process. It is the nature of law enforcement for investigations to uncover the commission of illegal acts at diverse stages. It is frequently impossible to determine initially what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and least of all complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light.
(H) From subsection (e)(8) because the notice requirements of this provision could present a serious impediment to law enforcement by revealing investigative techniques, procedures, and existence of confidential investigations.
(I) From subsection (f) because the agency's rules are inapplicable to those portions of the system that are exempt and would place the burden on the agency of either confirming or denying the existence of a record pertaining to a requesting individual might in itself provide an answer to that individual relating to an on-going investigation. The conduct of a successful investigation leading to the indictment of a criminal offender precludes the applicability of established agency rules relating to verification of record, disclosure of the record to that individual, and record amendment procedures for this record system.
(J) For comparability with the exemption claimed from subsection (f), the civil remedies provisions of subsection (g) must be suspended for this record system. Because of the nature of criminal investigations, standards of
accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness cannot apply to this record system. Information gathered in an investigation is often fragmentary and leads relating to an individual in the context of one investigation may instead pertain to a second investigation.
(2)
System identifier and name.
CIG-06, Investigative Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Any portion of this system which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4) (G), (H), (I), (e)(5), (e)(8), (f), and (g).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of accounting of disclosure would inform a subject that he or she is under investigation. This information would provide considerable advantage to the subject in providing him or her with knowledge concerning the nature of the investigation and the coordinated investigative efforts and techniques employed by the cooperating agencies. This would greatly impede OIG's criminal law enforcement.
(B) From subsection (c)(4) and (d), because notification would alert a subject to the fact that an open investigation on that individual is taking place, and might weaken the on-going investigation, reveal investigatory techniques, and place confidential informants in jeopardy.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because the nature of the criminal and/or civil investigative function creates unique problems in prescribing a specific parameter in a particular case with respect to what information is relevant or necessary. Also, due to OIG's close liaison and working relationships with other Federal, state, local and foreign country law enforcement agencies, information may be received which may relate to a case under the investigative jurisdiction of another agency. The maintenance of this information may be necessary to provide leads for appropriate law enforcement purposes and to establish patterns of activity which may relate to the jurisdiction of other cooperating agencies.
(D) From subsection (e)(2) because collecting information to the fullest extent possible directly from the subject individual may or may not be practical in a criminal and/or civil investigation.
(E) From subsection (e)(3) because supplying an individual with a form containing a Privacy Act Statement would tend to inhibit cooperation by many individuals involved in a criminal and/or civil investigation. The effect would be somewhat adverse to established investigative methods and techniques.
(F) From subsection (e)(4) (G) through (I) because this system of records is exempt from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(G) From subsection (e)(5) because the requirement that records be maintained with attention to accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness would unfairly hamper the investigative process. It is the nature of law enforcement for investigations to uncover the commission of illegal acts at diverse stages. It is frequently impossible to determine initially what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and least of all complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light.
(H) From subsection (e)(8) because the notice requirements of this provision could present a serious impediment to law enforcement by revealing investigative techniques, procedures, and existence of confidential investigations.
(I) From subsection (f) because the agency's rules are inapplicable to those portions of the system that are exempt and would place the burden on the agency of either confirming or denying the existence of a record pertaining to a requesting individual might in itself provide an answer to that individual relating to an on-going investigation. The conduct of a successful investigation leading to the indictment of a criminal offender precludes the applicability of established agency rules relating to verification of record, disclosure of the record to that individual, and record amendment procedures for this record system.
(J) For comparability with the exemption claimed from subsection (f), the civil remedies provisions of subsection (g) must be suspended for this record system. Because of the nature of criminal investigations, standards of accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness cannot apply to this record system. Information gathered in an investigation is often fragmentary and leads relating to an individual in the context of one investigation may instead pertain to a second investigation.
(3)
System identifier and name.
CIG-15, Departmental Inquiries Case System.
(i)
Exemption.
Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). However, if an individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such information, the individual will be provided access to such information except to the extent that disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source. Any portions of this system which fall under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) may be exempt from the following subsection of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because disclosures from this system could interfere with the just, thorough and timely resolution of the compliant or inquiry, and possibly enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation by concealing, destroying or fabricating evidence or documents.
(B) From subsection (d) because disclosures from this system could interfere with the just thorough and timely resolution of the compliant or inquiry, and possibly enable individuals to conceal their wrongdoing or mislead the course of the investigation by concealing, destroying or fabricating evidence or documents. Disclosures could also subject sources and witnesses to harassment or intimidation which jeopardize the safety and well-being of themselves and their families.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because the nature of the investigation function creates unique problems in prescribing specific parameters in a particular case as to what information is relevant or necessary. Due to close liaison and working relationships with other Federal, state, local and foreign country law enforcement agencies, information may be received which may relate to a case under the investigative jurisdiction of another government agency. It is necessary to maintain this information in order to provide leads for appropriate law enforcement purposes and to establish patterns of activity which may relate to the jurisdiction of other cooperating agencies.
(D) From subsection (e)(4) (G) through (H) because this system of records is exempt from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(E) From subsection (f) because the agency's rules are inapplicable to those portions of the system that are exempt and would place the burden on the agency of either confirming or denying the existence of a record pertaining to a requesting individual might in itself provide an answer to that individual relating to an on-going investigation. The conduct of a successful investigation leading to the indictment of a criminal offender precludes the applicability of established agency rules relating to verification of record, disclosure of the record to that individual, and record amendment procedures for this record system.
(4)
System identifier and name.
CIG-16, Inspector General Administrative Investigation Records (IGAIR).
(i)
Exemptions.
This system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1); (e)(2); (e)(3); (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); (e)(5); (e)(8); (f) and (g) of the Privacy Act pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). This system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G) and (H); and (f) of the Privacy Act to the extent the records are subject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (k)(2), and (k)(5). This system of records is also exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(I) to the extent the records are subject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (k)(2), and (k)(5).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2) and (k)(5).
(iii)
Exemption from the particular subsections.
Exemption from the particular subsections is justified for the following reasons:
(A)
Subsections (c)(3), (d)(1), and (d)(2).
(
1
)
Exemption (j)(2).
Records in this system of records may contain investigatory material compiled for criminal law enforcement purposes, including information identifying criminal offenders and alleged offenders, information compiled for the purpose of criminal investigation, or reports compiled during criminal law enforcement proceedings. Application of exemption (j)(2) may be necessary because access to, amendment of, or release of the accounting of disclosures of such records could inform the record subject of an investigation of the existence, nature, or scope of an actual or potential law enforcement or disciplinary investigation, and thereby seriously impede law enforcement or prosecutorial efforts by permitting the record subject and other persons to whom he might disclose the records to avoid criminal penalties or disciplinary measures; reveal confidential sources who might not have otherwise come forward to assist in an investigation and thereby hinder DoD's ability to obtain information from future confidential sources; and result in an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others.
(
2
)
Exemption (k)(1).
Records in this system of records may contain information that is properly classified pursuant to executive order. Application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary because access to and amendment of the records, or release of the accounting of disclosures for such records, could reveal classified information. Disclosure of classified records to an individual may cause damage to national security.
(
3
)
Exemption (k)(2).
Records in this system of records may contain investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes other than material within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). Application of exemption (k)(2) may be necessary because access to, amendment of, or release of the accounting of disclosures of such records could: inform the record subject of an investigation of the existence, nature, or scope of an actual or potential law enforcement or disciplinary investigation, and thereby seriously impede law enforcement or prosecutorial efforts by permitting the record subject and other persons to whom he might disclose the records or the accounting of records to avoid criminal penalties, civil remedies, or disciplinary measures; interfere with a civil or administrative action or investigation which may impede those actions or investigations; reveal confidential sources who might not have otherwise come forward to assist in an investigation and thereby hinder DoD's ability to obtain information from future confidential sources; and result in an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others.
(
4
)
Exemption (k)(5).
Records in this system of records may contain information concerning investigatory material compiled solely for determining suitability, eligibility, and qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information. In some cases, such records may contain information pertaining to the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the source's identity would be held in confidence (or prior to the effective date of the Privacy Act, under an implied promise). Application of exemption (k)(5) may be necessary because access to, amendment of, or release of the accounting of disclosures of such records could identify these confidential sources who might not have otherwise come forward to assist the Government; hinder the Government's ability to obtain information from future confidential sources; and result in an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others. Amendment of such records could also impose a highly impracticable administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.
(B)
Subsection (c)(4), (d)(3) and (4).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent that an exemption is being claimed from subsections (d)(1) and (2). Accordingly, exemption from subsection (c)(4) is claimed pursuant to (j)(2) and exemptions from subsections (d)(3) and (d)(4) are claimed pursuant to (j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2), and (k)(5).
(C)
Subsection (e)(1).
In the collection of information for investigatory and law enforcement purposes it is not always possible to conclusively determine the relevance and necessity of particular information in the early stages of the investigation or adjudication. In some instances, it will be only after the collected information is evaluated in light of other information that its relevance and necessity for effective investigation and adjudication can be assessed. Collection of such information permits more informed decision-making by the Department when making required disciplinary and prosecutorial determinations. Additionally, records within this system may be properly classified pursuant to Executive order. Accordingly, application of exemptions (j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2), and (k)(5) may be necessary.
(D)
Subsection (e)(2).
To collect information from the subject individual could serve notice that he or she is the subject of a criminal investigation and thereby present a serious impediment to such investigations. Collection of information only from the individual accused of criminal activity or misconduct could also subvert discovery of relevant evidence and subvert the course of justice. Accordingly, application of exemption (j)(2) may be necessary.
(E)
Subsection (e)(3).
To inform individuals as required by this subsection could reveal the existence of a criminal investigation and compromise investigative efforts. Accordingly, application of exemption (j)(2) may be necessary.
(F)
Subsection (e)(4)(G) and (H).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent exemption is claimed from subsections (d)(1) and (2). Accordingly, application of exemptions (j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2), and (k)(5) may be necessary.
(G)
Subsection (e)(4)(I).
To the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. Accordingly, application of exemptions (j)(2), (k)(1), (k2), and (k)(5) may be necessary.
(H)
Subsection (e)(5).
It is often impossible to determine in advance if investigatory records contained in this system are accurate, relevant, timely and complete, but, in the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary to retain this information to maintain an accurate record of the investigatory activity to preserve the integrity of the investigation and satisfy various Constitutional and evidentiary requirements, such as mandatory disclosure of potentially exculpatory information in the investigative file to a defendant. It is also necessary to retain this information to aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide investigative leads. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light and the accuracy of such information can only be determined through judicial processes. Accordingly, application of exemption (j)(2) may be necessary.
(I)
Subsection (e)(8).
To serve notice of records being made available under compulsory legal process could give persons sufficient warning to evade investigative efforts. Accordingly, application of exemption (j)(2) may be necessary.
(J)
Subsection (f).
The agency's rules are inapplicable to those portions of the system that are exempt. Accordingly, application of exemptions (j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2) and (k)(5) may be necessary.
(K)
Subsection (g).
This subsection is inapplicable to the extent that the system is exempt from other specific subsections of the Privacy Act. Accordingly, an exemption from subsection (g) is claimed pursuant to (j)(2).
(iv)
Exempt records from other systems.
In the course of carrying out the overall purpose for this system, exempt records from other systems of records may in turn become part of the records maintained in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those other systems of records are maintained in this system, the DoD claims the same exemptions for the records from those other systems that are entered into this system, as
claimed for the prior system(s) of which they are a part, provided the reason for the exemption remains valid and necessary.
(5) [Reserved]
(6)
System identifier and name.
CIG-21, Congressional Correspondence Tracking System.
(i)
Exemption.
During the processing of a Congressional inquiry, exempt materials from other systems of records may in turn become part of the case record in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those “other” systems of records are entered into this system, the Inspector General, DoD, claims the same exemptions for the records from those “other” systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the original primary system of which they are a part.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2), (k)(3), (k)(4), (k)(5), (k)(6), and (k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
Records are only exempt from pertinent provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a to the extent such provisions have been identified and an exemption claimed for the original record and the purposes underlying the exemption for the original record still pertain to the record which is now contained in this system of records. In general, the exemptions were claimed in order to protect properly classified information relating to national defense and foreign policy, to avoid interference during the conduct of criminal, civil, or administrative actions or investigations, to ensure protective services provided the President and others are not compromised, to protect the identity of confidential sources incident to Federal employment, military service, contract, and security clearance determinations, to preserve the confidentiality and integrity of Federal testing materials, and to safeguard evaluation materials used for military promotions when furnished by a confidential source. The exemption rule for the original records will identify the specific reasons why the records are exempt from specific provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a.
(7)
System identifier and name.
CIG 23, Public Affairs Files.
(i)
Exemption.
During the course of processing a General Counsel action, exempt materials from other systems of records may in turn become part of the case records in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those `other' systems of records are entered into the Public Affairs Files, the Office of the Inspector General hereby claims the same exemptions for the records from those `other' systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the original primary systems of records which they are a part.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2), (k)(3), (k)(4), (k)(5), (k)(6), and (k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
Records are only exempt from pertinent provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a to the extent (A) such provisions have been identified and an exemption claimed for the original record and (B) the purposes underlying the exemption for the original record still pertain to the record which is now contained in this system of records. In general, the exemptions were claimed in order to protect properly classified information relating to national defense and foreign policy, to avoid interference during the conduct of criminal, civil, or administrative actions or investigations, to ensure protective services provided the President and others are not compromised, to protect the identity of confidential sources incident to Federal employment, military service, contract, and security clearance determinations, to preserve the confidentiality and integrity of Federal testing materials, and to safeguard evaluation materials used for military promotions when furnished by a confidential source. The exemption rule for the original records will identify the specific reasons why the records are exempt from specific provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a.
(8) [Reserved]
(9)
System identifier and name.
CIG-26, Case Control System-Investigative.
(i)
Exemption.
Any portion of this system which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a: (c)(3), (c)(4), (d), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4)(G) through (I), (e)(5),
(e)(8), and (g), as applicable. In addition, any portion of this system which falls within the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) or (k)(2) may be exempt from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a: (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G) through (I), as applicable. Exempted records from other systems of records may in-turn become part of the case record in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those `other' systems of records are entered into this system, the DoD OIG claims the same exemptions for the records from those `other' systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the original primary system of which they are a part. Records are only exempt from pertinent provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a to the extent such provisions have been identified and an exemption claimed for the original record and the purposes underlying the exemption for the original record still pertain to the record which is now contained in this system of records. The exemption rule for the original records will identify the specific reasons why the records are exempt from specific provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(1), and (k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsections (c)(3) and (c)(4) because making available to a record subject the accounting of disclosure of investigations concerning him or her would specifically reveal an investigative interest in the individual. Revealing this information would reasonably be expected to compromise open or closed administrative or criminal investigation efforts to a known or suspected offender by notifying the record subject that he or she is under investigation. This information could also prompt the record subject to take measures to impede the investigation,
e.g.,
destroy evidence, intimidate potential witnesses, or flee the area to avoid or impede the investigation.
(B) From subsection (d), because these provisions concern individual access to and amendment of certain records contained in this system. Granting access to information that is properly classified pursuant to executive order may cause damage to national security. Additionally, compliance with these provisions could alert the subject of an investigation of the fact and nature of the investigation and/or the investigative interest of law enforcement agencies. It can also compromise sensitive information related to national security; interfere with the overall law enforcement process by leading to the destruction of evidence, improper influencing of witnesses, fabrication of testimony, and/or flight of the subject; could identify a confidential source or disclose information which would constitute an unwarranted invasion of another's personal privacy; reveal a sensitive investigation or constitute a potential danger to the health or safety of law enforcement personnel, confidential informants, and witnesses. Amendment of open or active investigations would interfere with ongoing law enforcement investigations and analysis activities, and impose an excessive administrative burden by requiring investigations, analyses, and reports to be continuously reinvestigated and revised.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to determine what information is relevant and necessary at an early stage in a given investigation, and because DoD OIG and other agencies may not always know what information about a known or suspected offender may be relevant to law enforcement for the purpose of conducting an operational response. The nature of the criminal and/or administrative law enforcement investigative functions creates unique problems in prescribing a specific parameter and a particular case with respect to what information is relevant or necessary. Also, due to the DoD OIG's close liaison and working relationships with other Federal, State, local and foreign country criminal and administrative law enforcement agencies, information may be received which may relate to a case under the investigative jurisdiction of another agency. The maintenance of this information may be necessary to provide leads for appropriate criminal and administrative law enforcement purposes and to establish patterns of activity which may relate to the jurisdiction of other cooperating agencies.
(D) From subsection (e)(2) because it is not always in the best interest of law enforcement to collect information to the greatest extent practicable directly from an investigative subject. Requiring the collection of information to the greatest extent practicable directly from an investigative subject would present a serious impediment to law enforcement in that the subject of the investigation would be placed on notice of the existence of the investigation and would therefore be able to avoid detection.
(E) From subsection (e)(3) because supplying an individual with a form containing a Privacy Act Statement would tend to inhibit cooperation by many individuals involved in a criminal investigation. The effect would be somewhat adverse to established investigative methods and techniques.
(F) From subsections (e)(4)(G) through (I) because this system of records is exempt from the access provisions of subsection (d).
(G) From subsection (e)(5) because the requirement that records be maintained with attention to accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness would unfairly hamper the investigative process. It is the nature of criminal law enforcement for investigations to uncover the commission of illegal acts at diverse stages. It is frequently impossible to determine initially what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light.
(H) From subsection (e)(8) because the notice requirements of this provision could present a serious impediment to criminal law enforcement investigations by revealing investigative techniques, procedures, and existence of sensitive information and/or confidential sources.
(I) To the extent that exemptions have been established from other provisions of the Privacy Act, the civil remedies provisions of subsection (g) are inapplicable. The nature of criminal law enforcement investigations and the utilization of authorized exemptions should not increase the Department's exposure to civil litigation under the Privacy Act.
(10)
System identifier and name.
CIG-30, “OIG Data Analytics Platform.”
(i)
Exemptions.
This system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (4); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1); (e)(2); (e)(3); (e)(4)(G), (H), and(I); (e)(5); (e)(8); (f) and (g) of the Privacy Act pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). This system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); and (f) of the Privacy Act to the extent the records are subject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) and (k)(2).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), (k)(1), and (k)(2).
(iii)
Exemption from the particular subsections.
Exemption from the particular subsections is justified for the following reasons:
(A)
Subsections (c)(3), (d)(1), and (d)(2)
—(
1
)
Exemption (j)(2).
Records in this system of records may contain investigatory material compiled for criminal law enforcement purposes to include information identifying criminal offenders and alleged offenders, information compiled for the purpose of criminal investigation, or reports compiled during criminal law enforcement proceedings. Application of exemption (j)(2) may be necessary because access to, amendment of, or release of the accounting of disclosures of such records could inform the record subject of an investigation of the existence, nature, or scope of an actual or potential law enforcement or disciplinary investigation, and thereby seriously impede law enforcement or prosecutorial efforts by permitting the record subject and other persons to whom he might disclose the records to avoid criminal penalties or disciplinary measures; reveal confidential sources who might not have otherwise come forward to assist in an investigation and thereby hinder DoD's ability to obtain information from future confidential sources; and result in an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others.
(
2
)
Exemption (k)(1).
Records in this system of records may contain information that is properly classified pursuant to executive order. Application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary because access to and amendment of
the records, or release of the accounting of disclosures for such records, could reveal classified information. Disclosure of classified records to an individual may cause damage to national security.
(
3
)
Exemption (k)(2).
Records in this system of records may contain investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes other than material within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). Application of exemption (k)(2) may be necessary because access to, amendment of, or release of the accounting of disclosures of such records could: inform the record subject of an investigation of the existence, nature, or scope of an actual or potential law enforcement or disciplinary investigation, and thereby seriously impede law enforcement or prosecutorial efforts by permitting the record subject and other persons to whom he might disclose the records or the accounting of records to avoid criminal penalties, civil remedies, or disciplinary measures; interfere with a civil or administrative action or investigation which may impede those actions or investigations; reveal confidential sources who might not have otherwise come forward to assist in an investigation and thereby hinder DoD's ability to obtain information from future confidential sources; and result in an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others.
(B)
Subsection (c)(4), (d)(3) and (4).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent that an exemption is being claimed from subsections (d)(1) and (2). Accordingly, exemption from subsection (c)(4) is claimed pursuant to (j)(2) and exemptions from subsections (d)(3) and (d)(4) are claimed pursuant to (j)(2), (k)(1), and (k)(2).
(C)
Subsection (e)(1).
In the collection of information for investigatory and law enforcement purposes it is not always possible to conclusively determine the relevance and necessity of particular information in the early stages of the investigation or adjudication. In some instances, it will be only after the collected information is evaluated in light of other information that its relevance and necessity for effective investigation and adjudication can be assessed. Collection of such information permits more informed decision-making by the Department when making required disciplinary and prosecutorial determinations. Additionally, records within this system may be properly classified pursuant to executive order. Accordingly, application of exemptions (j)(2), (k)(1), and (k)(2) may be necessary.
(D)
Subsection (e)(2).
To collect information from the subject individual could serve notice that he or she is the subject of a criminal investigation and thereby present a serious impediment to such investigations. Collection of information only from the individual accused of criminal activity or misconduct could also subvert discovery of relevant evidence and subvert the course of justice. Accordingly, application of exemption (j)(2) may be necessary.
(E)
Subsection (e)(3).
To inform individuals as required by this subsection could reveal the existence of a criminal investigation and compromise investigative efforts. Accordingly, application of exemption (j)(2) may be necessary.
(F)
Subsection (e)(4)(G) and (H).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent exemption is claimed from subsections (d)(1) and (2).
(G)
Subsection (e)(4)(I).
To the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect the privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. Accordingly, application of exemptions (j)(2), (k)(1), and (k)(2) may be necessary.
(H)
Subsection (e)(5).
It is often impossible to determine in advance if investigatory records contained in this system are accurate, relevant, timely and complete, but, in the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary to retain this information to maintain an accurate record of the investigatory activity to preserve the integrity of the investigation and satisfy various Constitutional and evidentiary requirements, such as mandatory disclosure of potentially exculpatory information in the investigative file to a defendant. It
is also necessary to retain this information to aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide investigative leads. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further investigation brings new details to light and the accuracy of such information can only be determined through judicial processes. Accordingly, application of exemption (j)(2) may be necessary.
(I)
Subsection (e)(8).
To serve notice could give persons sufficient warning to evade investigative efforts. Accordingly, application of exemption (j)(2) may be necessary.
(J)
Subsection (f).
The agency's rules are inapplicable to those portions of the system that are exempt. Accordingly, application of exemptions (j)(2), (k)(1), and (k)(2) may be necessary.
(K)
Subsection (g).
This subsection is inapplicable to the extent that the system is exempt from other specific subsections of the Privacy Act. Accordingly, an exemption from subsection (g) is claimed pursuant to (j)(2).
(iv)
Exempt records from other systems.
In the course of carrying out the overall purpose for this system, exempt records from other systems of records may in turn become part of the records maintained in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those other systems of records are maintained in this system, the DoD claims the same exemptions for the records from those other systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the prior system(s) of which they are a part, provided the reason for the exemption remains valid and necessary.
[84 FR 14730, Apr. 11, 2019; 84 FR 16210, Apr. 18, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 60715, Sept. 28, 2020; 88 FR 16183, Mar. 16, 2023; 88 FR 42237, June 30, 2023; 88 FR 65130, Sept. 21, 2023; 89 FR 5095, Jan. 26, 2024]
§ 310.29
Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) exemptions.
(a)
General information.
The Secretary of Defense designates those Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) systems of records which will be exempt from certain provisions of the Privacy Act. There are two types of exemptions, general and specific. The general exemption authorizes the exemption of a system of records from all but a few requirements of the Act. The specific exemption authorizes exemption of a system of records or portion thereof, from only a few specific requirements. If an OSD Component originates a new system of records for which it proposes an exemption, or if it proposes an additional or new exemption for an existing system of records, it shall submit the recommended exemption with the records system notice as outlined in § 311.6. No exemption of a system of records shall be considered automatic for all records in the system. The systems manager shall review each requested record and apply the exemptions only when this will serve significant and legitimate Government purpose.
(b)
General exemptions.
The general exemption provided by 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) may be invoked for protection of systems of records maintained by law enforcement activities. Certain functional records of such activities are not subject to access provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974. Records identifying criminal offenders and alleged offenders consisting of identifying data and notations of arrests, the type and disposition of criminal charges, sentencing, confinement, release, parole, and probation status of individuals are protected from disclosure. Other records and reports compiled during criminal investigations, as well as any other records developed at any stage of the criminal law enforcement process from arrest to indictment through the final release from parole supervision are excluded from release.
(1)
System identifier and name.
DWHS P42.0, DPS Incident Reporting and Investigations Case Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Portions of this system that fall within 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) are exempt from the following provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a, Sections (c)(3) and (4); (d)(1) through (d)(5); (e)(1) through (e)(3); (e)(5); (f)(1) through (f)(5); (g)(1) through (g)(5); and (h) of the Act.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
The Defense Protective Service is the law enforcement body for the jurisdiction of the Pentagon and immediate environs. The nature of certain records created and maintained by
the DPS requires exemption from access provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974. The general exemption, 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), is invoked to protect ongoing investigations and to protect from access, criminal investigation information contained in this record system, so as not to jeopardize any subsequent judicial or administrative process taken as a result of information contained in the file.
(2)-(15) [Reserved]
(16)
System identifier and name.
DWHS E06, Enterprise Correspondence Control System (ECCS).
(i)
Exemption.
During the staffing and coordination of actions to, from, and within components in conduct of daily business, exempt materials from other systems of records may in turn become part of the case record in this document control system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those “other” systems of records are entered into this system, the Office of the Secretary of Defense hereby claims the same exemptions for the records from those “other” systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the original primary system of which they are a part.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a (j)(2) and (k)(1) through (k)(7).
(iii)
Reasons.
Records are only exempt from pertinent provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a to the extent such provisions have been identified and an exemption claimed for the original record and the purposes underlying the exemption for the original record still pertain to the record which is now contained in this system of records. In general, the exemptions were claimed in order to protect properly classified information relating to national defense and foreign policy, to avoid interference during the conduct of criminal, civil, or administrative actions or investigations, to ensure protective services provided the President and others are not compromised, to protect the identity of confidential sources incident to Federal employment, military service, contract, and security clearance determinations, to preserve the confidentiality and integrity of Federal testing materials, and to safeguard evaluation materials used for military promotions when furnished by a confidential source. The exemption rule for the original records will identify the specific reasons why the records are exempt from specific provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a.
(c)
Specific exemptions:
All systems of records maintained by any OSD Component shall be exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) pursuant to subsection (k)(1) of that section to the extent that the system contains any information properly classified under Executive Order 11265, 'National Security Information,' dated June 28, 552a(d) pursuant to subsection (k)(1) of that section to the extent that the system contains any information properly classified under E.O. 11265, 'National Security Information,' dated June 28, 1979, as amended, and required by the Executive Order to be kept classified in the interest of national defense or foreign policy. This exemption, which may be applicable to parts of all systems of records, is necessary because certain record systems not otherwise specifically designated for exemptions may contain isolated information which has been properly classified. The Secretary of Defense has designated the following OSD system of records described below specifically exempted from the appropriate provisions of the Privacy Act pursuant to the designated authority contained therein:
(1)-(2) [Reserved]
(3)
System identifier and name.
DGC 04, Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Case Files.
(i)
Exemption.
All portions of this system which fall under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) are exempt from the following provisions of title 5 U.S.C. 552a: (c)(3); (d).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
This system of records is exempt from subsections (c)(3) and (d) of section 552a of 5 U.S.C. which would require the disclosure of investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining access to classified information, but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an expressed promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source
would be held in confidence. A determination will be made at the time of the request for a record concerning whether specific information would reveal the identity of a source. This exemption is required in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of information compiled for the purpose of determining access to classified information. This confidentiality helps maintain the Government's continued access to information from persons who would otherwise refuse to give it.
(4)-(5) [Reserved]
(6)
System identifier and name.
DODDS 02.0, Educator Application Files.
(i)
Exemption.
All portions of this system which fall within 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) may be exempt from the following provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a: (c)(3); (d).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
It is imperative that the confidential nature of evaluation and investigatory material on teacher application files furnished the Department of Defense Dependent Schools (DoDDS) under promises of confidentiality be exempt from disclosure to the individual to insure the candid presentation of information necessary to make determinations involving applicants suitability for DoDDS teaching positions.
(7)-8 [Reserved]
(9)
System identifier and name.
JS004SECDIV, Joint Staff Security Clearance Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Portions of this system of records are exempt pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) from subsections 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1) through (d)(5).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
From subsections (d)(1) through (d)(5) because the agency is required to protect the confidentiality of sources who furnished information to the Government under an expressed promise of confidentiality or, prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence. This confidentiality is needed to maintain the Government's continued access to information from persons who otherwise might refuse to give it. This exemption is limited to disclosures that would reveal the identity of a confidential source. At the time of the request for a record, a determination will be made concerning whether a right, privilege, or benefit is denied or specific information would reveal the identity of a source.
(10)
System identifier and name.
DFMP 26, Vietnamese Commando Compensation Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Information classified under E.O. 12958, as implemented by DoD 5200.1-R, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(iii)
Reasons.
From subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) because granting access to information that is properly classified pursuant to E.O. 12958, as implemented by DoD 5200.1-R, may cause damage to the national security.
(11)
System identifier and name.
DUSP 11, POW/Missing Personnel Office Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Information classified under E.O. 12958, as implemented by DoD 5200.1-R, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(iii)
Reasons.
From subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) because granting access to information that is properly classified pursuant to E.O. 12958, as implemented by DoD 5200.1-R, may cause damage to the national security.
(12)-(13) [Reserved]
(14)
System identifier and name.
DHRA 02, PERSEREC Research Files.
(i)
Exemption.
(A) Investigative material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment, military service, federal contracts, or access to classified information may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), but only to the extent that such material would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
(B) Therefore, portions of this system may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), and (e)(1).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) and (d) when access to accounting
disclosures and access to or amendment of records would cause the identity of a confidential source to be revealed. Disclosure of the source's identity not only will result in the Department breaching the promise of confidentiality made to the source, but it will impair the Department's future ability to compile investigatory material for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, Federal contracts, or access to classified information. Unless sources can be assured that a promise of confidentiality will be honored, they will be less likely to provide information considered essential to the Department in making the required determinations.
(B) From (e)(1) because in the collection of information for investigatory purposes, it is not always possible to determine the relevance and necessity of particular information in the early stages of the investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other information that its relevance and necessity becomes clear. Such information permits more informed decision making by the Department when making required suitability, eligibility, and qualification determinations.
(15) [Reserved]
(16)
System identifier and name.
DMDC 15 DoD, Armed Services Military Accession Testing.
(i)
Exemption.
Testing or examination material used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service or military service may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6), if the disclosure would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the test or examination process. Therefore, portions of the system of records may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(d).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) An exemption is required for those portions of the Skill Qualification Test system pertaining to individual item responses and scoring keys to preclude compromise of the test and to ensure fairness and objectivity of the evaluation system.
(B) From subsection (d)(1) when access to those portions of the Skill Qualification Test records would reveal the individual item responses and scoring keys. Disclosure of the individual item responses and scoring keys will compromise the objectivity and fairness of the test as well as the validity of future tests resulting in the Department being unable to use the testing battery as an individual assessment tool.
(17)-(18) [Reserved]
(19)
System identifier and name.
DA
M 01, Civil Liberties Program Case Management System.
(i)
Exemption.
Records contained in this System of Records may be exempted from the requirements of subsections (c)(3); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1) and (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); and (f) of the Privacy Act pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1). Records may be exempted from these subsections or, additionally, from the requirements of subsections (c)(4); (e)(2), (3), and (8) of the Privacy Act of 1974 consistent with any exemptions claimed under 5 U.S.C. 552a (j)(2) or (k)(1), (k)(2), or (k)(5) by the originator of the record, provided the reason for the exemption remains valid and necessary. An exemption rule for this system has been promulgated in accordance with the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(1), (2), and (3), (c) and (e) and is published at 32 CFR part 311.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a (j)(2), (k)(1), (k)(2), or (k)(5).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsections (c)(3) (accounting of disclosures) because an accounting of disclosures from records concerning the record subject would specifically reveal an intelligence or investigative interest on the part of the Department of Defense and could result in release of properly classified national security or foreign policy information.
(B) From subsections (d)(1), (2), (3) and (4) (record subject's right to access and amend records) because affording access and amendment rights could alert the record subject to the investigative interest of law enforcement agencies or compromise sensitive information classified in the interest of national security. In the absence of a national security basis for exemption, records in this system may be exempted from access and amendment to the extent necessary to honor promises of
confidentiality to persons providing information concerning a candidate for position. Inability to maintain such confidentiality would restrict the free flow of information vital to a determination of a candidate's qualifications and suitability.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) (maintain only relevant and necessary records) because in the collection of information for investigatory purposes, it is not always possible to determine the relevance and necessity of particular information in the early stages of the investigation. It is only after the information is evaluated in light of other information that its relevance and necessity becomes clear. In the absence of a national security basis for exemption under subjection (k)(1), records in this system may be exempted from the relevance requirement pursuant to subjection (k)(5) because it is not possible to determine in advance what exact information may assist in determining the qualifications and suitability of a candidate for position. Seemingly irrelevant details, when combined with other data, can provide a useful composite for determining whether a candidate should be appointed.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) (publication of procedures for notifying subject of the existence of records about them and how they may access records and contest contents) because the system is exempted from subsection (d) provisions regarding access and amendment, and from the subsection (f) requirement to promulgate agency rules. Nevertheless, the Office of the Secretary of Defense has published notice concerning notification, access, and contest procedures because it may, in certain circumstances, determine it appropriate to provide subjects access to all or a portion of the records about them in this system of records.
(E) From subsection (e)(4)(I) (identifying sources of records in the system of records) because identifying sources could result in disclosure of properly classified national defense or foreign policy information, intelligence sources and methods, and investigatory techniques and procedures. Notwithstanding its proposed exemption from this requirement the Office of the Secretary of Defense identifies record sources in broad categories sufficient to provide general notice of the origins of the information it maintains in this system of records.
(F) From subsection (f) (agency rules for notifying subjects to the existence of records about them, for accessing and amending records, and for assessing fees) because the system is exempt from subsection (d) provisions regarding access and amendment of records by record subjects. Nevertheless, the Office of the Secretary of Defense has published agency rules concerning notification of a subject in response to his request if any system of records named by the subject contains a record pertaining to him and procedures by which the subject may access or amend the records. Notwithstanding exemption, the Office of the Secretary of Defense may determine it appropriate to satisfy a record subject's access request.
(20) [Reserved]
(21)
System identifier and name.
DWHS E05, Mandatory Declassification Review Files.
(i)
Exemption.
Information classified under E.O. 13526, as implemented by DoD 5200.1-R, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(iii)
Reasons.
From subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) because granting access to information that is properly classified pursuant to E.O. 13526, as implemented by DoD 5200.1-R, may cause damage to the national security.
(22)
System identifier and name.
DPFPA 05, Computer Aided Dispatch and Records Management System (CAD/RMS).
(i)
Exemption.
Portions of this system that fall within 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) and/or (k)(2) are exempt from the following provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a, section (c)(3) and (4); (d); (e)(1) through (e)(3); (e)(4)(G) through (I); (e)(5); (e)(8); (f) and (g) of the Act, as applicable.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) and (k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsections (c)(3) and (4) because making available to a record subject the accounting of disclosure from records concerning him or her would specifically reveal any investigative interest in the individual.
Revealing this information could reasonably be expected to compromise ongoing efforts to investigate a known or suspected offender by notifying the record subject that he or she is under investigation. This information could also permit the record subject to take measures to impede the investigation, e.g., destroy evidence, intimidate potential witnesses, or flee the area to avoid or impede the investigation.
(B) From subsection (d) because these provisions concern individual access to and amendment of certain records contained in this system, including law enforcement and investigatory records. Compliance with these provisions could alert the subject of an investigation of the fact and nature of the investigation, and/or the investigative interest of law enforcement agencies; compromise sensitive information related to national security; interfere with the overall law enforcement process by leading to the destruction of evidence, improper influencing of witnesses, fabrication of testimony, and/or flight of the subject; could identify a confidential source or disclose information which would constitute an unwarranted invasion of another's personal privacy; reveal a sensitive investigative or constitute a potential danger to the health or safety of law enforcement personnel, confidential informants, and witnesses. Amendment of these records would interfere with ongoing law enforcement investigations and analysis activities and impose an excessive administrative burden by requiring investigations, analyses, and reports to be continuously reinvestigated and revised.
(C) From subsections (e)(1) through (e)(3) because it is not always possible to determine what information is relevant and necessary at an early stage in a given investigation. Also, because DoD and other agencies may not always know what information about a known or suspected offender may be relevant to law enforcement for the purpose of conducting an operational response.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) through (I) (Agency Requirements) because portions of this system are exempt from the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d).
(E) From subsection (e)(5) because the requirement that records be maintained with attention to accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness would unfairly hamper the criminal investigative process. It is the nature of criminal law enforcement for investigations to uncover the commission of illegal acts at diverse stages. It is frequently impossible to determine initially what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and least of all complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significant as further investigation brings new details to light.
(F) From subsection (e)(8) because the requirement to serve notice on an individual when a record is disclosed under compulsory legal process could unfairly hamper law enforcement processes. It is the nature of law enforcement that there are instances where compliance with these provisions could alert the subject of an investigation of the fact and nature of the investigation, and/or the investigative interest of intelligence or law enforcement agencies; compromise sensitive information related to national security; interfere with the overall law enforcement process by leading to the destruction of evidence, improper influencing of witnesses, fabrication of testimony, and/or flight of the subject; reveal a sensitive investigative or intelligence technique; or constitute a potential danger to the health or safety of law enforcement personnel, confidential informants, and witnesses.
(G) From subsection (f) because requiring the Agency to grant access to records and establishing agency rules for amendment of records would compromise the existence of any criminal, civil, or administrative enforcement activity. To require the confirmation or denial of the existence of a record pertaining to a requesting individual may in itself provide an answer to that individual relating to the existence of an on-going investigation. The investigation of possible unlawful activities would be jeopardized by agency rules requiring verification of the record, disclosure of the record to the subject, and record amendment procedures.
(H) From subsection (g) for compatibility with the exemption claimed from subsection (f), the civil remedies provisions of subsection (g) must be suspended for this record system. Because of the nature of criminal investigations, standards of accuracy, relevance, timeliness and completeness cannot apply to this record system. Information gathered in criminal investigations if often fragmentary and leads relating to an individual in the context of one investigation may instead pertain to a second investigation.
(23) [Reserved]
(24)
System identifier and name.
DPFPA 06, Internal Affairs Records System.
(i)
Exemption.
Portions of this system that fall within 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) and/or (k)(2) are exempt from the following provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a, section (c)(3) and (4); (d); (e)(1) through (e)(3); (e)(4)(G) through (I); (e)(5); (f) and (g) of the Act, as applicable.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) and (k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsections (c)(3) and (4) because making available to a record subject the accounting of disclosure of investigations concerning him or her would specifically reveal an investigative interest in the individual. Revealing this information would reasonably be expected to compromise open or closed administrative or civil investigation efforts to a known or suspected offender by notifying the record subject that he or she is under investigation. This information could also permit the record subject to take measures to impede the investigation, e.g., destroy evidence, intimidate potential witnesses, or flee the area to avoid or impede the investigation.
(B) From subsection (d) because these provisions concern individual access to and amendment of open or closed investigation records contained in this system, including law enforcement and investigatory records. Compliance with these provisions would provide the subject of an investigation of the fact and nature of the investigation, and/or the investigative interest of the Pentagon Force Protection Agency; compromise sensitive information related to national security; interfere with the overall law enforcement process by leading to the destruction of evidence, improper influencing of witnesses, fabrication of testimony, and/or flight of the subject; could identify a confidential informant or disclose information which would constitute an unwarranted invasion of another's personal privacy; reveal a sensitive investigative or constitute a potential danger to the health or safety of law enforcement personnel, confidential informants, and witnesses. Amendment of investigative records would interfere with open or closed administrative or civil law enforcement investigations and analysis activities and impose an excessive administrative burden by requiring investigations, analyses, and reports to be continuously reinvestigated and revised.
(C) From subsections (e)(1) through (e)(3) because it is not always possible to determine what information is relevant and necessary in open or closed investigations.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) through (I) (Agency Requirements) because portions of this system are exempt from the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d).
(E) From subsection (e)(5) because the requirement that investigative records be maintained with attention to accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness would unfairly hamper the criminal, administrative, or civil investigative process. It is the nature of Internal Affairs investigations to uncover the commission of illegal acts and administrative violations. It is frequently impossible to determine initially what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and least of all complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significant as further investigation brings new details to light.
(F) From subsection (f) because requiring the Agency to grant access to records and establishing agency rules for amendment of records would compromise the existence of any criminal, civil, or administrative enforcement activity. To require the confirmation or denial of the existence of a record pertaining to a requesting individual may in itself provide an answer to that individual relating to the existence of
an on-going investigation. The investigation of possible unlawful activities would be jeopardized by agency rules requiring verification of the record, disclosure of the record to the subject, and record amendment procedures.
(G) From subsection (g) for compatibility with the exemption claimed from subsection (f), the civil remedies provisions of subsection (g) must be suspended for this record system. Because of the nature of criminal, administrative and civil investigations, standards of accuracy, relevance, timeliness and completeness cannot apply to open or closed investigations in this record system. Information gathered in criminal investigations is often fragmentary and leads relating to an individual in the context of one investigation may instead pertain to a second investigation.
(25)
System identifier and name.
DPFPA 07, Counterintelligence Management Information System (CIMIS).
(i)
Exemption.
Portions of this system that fall within 5 U.S.C. 552a (k)(2) are exempt from the following provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a, section (c)(3); (d); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G) through (I); and (f) of the Act, as applicable.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).
(iii)
Reasons. (
A) From subsections (c)(3) because making available to a record subject the accounting of disclosure from records concerning him or her would specifically reveal any investigative interest in the individual. Revealing this information could reasonably be expected to compromise ongoing efforts to investigate a known or suspected offender by notifying the record subject that he or she is under investigation. This information could also permit the record subject to take measures to impede the investigation, e.g., destroy evidence, intimidate potential witnesses, or flee the area to avoid or impede the investigation.
(B) From subsection (d) because these provisions concern individual access to and amendment of certain records contained in this system, including counterintelligence, law enforcement, and investigatory records. Compliance with these provisions could alert the subject of an investigation of the fact and nature of the investigation, and/or the investigative interest of agencies; compromise sensitive information related to national security; interfere with the overall counterintelligence and investigative process by leading to the destruction of evidence, improper influencing of witnesses, fabrication of testimony, and/or flight of the subject; could identify a confidential source or disclose information which would constitute an unwarranted invasion of another's personal privacy; reveal a sensitive investigation or constitute a potential danger to the health or safety of law enforcement personnel, confidential informants, and witnesses. Amendment of these records would interfere with ongoing counterintelligence investigations and analysis activities and impose an excessive administrative burden by requiring investigations, analyses, and reports to be continuously reinvestigated and revised.
(C) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to determine what information is relevant and necessary at an early stage in a given investigation. Also, because Pentagon Force Protection Agency and other agencies may not always know what information about a known or suspected offender may be relevant to for the purpose of conducting an operational response.
(D) From subsections (e)(4)(G) through (I) (Agency Requirements) because portions of this system are exempt from the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d).
(E) From subsection (f) because requiring the Agency to grant access to records and establishing agency rules for amendment of records would compromise the existence of any criminal, civil, or administrative enforcement activity. To require the confirmation or denial of the existence of a record pertaining to a requesting individual may in itself provide an answer to that individual relating to the existence of an on-going investigation. Counterintelligence investigations would be jeopardized by agency rules requiring verification of the record, disclosure of the record to the subject, and record amendment procedures.
(26)
System identifier and name.
DMDC 16 DoD, Identity Management Engine for Security and Analysis (IMESA).
(i)
Exemption.
To the extent that copies of exempt records from JUSTICE/FBI-001, National Crime Information Center (NCIC) are entered into the Interoperability Layer Service records, the OSD hereby claims the same exemptions, (j)(2) and (k)(3), for the records as claimed in JUSTICE/FBI- 001, National Crime Information Center (NCIC). Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a portions of this system that fall within (j)(2) and (k)(3) are exempt from the following provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a, section (c)(3) and (4); (d); (e)(1) through (3); (e)(4)(G) through (I); (e)(5) and (8); (f); and (g) (as applicable) of the Act.
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) and (k)(3).
(iii)
Reasons.
(A) From subsection (c)(3) because making available to a record subject the accounting of disclosure from records concerning him or her would specifically reveal any investigative interest in the individual. Revealing this information could reasonably be expected to compromise ongoing efforts to investigate a known or suspected terrorist by notifying the record subject that he or she is under investigation. This information could also permit the record subject to take measures to impede the investigation, e.g., destroy evidence, intimidate potential witnesses, or flee the area to avoid or impede the investigation.
(B) From subsection (c)(4) because portions of this system are exempt from the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d).
(C) From subsection (d) because these provisions concern individual access to and amendment of certain records contained in this system, including law enforcement, counterterrorism, investigatory, and intelligence records. Compliance with these provisions could alert the subject of an investigation of the fact and nature of the investigation, and/or the investigative interest of intelligence or law enforcement agencies; compromise sensitive information related to national security; interfere with the overall law enforcement process by leading to the destruction of evidence, improper influencing of witnesses, fabrication of testimony, and/or flight of the subject; could identify a confidential source or disclose information which would constitute an unwarranted invasion of another's personal privacy; reveal a sensitive investigative or intelligence technique; or constitute a potential danger to the health or safety of law enforcement personnel, confidential informants, and witnesses. Amendment of these records would interfere with ongoing counterterrorism, law enforcement, or intelligence investigations and analysis activities and impose an impossible administrative burden by requiring investigations, analyses, and reports to be continuously reinvestigated and revised.
(D) From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to determine what information is relevant and necessary to complete an identity comparison between the individual seeking access and a known or suspected terrorist. Also, because DoD and other agencies may not always know what information about an encounter with a known or suspected terrorist will be relevant to law enforcement for the purpose of conducting an operational response.
(E) From subsection (e)(2) because application of this provision could present a serious impediment to counterterrorism, law enforcement, or intelligence efforts in that it would put the subject of an investigation, study, or analysis on notice of that fact, thereby permitting the subject to engage in conduct designed to frustrate or impede that activity. The nature of counterterrorism, law enforcement, or intelligence investigations is such that vital information about an individual frequently can be obtained only from other persons who are familiar with such individual and his/her activities. In such investigations, it is not feasible to rely upon information furnished by the individual concerning his own activities.
(F) From subsection (e)(3) to the extent that this subsection is interpreted to require DoD to provide notice to an individual if DoD or another agency receives or collects information about that individual during an investigation or from a third party. Should this subsection be so interpreted, exemption from this provision is necessary to avoid impeding counterterrorism, law enforcement, or intelligence efforts by
putting the subject of an investigation, study, or analysis on notice of that fact, thereby permitting the subject to engage in conduct intended to frustrate or impede the activity.
(G) From subsection (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), and (e)(4)(I) (Agency Requirements) because portions of this system are exempt from the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d).
(H) From subsection (e)(5) because the requirement that records be maintained with attention to accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness could unfairly hamper law enforcement processes. It is the nature of law enforcement to uncover the commission of illegal acts at diverse stages. It is often impossible to determine initially what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and least of all complete. With the passage of time, seemingly irrelevant or untimely information may acquire new significance as further details are brought to light.
(I) From subsection (e)(8) because the requirement to serve notice on an individual when a record is disclosed under compulsory legal process could unfairly hamper law enforcement processes. It is the nature of law enforcement that there are instances where compliance with these provisions could alert the subject of an investigation of the fact and nature of the investigation, and/or the investigative interest of intelligence or law enforcement agencies; compromise sensitive information related to national security; interfere with the overall law enforcement process by leading to the destruction of evidence, improper influencing of witnesses, fabrication of testimony, and/or flight of the subject; reveal a sensitive investigative or intelligence technique; or constitute a potential danger to the health or safety of law enforcement personnel, confidential informants, and witnesses.
(J) From subsection (f) because requiring the Agency to grant access to records and establishing agency rules for amendment of records would unfairly impede the agency's law enforcement mission. To require the confirmation or denial of the existence of a record pertaining to a requesting individual may in itself provide an answer to that individual relating to the existence of an on-going investigation. The investigation of possible unlawful activities would be jeopardized by agency rules requiring verification of the record, disclosure of the record to the subject, and record amendment procedures.
(K) From subsection (g) to the extent that the system is exempt from other specific subsections of the Privacy Act.
(27) [Reserved]
(28)
System identifier and name.
DMDC 18 DoD, Synchronized Predeployment and Operational Tracker Enterprise Suite (SPOT-ES) Records.
(i)
Exemption.
Information classified under E.O. 13526, as implemented by DoD Instruction (DoDI) 5200.01 and DoD Manual (DoDM) 5200.01, Volumes 1 and 3, may be exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(iii)
Reasons.
From subsection 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) because granting access to information that is properly classified pursuant to E.O. 13526, as implemented by DoD Instruction 5200.01 and DoD Manual 5200.01, Volumes 1 and 3, may cause damage to the national security.
(29)
System identifier and name.
AARO-0001, All-domain Anomaly Resolution Office (AARO) Report System.
(i)
Exemptions.
This system of records is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3); (d)(1), (2), (3), and (4); (e)(1); (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I); and (f).
(ii)
Authority.
5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1).
(iii)
Exemption from the particular subsections.
Exemption from the particular subsections of the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, pursuant to exemption (k)(1) is justified for the following reasons:
(A)
Subsections (c)(3) and (d)(1) and (2).
Records in this system of records may contain information concerning individuals that is properly classified pursuant to executive order. Application of exemption (k)(1) for such records may be necessary because access to and amendment of the records, or release of the accounting of disclosures for such records, could reveal classified information. Disclosure of classified records to an individual may cause damage to national security and reveal sensitive
sources and methods. Accordingly, application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary.
(B)
Subsections (d)(3) and (4).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent an exemption is claimed from (d)(2).
(C)
Subsection (e)(1).
Records within this system may be properly classified pursuant to executive order. In the collection of information for AARO reporting and analysis purposes, it may not always be possible to conclusively determine the relevance and necessity of particular information in the early stages of these types of activities. Additionally, disclosure of classified records to an individual may cause damage to national security and reveal sensitive sources and methods. Accordingly, application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary.
(D)
Subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) and subsection (f).
These subsections are inapplicable to the extent exemption is claimed from the access and amendment provisions of subsection (d). Because portions of this system are exempt from the individual access and amendment provisions of subsection (d) for the reasons noted in paragraphs (c)(29)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section, DoD is not required to establish requirements, rules, or procedures with respect to such access or amendment provisions. Providing notice to individuals with respect to the existence of records pertaining to them in the system of records or otherwise setting up procedures pursuant to which individuals may access, view, and seek to amend records pertaining to themselves in the system would potentially undermine national security and the confidentiality of classified information. Accordingly, application of exemption (k)(1) may be necessary.
(E)
Subsection (e)(4)(I).
To the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad information currently published in the system notice concerning categories of sources of records in the system, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect national security and the confidentiality of sources and methods, and other classified information.
(iv)
Exempt records from other systems.
In the course of carrying out the overall purpose for this system, exempt records from other systems of records may in turn become part of the records maintained in this system. To the extent that copies of exempt records from those other systems of records are maintained in this system, the DoD claims the same exemptions for the records from those other systems that are entered into this system, as claimed for the prior system(s) of which they are a part, provided the reason for the exemption remains valid and necessary.
[84 FR 14730, Apr. 11, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 26672, May 17, 2021; 86 FR 31431, June 14, 2021; 87 FR 37999, June 27, 2022; 88 FR 42237, June 30, 2023; 89 FR 37129, May 6, 2024]
Pt. 310, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 310—DOD Blanket Routine Uses

# A. Routine Use—Law Enforcement
If a system of records maintained by a DoD Component to carry out its functions indicates a violation or potential violation of law, whether civil, criminal, or regulatory in nature, and whether arising by general statute or by regulation, rule, or order issued pursuant thereto, the relevant records in the system of records may be referred, as a routine use, to the agency concerned, whether Federal, State, local, or foreign, charged with the responsibility of investigating or prosecuting such violation or charged with enforcing or implementing the statute, rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant thereto.

# B. Routine Use—Disclosure When Requesting Information
A record from a system of records maintained by a Component may be disclosed as a routine use to a Federal, State, or local agency maintaining civil, criminal, or other relevant enforcement information or other pertinent information, such as current licenses, if necessary to obtain information relevant to a Component decision concerning the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant, or other benefit.

# C. Routine Use—Disclosure of Requested Information
A record from a system of records maintained by a Component may be disclosed to a Federal agency, in response to its request, in connection with the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the reporting of an investigation
of an employee, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant, or other benefit by the requesting agency, to the extent that the information is relevant and necessary to the requesting agency's decision on the matter.

# D. Routine Use—Congressional Inquiries
Disclosure from a system of records maintained by a Component may be made to a congressional office from the record of an individual in response to an inquiry from the congressional office made at the request of that individual.

# E. Routine Use—Private Relief Legislation
Relevant information contained in all systems of records of the Department of Defense published on or before August 22, 1975, may be disclosed to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in connection with the review of private relief legislation as set forth in OMB Circular A-19 at any stage of the legislative coordination and clearance process as set forth in that circular.

# F. Routine Use—Disclosures Required by International Agreements
A record from a system of records maintained by a Component may be disclosed to foreign law enforcement, security, investigatory, or administrative authorities to comply with requirements imposed by, or to claim rights conferred in, international agreements and arrangements, including those regulating the stationing and status in foreign countries of Department of Defense military and civilian personnel.

# G. Routine Use—Disclosure to State and Local Taxing Authorities
Any information normally contained in Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form W-2 which is maintained in a record from a system of records maintained by a Component may be disclosed to State and local taxing authorities with which the Secretary of the Treasury has entered into agreements under 5 U.S.C., sections 5516, 5517, 5520, and only to those State and local taxing authorities for which an employee or military member is or was subject to tax regardless of whether tax is or was withheld. This routine use is in accordance with Treasury Fiscal Requirements Manual Bulletin No. 76-07.

# H. Routine Use—Disclosure to the Office of Personnel Management
A record from a system of records subject to the Privacy Act and maintained by a Component may be disclosed to the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) concerning information on pay and leave, benefits, retirement reductions, and any other information necessary for the OPM to carry out its legally authorized government-wide personnel management functions and studies.

# I. Routine Use—Disclosure to the Department of Justice for Litigation
A record from a system of records maintained by a Component may be disclosed as a routine use to any component of the Department of Justice for the purpose of representing the Department of Defense, or any officer, employee or member of the Department in pending or potential litigation to which the record is pertinent.

# J. Routine Use—Disclosure to Military Banking Facilities
Information as to current military addresses and assignments may be provided to military banking facilities who provide banking services overseas and who are reimbursed by the Government for certain checking and loan losses. For personnel separated, discharged, or retired from the Armed Forces, information as to last known residential or home of record address may be provided to the military banking facility upon certification by a banking facility officer that the facility has a returned or dishonored check negotiated by the individual or the individual has defaulted on a loan and that if restitution is not made by the individual, the U.S. Government will be liable for the losses the facility may incur.

# K. Routine Use—Disclosure of Information to the General Services Administration
A record from a system of records maintained by a Component may be disclosed as a routine use to the General Services Administration (GSA) for the purpose of records management inspections conducted under authority of 44 U.S.C. 2904 and 2906.

# L. Routine Use—Disclosure of Information to the National Archives and Records Administration
A record from a system of records maintained by a Component may be disclosed as a routine use to the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) for the purpose of records management inspections conducted under authority of 44 U.S.C. 2904 and 2906.

# M. Routine Use—Disclosure to the Merit Systems Protection Board
A record from a system of records maintained by a Component may be disclosed as a routine use to the Merit Systems Protection Board, including the Office of the Special Counsel, for the purpose of litigation, including administrative proceedings, appeals, special studies of the civil service and other merit systems, review of OPM or Component
rules and regulations, investigation of alleged or possible prohibited personnel practices, including administrative proceedings involving any individual subject of a DoD investigation, and such other functions, promulgated in 5 U.S.C. 1205 and 1206 or as may be authorized by law.

# N. Routine Use—Counterintelligence Purposes
A record from a system of records maintained by a Component may be disclosed as a routine use outside the DoD or the U.S. Government for the purpose of counterintelligence activities authorized by U.S. law or Executive order or for the purpose of enforcing laws that protect the national security of the United States.

# O. Routine Use—Data Breach Response and Remediation
A record from a system of records maintained by DoD or a Component may be disclosed to appropriate agencies, entities, and persons when (1) the Component suspects or has confirmed that there has been a breach of the system of records; (2) the Component has determined that as a result of the suspected or confirmed breach there is a risk of harm to individuals, DoD (including its information systems, programs, and operations), the Federal Government, or national security; and (3) the disclosure made to such agencies, entities, and persons is reasonably necessary to assist in connection with the Component's efforts to respond to the suspected or confirmed breach or to prevent, minimize, or remedy such harm.

# P. Routine Use—Data Breach Inter-Agency Assistance
A record from a system of records maintained by DoD or a Component may be disclosed to another Federal agency or Federal entity, when DoD or the Component determines that information from this system of records is reasonably necessary to assist the recipient agency or entity in (1) responding to a suspected or confirmed breach or (2) preventing, minimizing, or remedying the risk of harm to individuals, the recipient agency or entity (including its information systems, programs, and operations), the Federal Government, or national security, resulting from a suspected or confirmed breach.

# Q. Routine Use—Agency Sharing To Support Counterterrorism
A record from a system of records maintained by a Component consisting of, or relating to, terrorism information (6 U.S.C. 485(a)(4)), homeland security information (6 U.S.C. 482(f)(1)), or law enforcement information (Guideline 2 Report attached to White House Memorandum, “Information Sharing Environment,” November 22, 2006) may be disclosed to a Federal, State, local, Tribal, territorial, foreign governmental and/or multinational agency, either in response to its request or upon the initiative of the Component, for purposes of sharing such information as is necessary and relevant for the agencies for the detection, prevention, disruption, preemption, and mitigation of the effects of terrorist activities against the territory, people, and interests of the United States of America as contemplated by the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Protection Act of 2004 (Pub. L. 108-458) and Executive Order 13388 (October 25, 2005).

# R. Routine Use—Office of Inspector General
A record from a system of records maintained by DoD or a Component may be disclosed to another Federal, State, or local agency for the purpose of comparing to the agency's system of records or to non-Federal records, in coordination with an Office of Inspector General, in conducting an audit, investigation, inspection, evaluation, or some other review as authorized by the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended.
[86 FR 64368, Nov. 18, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 24477, Apr. 21, 2023]

# PART 339—DOD GUIDANCE DOCUMENTS
Sec.
339.1
General.
339.2
Initial review process.
339.3
Good faith cost estimates.
339.4
Departmental review and submission to OIRA.
339.5
Designation procedures.
339.6
Non-significant guidance documents.
339.7
Significant guidance document.
339.8
Notice-and-comment procedures.
339.9
Public access to effective guidance documents.
339.10
Petitions for guidance.
339.11
Rescinded guidance.
339.12
Exigent circumstances.
339.13
Reports to Congress and GAO.
339.14
Use of guidance documents.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552a.
§ 339.1
General.
(a) This part provides policies and procedures governing all phases of issuing, modifying, or rescinding guidance documents within DoD.
(b) Subject to the qualifications and exemptions contained in this part, these policies and procedures apply to all guidance documents intended to have future effect on the behavior of
regulated parties issued by all components of the Department, including regional and district offices.
(c) For purposes of this part, the term
guidance document
includes any statement of agency policy or interpretation concerning a statute, regulation, or technical matter within the jurisdiction of the Department that is intended to have general applicability and future effect on the behavior of regulated parties, but which is not intended to have the force or effect of law in its own right and is not otherwise required by statute to satisfy the rulemaking procedures specified in 5 U.S.C. 553 or 5 U.S.C. 556. The term is not confined to formal written documents; guidance may come in a variety of forms, including, but not limited to, letters, memoranda, circulars, bulletins, advisories, and may include video, audio, and Web-based formats. See OMB Memorandum M-20-02, “Guidance Implementing Executive Order 13891, Titled “Promoting the Rule of Law Through Improved Agency Guidance Documents,” ” dated October 31, 2019.
(d) This part does not apply to:
(1) Agency statements of specific applicability, including advisory or legal opinions directed to particular parties about circumstance-specific questions (
e.g.,
case or investigatory letters responding to complaints, warning letters), notices regarding particular locations or facilities (
e.g.,
guidance pertaining to the use, operation, or control of a government facility or property), and correspondence with individual persons or entities (
e.g.,
congressional correspondence), except documents ostensibly directed to a particular party but designed to guide the conduct of the broader regulated public;
(2) Agency statements that do not set forth a policy on a statutory, regulatory, or technical issue or an interpretation of a statute or regulation, including speeches and individual presentations, editorials, media interviews, press materials, or congressional testimony that do not set forth for the first time a new regulatory policy;
(3) Rules promulgated pursuant to notice and comment under 5 U.S.C. 553, or similar statutory provisions;
(4) Rules exempt from rulemaking requirements under 5 U.S.C. 553(a);
(5) Rules of agency organization, procedure, or practice;
(6) Decisions of agency adjudications under 5 U.S.C. 554, or similar statutory provisions;
(7) Internal guidance directed solely to the issuing agency or other agencies (or personnel of such agencies) that is not intended to have substantial future effect on the behavior of regulated parties or the public;
(8) Internal guidance that is made public only because release is required under the Freedom of Information Act or agency disclosure policies;
(9) Legal briefs, other court filings, or positions taken in litigation or enforcement actions;
(10) Legal opinions by the Office of Legal Counsel at the Department of Justice.
(11) Internal executive branch legal advice or legal advisory opinions addressed to executive branch officials;
(12) Guidance pertaining to military or foreign affairs functions, or to a national security or homeland security function of the United States (other than guidance documents involving procurement or the import or export of non-defense articles and services);
(13) Grant solicitations and awards; or
(14) Contract solicitations and awards.
§ 339.2
Initial review process.
(a) Prior to submitting guidance documents for departmental review, Components seeking to issue, modify, or rescind a guidance document should submit a draft copy of that document, along with the component's designation request (see § 339.5 of this part) and good faith cost estimate (see § 339.3 of this part), to their Federal Register Liaison Officer.
(b) Before such a guidance document can be cleared for departmental review, the appropriate DoD or OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer will review it to ensure that it satisfies the following requirements:
(1) For significant guidance (see § 339.7 of this part),
Federal Register
required formatting.
(2) The guidance document complies with all relevant statutes and regulations (including any statutory deadlines for agency action);
(3) The guidance document identifies or includes:
(i) The term “guidance” or its functional equivalent;
(ii) The issuing component of the Department;
(iii) A unique identifier, including, at a minimum, the date of issuance and title of the document and its Z-RIN (a regulation identifier number), if applicable;
(iv) The activity or entities to which the guidance applies;
(v) Citations to applicable statutes and regulations;
(vi) A statement noting whether the guidance is intended to revise or replace any previously issued guidance and, if so, sufficient information to identify the previously issued guidance; and
(vii) A short summary of the subject matter covered in the guidance document at the top of the document.
(4) The guidance document avoids using mandatory language, such as “shall,” “must,” “required,” or “requirement,” unless the language is describing an established statutory or regulatory requirement or is addressed to DoD staff and will not foreclose the Department's consideration of positions advanced by affected private parties or is intended to have a substantial future effect on the behavior of regulated parties;
(5) The guidance document is written in plain and understandable English;
(6) All guidance documents include the following disclaimer prominently: “The contents of this document do not have the force and effect of law and are not meant to bind the public in any way. This document is intended only to provide clarity to the public regarding existing requirements under the law or departmental policies.”
§ 339.3
Good faith cost estimates.
Even though not legally binding, some agency guidance may result in a substantial economic impact. For example, the issuance of departmental guidance may induce private parties to alter their conduct to conform to recommended standards or practices, thereby incurring costs beyond the costs of complying with existing statutes and regulations. While it may be difficult to predict with precision the economic impact of voluntary guidance, the proposing component of the Department must, to the extent practicable, make a good faith effort to estimate the likely economic cost impact of the guidance document to determine whether the document might be significant. When the component is assessing or explaining whether it believes a guidance document is significant, it will, at a minimum, provide the same level of analysis that would be required for a major determination under the Congressional Review Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 8). When it is determined that a guidance document will be economically significant (see § 339.7(a)(1) of this part), the component must conduct and publish a Regulatory Impact Analysis of the sort that would accompany an economically significant rulemaking (see requirements in E.O. 12866, E.O. 13563, and OMB Circular A-4), to the extent reasonably possible.
§ 339.4
Departmental review and submission to OIRA.
(a) After the appropriate FRLO completes his or her initial review, a guidance document will be internally coordinated within the proposing component and formally coordinated throughout the Department with other components who have equities. Mandatory coordinators on all guidance documents are the Chief Management Officer, Department of Defense and the component's General Counsel.
(b) The proposing component will adjudicate DoD and OSD Component comments and return a final guidance document package to the appropriate DoD or OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer for submission to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), Office of Information and Regulations Affairs (OIRA) for a significance determination.
(c) Guidance documents deemed by OIRA to be “significant” (see § 339.7 of this part) must be reviewed and approved by the Department's Regulatory Policy Officer before OIRA formally reviews them.
§ 339.5
Designation procedures.
(a) The proposing component will prepare a designation request for guidance documents. Designation requests must include the following information:
(1) A summary of the guidance document; and
(2) The component's recommended designation of “not significant,” “significant,” or “economically significant,” as well as a justification for that designation.
(b) The appropriate DoD or OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer will seek a significance determination from OIRA for guidance documents in the same manner as for rulemakings. OIRA review will occur prior to the publishing of guidance documents, and with sufficient time to allow OIRA to review the designation request and the guidance document to determine if it meets the definition of “significant” or “economically significant” under Executive Order 13891.
(c) Prior to being published, guidance documents determined to be “significant” or “economically significant” are subject to formal review and interagency coordination by OIRA. The OIRA review, to include interagency coordination, is to be consistent with Executive Order 12866.
(d) Significant guidance documents (see § 339.7 of this part) must be reviewed and approved by the Department's Regulatory Policy Officer before OIRA formally reviews them.
(e) Once the OMB/OIRA has cleared a guidance document for publication, the appropriate DoD or OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer will coordinate the guidance document with the Defense Office of Prepublication and Security Review (DOPSR). The FRLO will notify the component of DOPSR's approval and that the guidance document can be approved for
Federal Register
publication or signed for placement on the central website.
§ 339.6
Non-significant guidance documents.
(a) If the guidance document is determined to be non-significant within the meaning of § 339.7 of this part, the appropriate DoD or OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer will advise the proposing component to proceed with issuance of the guidance.
(b) For each such guidance document, the proposing component should forward it to the appropriate authority for approval. OSD PSAs or equivalents can delegate in writing the authority to approve non-significant guidance documents to subordinate officials at or above the level of a General/Flag Officer, Senior Executive Service member, or equivalent. The proposing component should include a statement in the action memorandum to the approving authority that the guidance document has been reviewed and cleared as non-significant by OIRA.
(c) After the approving authority signs the non-significant guidance document, it should be forwarded to the DoD Regulatory Program staff for publication on the department's guidance document website located at
https://open.defense.gov/Regulatory-Program/Guidance-Documents/
.
§ 339.7
Significant guidance documents.
(a) The term “significant guidance document” means a guidance document that will be disseminated to regulated entities or the general public and that may reasonably be anticipated:
(1) To lead to an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the U.S. economy, a sector of the U.S. economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities (a guidance document is economically significant if it meets the criteria in this paragraph);
(2) To create serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another Federal agency;
(3) To alter materially the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or
(4) To raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in E.O. 12866, as further amended.
(b) The term “significant guidance document” does not include the categories of documents excluded by
§ 339.1(d) or any other category of guidance documents exempted in writing in consultation with OIRA.
(c) Significant guidance documents, to include economically significant guidance documents, must be reviewed by OIRA under E.O. 12866 before issuance; and must demonstrate compliance with the applicable requirements for regulations or rules, including significant regulatory actions, set forth in E.O. 12866, E.O. 13563, E.O. 13609, E.O. 13771, and E.O. 13777.
(d) Each proposed DoD guidance document determined by OIRA to be significant must be approved by an OSD Principal Staff Assistant or equivalent appointed by the President.
(e) Significant guidance documents have to be published for notice and comment in accordance with § 339.8 of this part before they can be issued.
§ 339.8
Notice-and-comment procedures.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all proposed DoD guidance documents determined to be a “significant guidance document” within the meaning of § 339.7 shall be subject to the following notice and comment procedures. After receiving clearance from OIRA to publish a proposed significant guidance document, the proposing component shall publish a notice in the
Federal Register
announcing that a draft of the proposed guidance document is publicly available on
Regulations.gov,
shall invite public comment on the draft document for a minimum of 30 days. After the comment period ends, the proposing component shall prepare and post a public response to major concerns raised in the comments, as appropriate, in the docket on
Regulations.gov
. Then the component will prepare a final notice that will be coordinated within the department and submitted to OIRA for review, interagency coordination, and clearance for publishing in the
Federal Register.
Both the proposed and final notices shall be approved by the DoD RPO before OIRA review, and by an OSD Principal Staff Assistant or equivalent appointed by the President after OIRA clearance and DOPSR approval.
(b) The notice and comment requirements of paragraph (a) of this section will not apply to any significant guidance document or categories of significant guidance documents for which the proposing component finds, in consultation with their component OGC and OIRA, good cause that notice and public procedure thereon are impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest (and incorporates the finding of good cause and a brief statement of reasons therefor in the guidance issued).
§ 339.9
Public access to effective guidance documents.
(a) The DoD Regulatory Policy Team shall:
(1) Ensure all final guidance documents in effect are identified by a unique identifier which includes, at a minimum, the document's title and date of issuance or revision and its Z-RIN, if applicable, are published and maintained on a central website located at
https://open.defense.gov/Regulatory-Program/Guidance-Documents/
in a single, searchable, indexed database, and available to the public;
(2) Note on its website that guidance documents do not bind the public, except as authorized by law or as incorporated into a contract;
(3) Announce on its website a means for the public to comment electronically on any guidance documents that are subject to the notice and comment procedures; and
(4) Receive complaints from the public that a component of the Department is not following the requirements of OMB's Memorandum M-20-02, “Guidance Implementing Executive Order 13891, Titled “Promoting the Rule of Law Through Improved Agency Guidance Documents”,” dated October 31, 2019, or is improperly treating a guidance document as a binding requirement.
(b) Each component responsible for issuing guidance documents shall:
(1) Submit final guidance documents to the DoD Regulatory Policy Team at the email address
osd.mc-alex.ocmo.mbx.guidance-documents@mail.mil
for posting to the Department's central website.
(2) Address complaints from the public that they are not following the requirements of OMB's Memorandum M-20-02, “Guidance Implementing Executive Order 13891, Titled “Promoting the Rule of Law Through Improved Agency Guidance Documents”,” dated October 31, 2019, or are improperly treating a guidance document as a binding requirement.
§ 339.10
Petitions for guidance.
(a) Any person may petition the Department to withdraw or modify a particular guidance document by sending a written request to the DoD Regulatory Program staff at email address
osd.mc-alex.ocmo.mbx.guidance-documents@mail.mil
. Please use the words “GUIDANCE: [Insert the title of the guidance document]” in the subject line of the email message. The DoD Regulatory Program staff will provide the request to the issuing component of the guidance document for response.
(b) The issuing component should respond to all requests within 90 days after receipt of the request, or as timely as possible given any constraints of the request. For recordkeeping purposes, the issuing component will provide a copy of their response to the DoD Regulatory Program staff at email address
osd.mc-alex.ocmo.mbx.guidance-documents@mail.mil
.
§ 339.11
Rescinded guidance.
(a) All effective guidance documents must appear on the central website. If the guidance document does not appear on the central website, the guidance is rescinded and without effect.
(b) No component may cite, use, or rely on guidance documents that are rescinded, except to establish historical facts.
§ 339.12
Exigent circumstances.
In emergency situations or when the proposing component is required by statutory deadline, court order, or executive order to act more quickly than normal review procedures allow, the proposing component shall coordinate with OGC and the appropriate DoD or OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer to notify OIRA as soon as possible and, to the extent practicable, shall comply with the requirements of this part at the earliest opportunity.
§ 339.13
Reports to Congress and GAO.
Upon the issuance of a final guidance document, the appropriate Federal Register Liaison Officer will submit a report to Congress and GAO in accordance with the procedures described in 5 U.S.C. 801 (the “Congressional Review Act”). If the CRA procedures are not followed, the guidance document can be nullified.
§ 339.14
Use of guidance documents.
Guidance documents cannot create binding requirements that do not already exist by statute or regulation. Accordingly, noncompliance with guidance documents cannot be used as a basis for proving violations of applicable law. Guidance documents can do no more, with respect to prohibition of conduct, than articulate the Department's understanding of how a statute or regulation applies to particular circumstances.
SUBCHAPTER P—OBTAINING DOD INFORMATION [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
32 CFR (7-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
32 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter I
199.2 Amended
15065
199.4 (b)(3)(xiv) introductory text and (g)(15)(i)(A) amended; interim
54923
199.4 (c)(3)(x)(A) revised
73196
199.4 (e)(26) amended; (e)(26)(iii) added; interim
68757
199.4 (g)(52) revised; interim
27927
199.6 (b)(4)(i)(I) note added; interim
54923
199.6 (c)(2)(i) revised; interim
27927
199.6 (c)(3)(iii)(K)(
2
)(
i
) revised; (c)(3)(iii)(K)(
2
)(
ii
) redesignated as (c)(3)(iii)(K)(
2
)(
iii
); (c)(3)(iii)(K)(
2
)(
ii
) added
15066
199.6 (c)(3)(iii)(C) and (K)(
2
) introductory text revised; (c)(3)(iii)(K)(
2
)(
iii
) removed; (c)(3)(iii)(K)(
3
) added
73196
199.8 Correction: (c)(6) removed
26355
199.9 (f)(1)(ii) revised
60705
199.14 (a)(1)(iii)(E)(
2
) revised; (a)(1)(iii)(E)(
5
) and (
6
) added; (a)(9)(i) note added; interim
54924
199.14 (j)(1)(xi) revised; eff. 7-6-20
34104
199.17 (l)(3)(A), (B), (4)(A), and (B) redesignated as (l)(3)(i), (ii), (4)(i), and (ii); (l)(3)(iii) added; interim
27927
200 Added
60705
204 Removed
55783
217 Removed
55784
220 Authority citation revised
51351
220.8 (b), (c)(1), (5) introductory text, (i), (f)(2), (5), and (6) revised; (d) and (f)(8) amended
51351
232 Interpretation
11842
233 Authority citation revised
13047
233.2 (b) amended; (d) added; interim
13047
233.6 (b)(5) added; (c)(1) amended; interim
13047
253 Removed
72566
269.4 (d) revised; interim
13049
272 Removed
60911
310.28 (c)(9) added
60715
319 Removed
40117
320 Removed
40117
321 Removed
37751
322 Removed
40118
326 Removed
40118
327 Removed
5796
329 Removed
15066
339 Added
32297
2021
32 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter I
199.5 (c)(7) introductory text revised
36217
199.24 (b)(1) introductory text revised
67862
233.3 Amended
70748
242 Removed
70749
269.4 (d) revised
46600
310.13 (e)(3) added
72524
310.13 (e)(4) added
52072
310.13 (e)(6) added
38561
310.16 (a)(12) removed; eff. 8-23-21
31431
310.20 (b)(5) removed; eff. 8-23-21
31431
310.29 (c)(28) added
26672
310.29 (b)(2), (c)(1), (4), (5), (7), (15), (17), (18), (20), (23), and (27) removed; eff. 8-23-21
31431
310 Appendix A added
64368
323 Removed
54371
2022
32 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter I
199 Technical correction
34779
199.2 Amended
33013
199.4 Regulations at 85 FR 27927 and 85 FR 54923 confirmed in part
33001
199.4 (c)(1)(iii), (g)(52) introductory text, and (i) revised
33013
199.6 Regulations at 85 FR 27927 and 85 FR 54923 confirmed
33001
199.6 (b)(4)(i)(I) note revised
33013
199.14 (a)(1)(iii)(E) introductory text amended; (a)(1)(iv) added; (a)(1)(iii)(E)(
5
) and (
6
) redesignated as (a)(1)(iv)(A) and (B); new (a)(1)(iv)(A) revised
33013
199.17 (l)(2)(i)(A) revised; interim
46886
199.17 Regulation at 85 FR 27927 confirmed
33001
199.17 (l)(3)(iii) amended
33014
269.4 (d) revised
57147
310.13 (e)(5) added
28775
310.13 (e)(9) added
30417
310.13 (e)(7) added
51612
310.13 (e)(10) added
76934
310.13 (e)(11) added
54153
310.13 (e)(12) added
76936
310.14 (f)(12), (14), and (15) removed; eff. 9-6-22
37999
310.17 Removed; eff. 9-6-22
37999
310.29 (c)(2) and (8) removed; eff. 9-6-22
37999
313 Removed
7945
2023
32 CFR
88 FR
Page
Subtitle A
Chapter I
199 Technical correction
25492
199.2 (b) amended; eff. 10-1-23
19854
199.6 (b)(4)(xxi) added; (f)(1)(i) revised; interim
2001
199.6 (b)(4)(x)(B)(
1
); eff. 10-1-23
19855
199.14 (a)(1)(iv)(C) added; (c) revised; interim
2001
199.14 (a)(6)(ii)(A), (E) introductory text, (
3
), and (d) revised; (a)(6)(ii)(E)(
4
); eff. 10-1-23
19855
269.4 (d) revised
2240
286.1 Amended
84237
286.3 (a) and (c) amended; (b) revised
84238
286.4 (a) amended; (b) revised
84238
286.9 (f)(2) revised; (h)(1) amended
84238
286.11 (b)(1) and (2) amended
84238
310.13 (e)(6)(i) and (iii)(A) amended
60145
310.13 (e)(13) added
11396
310.13 (e)(8) added
24479
310.14 (e)(7), (f)(20), and (21) removed; eff. 9-8-23
42236
310.15 (g)(21) removed; eff. 9-8-23
42236
310.16 (a)(22) and (23) removed; eff. 9-8-23
42236
310.20 (b)(8) removed; eff. 9-8-23
42236
310.21 (c)(6) removed; eff. 9-8-23
42236
310.22 (b)(1) removed; eff. 9-8-23
42236
310.23 (a)(3) removed; eff. 9-8-23
42236
310.25 (e)(1) removed; eff. 9-8-23
42236
310.28 (c)(4) revised
65130
310.28 (c)(10) added
16184
310.28 (c)(5) removed; eff. 9-8-23
42237
310.29 (c)(12) and (13) removed; eff. 9-8-23
42237
310 Appendix A amended
24477
2024
32 CFR
89 FR
Page
Subtitle A
Chapter I
199.4 (b)(3)(xiv) amended; eff. 8-2-24
45767
199.6 (b)(4)(i)(I) note removed; (c)(2)(i) amended; eff. 8-2-24
45767
199.14 (a)(1)(iii)(E)(
2
) amended; (a)(9)(i) note removed; eff. 8-2-24
45767
199.17 (l)(3)(iii) removed; eff. 8-2-24
45767
236 Authority citation and heading revised
17747
236.1 Revised
17747
236.2 Amended
17747
236.3 (b)(1) and (c) amended
17747
236.4 (b)(2), (c), (d), (e), and (k) amended; (e) through (g), (k), (m), and (p) revised; (o) heading added
17747
236.5 Revised
17747
236.6 Revised
17748
236.7 Revised
17749
286.3 Correction: (a) amended
5093
310.13 (e)(14) added
17750
310.20 (b)(7) and (9) removed
5095
310.22 (b)(5) removed
5095
310.28 (c)(8) removed
5095
310.29 (c)(29) added; eff. 7-15-24
37129
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through July 1, 2025)
32 CFR
90 FR
Page
Subtitle A
Chapter I
199.23 (b)(10) amended
5632
269.4 (d) revised
3695
○
