ineligibility or fraud, such application may be denied by the district director in whose jurisdiction the application is filed, and in cases returned to a Service office for re-interview, such application may be approved at the discretion of the district director. The applicant shall be notified of the decision and, if the application is denied, of the reason therefore. Appeal from an adverse decision under this part may be taken by the applicant on Form I-694 within 30 days after the service of the notice only to the Service's Administrative Appeals Unit pursuant to the provisions of section 103.3(a) of this chapter.
(iii)
Grounds of exclusion that may not be waived.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Act, the following provisions of section 212(a) may not be waived by the Attorney General under paragraph (b)(11)(ii) of this section:
(A) Paragraphs (9) and (10) (criminals);
(B) Paragraph (23) (narcotics) except for a single offense of simple possession of thirty grams or less of marijuana;
(C) Paragraphs (27) (prejudicial to the public interest), (28) (communist), and (29) (subversive);
(D) Paragraph (33) (participated in Nazi persecution).
(iv)
Determination of Likely to become a public charge
and the special rule. (A) Prior to use of the special rule for determination of public charge, an alien must first be determined to be excludable under section 212(a)(15) of the Act. If the applicant is determined to be
likely to become a public charge,
he or she may still be admissible under the terms of the Special Rule.
(B) In determining whether an alien is
likely to become a public charge,
financial responsibility of the alien is to be established by examining the totality of the alien's circumstances at the time of his or her application for legalization. The existence or absence of a particular factor should never be the sole criterion for determining if an alien is likely to become a public charge. The determination of financial responsibility should be a prospective evaluation based on the alien's age, health, income and vocation.
(C) An alien who has a consistent employment history which shows the ability to support himself or herself even though his or her income may be below the poverty level may be admissible under this section. The alien's employment history need not be continuous in that it is uninterrupted. It should be continuous in the sense that the alien shall be regularly attached to the workforce, has an income over a substantial period of the applicable time, and has demonstrated the capacity to exist on his or her income without recourse to public cash assistance. The Special Rule is prospective in that the Service shall determine, based on the alien's history, whether he or she is likely to become a public charge. Past acceptance of public cash assistance within a history of consistent employment will enter into this decision. The weight given in considering applicability of the public charge provisions will depend on many factors, but the length of time an applicant has received public cash assistance will constitute a significant factor. It is not necessary to file a waiver in order to apply the Special Rule for Determination of Public Charge.
(v)
Public assistance and criminal history verification.
Declarations by an applicant that he or she has not been the recipient of public cash assistance and/or has not had a criminal record are subject to a verification of facts by the Service. The applicant must agree to fully cooperate in the verification process. Failure to assist the Service in verifying information necessary for the adjudication of the application may result in a denial of the application.
(12)
Continuous physical presence since December 22, 1987.
(i) An alien applying for adjustment to temporary resident status must establish that he or she has been continuously physically present in the United States since December 22, 1987. Aliens who were outside of the United States on the date of enactment or departed the United States after enactment may apply for legalization if they reentered prior to March 21, 1988, and meet the continuous residence requirements and are otherwise eligible for legalization.
(ii) A brief, casual and innocent absence means a departure authorized by the Service (advance parole) subsequent to March 21, 1988, of not more than thirty (30) days for legitimate
emergency or humanitarian purposes unless a further period of authorized departure has been granted in the discretion of the district director or a departure was beyond the alien's control.
(13)
Departure.
(i) During the time period from the date that an alien's application establishing prima facie eligibility for temporary resident status is reviewed at a Service office and the date status as a temporary resident is granted, the alien applicant can be readmitted to the United States provided his or her departure was authorized under the Service's advance parole provisions contained in § 212.5(f) of this chapter.
(ii) An alien whose application for temporary resident status has been approved may be admitted to the United States upon return as a returning temporary resident provided he or she:
(A) Is not under deportation proceedings, such proceedings having been instituted subsequent to the approval of temporary resident status. A temporary resident alien will not be considered deported if that alien departs the United States while under an outstanding order of deportation issued prior to the approval of temporary resident status;
(B) Has not been absent from the United States for more than 30 days on the date application for admission is made;
(C) Has not been absent from the United States for an aggregate period of more than 90 days since the date the alien was granted lawful temporary resident status;
(D) Presents Form I-688;
(E) Presents himself or herself for inspection; and
(F) Is otherwise admissible.
(iii) The periods of time in paragraphs (b)(13)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section may be waived at the discretion of the Attorney General in cases where the absence from the United States was due merely to a brief and casual trip abroad due to emergent or extenuating circumstances beyond the alien's control.
(14)
Employment and travel authorization
—(i)
General.
Authorization for employment and travel abroad for temporary resident status applicants under this section may be granted only by a Service office. INS district directors will determine the Service location for the completion of processing travel documentation. In the case of an application which has been filed with a designated entity, employment authorization may be granted by the Service only after the application has been properly received at the Service office.
(ii)
Employment and travel authorization prior to the granting of temporary resident status.
(A) Permission to travel abroad and accept employment may be granted to the applicant after an interview has been conducted in connection with an application establishing prima facie eligibility for temporary resident status. Permission to travel abroad may be granted in emergent circumstances in accordance with the Service's advance parole provisions contained in § 212.5(f) of this chapter after an interview has been conducted in connection with an application establishing prima facie eligibility for temporary resident status.
(B) If an appointment cannot be scheduled within 30 days, authorization to accept employment will be granted, valid until the scheduled appointment date. The appointment letter will be endorsed with the temporary employment authorization. An employment authorization document will be given to the applicant after an interview has been completed by an immigration officer unless a formal denial is issued by a Service office. This temporary employment authorization will be restricted to six-months duration, pending final determination on the application for temporary resident status.
(iii)
Employment and travel authorization upon grant of temporary resident status.
Upon grant of an application for adjustment to temporary resident status by a Regional Processing Facility, the processing facility will forward a notice of approval to the alien at his or her last known address, or to his or her legal representative. The alien will be required to return to the appropriate INS office, surrender the I-688A or employment authorization document previously issued, and obtain Form I-688, Temporary Resident Card, authorizing employment and travel abroad.
(iv)
Revocation of employment authorization upon denial of temporary resident
status.
Upon denial of an application for adjustment to temporary resident status, the alien will be notified that if a timely appeal is not submitted, employment authorization shall be automatically revoked on the final day of the appeal period. An applicant whose appeal period has ended is no longer considered to be an Eligible Legalized Alien for the purposes of the administration of State Legalization Impact Assistance Grants (SLIAG) funding.
(15)
Decision.
The applicant shall be notified in writing of the decision. If the application is denied, the reason(s) for the decision shall be provided to the applicant. An appeal from an adverse decision under this part may be taken by the applicant on Form I-694.
(16)
Appeal process.
An adverse decision under this part may be appealed to the Associate Commissioner, Examinations (Administrative Appeals Unit), the appellate authority designated in § 103.1(f)(2). Any appeal shall be submitted to the Regional Processing Facility (RPF) with the required fee within 30 days after service of the Notice of Denial in accordance with the procedures of § 103.3(a) of this chapter. An appeal received after the 30-day period will not be accepted. The 30-day period for submission of an appeal begins three days after the Notice of Denial is mailed as provided in 8 CFR 103.8(b). If a review of the Record of Proceeding (ROP) is requested by the alien or his or her legal representative and an appeal has been properly filed, an additional 30 days will be allowed for this review beginning at the time the ROP is mailed. A brief may be submitted with the appeal form or submitted up to 30 calendar days from the date of receipt of the appeal form at the RPF. Briefs filed after submission of the appeal should be mailed directly to the RPF. For good cause shown, the time within which a brief supporting an appeal may be submitted may be extended by the Director of the Regional Processing Facility.
(17)
Motions.
The Regional Processing Facility director may
sua sponte
reopen and reconsider any adverse decision. When an appeal to the Associate Commissioner, Examinations (Administrative Appeals Unit) has been filed, the INS director of the Regional Processing Facility may issue a new decision granting the benefit which has been requested. The director's new decision must be served on the appealing party within 45 days of receipt of any briefs and/or new evidence, or upon expiration of the time allowed for the submission of any briefs. Motions to reopen a proceeding or reconsider a decision shall not be considered under this part.
(18)
Certifications.
The Regional Processing Facility director may, in accordance with § 103.4 of this chapter, certify a decision to the Associate Commissioner, Examinations (Administrative Appeals Unit) when the case involves an unusually complex or novel question of law or fact. The decision on an appealed case subsequently remanded to the Regional Processing Facility director will be certified to the Administrative Appeals Unit.
(19)
Date of adjustment to temporary residence.
The status of an alien whose application for temporary resident status is approved shall be adjusted to that of a lawful temporary resident as of the date indicated on the application fee receipt issued at the Service office.
(20)
Termination of temporary resident status
—(i)
Termination of temporary resident status (General).
The status of an alien lawfully admitted for temporary residence under § 245a.4 of this part may be terminated at any time. It is not necessary that a final order of deportation be entered in order to terminate temporary resident status. The temporary resident status may be terminated upon the occurrence of any of the following:
(A) It is determined that the alien was ineligible for temporary residence under § 245a.4 of this part;
(B) The alien commits an act which renders him or her inadmissible as an immigrant unless a waiver is obtained, as provided in this part;
(C) The alien is convicted of any felony, or three or more misdemeanors;
(D) The alien fails to file for adjustment of status from temporary resident to permanent resident within 31 months of the date he or she was granted status as a temporary resident.
(ii)
Procedure.
Termination of an alien's status will be made only on notice to the alien sent by certified mail
directed to his or her last known address, and, if applicable, to his or her representative. The alien must be given an opportunity to offer evidence in opposition to the grounds alleged for termination of his or her status. Evidence in opposition must be submitted within 30 days after the service of the Notice of Intent to Terminate. If the alien's status is terminated, the director of the Regional Processing Facility shall notify the alien of the decision and the reason for the termination, and further notify the alien that any Service Form issued to the alien authorizing employment and/or travel abroad, or any Form I-688, Temporary Resident Card previously issued to the alien will be declared void by the director of the Regional Processing Facility within 30 days if no appeal of the termination decision is filed within that period. The alien may appeal the decision to the Associate Commissioner, Examinations (Administrative Appeals Unit). Any appeal along with the required fee, shall be filed with the Regional Processing Facility within 30 days after the service of the notice of termination. If no appeal is filed within that period, the official Service document shall be deemed void, and must be surrendered without delay to an immigration officer or to the issuing office of the Service.
(iii)
Termination not construed as rescission under section 246.
For the purposes of this part the phrase
termination of status
of an alien granted lawful temporary residence under this section shall not be construed to necessitate a rescission of status as described in section 246 of the Act, and the proceedings required by the regulations issued thereunder shall not apply.
(iv)
Return to unlawful status after termination.
Termination of the status of any alien previously adjusted to lawful temporary residence shall act to return such alien to the status held prior to the adjustment, and render him or her amenable to exclusion or deportation proceedings under sections 236 or 242 of the Act, as appropriate.
(21)
Ineligibility for immigration benefits.
An alien whose status is adjusted to that of a lawful temporary resident under § 245a.4 of this part is not entitled to submit a petition pursuant to section 203(a)(2), nor is such alien entitled to any other benefit or consideration accorded under the Act to aliens lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
(22)
Declaration of intending citizen.
An alien who has been granted the status of temporary resident under § 245a.4 of this part may assert a claim of discrimination on the basis of citizenship status under section 274B of the Act only if he or she has previously filed Form I-772 (Declaration of Intending Citizen) after being granted such status. The Declaration of Intending Citizen is not required as a basis for filing a petition for naturalization; nor shall it be regarded as a right to United States citizenship; nor shall it be regarded as evidence of a person's status as a resident.
(23)
Limitation on access to information and confidentiality.
(i) No person other than a sworn officer or employee of the Department of Justice or bureau or agency thereof, will be permitted to examine individual applications. For purposes of this part, any individual employed under contract by the Service to work in connection with the Legalization Program shall be considered an
employee of the Department of Justice or bureau or agency thereof.
(ii) No information furnished pursuant to an application for temporary or permanent resident status under this section shall be used for any purpose except:
(A) To make a determination on the application; or,
(B) for the enforcement of the provisions encompassed in section 245A(c)(6) of the Act, except as provided in paragraph (b)(23)(iii) of this section.
(iii) If a determination is made by the Service that the alien has, in connection with his or her application, engaged in fraud or willful misrepresentation or concealment of a material fact, knowingly provided a false writing or document in making his or her application, knowingly made a false statement or representation, or engaged in any other activity prohibited by section 245A(c)(6) of the Act, the Service shall refer the matter to the United States Attorney for prosecution
of the alien or of any person who created or supplied a false writing or document for use in an application for adjustment of status under this part.
(iv) Information contained in granted legalization files may be used by the Service at a later date to make a decision on an immigrant visa petition (or other status petition) filed by the applicant under section 204(a), or for naturalization applications submitted by the applicant.
(c)
Adjustment from temporary to permanent resident status.
The provisions of § 245a.3 of this part shall be applied to aliens adjusting to permanent residence under this part.
[54 FR 6505, Feb. 13, 1989, as amended at 54 FR 29455, July 12, 1989; 54 FR 47676, Nov. 16, 1989; 60 FR 21976, May 4, 1995; 65 FR 82256, Dec. 28, 2000; 76 FR 53794, Aug. 29, 2011; 78 FR 18472, Mar. 27, 2013; 85 FR 46927, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 245a.5
Temporary disqualification of certain newly legalized aliens from receiving benefits from programs of financial assistance furnished under federal law.
(a) Except as provided in § 245a.5(b), any alien who has obtained the status of an alien lawfully admitted for temporary residence pursuant to section 245A of the Act (Adjustment of Status of Certain Entrants Before January 1, 1982, to that of Person Admitted for Lawful Residence) or 210A of the Act (Determinations of Agricultural Labor Shortages and Admission of Additional Special Agricultural Workers) is ineligible, for a period of five years from the date such status was obtained, for benefits financed directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, through the programs identified in § 245a.5(c) of this chapter.
(b)(1) Section 245a.5(a) shall not apply to a Cuban or Haitian entrant (as defined in paragraph (1) or (2)(A) of section 501(e) of Public Law 96-422, as in effect on April 1, 1983), or in the case of assistance (other than aid to families with dependent children) which is furnished to an alien who is an aged, blind, or disabled individual (as defined in section 1614(a)(1) of the Social Security Act).
(2) With respect to any alien who has obtained the status of an alien lawfully admitted for temporary residence pursuant to section 210A of the Act only, assistance furnished under the Legal Services Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 2996,
et seq.
) or title V of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. l471
et seq.
) shall not be construed to be financial assistance referred to in § 245a.5(a).
(3) Section 245a.5(a) shall not apply to benefits financed through the programs identified in § 245a.5(c), which are marked with an asterisk (*), except to the extent that such benefits:
(i) Consist of, or are financed by, financial assistance in the form of grants, wages, loan, loan guarantees, or otherwise, which is furnished by the Federal Government directly, or indirectly through a State or local government or a private entity, to eligible individuals or to private suppliers of goods or services to such individuals, or is furnished to a State or local government that provides to such individuals goods or services of a kind that is offered by private suppliers, and
(ii) Are targeted to individuals in financial need; either (A) in order to be eligible, individuals must establish that their income or wealth is below some maximum level, or, with respect to certain loan or loan guarantee programs, that they are unable to obtain financing from alternative sources, or at prevailing interest rates, or at rates that would permit the achievement of program goals, or (B) distribution of assistance is directed, geographically or otherwise, in a way that is intended to primarily benefit persons in financial need, as evidenced by references to such intent in the authorizing legislation.
(c) The programs of Federal financial assistance referred to in § 245a.5(a) are those identified in the list set forth below. The General Services Administration (GSA) Program Numbers set forth in the right column of the program list refer to the program identification numbers used in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance, published by the United States General Services Administration, as updated through December, 1986.
GSA Program Numbers
Department of Agriculture:
Farm Operating Loans
10.406
Farm Ownership Loans
10.407
Department of Health and Human Services:
Assistance Payments—Maintenance Assistance (Maintenance Assistance; Emergency Assistance; State Aid; Aid to Families with Dependent Children)
13.780
Low-Income Home Energy Assistance
13.789
*Community Services Block Grant
13.792
*Community Services Block Grant—Discretionary Awards
13.793
Department of Housing and Urban Development:
Mortgage Insurance—Housing in Older, Declining Areas (223(e))
14.123
Mortgage Insurance—Special Credit Risks (237)
14.140
*Community Development Block Grants/Entitlement Grants
14.218
*Community Development Block Grants/Small Cities Program (Small Cities)
14.219
Section 312 Rehabilitation Loans (312)
14.220
*Urban development action grants
14.221
*Community Development Block Grants/State's Program
14.228
Section 221(d)(3) Mortgage Insurance for Multifamily Rental Housing for Low and Moderate Income Families (Below Market Interest Rate)
14.136
Department of Labor:
Senior Community Service Employment Program (SCSEP)
17.235
Office of Personnel Management:
Federal Employment for Disadvantaged Youth—Part-Time (Stay-in-School Program)
27.003
Federal Employment for Disadvantaged Youth—Summer (Summer Aides)
27.004
Small Business Administration:
Small Business Loans (7(a) Loans)
59.012
Department of Energy:
Weatherization Assistance for Low-Income Persons
81.042
Department of Education:
Patricia Roberts Harris Fellowships (Graduate and Professional Study; Graduate and Professional Study Opportunity Fellowships; Public Service Education Fellowships)
84.094
Legal Training for the Disadvantaged (The American Bar Association Fund for Public Education)
84.136
Allen J. Ellender Fellowship Program (Ellender Fellowship)
84.148
Legal Services Corporation:
Payments to Legal Services Corporation
[54 FR 29437, July 12, 1989, as amended at 54 FR 49964, Dec. 4, 1989]
§ 245a.6
Treatment of denied application under part 245a, Subpart B.
If the district director finds that an eligible alien as defined at § 245a.10 has not established eligibility under section 1104 of the LIFE Act (part 245a, Subpart B), the district director shall consider whether the eligible alien has established eligibility for adjustment to temporary resident status under section 245A of the Act, as in effect before enactment of section 1104 of the LIFE Act (part 245a, Subpart A). In such an adjudication using this Subpart A, the district director will deem the “date of filing the application” to be the date the eligible alien establishes that he or she was “front-desked” or that, though he or she took concrete steps to apply, the front-desking policy was a substantial cause of his or her failure to apply. If the eligible alien has established eligibility for adjustment to temporary resident status, the LIFE Legalization application shall be deemed converted to an application for temporary residence under this Subpart A.
[67 FR 38350, June 4, 2002]

# Subpart B—Legal Immigration Family Equity (LIFE) Act Legalization Provisions

# Source:
66 FR 29673, June 1, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 245a.10
Definitions.
In this Subpart B, the terms:
Eligible alien
means an alien (including a spouse or child as defined at section 101(b)(1) of the Act of the alien who was such as of the date the alien alleges that he or she attempted to file or was discouraged from filing an application for legalization during the original application period) who, before October 1, 2000, filed with the Attorney General a written claim for class membership, with or without filing fee, pursuant to a court order issued in the case of:
(1)
Catholic Social Services, Inc.
v.
Meese,
vacated sub nom.
Reno
v.
Catholic Social Services, Inc.,
509 U.S. 43 (1993) (
CSS
);
(2)
League of United Latin American Citizens
v.
INS,
vacated sub nom.
Reno
v.
Catholic Social Services, Inc.,
509 U.S. 43 (1993) (
LULAC
); or
(3)
Zambrano
v.
INS,
vacated, 509 U.S. 918 (1993) (
Zambrano
).
Lawful Permanent Resident (LPR)
means the status of having been lawfully accorded the privilege of residing permanently in the United States as an immigrant in accordance with the immigration laws, such status not having changed.
LIFE Act
means the Legal Immigration Family Equity Act and the LIFE Act Amendments of 2000.
LIFE Legalization
means the provisions of section 1104 of the LIFE Act and section 1503 of the LIFE Act Amendments.
Prima facie
means eligibility is established if an “eligible alien” presents a properly filed and completed Form I-485 and specific factual information which in the absence of rebuttal will establish a claim of eligibility under this Subpart B.
Written claim for class membership
means a filing, in writing, in one of the forms listed in § 245a.14 that provides the Attorney General with notice that the applicant meets the class definition in the cases of
CSS, LULAC
or
Zambrano.
[66 FR 29673, June 1, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 38350, June 4, 2002; 67 FR 66532, Nov. 1, 2002]
§ 245a.11
Eligibility to adjust to LPR status.
An eligible alien, as defined in § 245a.10, may adjust status to LPR status under LIFE Legalization if:
(a) He or she properly files, with fee, Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, with the Service during the application period beginning June 1, 2001, and ending June 4, 2003.
(b) He or she entered the United States before January 1, 1982, and resided continuously in the United States in an unlawful status since that date through May 4, 1988;
(c) He or she was continuously physically present in the United States during the period beginning on November 6, 1986, and ending on May 4, 1988;
(d) He or she is not inadmissible to the United States for permanent residence under any provisions of section 212(a) of the Act, except as provided in § 245a.18, and that he or she:
(1) Has not been convicted of any felony or of three or more misdemeanors committed in the United States;
(2) Has not assisted in the persecution of any person or persons on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion; and
(3) Is registered or registering under the Military Selective Service Act, if the alien is required to be so registered; and
(e) He or she can demonstrate basic citizenship skills.
[66 FR 29673, June 1, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 38350, June 4, 2002]
§ 245a.12
Filing and applications.
(a)
When to file.
The application period began on June 1, 2001, and ends on June 4, 2003. To benefit from the provisions of LIFE Legalization, an alien must properly file an application for adjustment of status, Form I-485, with appropriate fee, to the Service during the application period as described in this section. All applications, whether filed in the United States or filed from abroad, must be postmarked on or before June 4, 2003, to be considered timely filed.
(1) If the postmark is illegible or missing, and the application was mailed from within the United States, the Service will consider the application to be timely filed if it is
received
on or before June 9, 2003.
(2) If the postmark is illegible or missing, and the application was mailed from outside the United States, the Service will consider the application to be timely filed if it is
received
on or before June 18, 2003.
(3) If the postmark is made by other than the United States Post Office, and is filed from within the United States, the application must bear a date on or before June 4, 2003, and must be received on or before June 9, 2003.
(4) If an application filed from within the United States bears a postmark that was made by other than the United States Post Office, bears a date on or before June 4, 2003, and is received after June 9, 2003, the alien must establish:
(i) That the application was actually deposited in the mail before the last collection of the mail from the place of deposit that was postmarked by the United States Post Office June 4, 2003; and
(ii) That the delay in receiving the application was due to a delay in the transmission of the mail; and
(iii) The cause of such delay.
(5) If an application filed from within the United States bears both a postmark that was made by other than the United States Post Office and a postmark that was made by the United States Post Office, the Service shall disregard the postmark that was made by other than the United States Post Office.
(6) If an application filed from abroad bears both a foreign postmark and a postmark that was subsequently made by the United States Post Office, the Service shall disregard the postmark that was made by the United States Post Office.
(7) In all instances, the burden of proof is on the applicant to establish timely filing of an application for LIFE Legalization.
(b)
Filing of applications in the United States.
The Service has jurisdiction over all applications for the benefits of LIFE Legalization under this Subpart B. All applications filed with the Service for the benefits of LIFE Legalization must be submitted by
mail
to the Service. After proper filing of the application, the Service will instruct the applicant to appear for fingerprinting as prescribed in 8 CFR 103.16. The Director of the National Benefit Center shall have jurisdiction over all applications filed with the Service for LIFE Legalization adjustment of status, unless the Director refers the applicant for a personal interview at a local Service office as provided in § 245a.19.
(1)
Aliens in exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings, or who have a pending motion to reopen or motion to reconsider.
An alien who is prima facie eligible for adjustment of status under LIFE Legalization who is in exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings before the Immigration Court or the Board of Immigration Appeals (Board), or who is awaiting adjudication of a motion to reopen or motion to reconsider filed with the Immigration Court of the Board, may request that the proceedings be administratively closed or that the motion filed be indefinitely continued, in order to allow the alien to pursue a LIFE Legalization application with the Service. In the request to administratively close the matter or indefinitely continue the motion, the alien must include documents demonstrating prima facie eligibility for the relief, and proof that the application for relief had been properly filed with the Service as prescribed in this section. With the concurrence of Service counsel, if the alien appears eligible to file for relief under LIFE Legalization, the Immigration Court or the Board, whichever has jurisdiction, shall administratively close the proceeding or continue the motion indefinitely.
(2) If an alien has a matter before the Immigration Court or the Board that has been administratively closed for reasons unrelated to this Subpart B, the alien may apply before the Service for LIFE Legalization adjustment of status.
(3)
Aliens with final orders of exclusion, deportation, or removal.
An alien, who is prima facie eligible for adjustment of status under LIFE Legalization, and who is subject to a final order of exclusion, deportation, or removal, may apply to the Service for LIFE Legalization adjustment.
(c)
Filing of applications from outside the United States.
An applicant for LIFE Legalization may file an application for LIFE Legalization from abroad. An application for LIFE Legalization filed from outside the United States shall be submitted by mail to the Service according to the instructions on the application. The National Benefit Center Director shall have jurisdiction over all applications filed with the Service for LIFE Legalization adjustment of status. After reviewing the application and all evidence with the application, the Service shall notify the applicant of any further requests for evidence regarding the application and, if eligible, how an interview will be conducted.
(d)
Application and supporting documentation.
Each applicant for LIFE Legalization adjustment of status must submit the form prescribed by USCIS completed in accordance with the form instructions accompanied by the required evidence.
(1) The Form I-485 application fee as contained in 8 CFR 106.2.
(2) [Reserved]
(3) Evidence to establish identity, such as a passport, birth certificate, any national identity document from the alien's country of origin bearing
photo and fingerprint, driver's license or similar document issued by a state if it contains a photo, or baptismal record/marriage certificate.
(4) [Reserved]
(5) A report of medical examination, as specified in § 245.5 of this chapter.
(6) [Reserved]
(7) Proof of application for class membership in
CSS, LULAC,
or
Zambrano
class action lawsuits as described in § 245a.14.
(8) Proof of continuous residence in an unlawful status since prior to January 1, 1982, through May 4, 1988, as described in § 245a.15.
(9) Proof of continuous physical presence from November 6, 1986, through May 4, 1988, as described in § 245a.16.
(10) Proof of citizenship skills as described in § 245a.17. This proof may be submitted either at the time of filing the application, subsequent to filing the application but prior to the interview, or at the time of the interview.
(e)
Burden of proof.
An alien applying for adjustment of status under this part has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that he or she has resided in the United States for the requisite periods, is admissible to the United States under the provisions of section 212(a) of the Act, and is otherwise eligible for adjustment of status under this Subpart B. The inference to be drawn from the documentation provided shall depend on the extent of the documentation, its credibility and amenability to verification as set forth in paragraph (f) of this section.
(f)
Evidence.
The sufficiency of all evidence produced by the applicant will be judged according to its probative value and credibility. To meet his or her burden of proof, an applicant must provide evidence of eligibility apart from his or her own testimony. In judging the probative value and credibility of the evidence submitted, greater weight will be given to the submission of original documentation. Subject to verification by the Service, if the evidence required to be submitted by the applicant is already contained in the Service's file or databases relating to the applicant, the applicant may submit a statement to that effect in lieu of the actual documentation.
[66 FR 29673, June 1, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 38350, June 4, 2002; 76 FR 53794, Aug. 29, 2011; 85 FR 46927, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 245a.13
During pendency of application.
(a)
In general.
When an eligible alien in the United States submits a prima facie application for adjustment of status under LIFE Legalization during the application period, until a final determination on his or her application has been made, the applicant:
(1) May not be deported or removed from the United States;
(2) Is authorized to engage in employment in the United States and is provided with an “employment authorized” endorsement or other appropriate work permit; and
(3) Is allowed to travel and return to the United States as described at paragraph (e) of this section. Any domestic LIFE Legalization applicant who departs the United States while his or her application is pending without advance parole may be denied re-admission to the United States as described at paragraph (e) of this section.
(b)
Determination of filing of claim for class membership.
With respect to each LIFE Legalization application for adjustment of status that is properly filed under this Subpart B during the application period, the Service will first determine whether or not the applicant is an “eligible alien” as defined under § 245a.10 of this Subpart B by virtue of having filed with the Service a claim of class membership in the
CSS, LULAC,
or
Zambrano
lawsuit before October 1, 2000. If the Service's records indicate, or if the evidence submitted by the applicant with the application establishes, that the alien had filed the requisite claim of class membership before October 1, 2000, then the Service will proceed to adjudicate the application under the remaining standards of eligibility.
(c)
Prima facie eligibility.
Unless the Service has evidence indicating ineligibility due to criminal grounds of inadmissibility, an application for adjustment of status shall be treated as a prima facie application during the pendency of application, until the
Service has made a final determination on the application, if:
(1) The application was properly filed under this Subpart B during the application period; and
(2) The applicant establishes that he or she filed the requisite claim for class membership in the
CSS, LULAC,
or
Zambrano
lawsuit.
(d)
Authorization to be employed in the United States while the application is pending
—(1)
Application for employment authorization.
An applicant for adjustment of status under LIFE Legalization who wishes to obtain initial or continued employment authorization during the pendency of the adjustment application must file a Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, with the Service, including the fee as set forth in 8 CFR 106.2. The applicant may submit Form I-765 either concurrently with or subsequent to the filing of the application for adjustment of status benefits on Form I-485.
(2)
Adjudication and issuance.
Until a final determination on the application has been made, an eligible alien who submits a prima facie application for adjustment of status under this Subpart B shall be authorized to engage in employment in the United States and be provided with an “employment authorized” endorsement or other appropriate work permit in accordance with § 274a.12(c)(24) of this chapter. An alien shall not be granted employment authorization pursuant to LIFE Legalization until he or she has submitted a prima facie application for adjustment of status under this Subpart B. If the Service finds that additional evidence is required from the alien in order to establish prima facie eligibility for LIFE Legalization, the Service shall request such evidence from the alien in writing. Nothing in this section shall preclude an applicant for adjustment of status under LIFE Legalization from being granted an initial employment authorization or an extension of employment authorization under any other provision of law or regulation for which the alien may be eligible.
(e)
Travel while the application is pending.
This paragraph is authorized by section 1104(c)(3) of the LIFE Act relating to the ability of an alien to travel abroad and return to the United States while his or her LIFE Legalization adjustment application is pending. Parole authority is granted to the National Benefit Center Director for the purposes described in this section. Nothing in this section shall preclude an applicant for adjustment of status under LIFE Legalization from being granted advance parole or admission into the United States under any other provision of law or regulation for which the alien may be eligible.
(1) An applicant for LIFE Legalization benefits who wishes to travel during the pendency of the application and who is applying from within the United States should file, with his or her application for adjustment, at the National Benefit Center, a Form I-131, Application for Travel Document, with fee as set forth in 8 CFR 106.2. The Service shall approve the Form I-131 and issue an advance parole document, unless the Service finds that the alien's application does not establish a prima facie claim to adjustment of status under LIFE Legalization.
(2) An eligible alien who has properly filed a Form I-485 pursuant to this Subpart B, and who needs to travel abroad pursuant to the standards prescribed in section 212(d)(5) of the Act, may file a Form I-131 with the district director having jurisdiction over his or her place of residence.
(3) If an alien travels abroad and returns to the United States with a grant of advance parole, the Service shall presume that the alien is entitled to return under section 1104(c)(3)(B) of the LIFE Act, unless, in a removal or expedited removal proceeding, the Service shows by a preponderance of the evidence, that one or more of the provisions of § 245a.11(d) makes the alien ineligible for adjustment of status under LIFE Legalization.
(4) If an alien travels abroad and returns without a grant of advance parole, he or she shall be denied admission and shall be subject to removal or expedited removal unless the alien establishes, clearly and beyond doubt, that:
(i) He or she filed an application for adjustment pursuant to LIFE Legalization during the application period that
presented a prima facie claim to adjustment of status under LIFE Legalization; and,
(ii) His or her absence was either a brief and casual trip consistent with an intention on the alien's part to pursue his or her LIFE Legalization adjustment application, or was a brief temporary trip that occurred because of the alien's need to tend to family obligations relating to a close relative's death or illness or similar family need.
(5) An applicant for LIFE Legalization benefits who applies for admission into the United States shall not be subject to the provisions of section 212(a)(9)(B) of the Act.
(6) Denial of admission under this section is not a denial of the alien's application for adjustment. The alien may continue to pursue his or her application for adjustment from abroad, and may also appeal any denial of such application from abroad. Such application shall be adjudicated in the same manner as other applications filed from abroad.
(f)
Stay of final order of exclusion, deportation, or removal.
The filing of a LIFE Legalization adjustment application on or after June 1, 2001, and on or before June 4, 2003, stays the execution of any final order of exclusion, deportation, or removal. This stay shall remain in effect until there is a final decision on the LIFE Legalization application, unless the district director who intends to execute the order makes a formal determination that the applicant does not present a prima facie claim to LIFE Legalization eligibility pursuant to §§ 245a.18(a)(1) or (a)(2), or §§ 245a.18(c)(2)(i), (c)(2)(ii), (c)(2)(iii), (c)(2)(iv), (c)(2)(v), or (c)(2)(vi), and serves the applicant with a written decision explaining the reason for this determination. Any such stay determination by the district director is not appealable. Neither an Immigration Judge nor the Board has jurisdiction to adjudicate an application for stay of execution of an exclusion, deportation, or removal order, on the basis of the alien's having filed a LIFE Legalization adjustment application.
[66 FR 29673, June 1, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 38351, June 4, 2002; 85 FR 46927, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 245a.14
Application for class membership in the
CSS, LULAC,
or
Zambrano
lawsuit.
The Service will first determine whether an alien filed a written claim for class membership in the
CSS, LULAC,
or
Zambrano
lawsuit as reflected in the Service's indices, a review of the alien's administrative file with the Service, and by all evidence provided by the alien. An alien must provide with the application for LIFE Legalization evidence establishing that, before October 1, 2000, he or she was a class member applicant in the
CSS, LULAC,
or
Zambrano
lawsuit. An alien should include as many forms of evidence as the alien has available to him or her. Such forms of evidence include, but are not limited to:
(a) An Employment Authorization Document (EAD) or other employment document issued by the Service pursuant to the alien's class membership in the
CSS, LULAC,
or
Zambrano
lawsuit (if a photocopy of the EAD is submitted, the alien's name, A-number, issuance date, and expiration date should be clearly visible);
(b) Service document(s) addressed to the alien, or his or her representative, granting or denying the class membership, which includes date, alien's name and A-number;
(c) The questionnaire for class member applicant under
CSS, LULAC,
or
Zambrano
submitted with the class membership application, which includes date, alien's full name and date of birth;
(d) Service document(s) addressed to the alien, or his or her representative, discussing matters pursuant to the class membership application, which includes date, alien's name and A-number. These include, but are not limited to the following:
(1) Form I-512, Parole authorization, or denial of such;
(2) Form I-221, Order to Show Cause;
(3) Form I-862, Notice to Appear;
(4) Final order of removal or deportation;
(5) Request for evidence letter (RFE); or
(6) Form I-687 submitted with the class membership application.
(e) Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, submitted
pursuant to a court order granting interim relief.
(f) An application for a stay of deportation, exclusion, or removal pursuant to a court's order granting interim relief.
(g) Any other relevant document(s).
[66 FR 29673, June 1, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 38351, June 4, 2002]
§ 245a.15
Continuous residence in an unlawful status since prior to January 1, 1982, through May 4, 1988.
(a)
General.
The Service will determine whether an alien entered the United States before January 1, 1982, and resided in continuous unlawful status since such date through May 4, 1988, based on the evidence provided by the alien. An alien must provide with the application for LIFE Legalization evidence establishing that he or she entered the United States before January 1, 1982, and resided in continuous unlawful status since that date through May 4, 1988.
(b)
Evidence.
(1) A list of evidence that may establish an alien's continuous residence in the United States can be found at § 245a.2(d)(3).
(2) The following evidence may establish an alien's unlawful status in the United States:
(i) Form I-94 (see § 1.4), Arrival-Departure Record;
(ii) Form I-20A-B, Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant (F-1) Student Status—For Academic and Language Students;
(iii) Form IAP-66, Certificate of Eligibility for Exchange Visitor Status;
(iv) A passport; or
(v) Nonimmigrant visa(s) issued to the alien.
(c)
Continuous residence.
An alien shall be regarded as having resided continuously in the United States if:
(1) No single absence from the United States has exceeded forty-five (45) days, and the aggregate of all absences has not exceeded one hundred and eighty (180) days between January 1, 1982, and May 4, 1988, unless the alien can establish that due to emergent reasons, his or her return to the United States could not be accomplished within the time period allowed;
(2) The alien was maintaining residence in the United States; and
(3) The alien's departure from the United States was not based on an order of deportation.
(d)
Unlawful status.
The following categories of aliens, who are otherwise eligible to adjust to LPR status pursuant to LIFE Legalization, may file for adjustment of status provided they resided continuously in the United States in an unlawful status since prior to January 1, 1982, through May 4, 1988:
(1) An eligible alien who entered the United States without inspection prior to January 1, 1982.
(2)
Nonimmigrants.
An eligible alien who entered the United States as a nonimmigrant before January 1, 1982, whose authorized period of admission as a nonimmigrant expired before January 1, 1982, through the passage of time, or whose unlawful status was known to the Government before January 1, 1982. Known to the Government means documentation existing in one or more Federal Government agencies' files such that when such document is taken as a whole, it warrants a finding that the alien's status in the United States was unlawful. Any absence of mandatory annual and/or quarterly registration reports from Federal Government files does not warrant a finding that the alien's unlawful status was known to the Government.
(i)
A or G nonimmigrants.
An eligible alien who entered the United States for duration of status (D/S) in one of the following nonimmigrant classes, A-1, A-2, G-1, G-2, G-3 or G-4, whose qualifying employment terminated or who ceased to be recognized by the Department of State as being entitled to such classification prior to January 1, 1982. A dependent family member may be considered a member of this class if the dependent family member was also in A or G status when the principal A or G alien's status terminated or ceased to be recognized by the Department of State.
(ii)
F nonimmigrants.
An eligible alien who entered the United States for D/S in one of the following nonimmigrant classes, F-1 or F-2, who completed a full course of study, including practical training, and whose time period, if any,
to depart the United States after completion of study expired prior to January 1, 1982. A dependent F-2 alien otherwise eligible who was admitted into the United States with a specific time period, as opposed to duration of status, documented on Form I-94, Arrival-Departure Record, that extended beyond January 1, 1982, is considered eligible if the principal F-1 alien is found eligible.
(iii)
Nonimmigrant exchange visitors.
An eligible alien who was at any time a nonimmigrant exchange alien (as defined in section 101(a)(15)(J) of the Act), who entered the United States before January 1, 1982, and who:
(A) Was not subject to the 2-year foreign residence requirement of section 212(e) of the Act; or
(B) Has fulfilled the 2-year foreign residence requirement of section 212(e) of the Act; or
(C) Has received a waiver for the 2-year foreign residence requirement of section 212(e) of the Act.
(3)
Asylum applicants.
An eligible alien who filed an asylum application prior to January 1, 1982, and whose application was subsequently denied or whose application was not decided by May 4, 1988.
(4)
Aliens considered to be in unlawful status.
Aliens who were present in the United States in one of the following categories were considered to be in unlawful status:
(i) An eligible alien who was granted voluntary departure, voluntary return, extended voluntary departure, or placed in deferred action category by the Service prior to January 1, 1982.
(ii) An eligible alien who is a Cuban or Haitian entrant (as described in paragraph (1) or (2)(A) of section 501(e) of Public Law 96-422 and at § 212.5(g) of this chapter), who entered the United States before January 1, 1982. Pursuant to section 1104(c)(2)(B)(iv) of the LIFE Act, such alien is considered to be in an unlawful status in the United States.
(iii) An eligible alien who was paroled into the United States prior to January 1, 1982, and whose parole status terminated prior to January 1, 1982.
(iv) An eligible alien who entered the United States before January 1, 1982, and whose entries to the United States subsequent to January 1, 1982, were not documented on Form I-94.
[66 FR 29673, June 1, 2001, as amended at 78 FR 18472, Mar. 27, 2013]
§ 245a.16
Continuous physical presence from November 6, 1986, through May 4, 1988.
(a) The Service will determine whether an alien was continuously physically present in the United States from November 6, 1986, through May 4, 1988, based on the evidence provided by the alien. An alien must provide with the application evidence establishing his or her continuous physical presence in the United States from November 6, 1986, through May 4, 1988. Evidence establishing the alien's continuous physical presence in the United States from November 6, 1986, to May 4, 1988, may consist of any documentation issued by any governmental or nongovernmental authority, provided such evidence bears the name of the applicant, was dated at the time it was issued, and bears the signature, seal, or other authenticating instrument of the authorized representative of the issuing authority, if the document would normally contain such authenticating instrument.
(b) For purposes of this section, an alien shall not be considered to have failed to maintain continuous physical presence in the United States by virtue of brief, casual, and innocent absences from the United States. Also, brief, casual, and innocent absences from the United States are not limited to absences with advance parole. Brief, casual, and innocent absence(s) as used in this paragraph means temporary, occasional trips abroad as long as the purpose of the absence from the United States was consistent with the policies reflected in the immigration laws of the United States.
(c) An alien who has been absent from the United States in accordance with the Service's advance parole procedures shall not be considered as having interrupted his or her continuous physical presence as required at the time of filing an application under this section.
[66 FR 29673, June 1, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 38351, June 4, 2002]
§ 245a.17
Citizenship skills.
(a)
Requirements.
Applicants for adjustment under LIFE Legalization must meet the requirements of section 312(a) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1423(a)) (relating to minimal understanding of ordinary English and a knowledge and understanding of the history and government of the United States). Unless an exception under paragraph (c) of this section applies to the applicant, LIFE Legalization applicants must establish that:
(1) He or she has complied with the same requirements as those listed for naturalization applicants under §§ 312.1 and 312.2 of this chapter; or
(2) He or she has a high school diploma or general educational development diploma (GED) from a school in the United States. A GED gained in a language other than English is acceptable only if a GED English proficiency test has been passed. (The curriculum for both the high school diploma and the GED must have included at least 40 hours of instruction in English and United States history and government). The applicant may submit a high school diploma or GED either at the time of filing Form I-485, subsequent to filing the application but prior to the interview, or at the time of the interview (the applicant's name and A-number must appear on any such evidence submitted); or
(3) He or she has attended, or is attending, a state recognized, accredited learning institution in the United States, and that institution certifies such attendance. The course of study at such learning institution must be for a period of one academic year (or the equivalent thereof according to the standards of the learning institution) and the curriculum must include at least 40 hours of instruction in English and United States history and government. The applicant may submit certification on letterhead stationery from a state recognized, accredited learning institution either at the time of filing Form I-485, subsequent to filing the application but prior to the interview, or at the time of the interview (the applicant's name and A-number must appear on any such evidence submitted).
(b)
Second interview.
An applicant who fails to pass the English literacy and/or the United States history and government tests at the time of the interview, shall be afforded a second opportunity after 6 months (or earlier, at the request of the applicant) to pass the tests or submit evidence as described in paragraphs (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section. The second interview shall be conducted prior to the denial of the application for permanent residence and may be based solely on the failure to pass the basic citizenship skills requirements.
(c)
Exceptions.
LIFE Legalization applicants are exempt from the requirements listed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section if he or she has qualified for the same exceptions as those listed for naturalization applicants under §§ 312.1(b)(3) and 312.2(b) of this chapter. Further, at the discretion of the Attorney General, the requirements listed under paragraph (a) of this section may be waived if the LIFE Legalization applicant:
(1) Is 65 years of age or older on the date of filing; or
(2) Is developmentally disabled as defined under § 245a.1(v).
[66 FR 29673, June 1, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 38351, June 4, 2002]
§ 245a.18
Ineligibility and applicability of grounds of inadmissibility.
(a)
Ineligible aliens.
(1) An alien who has been convicted of a felony or of three or misdemeanors committed in the United States is ineligible for adjustment to LPR status under this Subpart B; or
(2) An alien who has assisted in the persecution of any person or persons on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion is ineligible for adjustment of status under this Subpart B.
(b)
Grounds of inadmissibility not to be applied.
Section 212(a)(5) of the Act (labor certification requirements) and section 212(a)(7)(A) of the Act (immigrants not in possession of valid visa and/or travel documents) shall not apply to applicants for adjustment to LPR status under this Subpart B.
(c)
Waiver of grounds of inadmissibility.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)
of this section, the Service may waive any provision of section 212(a) of the Act only in the case of individual aliens for humanitarian purposes, to ensure family unity, or when the granting of such a waiver is otherwise in the public interest. If available, an applicant may apply for an individual waiver as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section without regard to section 241(a)(5) of the Act.
(1)
Special rule for waiver of inadmissibility grounds for LIFE Legalization applicants under sections 212(a)(9)(A) and 212(a)(9)(C) of the Act.
An applicant for adjustment of status under LIFE Legalization who is inadmissible under section 212(a)(9)(A) or 212(a)(9)(C) of the Act, may apply for a waiver of these grounds of inadmissibility while present in the United States, without regard to the normal requirement that a Form I-212, Application for Permission to Reapply for Admission into the United States After Deportation or Removal, be filed prior to embarking or re-embarking for travel to the United States, and without regard to the length of time since the alien's removal or deportation from the United States. Such an alien shall file Form I-690, Application for Waiver of Grounds of Excludability Under Sections 245A or 210 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, with the district director having jurisdiction over the applicant's case if the application for adjustment of status is pending at a local office, or with the Director of the National Benefit Center. Approval of a waiver of inadmissibility under section 212(a)(9)(A) or section 212(a)(9)(C) of the Act does not cure a break in continuous residence resulting from a departure from the United States at any time during the period from January 1, 1982, and May 4, 1988, if the alien was subject to a final exclusion or deportation order at the time of the departure.
(2)
Grounds of inadmissibility that may not be waived.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Act, the following provisions of section 212(a) of the Act may not be waived by the Attorney General under paragraph (c) of this section:
(i) Section 212(a)(2)(A)(i)(I) (crimes involving moral turpitude);
(ii) Section 212(a)(2)(A)(i)(II) (controlled substance, except for so much of such paragraph as relates to a single offense of simple possession of 30 grams or less of marijuana);
(iii) Section 212(a)(2)(B) (multiple criminal convictions);
(iv) Section 212(a)(2)(C) (controlled substance traffickers);
(v) Section 212(a)(3) (security and related grounds); and
(vi) Section 212(a)(4) (public charge) except for an alien who is or was an aged, blind, or disabled individual (as defined in section 1614(a)(1) of the Social Security Act). If a LIFE Legalization applicant is determined to be inadmissible under section 212(a)(4) of the Act, he or she may still be admissible under the Special Rule described under paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(d)(1) In determining whether an alien is “likely to become a public charge”, financial responsibility of the alien is to be established by examining the totality of the alien's circumstance at the time of his or her application for adjustment. The existence or absence of a particular factor should never be the sole criteria for determining if an alien is likely to become a public charge. The determination of financial responsibility should be a prospective evaluation based on the alien's age, health, family status, assets, resources, education and skills.
(2) An alien who has a consistent employment history that shows the ability to support himself or herself even though his or her income may be below the poverty level is not excludable under paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section. The alien's employment history need not be continuous in that it is uninterrupted. In applying the Special Rule, the Service will take into account an alien's employment history in the United States to include, but not be limited to, employment prior to and immediately following the enactment of IRCA on November 6, 1986. However, the Service will take into account that an alien may not have consistent employment history due to the fact that an eligible alien was in an unlawful status and was not authorized to work. Past acceptance of public cash assistance within a history of consistent employment will enter into this decision.
The weight given in considering applicability of the public charge provisions will depend on many factors, but the length of time an applicant has received public cash assistance will constitute a significant factor. It is not necessary to file a waiver in order to apply the Special Rule for determination of public charge.
(3) In order to establish that an alien is not inadmissible under paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section, an alien may file as much evidence available to him or her establishing that the alien is not likely to become a public charge. An alien may have filed on his or her behalf a Form I-134, Affidavit of Support. The failure to submit Form I-134 shall not constitute an adverse factor.
(e)
Public cash assistance and criminal history verification.
Declarations by an alien that he or she has not been the recipient of public cash assistance and/or has not had a criminal record are subject to a verification by the Service. The alien must agree to fully cooperate in the verification process. Failure to assist the Service in verifying information necessary for proper adjudication may result in denial of the application.
[66 FR 29673, June 1, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 38351, June 4, 2002; 85 FR 46927, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 245a.19
Interviews.
(a) All aliens filing applications for adjustment of status with the Service under this section must be personally interviewed, except that the adjudicative interview may be waived for a child under the age of 14, or when it is impractical because of the health or advanced age of the applicant. Applicants will be interviewed by an immigration officer as determined by the Director of the National Benefit Center. An applicant failing to appear for the scheduled interview may, for good cause, be afforded another interview. Where an applicant fails to appear for two scheduled interviews, his or her application shall be denied for lack of prosecution. Applications for LIFE Legalization adjustment may be denied without interview if the applicant is determined to be statutorily ineligible.
(b) At the time of the interview, wherever possible, original documents must be submitted except the following: official government records; employment or employment-related records maintained by employers, unions, or collective bargaining organizations; medical records; school records maintained by a school or school board; or other records maintained by a party other than the applicant. Copies of records maintained by parties other than the applicant which are submitted in evidence must be certified as true and correct by such parties and must bear their seal or signature or the signature and title of persons authorized to act in their behalf.
(c) If at the time of the interview the return of original documents is desired by the applicant, they must be accompanied by notarized copies or copies certified true and correct by the alien's representative. At the discretion of the district director, original documents, even if accompanied by certified copies, may be temporarily retained for forensic examination by the Service.
[66 FR 29673, June 1, 2001, as amended at 85 FR 46927, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 245a.20
Decisions, appeals, motions, and certifications.
(a)
Decisions
—(1)
Approval of applications.
If the Service approves the application for adjustment of status under LIFE Legalization, the district director shall record the alien's lawful admission for permanent residence as of the date of such approval and notify the alien accordingly. The district director shall also advise the alien regarding the delivery of his or her Form I-551, Permanent Resident Card, and of the process for obtaining temporary evidence of alien registration. If the alien has previously been issued a final order of exclusion, deportation, or removal, such order shall be deemed canceled as of the date of the district director's approval of the application for adjustment of status. If the alien had been in exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings that were administratively closed, such proceedings shall be deemed terminated as of the date of approval of the application for adjustment of status by the district director.
(2)
Denials.
The alien shall be notified in writing of the decision of denial and of the reason(s) therefore. An applicant
affected under this part by an adverse decision is entitled to file an appeal on Form I-290B Notice of Appeal to the Administrative Appeals Office (AAO), with the required fee specified in 8 CFR 106.2. Renewal of employment authorization issued pursuant to 8 CFR 245a.13 will be granted until a final decision has been rendered on appeal or until the end of the appeal period if no appeal is filed. After exhaustion of an appeal, an alien who believes that the grounds for denial have been overcome may submit another application with fee, provided that the application is submitted on or before June 4, 2003.
(b)
Appeals process.
An adverse decision under this part may be appealed to the Associate Commissioner, Examinations, Administrative Appeals Office (AAO), who is the appellate authority designated in § 103.1(f)(3) of this chapter. Any appeal shall be submitted to the Service office that rendered the decision with the required fee.
(1) If an appeal is filed from within the United States, it must be received by the Service within 30 calendar days after service of the Notice of Denial (NOD) in accordance with the procedures of § 103.3(a) of this chapter. An appeal received after the 30 day period has tolled will not be accepted. The 30 day period for submitting an appeal begins 3 days after the NOD is mailed. If a review of the Record of Proceeding (ROP) is requested by the alien or his or her legal representative, and an appeal has been properly filed, an additional 30 days will be allowed for this review from the time the ROP is photocopied and mailed.
(2) If an applicant's last known address of record was outside the United States, and the NOD was mailed to that foreign address, the appeal must be received by the Service within 60 calendar days after service of the NOD in accordance with the procedures of § 103.3(a) of this chapter. An appeal received after the 60 day period has tolled will not be accepted. The 60-day period for submitting an appeal begins 3 days after the NOD is mailed.
(c)
Motions.
The Service director who denied the application may reopen and reconsider any adverse decision
sua sponte.
When an appeal to the AAO has been filed, the director may issue a new decision that will grant the benefit that has been requested. Motions to reopen a proceeding or reconsider a decision shall not be considered under this Subpart B.
(d)
Certifications.
The Service director who adjudicates the application may, in accordance with § 103.4 of this chapter, certify a decision to the AAO when the case involves an unusually complex or novel question of law or fact.
(e)
Effect of final adjudication of application on aliens previously in proceedings
—(1)
Upon the granting of an application.
If the application for LIFE Legalization is granted, proceedings shall be deemed terminated or a final order of exclusion, deportation, or removal shall be deemed canceled as of the date of the approval of the LIFE Legalization application for adjustment of status.
(2)
Upon the denial of an application
—(i)
Where proceedings were administratively closed.
In the case of an alien whose previously initiated exclusion, deportation or removal proceeding had been administratively closed or continued indefinitely under § 245a.12(b)(1), the director shall make a request for recalendaring to the Immigration Court that had administratively closed the proceeding, or the Board, as appropriate, when there is a final decision denying the LIFE Legalization application. The Immigration Court or the Board will then recalendar the prior proceeding.
(ii)
Where final order was stayed.
If the application for LIFE Legalization is denied, the stay of a final order of exclusion, deportation, or removal afforded in § 245a.13(f) shall be deemed lifted as of the date of such denial.
[66 FR 29673, June 1, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 38352, June 4, 2002; 72 FR 19107, Apr. 17, 2007; 85 FR 46927, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 245a.21
Confidentiality.
(a) No person other than a sworn officer or employee of the Department of Justice or bureau or agency thereof, will be permitted to examine individual applications. For purposes of this part, any individual employed under contract by the Service to work in connection with the LIFE Legalization provisions shall be considered an
employee of the Department of Justice or bureau or agency thereof.
(b) No information furnished pursuant to an application for permanent resident status under this Subpart B shall be used for any purpose except:
(1) To make a determination on the application;
(2) For the enforcement of the provisions encompassed in section 245A(c)(6) of the Act, except as provided in paragraphs (c) of this section; or
(3) For the purposes of rescinding, pursuant to section 246(a) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1256(a)), any adjustment of status obtained by the alien.
(c) If a determination is made by the Service that the alien has, in connection with his or her application, engaged in fraud or willful misrepresentation or concealment of a material fact, knowingly provided a false statement or document in making his or her application, knowingly made a false statement or representation, or engaged in any other activity prohibited by section 245A(c)(6) of the Act, the Service shall refer the matter to the United States Attorney for prosecution of the alien and/or of any person who created or supplied a false statement or document for use in an application for adjustment of status under this Subpart B.
(d) Information contained in granted files may be used by the Service at a later date to make a decision:
(1) On an immigrant visa petition or other status filed by the applicant under section 204(a) of the Act;
(2) On a naturalization application submitted by the applicant;
(3) For the preparation of reports to Congress under section 404 of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986; or
(4) For the furnishing of information, at the discretion of the Attorney General, in the same manner and circumstances as census information may be disclosed by the Secretary of Commerce under 13 U.S.C. 8.
(e) Information concerning whether the applicant has at any time been convicted of a crime may be used or released for immigration enforcement or law enforcement purposes.
§ 245a.22
Rescission.
(a) Rescission of adjustment of status under LIFE Legalization shall occur only under the procedures of 8 CFR part 246.
(b) Information furnished by an eligible alien pursuant to any application filed under LIFE Legalization may be used by the Attorney General, and other officials and employees of the Department of Justice and any bureau or agency thereof, for purposes of rescinding, pursuant to 8 CFR part 246, any adjustment of status obtained by the alien.
§§ 245a.23-245a.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—LIFE Act Amendments Family Unity Provisions

# Source:
66 FR 29673, June 1, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 245a.30
Description of program.
This Subpart C implements the Family Unity provisions of section 1504 of the LIFE Act Amendments, Public Law 106-554.
§ 245a.31
Eligibility.
An alien who is currently in the United States may obtain Family Unity benefits under section 1504 of the LIFE Act Amendments if he or she establishes that:
(a) He or she is the spouse or unmarried child under the age of 21 of an eligible alien (as defined under § 245a.10) at the time the alien's application for Family Unity benefits is adjudicated and thereafter;
(b) He or she entered the United States before December 1, 1988, and resided in the United States on such date; and
(c) If applying for Family Unity benefits on or after June 5, 2003, he or she is the spouse or unmarried child under the age of 21 of an alien who has filed a Form I-485 pursuant to this Subpart B.
[66 FR 29673, June 1, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 38352, June 4, 2002]
§ 245a.32
Ineligible aliens.
The following categories of aliens are ineligible for Family Unity benefits under the LIFE Act Amendments:
(a) An alien who has been convicted of a felony or of three or more misdemeanors in the United States; or
(b) An alien who has ordered, incited, assisted, or otherwise participated in the persecution of an individual because of the individual's race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion; or
(c) An alien who has been convicted by a final judgment of a particularly serious crime and who is a danger to the community of the United States; or
(d) An alien who the Attorney General has serious reasons to believe has committed a serious nonpolitical crime outside the United States before the alien arrived in the United States; or
(e) An alien who the Attorney General has reasonable grounds to believe is a danger to the security of the United States.
§ 245a.33
Filing.
(a)
General.
An application for Family Unity benefits under section 1504 of the LIFE Act Amendments must be filed on a Form I-817, Application for Family Unity Benefits, with the National Benefit Center. A Form I-817 must be filed with the correct fee required in 8 CFR 106.2 and the required supporting documentation. A separate application with appropriate fee and documentation must be filed for each person claiming eligibility.
(b)
Decision.
The National Benefit Center Director has sole jurisdiction to adjudicate an application for Family Unity benefits under the LIFE Act Amendments. The Director will provide the applicant with specific reasons for any decision to deny an application. Denial of an application may not be appealed. An applicant who believes that the grounds for denial have been overcome may submit another application with the appropriate fee and documentation.
(c)
Referral of denied cases for consideration of issuance of notice to appear.
If an application is denied, the case will be referred to the district director with jurisdiction over the alien's place of residence for consideration of whether to issue a notice to appear. After an initial denial, an applicant's case will not be referred for issuance of a notice to appear until 90 days from the date of the initial denial, to allow the alien the opportunity to file a new Form I-817 application in order to attempt to overcome the basis of the denial. However, if the applicant is found not to be eligible for benefits under § 245a.32(a), the Service reserves the right to issue a notice to appear at any time after the initial denial.
[66 FR 29673, June 1, 2001, as amended at 72 FR 19107, Apr. 17, 2007; 85 FR 46927, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 245a.34
Protection from removal, eligibility for employment, and period of authorized stay.
(a)
Scope of protection.
Nothing in this Subpart C shall be construed to limit the authority of the Service to commence removal proceedings against an applicant for or beneficiary of Family Unity benefit under this Subpart C on any ground of removal. Also, nothing in this Subpart C shall be construed to limit the authority of the Service to take any other enforcement action against such an applicant or beneficiary with respect to any ground of removal not specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section. Protection from removal under this Subpart C is limited to the grounds of removal specified in:
(1) Section 237(a)(1)(A) of the Act (aliens who were inadmissible at the time of entry or adjustment of status), except that the alien may be removed if he or she is inadmissible because of a ground listed in section 212(a)(2) (criminal and related grounds) or in section 212(a)(3) (security and related grounds) of the Act; or
(2) Section 237(a)(1)(B) of the Act (aliens present in the United States in violation of the Act or any other law of the United States);
(3) Section 237(a)(1)(C) of the Act (aliens who violated their nonimmigrant status or violated the conditions of entry); or
(4) Section 237(a)(3)(A) of the Act (aliens who failed to comply with the change of address notification requirements).
(b)
Duration of protection from removal.
When an alien whose application for Family Unity benefits under the LIFE Act Amendments is approved, he or she will receive protection from removal, commencing with the date of approval of the application. A grant of protection from removal under this section shall be considered effective from the date on which the application was properly filed.
(1) In the case of an alien who has been granted Family Unity benefits under the LIFE Act Amendments based on the principal alien's application for LIFE Legalization, any evidence of protection from removal shall be dated to expire 1 year after the date of approval, or the day before the alien's 21st birthday, whichever comes first.
(2) In the case of an alien who has been granted Family Unity benefits under the LIFE Act Amendments based on the principal alien's adjustment to LPR status pursuant to his or her LIFE Legalization application, any evidence of protection from removal shall be dated to expire 2 years after the date of approval, or the day before the alien's 21st birthday, whichever comes first.
(c)
Employment authorization.
An alien granted Family Unity benefits under the LIFE Act Amendments is authorized to be employed in the United States.
(1) In the case of an alien who has been granted Family Unity benefits based on the principal alien's application for LIFE Legalization, the validity period of the employment authorization document shall be dated to expire 1 year after the date of approval of the Form I-817, or the day before the alien's 21st birthday, whichever comes first.
(2) In the case of an alien who has been granted Family Unity benefits based on the principal alien's adjustment to LPR status pursuant to his or her LIFE Legalization application, the validity period of the employment authorization document shall be dated to expire 2 years after the date of approval of the Form I-817, or the day before the alien's 21st birthday, whichever comes first.
(d)
Period of authorized stay.
An alien granted Family Unity benefits under the LIFE Act Amendments is deemed to have received an authorized period of stay approved by the Attorney General within the scope of section 212(a)(9)(B) of the Act.
[66 FR 29673, June 1, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 38352, June 4, 2002]
§ 245a.35
Travel outside the United States.
(a) An alien who departs the United States while his or her application for Family Unity benefits is pending will be deemed to have abandoned the application and the application will be denied.
(b) An alien granted Family Unity benefits under the LIFE Act Amendments who intends to travel outside the United States temporarily must apply for advance authorization using Form I-131. The authority to grant an application for advance authorization for an alien granted Family Unity benefits under the LIFE Act Amendments rests solely with the Service. An alien who is granted advance authorization and returns to the United States in accordance with such authorization, and who is found not to be inadmissible under section 212(a)(2) or (3) of the Act, shall be paroled into the United States. He or she shall be provided the remainder of the protection from removal period previously granted under the Family Unity provisions of the LIFE Act Amendments.
§ 245a.36
[Reserved]
§ 245a.37
Termination of Family Unity Program benefits.
(a)
Grounds for termination.
The Service may terminate Family Unity benefits under the LIFE Act Amendments whenever the necessity for the termination comes to the attention of the Service. Such grounds will exist in situations including, but not limited to, those in which:
(1) A determination is made that Family Unity benefits were acquired as the result of fraud or willful misrepresentation of a material fact;
(2) The beneficiary commits an act or acts which render him or her ineligible for Family Unity benefits under the LIFE Act Amendments;
(3) The alien, upon whose status Family Unity benefits under the LIFE Act were based, fails to apply for LIFE Legalization by June 4, 2003, has his or her LIFE Legalization application denied, or loses his or her LPR status; or
(4) A qualifying relationship to the alien, upon whose status Family Unity benefits under the LIFE Act Amendments were based, no longer exists.
(b)
Notice procedure.
Notice of intent to terminate and of the grounds thereof shall be served pursuant to the provisions of 8 CFR 103.8. The alien shall be given 30 days to respond to the notice and may submit to the Service additional evidence in rebuttal. Any final decision of termination shall also be served pursuant to the provisions of 8 CFR 103.8. Nothing in this section shall preclude the Service from commencing removal proceedings prior to termination of Family Unity benefits.
(c)
Effect of termination.
Termination of Family Unity benefits under the LIFE Act Amendments shall render the alien amenable to removal under any ground specified in section 237 of the Act (including those grounds described in § 245a.34(a)). In addition, the alien will no longer be considered to be in a period of stay authorized by the Attorney General as of the date of such termination.
[66 FR 29673, June 1, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 38352, June 4, 2002; 76 FR 53794, Aug. 29, 2011]
Pt. 246

# PART 246—RESCISSION OF ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS
Sec.
246.1
Notice.
246.2
Allegations admitted; no answer filed; no hearing requested.
246.3
Allegations contested or denied; hearing requested.
246.4
Immigration judge's authority; withdrawal and substitution.
246.5
Hearing.
246.6
Decision and order.
246.7
Appeals.
246.8
[Reserved]
246.9
Surrender of Form I-551.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1254, 1255, 1256, 1259; 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
62 FR 10385, Mar. 6, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 246.1
Notice.
If it appears to a district director that a person residing in his or her district was not in fact eligible for the adjustment of status made in his or her case, or it appears to an asylum office director that a person granted adjustment of status by an asylum officer pursuant to 8 CFR 240.70 was not in fact eligible for adjustment of status, a proceeding shall be commenced by the personal service upon such person of a notice of intent to rescind, which shall inform him or her of the allegations upon which it is intended to rescind the adjustment of his or her status. In such a proceeding the person shall be known as the respondent. The notice shall also inform the respondent that he or she may submit, within thirty days from the date of service of the notice, an answer in writing under oath setting forth reasons why such rescission shall not be made, and that he or she may, within such period, request a hearing before an immigration judge in support of, or in lieu of, his or her written answer. The respondent shall further be informed that he or she may have the assistance of or be represented by counsel or representative of his or her choice qualified under part 292 of this chapter, at no expense to the Government, in the preparation of his or her answer or in connection with his or her hearing, and that he or she may present such evidence in his or her behalf as may be relevant to the rescission.
[62 FR 10385, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 27881, May 21, 1999]
§ 246.2
Allegations admitted; no answer filed; no hearing requested.
If the answer admits the allegations in the notice, or if no answer is filed within the thirty-day period, or if no hearing is requested within such period, the district director or asylum office director shall rescind the adjustment of status previously granted, and no appeal shall lie from his decision.
[62 FR 10385, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 27881, May 21, 1999]
§ 246.3
Allegations contested or denied; hearing requested.
If, within the prescribed time following service of the notice pursuant to § 246.1, the respondent has filed an answer which contests or denies any allegation in the notice, or a hearing is requested, a hearing pursuant to § 246.5 shall be conducted by an immigration judge, and the requirements contained in §§ 240.3, 240.4, 240.5, 240.6, 240.7, and 240.9 of this chapter shall be followed.
§ 246.4
Immigration judge's authority; withdrawal and substitution.
In any proceeding conducted under this part, the immigration judge shall have authority to interrogate, examine, and cross-examine the respondent and other witnesses, to present and receive evidence, to determine whether adjustment of status shall be rescinded, to make decisions thereon, including an appropriate order, and to take any other action consistent with applicable provisions of law and regulations as may be appropriate to the disposition of the case. Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to diminish the authority conferred on immigration judges by the Act. The immigration judge assigned to conduct a hearing shall, at any time, withdraw if he or she deems himself or herself disqualified. If a hearing has begun but no evidence has been adduced other than the notice and answer, if any, pursuant to §§ 246.1 and 246.2, or if an immigration judge becomes unavailable to complete his or her duties within a reasonable time, or if at any time the respondent consents to a substitution, another immigration judge may be assigned to complete the case. The new immigration judge shall familiarize himself or herself with the record in the case and shall state for the record that he or she is familiar with the record in the case.
§ 246.5
Hearing.
(a)
Service counsel.
The Government shall be represented at the hearing by a Service counsel who shall have authority to present evidence, and to interrogate, examine, and cross-examine the respondent and other witnesses. The Service counsel is authorized to appeal from a decision of the immigration judge pursuant to § 246.7 and to move for reopening or reconsideration pursuant to § 3.23 of this chapter.
(b)
Opening.
The immigration judge shall advise the respondent of the nature of the proceeding and the legal authority under which it is conducted; advise the respondent of his or her right to representation, at no expense to the Government, by counsel or representative of his or her own choice qualified under part 292 of this chapter and require him or her to state then and there whether he or she desires representation; advise the respondent that he or she will have a reasonable opportunity to examine and object to the evidence against him or her, to present evidence in his or her own behalf, and to cross-examine witnesses presented by the Government; place the respondent under oath; read the allegations in the notice to the respondent and explain them in nontechnical language, and enter the notice and respondent's answer, if any, as exhibits in the record.
(c)
Pleading by respondent.
The immigration judge shall require the respondent to state for the record whether he or she admits or denies the allegations contained in the notice, or any of them, and whether he or she concedes that his or her adjustment of status should be rescinded. If the respondent admits all of the allegations and concedes that the adjustment of status in his or her case should be rescinded under the allegations set forth in the notice, and the immigration judge is satisfied that no issues of law or fact remain, he or she may determine that rescission as alleged has been established by the respondent's admissions. The allegations contained in the notice shall be taken as admitted when the respondent, without reasonable cause, fails or refuses to attend or remain in attendance at the hearing.
§ 246.6
Decision and order.
The decision of the immigration judge may be oral or written. The formal enumeration of findings is not required. The order shall direct either that the proceeding be terminated or that the adjustment of status be rescinded. Service of the decision and finality of the order of the immigration
judge shall be in accordance with, and as stated in §§ 240.13 (a) and (b) and 240.14 of this chapter.
§ 246.7
Appeals.
Pursuant to 8 CFR part 3, an appeal shall lie from a decision of an immigration judge under this part to the Board of Immigration Appeals. An appeal shall be taken within 30 days after the mailing of a written decision or the stating of an oral decision. The reasons for the appeal shall be specifically identified in the Notice of Appeal (Form EOIR 26); failure to do so may constitute a ground for dismissal of the appeal by the Board.
§ 246.8
[Reserved]
§ 246.9
Surrender of Form I-551.
A respondent whose status as a permanent resident has been rescinded in accordance with section 246 of the Act and this part, shall, upon demand, promptly surrender to the district director having administrative jurisdiction over the office in which the action under this part was taken, the Form I-551 issued to him or her at the time of the grant of permanent resident status.
Pt. 247

# PART 247—ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS OF CERTAIN RESIDENT ALIENS
Sec.
247.1
Scope of part.
247.11
Notice.
247.12
Disposition of case.
247.13
Disposition of Form I-508.
247.14
Surrender of documents.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1101, 1103, and 1257.
§ 247.1
Scope of part.
The provisions of this part apply to an alien who is lawfully admitted for permanent residence and has an occupational status which, if he were seeking admission to the United States, would entitle him to a nonimmigrant status under paragraph (15)(A) or (15)(G) of section 101(a) of the Act, and to his immediate family; also, an alien who was lawfully admitted for permanent residence and has an occupational status which, if he were seeking admission to the United States, would entitle him to a nonimmigrant status under paragraph (15)(E) of section 101(a) of the Act, and to his spouse and children.
[22 FR 9801, Dec. 6, 1957]
§ 247.11
Notice.
If it appears to a district director that an alien residing in his district, who was lawfully admitted for permanent residence, has an occupational status described in section 247 of the Act, he shall cause a notice on Form I-509 to be served on such alien by personal service informing him that it is proposed to adjust his status, unless the alien requests that he be permitted to retain his status as a resident alien and executes and files with such district director a Form I-508 (Waiver of Rights, Privileges, Exemptions and Immunities) and, if a French national receiving salary from the French Republic, Form I-508F (election as to tax exemption under the Convention between the United States and the French Republic), within 10 days after service of the notice, or the alien, within such 10-day period, files with the district director a written answer under oath setting forth reasons why his status should not be adjusted. The notice shall also advise the person that he may, within such period and upon his request have an opportunity to appear in person, in support or in lieu of his written answer, before an immigration officer designated for that purpose. The person shall further be advised that he may have the assistance of counsel without expense to the Government of the United States in the preparation of his answer or in connection with such personal appearance, and may examine the evidence upon which it is proposed to base such adjustment.
[22 FR 9801, Dec. 6, 1957, as amended at 37 FR 11471, June 8, 1972]
§ 247.12
Disposition of case.
(a)
Allegations admitted or no answer filed.
If the waiver Form I-508 and, if applicable, Form I-508F is not filed by the alien within the time prescribed, and the answer admits the allegations in the notice, or no answer is filed, the district director shall place a notation on the notice describing the alien's adjusted nonimmigrant status and shall cause a set of Forms I-94 (see § 1.4) to
be prepared evidencing the nonimmigrant classification to which the alien has been adjusted and no appeal shall lie from such decision. Form I-94A shall be delivered to the alien and shall constitute notice to him of such adjustment. The alien's nonimmigrant status shall be for such time, under such conditions, and subject to such regulations as are applicable to the particular nonimmigrant status granted and shall be subject to such other terms and conditions, including the exaction of bond as the district director may deem appropriate.
(b)
Answer filed; personal appearance.
Upon receipt of an answer asserting a defense to the allegations made in the notice without requesting a personal appearance, or if a personal appearance is requested or directed, the case shall be assigned to an immigration officer. Pertinent evidence, including testimony of witnesses, shall be incorporated in the record. The immigration officer shall prepare a report summarizing the evidence and containing his findings and recommendation. The record, including the report and recommendation of the immigration officer, shall be forwarded to the district director who caused the notice to be served. The district director shall note on the report of the immigration officer whether he approves or disapproves the recommendation of the immigration officer. If the decision of the district director is that the matter be terminated, the alien shall be informed of such decision. If the decision of the district director is that the status of the alien should be adjusted to that of a nonimmigrant, his decision shall provide that unless the alien, within 10 days of receipt of notification of such decision, requests permission to retain his status as an immigrant and files with the district director Form I-508 and, if applicable, Form I-508F, the alien's immigrant status be adjusted to that of a nonimmigrant. The alien shall be informed of such decision and of the reasons therefor, and of his right to appeal in accordance with the provisions of part 103 of this chapter. If the alien does not request that he be permitted to retain status and file the Form I-508 and, if applicable, Form I-508F within the period provided therefor, the district director, without further notice to the alien, shall cause a set of Forms I-94 to be prepared evidencing the nonimmigrant classification to which the alien has been adjusted. Form I-94A shall be delivered to the alien. The alien's nonimmigrant status shall be for such time, under such conditions, and subject to such regulations as are applicable to the particular nonimmigrant status created and shall be subject to such other terms and conditions, including the exaction of bond, as the district director may deem appropriate.
[22 FR 9801, Dec. 6, 1957, as amended at 23 FR 9124, Nov. 26, 1958; 35 FR 13829, Sept. 1, 1970; 78 FR 18472, Mar. 27, 2013]
§ 247.13
Disposition of Form I-508.
If Form I-508 is executed and filed, the duplicate copy thereof (noted to show the election made on Form I-508F, if applicable) shall be filed in the office of the Assistant Commissioner, Administrative Division, and may be made available for inspection by any interested officer or agency of the United States.
[35 FR 13829, Sept. 1, 1970]
§ 247.14
Surrender of documents.
An alien whose status as a permanent resident has been adjusted to that of a nonimmigrant in accordance with section 247 of the Act and this part, shall, upon demand, promptly surrender to the district director having administrative jurisdiction over the office in which the action under this part was taken any documents (such as Form I-151 or I-551 or any other form of Permanent Resident Card, immigrant identification card, resident alien's border-crossing identification card (Form I-187), certificate of registry, or certificate of lawful entry) in his possession evidencing his former permanent resident status.
[22 FR 9802, Dec. 6, 1957, as amended at 45 FR 32657, May 19, 1980; 63 FR 70316, Dec. 21, 1998]
Pt. 248

# PART 248—CHANGE OF NONIMMIGRANT CLASSIFICATION
Sec.
248.1
Eligibility.
248.2
Ineligible classes.
248.3
Petition and application.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1101, 1103, 1184, 1258; 8 CFR part 2.
§ 248.1
Eligibility.
(a)
General.
Except for those classes enumerated in § 248.2, any alien lawfully admitted to the United States as a nonimmigrant, including an alien who acquired such status pursuant to section 247 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1257, who is continuing to maintain his or her nonimmigrant status, may apply to have his or her nonimmigrant classification changed to any nonimmigrant classification other than that of a spouse or fianc(e), or the child of such alien, under section 101(a)(15)(K) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(K), or as an alien in transit under section 101(a)(15)(C) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(C). An alien defined by section 101(a)(15)(V), or 101(a)(15)(U) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(V) or 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(U), may be accorded nonimmigrant status in the United States by following the procedures set forth respectively in § 214.15(f) or § 214.14 of this chapter.
(b) Except in the case of an alien applying to obtain V nonimmigrant status in the United States under § 214.15(f) of this chapter, a change of status may not be approved for an alien who failed to maintain the previously accorded status or whose status expired before the application or petition was filed, except that failure to file before the period of previously authorized status expired may be excused in the discretion of USCIS, and without separate application, where it is demonstrated at the time of filing that:
(1) The failure to file a timely application was due to extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the applicant or petitioner, and USCIS finds the delay commensurate with the circumstances;
(2) The alien has not otherwise violated his or her nonimmigrant status;
(3) The alien remains a bona fide nonimmigrant; and
(4) The alien is not the subject of removal proceedings under 8 CFR part 240.
(c)
Change of nonimmigrant classification to that of a nonimmigrant student.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, a nonimmigrant applying for a change of classification as an F-1 or M-1 student is not considered ineligible for such a change solely because the applicant may have started attendance at school before the application was submitted. USCIS will deny an application for a change to classification as an M-1 student if the applicant intends to pursue the course of study solely in order to qualify for a subsequent change of nonimmigrant classification to that of an alien temporary worker under section 101(a)(15)(H) of the Act. Furthermore, an alien may not change from classification as an M-1 student to that of an F-1 student.
(2) [Reserved]
(3) A nonimmigrant who is admitted as, or changes status to, a B-1 or B-2 nonimmigrant on or after April 12, 2002, or who files a request to extend the period of authorized stay as a B-1 or B-2 nonimmigrant on or after such date, may not pursue a course of study at an approved school unless the Service has approved his or her application for change of status to a classification as an F-1 or M-1 student. USCIS will deny the change of status if the B-1 or B-2 nonimmigrant enrolled in a course of study before filing the application for change of status or while the application is pending.
(d)
Application for change of nonimmigrant classification from that of a student under section 101(a)(15)(M)(i) to that described in section 101(a)(15)(H).
A district director shall deny an application for change of nonimmigrant classification from that of an M-1 student to that of an alien temporary worker under section 101(a)(15)(H) of the Act if the education or training which the student received while an M-1 student enables the student to meet the qualifications for temporary worker classification under section 101(a)(15)(H) of the Act.
(e)
Change of nonimmigrant classification to that as described in section 101(a)(15)(N).
An application for change to N status shall not be denied on the grounds the applicant is an intending immigrant. Change of status shall be granted for three years not to exceed termination of eligibility under section
101(a)(15)(N) of the Act. Employment authorization pursuant to section 274(A) of the Act may be granted to an alien accorded nonimmigrant status under section 101(a)(15)(N) of the Act. Employment authorization is automatically terminated when the alien changes status or is no longer eligible for classification under section 101(a)(15)(N) of the Act.
[86 FR 14228, Mar. 15, 2021]
§ 248.2
Ineligible classes.
(a) Except as described in paragraph (b) of this section, the following categories of aliens are not eligible to change their nonimmigrant status under section 248 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1258:
(1) Any alien in immediate and continuous transit through the United States without a visa;
(2) Any alien classified as a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15) (C), (D), (K), or (S) of the Act;
(3) Any alien admitted as a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(J) of the Act, or who acquired such status after admission in order to receive graduate medical education or training, whether or not the alien was subject to, received a waiver of, or fulfilled the two-year foreign residence requirement of section 212(e) of the Act. This restriction shall not apply when the alien is a foreign medical graduate who was granted a waiver under section 212(e)(iii) of the Act pursuant to a request made by a State Department of Public Health (or its equivalent) under Pub. L. 103-416, and the alien complies with the terms and conditions imposed on the waiver under section 214(k) of the Act and the implementing regulations at § 212.7(c)(9) of this chapter. A foreign medical graduate who was granted a waiver under Pub. L. 103-416 and who does not fulfill the requisite 3-year employment contract or otherwise comply with the terms and conditions imposed on the waiver is ineligible to apply for change of status to any other nonimmigrant classification; and
(4) Any alien classified as a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(J) of the Act (other than an alien described in paragraph (c) of this section) who is subject to the foreign residence requirement of section 212(e) of the Act and who has not received a waiver of the residence requirement, except when the alien applies to change to a classification under section 101(a)(15)(A) or (G) of the Act.
(5) Any alien admitted as a visitor under the visa waiver provisions of § 212.1(e) of this chapter.
(6) Any alien admitted as a Visa Waiver Pilot Program visitor under the provisions of section 217 of the Act and part 217 of this chapter.
(b) The prohibition against a change of nonimmigrant status for the categories of aliens described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section is inapplicable to aliens applying for a change of nonimmigrant status to that of a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15)(U) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(U).
[47 FR 44238, Oct. 7, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 41017, Sept. 13, 1983; 52 FR 48084, Dec. 18, 1987; 53 FR 24903, June 30, 1988; 60 FR 26683, May 18, 1995; 60 FR 44271, Aug. 25, 1995; 72 FR 53041, Sept. 17, 2007]
§ 248.3
Petition and application.
Requests for a change of status must be filed on the form designated by USCIS with the fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2 and in accordance with the form instructions.
(a)
Requests by petitioners.
A petitioner must submit a request for a change of status to E-1, E-2, E-3, H-1C, H-1B, H-1B1, H-2A, H-2B, H-3, L-1, O-1, O-2, P-1, P-2, P-3, Q-1, R-1, or TN nonimmigrant.
(b)
Application by nonimmigrant
—(1)
Individual applicant.
Any nonimmigrant who seeks to change status to:
(i) A dependent nonimmigrant classification as the spouse or child of a principal whose nonimmigrant classification is listed in paragraph (a) of this section, or
(ii) Any other nonimmigrant classification not listed in paragraph (a) of this section must apply for a change of status on his or her own behalf.
(2)
Multiple applicants.
More than one person may be included in an application where the co-applicants are all members of a single family group and either all hold the same nonimmigrant status or one holds a nonimmigrant
status and the co-applicants are his or her spouse and/or children who hold derivative nonimmigrant status based on the principal's nonimmigrant status.
(c)
Special provisions for change of nonimmigrant classification to, or from, a position classified under section 101(a)(15) (A) or (G) of the Act.
Each application for change of nonimmigrant classification to, or from, a position classified under section 101(a)(15)(A) or (G) must be filed on the prescribed application accompanied by the appropriate endorsement from the Department of State recommending the change of status. If the Department of State recommends against the change, the application shall be denied. An application for a change of classification by a principal alien in a position classified A-1, A-2, G-1, G-2, G-3, or G-4 shall be processed without fee. Members of the principal alien's immediate family who are included on the principal alien's application shall also be processed without fee.
(d) [Reserved]
(e)
Change of classification not required.
The following do not need to request a change of classification:
(1) An alien classified as a visitor for business under section 101(a)(15)(B) of the Act who intends to remain in the United States temporarily as a visitor for pleasure during the period of authorized admission; or
(2) An alien classified under sections 101(a)(15)(A) or 101(a)(15)(G) of the Act as a member of the immediate family of a principal alien classified under the same section, or an alien classified under sections 101(a)(15)(E), (H), (I), (J), or (L) of the Act as the spouse or child who accompanied or followed-to-join a principal alien who is classified under the same section, may attend school in the United States, provided that the principal alien or spouse or child maintain their nonimmigrant status.
(f)
Approval of application.
If the application is granted, the applicant shall be notified of the decision and granted a new period of time to remain in the United States without the requirement of filing a separate application and paying a separate fee for an extension of stay. The applicant's nonimmigrant status under his new classification shall be subject to the terms and conditions applicable generally to such classification and to such other additional terms and conditions, including exaction of bond, which USCIS deems appropriate to the case.
(g)
Denial of application.
When the application is denied, the applicant shall be notified of the decision and the reasons for the denial. There is no appeal from the denial of the application under this chapter.
(h)
Change to S nonimmigrant classification.
An eligible state or federal law enforcement agency (“LEA”), which shall include a state or federal court or a United States Attorney's Office, may seek to change the nonimmigrant classification of a nonimmigrant lawfully admitted to the United States, except those enumerated in § 248.2 of this chapter, to that of an alien witness or informant pursuant to section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Act by filing with the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, the forms designated by USCIS with the fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2 and in accordance with the form instructions establishing eligibility for the change of nonimmigrant classification.
(1) If the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, certifies the request for S nonimmigrant classification in accordance with the procedures set forth in 8 CFR 214.2(t), the Assistant Attorney General shall forward the LEA's request on Form I-854 with Form I-539 to the Commissioner. No request for change of nonimmigrant classification to S classification may proceed to the Commissioner unless it has first been certified by the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division.
(2) In the event the Commissioner decides to deny an application to change nonimmigrant classification to S nonimmigrant classification, the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, and the relevant LEA shall be notified in writing to that effect. The Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, shall concur in or object to that decision. Unless the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, objects within 7 days, he or she shall be deemed to have concurred in the decision. In the event of an objection by
the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, the matter will be expeditiously referred to the Deputy Attorney General for a final resolution. In no circumstances shall the alien or the relevant LEA have a right of appeal from any decision to deny.
(i)
Change of nonimmigrant status to perform labor in a health care occupation.
A request for a change of nonimmigrant status filed by, or on behalf of, an alien seeking to perform labor in a health care occupation as provided in 8 CFR 212.15(c), must be accompanied by a certificate as described in 8 CFR 212.15(f), or if the alien is eligible, a certified statement as described in 8 CFR 212.15(h). See 8 CFR 214.1(j) for a special rule concerning applications for change of status for aliens admitted temporarily under section 212(d)(3) of the Act and 8 CFR 212.15(n).
[36 FR 9001, May 18, 1971]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 248.3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
Pt. 249

# PART 249—CREATION OF RECORDS OF LAWFUL ADMISSION FOR PERMANENT RESIDENCE
Sec.
249.1
Waiver of inadmissibility.
249.2
Application.
249.3
Reopening and reconsideration.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1182, 1259; 8 CFR part 2.
§ 249.1
Waiver of inadmissibility.
In conjunction with an application under section 249 of the Act, an otherwise eligible alien who is inadmissible under paragraph (9), (10), or (12) of section 212(a) of the Act or so much of paragraph (23) of section 212(a) of the Act as relates to a single offense of simple possession of 30 grams or less of marihuana may request a waiver of such ground of inadmissibility under section 212(h) of the Act. Any alien within the classes described in subparagraphs (B) through (H) of section 212(a)(28) of the Act may apply for the benefits of section 212(a)(28)(I)(ii) in conjunction with an application under section 249 of the Act.
[47 FR 44238, Oct. 7, 1982]
§ 249.2
Application.
(a)
Jurisdiction.
An application by an alien, other than an arriving alien, who has been served with a notice to appear or warrant of arrest shall be considered only in proceedings under 8 CFR part 240. In any other case, an alien who believes he or she meets the eligibility requirements of section 249 of the Act shall apply to the district director having jurisdiction over his or her place of residence. The application shall be made on Form I-485 and shall be accompanied by Form G-325A, which shall be considered part of the application. The application shall also be accompanied by documentary evidence establishing continuous residence in the United States since prior to January 1, 1972, or since entry and prior to July 1, 1924. All documents must be submitted in accordance with § 103.2(b) of this chapter. Documentary evidence may include any records of official or personal transactions or recordings of events occurring during the period of claimed residence. Affidavits of credible witnesses may also be accepted. Persons unemployed and unable to furnish evidence in their own names may furnish evidence in the names of parents or other persons with whom they have been living, if affidavits of the parents or other persons are submitted attesting to the residence. The numerical limitations of sections 201 and 202 of the Act shall not apply.
(b)
Decision.
The applicant shall be notified of the decision and, if the application is denied, of the reasons therefor. If the application is granted, a Form I-551, showing that the applicant has acquired the status of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence, shall not be issued until the applicant surrenders any other document in his or her possession evidencing compliance with the alien registration requirements of former or existing law. No appeal shall lie from the denial of an application by the district director.
However, an alien, other than an arriving alien, may renew the denied application in proceedings under 8 CFR part 240.
[52 FR 6322, Mar. 3, 1987, as amended at 62 FR 10386, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 249.3
Reopening and reconsideration.
An applicant who alleged entry and residence since prior to July 1, 1924, but in whose case a record was created as of the date of approval of the application because evidence of continuous residence prior to July 1, 1924, was not submitted, may have his case reopened and reconsidered pursuant to § 103.5 of this chapter. Upon the submission of satisfactory evidence, a record of admission as of the date of alleged entry may be created.
[29 FR 11494, Aug. 11, 1964]
Pt. 250

# PART 250—REMOVAL OF ALIENS WHO HAVE FALLEN INTO DISTRESS
Sec.
250.1
Application.
250.2
Removal authorization.

# Authority:
Secs. 103, 250, 66 Stat. 173, 219; 8 U.S.C. 1103, 1260.
§ 250.1
Application.
Application for removal shall be made on Form I-243. No appeal shall lie from the decision of the district director.
[22 FR 9802, Dec. 6, 1957]
§ 250.2
Removal authorization.
If the district director grants the application he shall issue an authorization for the alien's removal on Form I-202. Upon issuance of the authorization, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the alien may be removed from the United States at government expense.
[22 FR 9802, Dec. 6, 1957]
Pt. 251

# PART 251—ARRIVAL AND DEPARTURE MANIFESTS AND LISTS: SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
Sec.
251.1
Arrival manifests and lists.
251.2
Notification of illegal landings.
251.3
Departure manifests and lists for vessels.
251.4
Departure manifests and lists for aircraft.
251.5
Arrival and departure manifests for crew.
251.6
Exemptions for private vessels and aircraft.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1182, 1221, 1281, 1282, 8 CFR part 2.
§ 251.1
Arrival manifests and lists.
(a)
Vessels
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, the master or agent of every vessel arriving in the United States from a foreign place or an outlying possession of the United States must submit a manifest of all crewmen on board by electronically submitting the data elements required on CBP Form I-418, Passenger List—Crew List, via an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP.
(2)
Longshore work information.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, the master or agent of the vessel must electronically submit via an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP an affirmation as to whether crewmen aboard the vessel will be used to perform longshore work at any United States port before the vessel departs the United States.
(i) If no longshore work will be performed, no further information regarding longshore work is required.
(ii) If longshore work will be performed, the master or agent must indicate which exception listed in section 258 of the Act permits the work. The exceptions are:
(A) The hazardous cargo exception;
(B) The prevailing practice exception in accordance with a port's collective bargaining agreements;
(C) The prevailing practice exception at a port where there is no collective bargaining agreement, but for which the vessel files an attestation;
(D) The prevailing practice exception for automated vessels; and
(E) The reciprocity exception.
(iii) If longshore work will be performed under the hazardous cargo exception, the vessel must either be a tanker or be transporting dry bulk cargo that qualifies as hazardous. All tankers qualify for the hazardous cargo exception, except for a tanker that has
been gas-freed to load non-hazardous dry bulk commodities.
(A) To invoke the exception for tankers, the master or agent must indicate in the manifest that the vessel is a qualifying tanker.
(B) If the vessel is transporting dry bulk hazardous cargo, the master or agent must indicate in the manifest that the vessel's dry bulk cargo is hazardous and must show the immigration officer the dangerous cargo manifest that is signed by the master or an authorized representative of the owner, and that under 46 CFR 148.02 must be kept in a conspicuous place near the bridge house.
(iv) If longshore work will be performed under the prevailing practice exception, the master or agent must indicate in the manifest each port at which longshore work will be performed under this exception. Additionally, for each port the master or agent must indicate either that:
(A) The practice of nonimmigrant crewmen doing longshore work is in accordance with all collective bargaining agreements covering 30 percent or more of the longshore workers in the port;
(B) The port has no collective bargaining agreement covering 30 percent or more of the longshore workers in the port and an attestation has been filed with the Secretary of Labor;
(C) An attestation that was previously filed is still valid and the vessel continues to comply with the conditions stated in that attestation; or
(D) The longshore work consists of operating an automated, self-unloading conveyor belt or a vacuum-actuated system.
(v) If longshore work will be performed under the reciprocity exception, the master or agent must indicate in the manifest that the work will be done under the reciprocity exception, and will indicate the nationality of the vessel's registry and the nationality or nationalities of the holders of a majority of the ownership interest in the vessel.
(3)
Exception for certain Great Lakes vessels.
(i) A manifest is not required for a vessel of United States, Canadian, or British registry engaged solely in traffic on the Great Lakes or the St. Lawrence River and connecting waterways, herein designated as a Great Lakes vessel, unless:
(A) The vessel employs nonimmigrant crewmen who will do longshore work at a port in the United States; or
(B) The vessel employs crewmen of other than United States, Canadian, or British citizenship.
(ii) In either situation, the master must follow the instructions prescribed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(iii) After submission of a manifest on the first voyage of a calendar year, a manifest is not required on subsequent arrivals unless a nonimmigrant crewman of other than Canadian or British citizenship is employed on the vessel who was not aboard and listed on the last prior manifest, or a change has occurred regarding the performance of longshore work in the United States by nonimmigrant crewmen, or a change has occurred in the exception that the master or agent of the vessel wishes to invoke which was not indicated in the last prior manifest.
(4) The master or agent of a vessel that only bunkers at a United States port en route to another United States port must electronically submit via an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP the time, date, and place of bunkering.
(5) If documentation is required to support an exception, as described in § 258.2 of this chapter, it must be sent to CBP electronically or be presented to CBP upon arrival at the port of immigration inspection.
(6)
Exception to the requirement to submit Form I-418 data elements and longshore work information electronically.
The master or agent of any vessel that is arriving in the United States from a foreign place or an outlying possession of the United States, and is required to submit a manifest, may submit a paper Form I-418 to CBP upon arrival at the port where immigration inspection is performed when:
(i) The master or agent of the vessel is unable to electronically submit the data elements required on Form I-418 via an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP because there is no internet access in that location or onboard computers are experiencing
technical difficulties, and there is no shore-side support available; or
(ii) CBP is experiencing technical difficulties affecting its receipt or processing of electronically submitted information, or, in its discretion, CBP determines that a paper Form I-418 is acceptable under the circumstances presented by the master or agent of a vessel.
(b)
Aircraft.
The captain or agent of every aircraft arriving in the United States from a foreign place or from an outlying possession of the United States, except an aircraft arriving in the United States directly from Canada on a flight originating in that country, must present to the immigration officer at the port where the inspection is performed a manifest on CBP Form 7507 or on the International Civil Aviation Organization's General Declaration of all the alien crewmembers on board, including alien crewmembers who are returning to the United States after taking an aircraft of the same line from the United States to a foreign place or alien crewmembers who are entering the United States as passengers solely for the purpose of taking an aircraft of the same line from the United States to a foreign port. The captain or agent of an aircraft that only refuels at the United States en route to another United States port must electronically update the data in the manifest presented at the onward port to indicate the time, date, and place of refueling. The surname, given name, and middle initial of each alien crewman listed also must be shown on the manifest. In addition, the captain or agent of the aircraft must indicate the total number of United States citizen crewmembers and total number of alien crewmembers.
(c)
Additional documents.
The master, captain, or agent must prepare as a part of the manifest, when one is required for presentation to an immigration officer, a completely executed set of Forms I-95, Conditional Landing Permit, for each nonimmigrant alien crewman on board, except:
(1) A Canadian or British citizen crewman serving on a vessel plying solely between Canada and the United States; or
(2) A nonimmigrant crewman who is in possession of an unmutilated Form I-184, Alien Crewman Landing Permit and Identification Card, or an unmutilated Form I-95 with space for additional endorsements previously issued to him or her as a member of the crew of the same vessel or an aircraft of the same line on his or her last prior arrival in the United States, following which he or she departed from the United States as a member of the crew of the same vessel or an aircraft of the same line.
[62 FR 10386, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 86 FR 73629, Dec. 28, 2021]
§ 251.2
Notification of illegal landings.
As soon as discovered, the master or agent of any vessel from which an alien crewman has illegally landed or deserted in the United States shall inform the immigration officer in charge of the port where the illegal landing or desertion occurred, in writing, of the name, nationality, passport number and, if known, the personal description, circumstances and time of such illegal landing or desertion of such alien crewman, and furnish any other information and documents that might aid in his or her apprehension, including any passport surrendered pursuant to § 252.1(d) of this chapter. Failure to file notice of illegal landing or desertion and to furnish any surrendered passport within 24 hours of the time of such landing or desertion becomes known shall be regarded as lack of compliance with section 251(d) of the Act.
[62 FR 10387, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 251.3
Departure manifests and lists for vessels.
(a)
Form I-418, Passenger List-Crew List.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the master or agent of every vessel departing from the United States directly to some foreign place or outlying possession of the United States must electronically submit the data elements required on Form I-418 via an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP, except when a manifest is not required pursuant to section 251.1(a). Submission of inaccurate or incomplete data
will be regarded as lack of compliance with section 251(c) of the Act.
(b)
Exception for certain Great Lakes vessels.
The required list need not be submitted for Canadian or British crewmembers of Great Lakes vessels described in § 251.1(a)(3).
(c)
Exception to the requirement to submit Form I-418 data elements electronically.
The master or agent of any vessel that is departing from the United States directly to some foreign place or outlying possession of the United States, and is required to submit a manifest, may submit a paper Form I-418 to CBP at the port from which such vessel is to depart when:
(1) The master or agent of the vessel is unable to submit the data elements required on Form I-418 electronically via an electronic data interchange system approved by CBP because there is no internet access in that location or onboard computers are experiencing technical difficulties, and there is no shore-side support available; or
(2) CBP is experiencing technical difficulties affecting its receipt or processing of electronically submitted information, or, in its discretion, CBP determines that a paper Form I-418 is acceptable under the circumstances presented by the master or agent of a vessel.
[62 FR 10387, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 86 FR 73630, Dec. 28, 2021]
§ 251.4
Departure manifests and lists for aircraft.
(a)
United States Customs Service Form 7507 or International Civil Aviation Organization's General Declaration.
The captain or agent of every aircraft departing from the United States for a foreign place or an outlying possession of the United States, except on a flight departing for and terminating in Canada, shall submit to the immigration officer at the port from which such aircraft is to depart a completed United States Customs Service Form 7507 or the International Civil Aviation Organization's General Declaration. The form shall contain a list of all alien crewmen on board, including alien crewmen who arrived in the United States as crewmen on an aircraft of the same line and who are departing as passengers. The surname, given name, and middle initial of each such alien crewman listed shall be shown. In addition, the captain or agent of the aircraft shall indicate the total number of alien crewmembers and the total number of United States citizen crewmembers.
(b)
Notification of changes in employment for aircraft.
The agent of the air transportation line shall immediately notify in writing the nearest immigration office of the termination of employment in the United States of each alien employee of the line furnishing the name, birth date, birthplace, nationality, passport number, and other available information concerning such alien. The procedure to follow in obtaining permission to pay off or discharge an alien crewman in the United States after initial immigration inspection, other than an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence, is set forth in § 252.1(f) of this chapter.
[62 FR 10387, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 251.5
Arrival and departure manifests for crew.
In addition to the electronic manifest transmission requirement applicable to crew members specified in §§ 231.1 and 231.2 of this chapter, the master or commanding officer, or authorized agent, owner, or consignee, of a commercial vessel or commercial aircraft arriving in or departing from the United States must submit arrival and departure manifests in accordance with §§ 251.1, 251.3, and 251.4.
[70 FR 17849, Apr. 7, 2005, as amended at 86 FR 73630, Dec. 28, 2021]
§ 251.6
Exemptions for private vessels and aircraft.
The provisions of this part relating to the presentation of arrival and departure manifests do not apply to a private vessel or private aircraft not engaged directly or indirectly in the carrying of persons or cargo for hire.
[70 FR 17849, Apr. 7, 2005]
Pt. 252

# PART 252—LANDING OF ALIEN CREWMEN
Sec.
252.1
Examination of crewmen.
252.2
Revocation of conditional landing permits; removal.
252.3
Great Lakes vessels and tugboats arriving in the United States from Canada; special procedures.
252.4
Permanent landing permit and identification card.
252.5
Special procedures for deserters from Spanish or Greek ships of war.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1184, 1185 (pursuant to E.O. 13323 published on January 2, 2004), 1258, 1281, 1282; 8 CFR part 2.
§ 252.1
Examination of crewmen.
(a)
Detention prior to examination.
All persons employed in any capacity on board any vessel or aircraft arriving in the United States shall be detained on board the vessel or at the airport of arrival by the master or agent of such vessel or aircraft until admitted or otherwise permitted to land by an officer of the Service.
(b)
Classes of aliens subject to examination under this part.
The examination of every nonimmigrant alien crewman arriving in the United States shall be in accordance with this part except that the following classes of persons employed on vessels or aircraft shall be examined in accordance with the provisions of 8 CFR parts 235 and 240:
(1) Canadian or British citizen crewmen serving on vessels plying solely between Canada and the United States; or
(2) Canadian or British citizen crewmen of aircraft arriving in a State of the United States directly from Canada on flights originating in that country. The crew of a vessel arriving at a United States port that may not require inspection by or clearance from the United States Customs Service is, nevertheless, subject to examination under this part; however, the master of such a vessel is not required to present Form I-95 for any crewman who is not an applicant for a conditional landing permit.
(c)
Requirements for landing permits.
Every alien crewman applying for landing privileges in the United States is subject to the provisions of 8 CFR 235.1(d)(1)(ii) and (iii), and must make his or her application in person before a Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officer, present whatever documents are required, establish to the satisfaction of the inspecting officer that he or she is not inadmissible under any provision of the law, and is entitled clearly and beyond doubt to landing privileges in the United States.
(d)
Authorization to land.
The immigration officer in his discretion may grant an alien crewman authorization to land temporarily in the United States for: (1) Shore leave purposes during the period of time the vessel or aircraft is in the port of arrival or other ports in the United States to which it proceeds directly without touching at a foreign port or place, not exceeding 29 days in the aggregate, if the immigration officer is satisfied that the crewman intends to depart on the vessel on which he arrived or on another aircraft of the same transportation line, and the crewman's passport is surrendered for safe keeping to the master of the arriving vessel, or (2) the purpose of departing from the United States as a crewman on a vessel other than the one on which he arrived, or departing as a passenger by means of other transportation, within a period of 29 days, if the immigration officer is satisfied that the crewman intends to depart in that manner, that definite arrangements for such departure have been made, and the immigration officer has consented to the pay off or discharge of the crewman from the vessel on which he arrived. A crewman granted a conditional permit to land under section 252(a)(1) of the Act and paragraph (d)(1) of this section is required to depart with his vessel from its port of arrival and from each other port in the United States to which it thereafter proceeds coastwise without touching at a foreign port or place; however, he may rejoin his vessel at another port in the United States before it touches at a foreign port or place if he has advance written permission from the master or agent to do so.
(e)
Conditional permits to land.
Unless the crewman is in possession of Form I-184 and is landed under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the immigration officer shall give to each alien nonimmigrant crewman permitted to land a copy of the Form I-95 presented by the crewman, endorsed to show the date and place of admission and the type of conditional landing permit.
(f)
Change of status.
An alien nonimmigrant crewman landed pursuant to the provisions of this part shall be ineligible for any extension of stay or for a change of nonimmigrant classification under part 248 of this chapter. A crewman admitted under paragraph (d)(1) of this section may, if still maintaining status, apply for a conditional landing permit under paragraph (d)(2) of this section. The application shall not be approved unless an application on Form I-408, filed pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section, has been approved authorizing the master or agent of the vessel on which the crewman arrived to pay off or discharge the crewman and unless evidence is presented by the master or agent of the vessel to which the crewman will be transferred that a specified position on that vessel has been authorized for him or that satisfactory arrangements have been completed for the repatriation of the alien crewman. If the application is approved, the crewman shall be given a new Form I-95 endorsed to show landing authorized under paragraph (d)(2) of this section for the period necessary to accomplish his scheduled reshipment, which shall not exceed 29 days from the date of his landing, upon surrendering any conditional landing permit previously issued to him on Form I-95.
(g)
Refusal of conditional landing permit.
When an alien crewman is refused a conditional landing permit for any reason, the Form I-95 presented by him at time of examination shall be endorsed “Permission to land temporarily at all U.S. ports is refused” and the Form I-95 shall be given to the master or agent of the vessel or aircraft and, in the case of vessels, the alien crewman's name shall be listed on the Form I-410 delivered to the master of the vessel upon completion of the examination of the crew. If an alien crewman who has been refused a conditional landing permit is in possession of Form I-184, the Form I-184 shall be lifted by the examining immigration officer and, except in the case of an alien crewman who is refused a conditional landing permit solely because he is not in possession of a valid passport or visa, the Form I-184 shall be voided. In the case of an alien crewman refused a conditional landing permit because he is not in possession of a valid passport or visa, the Form I-184 shall be delivered to the master or agent of the vessel with instructions to return it to the alien crewman after the vessel has departed from the United States.
(h)
Authorization to pay off or discharge an alien crewman.
Application to pay off or discharge an alien crewman, except an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence, shall be made by the owner, agent, consignee, charterer, master, or commanding officer of the vessel or aircraft on which the alien crewman arrived on Form I-408 filed with the immigration officer having jurisdiction over the area in which the vessel or aircraft is located at the time of application. The applicant shall be notified of the decision, and, if the application is denied, of the reasons therefor. There shall be no appeal from the denial of an application on Form I-408.
[23 FR 2788, Apr. 26, 1958, as amended at 27 FR 11875, Dec. 1, 1962; 29 FR 13243, Sept. 24, 1964; 29 FR 14432, Oct. 21, 1964; 32 FR 9633, July 4, 1967; 33 FR 9332, June 26, 1968; 33 FR 17137, Nov. 19, 1968; 58 FR 48779, Sept. 20, 1993; 62 FR 10388, Mar. 6, 1997; 69 FR 53333, Aug. 31, 2004]
§ 252.2
Revocation of conditional landing permits; removal.
(a)
Revocation and removal while vessel is in the United States.
A crewman whose landing permit is subject to revocation pursuant to section 252(b) of the Act may be taken into custody by any immigration officer without a warrant of arrest and be transferred to the vessel of arrival, if the vessel is in any port in the United States and has not departed foreign since the crewman was issued his or her conditional landing permit. Detention and removal of the crewman shall be at the expense of the transportation line on which the crewman arrived. Removal may be effected on the vessel of arrival or, if the master of the vessel has requested in writing, by alternate means if removal on the vessel of arrival is impractical.
(b)
Revocation and removal after vessel has departed the United States.
A crewman who was granted landing privileges prior to April 1, 1997, and who has not departed foreign on the vessel of
arrival, or on another vessel or aircraft if such permission was granted pursuant to § 252.1(f), is subject to removal proceedings under section 240 of the Act as an alien deportable pursuant to section 237(a)(1)(C)(i) of the Act. A crewman who was granted landing privileges on or after April 1, 1997, and who has not departed foreign on the vessel of arrival, or on another vessel or aircraft if such permission was granted pursuant to § 252.1(f), shall be removed from the United States without a hearing, except as provided in § 208.2(b)(1) of this chapter. In either case, if the alien is removed within 5 years of the date of landing, removal of the crewman shall be at the expense of the owner of the vessel. In the case of a crewman ordered removed more than 5 years after the date of landing, removal shall be at the expense of the appropriation for the enforcement of the Act.
[62 FR 10388, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 252.3
Great Lakes vessels and tugboats arriving in the United States from Canada; special procedures.
(a)
United States vessels and tugboats.
An immigration examination shall not be required of any crewman aboard a Great Lakes vessel of United States registry or a tugboat of United States registry arriving from Canada at a port of the United States who has been examined and admitted by an immigration officer as a member of the crew of the same vessel or tugboat or of any other vessel or tugboat of the same company during the current calendar year.
(b)
Canadian or British vessels or tugboats.
An alien crewman need not be presented for inspection if the alien crewman:
(1) Serves aboard a Great Lakes vessel of Canadian or British registry or aboard a tugboat of Canadian or British registry arriving at a United States port-of-entry from Canada;
(2) Seeks admission for a period of less than 29 days;
(3) Has, during the current calendar year, been inspected and admitted by an immigration officer as a member of the crew of the same vessel or tugboat, or of any other vessel or tugboat of the same company;
(4) Is either a British or Canadian citizen or is in possession of a valid Form I-95 previously issued to him or her as a member of the crew of the same vessel or tugboat, or of any other vessel or tugboat of the same company;
(5) Does not request or require landing privileges in the United States beyond the time the vessel or tugboat will be in port; and,
(6) Will depart to Canada with the vessel or tugboat.
[62 FR 10388, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 252.4
Permanent landing permit and identification card.
A Form I-184 is valid until revoked. It shall be revoked when an immigration officer finds that the crewman is in the United States in willful violation of the terms and conditions of his or her permission to land, or that he or she is inadmissible to the United States. On revocation, the Form I-184 shall be surrendered to an immigration officer. No appeal shall lie from the revocation of Form I-184.
[62 FR 10388, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 252.5
Special procedures for deserters from Spanish or Greek ships of war.
(a)
General.
Under E.O. 11267 of January 19, 1966 (31 FR 807) and 28 CFR 0.109, and E.O. 11300 of August 17, 1966, (31 FR 11009), and 28 CFR 0.110, the Commissioner and immigration officers (as defined in § 103.1(j) of this chapter) are designated as “competent national authorities” on the part of the United States within the meaning of Article XXIV of the 1903 Treaty of Friendship and General Relations between the United States and Spain (33 Stat. 2105, 2117), and “local authorities” and “competent officers” on the part of the United States within the meaning of Article XIII of the Convention between the United States and Greece (33 Stat. 2122, 2131).
(b)
Application for restoration.
On application of a Consul General, Consul, Vice-Consul, or Consular-Agent of the Spanish or Greek Government, made in writing pursuant to Article XXIV of the treaty, or Article XIII of the Convention, respectively, stipulating for the restoration of crewmen deserting,
stating that the person named therein has deserted from a ship of war of that government, while in any port of the United States, and on proof by the exhibition of the register, crew list, or official documents of the vessel, or a copy or extract therefrom, duly certified, that the person named belonged, at the time of desertion, to the crew of such vessel, such person shall be taken into custody by any immigration officer without a warrant of arrest. Written notification of charges shall be served on the alien when he or she is taken into custody or as soon as practical thereafter.
(c)
Examination.
Within a reasonable period of time after the arrest, the alien shall be accorded an examination by the district director, acting district director, or the deputy district director having jurisdiction over the place of arrest. The alien shall be informed that he or she may have the assistance of or be represented by a counsel or representative of his or her choice qualified under 8 CFR part 292 without expense to the Government, and that he or she may present such evidence in his or her behalf as may be relevant to this proceeding. If, upon the completion of such examination, it is determined that:
(1) The individual sought by the Spanish or Greek authorities had deserted from a Spanish or Greek ship of war in a United States port;
(2) The individual actually arrested and detained is the person sought;
(3) The individual is not a citizen of the United States; and
(4) The individual had not previously been arrested for the same cause and set at liberty because he or she had been detained for more than 3 months, or more than 2 months in the case of a deserter from a Greek ship of war, from the day of his or her arrest without the Spanish or Greek authorities having found an opportunity to send him or her home, the individual shall be served with a copy of the findings, from which no appeal shall lie, and be surrendered forthwith to the Spanish or Greek authorities if they are prepared to remove him or her from the United States. On written request of the Spanish or Greek authorities, the individual shall be detained, at their expense, for a period not exceeding 3 months or 2 months, respectively, from the day of arrest to afford opportunity to arrange for his or her departure from the United States.
(d)
Timely departure not effected.
If the Spanish authorities delay in sending the individual home for more than 3 months, or if the Greek authorities delay in sending the individual home for more than 2 months, from the day of his or her arrest, the individual shall be dealt with as any other alien unlawfully in the United States under the removal provisions of the Act, as amended.
(e)
Commission of crime.
If the individual has committed any crime or offense in the United States, he or she shall not be placed at the disposal of the consul until after the proper tribunal having jurisdiction in his or her case shall have pronounced sentence, and such sentence shall have been executed.
[62 FR 10388, Mar. 6, 1997]
Pt. 253

# PART 253—PAROLE OF ALIEN CREWMEN
Sec.
253.1
Parole.
253.2
Termination of parole.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1182, 1282, 1283, 1285; 8 CFR part 2.
§ 253.1
Parole.
(a)
General.
When a crewman is paroled into the United States pursuant to the provisions of this part under the provisions of section 212(d)(5) of the Act, he shall be given Form I-94 (see § 1.4), reflecting the terms of parole. A notice on Form I-259 shall be served upon the agent, and, if available, upon the owner and master or commanding officer of the vessel or aircraft, which shall specify the purpose of the parole and the conditions under which the alien crewman is paroled into the United States. The Form I-259 shall also specify the Service office to which the alien crewman is to be presented for inspection upon termination of the parole. The guarantee of payment for medical and other related expenses required by section 253 of the Act shall be
executed by the owner, agent, consignee, commanding officer or master on Form I-510.
(b)
Afflicted crewman.
Any alien crewman afflicted with feeblemindedness, insanity, epilepsy, tuberculosis in any form, leprosy, or any dangerous contagious disease, or an alien crewman suspected of being so afflicted shall upon arrival at the first port of call in the United States, be paroled to the medical institution designated by the district director in whose district the port is located, in the custody (other than during the period of time he is in such medical institution) of the agent of the vessel or aircraft on which such alien arrived in the United States and at the expense of the transportation line for a period initially not to exceed thirty days, for treatment and observation, under the provisions of section 212(d)(5) of the Act. Unless the Public Health Surgeon at the first port certifies that such parole be effected immediately for emergent reasons, the district director may defer execution of parole to a subsequent port of the United States to which the vessel or aircraft will proceed, if facilities not readily available at the first port are readily available at such subsequent port of call. Notice to remove an afflicted alien crewman shall be served by the examining immigration officer upon the master or agent of the vessel or aircraft on Form I-259 and shall specify the date when and the place to which such alien crewman shall be removed and the reasons therefor.
(c)
Disabled crewman.
Any alien crewman who becomes disabled in any port of the United States, whom the master or agent of the vessel or aircraft is obliged under foreign law to return to another country, may be paroled into the United States under the provisions of section 212(d)(5) of the Act for the period of time and under the conditions set by the district director in whose district the port is located, in the custody of the agent of the vessel or aircraft for the purpose of passing through the United States and transferring to another vessel or aircraft for departure to such foreign country, by the most direct and expeditious route.
(d)
Shipwrecked or castaway seamen or airmen.
A shipwrecked or castaway alien seaman or airman who is rescued by or transferred at sea to a vessel or aircraft destined directly for the United States and who is brought to the United States on such vessel or aircraft other than as a member of its crew shall be paroled into the United States under the provisions of section 212(d)(5) of the Act for the period of time and under the conditions set by the district director in whose district the port is located, in the custody of the appropriate foreign consul or the agent of the aircraft or vessel which was wrecked or from which such seaman or airman was removed, for the purpose of treatment or observation in a hospital, if such is required, and for departure to the appropriate foreign country by the most direct and expeditious route.
(e)
Medical treatment or observation.
Any alien crewman denied a conditional landing permit or whose conditional landing permit issued under § 252.1(d)(1) of this chapter is revoked may, upon the request of the master or agent, be paroled into the United States under the provisions of section 212(d)(5) of the Act in the custody of the agent of the vessel or aircraft and at the expense of the transportation line for medical treatment or observation.
(f)
Crewman, stowaway, or alien removable under section 235(c) alleging persecution or torture.
Any alien crewman, stowaway, or alien removable under section 235(c) of the Act who alleges that he or she cannot return to his or her country of nationality or last habitual residence (if not a national of any country) because of fear of persecution in that country on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion, or because of fear of torture is eligible to apply for asylum or withholding of removal under 8 CFR part 208. Service officers shall take particular care to ensure that the provisions of § 208.5(b) of this chapter regarding special duties toward aliens aboard certain vessels are closely followed.
(g)
Other crewmen.
In the discretion of the district director, any alien crewman not within the purview of paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section may for other emergent reasons or for
reasons deemed strictly in the public interest be paroled into the United States under the provisions of section 212(d)(5) of the Act for the period of time and under the conditions set by the district director having jurisdiction over the area where the alien crewman is located.
[22 FR 9804, Dec. 6, 1957, as amended at 26 FR 11797, Dec. 8, 1961; 32 FR 4341, Mar. 22, 1967; 32 FR 9633, July 4, 1967; 55 FR 30687, July 27, 1990; 62 FR 10389, Mar. 6, 1997; 64 FR 8495, Feb. 19, 1999; 78 FR 18472, Mar. 27, 2013]
§ 253.2
Termination of parole.
(a)
General.
At the expiration of the period of parole authorized by the district director, or when the purpose of the parole has been served, whichever is earlier, the agent upon whom the relating Form I-259 was served as provided in § 253.1, shall present the alien crewman for inspection to an immigration officer at the Service office specified in the Form I-259. If the agent cannot present the alien crewman, the agent shall immediately submit a report of the reasons therefor to the district director. The district director shall take such further action as the circumstances may require. If the vessel or aircraft on which the alien crewman arrived in the United States is still in the United States when he is presented for inspection, he shall be treated as an applicant for a conditional landing permit and his case shall be dealt with in the same manner as any other applicant for a conditional landing permit. If the vessel or aircraft on which the alien crewman arrived in the United States departed before he was presented for inspection, the agent shall be directed by means of written notice on Form I-259 to arrange for the removal of the alien crewman from the United States, and if such alien crewman thereafter departs voluntarily from the United States within the time specified by the district director, such departure shall not be considered a deportation within the meaning of this section.
(b)
Revocation of parole.
When an immigration officer has reason to believe that an alien crewman paroled into the United States pursuant to the provisions of § 253.1 has violated the conditions of parole, the immigration officer may take such alien crewman into custody without a warrant of arrest. Following such action, the alien crewman shall be accorded, without undue delay, an examination by another immigration officer. If it is determined on the basis of such examination that the individual detained is an alien crewman who was paroled into the United States pursuant to the provisions of § 253.1 and that he has violated the conditions of the parole or has remained in the United States beyond the period authorized by the district director, the district director shall cause to be served upon the alien crewman a written notice that his parole has been revoked, setting forth the reasons for such action. If the vessel or aircraft upon which the alien crewman arrived in the United States is still in the United States, the alien crewman shall be delivered to that vessel or aircraft and Form I-259 shall be served upon the master or commanding officer of the vessel or aircraft directing that the alien crewman be detained on board the vessel or aircraft and deported from the United States. A copy of Form I-259 shall also be served on the agent for the vessel or aircraft. If the vessel or aircraft upon which the alien crewman arrived in the United States has departed from the United States, the agent or owner of the vessel or aircraft shall be directed by means of a notice on Form I-259 to effect the deportation of the alien crewman from the United States. Pending deportation, the alien crewman shall be continued in custody, unless the district director authorizes his release on parole under such conditions, including the posting of a suitable bond, as the district director may prescribe.
[32 FR 4342, Mar. 22, 1967]
Pt. 258

# PART 258—LIMITATIONS ON PERFORMANCE OF LONGSHORE WORK BY ALIEN CREWMEN
Sec.
258.1
Limitations—General.
258.2
Exceptions.
258.3
Action upon arrival.
258.4
Debarment of vessels.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1101, 1103, 1281; 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
57 FR 40834, Sept. 8, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 258.1
Limitations—General.
(a)
Longshore work defined.
Longshore work means any activity relating to the loading and unloading of cargo, the operation of cargo-related equipment [whether or not integral to the vessel], and the handling of mooring lines on the dock when the vessel is made fast or let go, in the United States or the coastal waters thereof.
(1) Longshore work is not included in the term “normal operation and service on board a vessel” for the purposes of section 101(a)(15)(D)(i) of the Act except as provided in sections 258 (c) or (d) of the Act.
(2) A vessel that uses nonimmigrant crewmen to perform longshore work, other than the activities allowed in particular circumstances under § 258.2 (a)(2), (b), or (c) of this part, shall be subject to a fine under section 251(d) of the Act.
(b)
Port defined.
For purposes of this section, the term
port
means a geographic area, either on a seacoast, lake, river, or other navigable body of water, which contains one or more publicly or privately owned terminals, piers, docks, or maritime facilities, which is commonly regarded as a port by other government maritime related agencies, such as the Maritime Administration.
§ 258.2
Exceptions.
Any master or agent who uses nonimmigrant crewmen to perform longshore work at any United States port under the exceptions provided for in paragraphs (a)(2), (b), or (c) of this section must so indicate on the crew manifest and must indicate under which exception the work will be performed.
(a)
Hazardous cargo.
(1) The term
longshore work
does not include the loading and unloading of any cargo for which the Secretary of Transportation has prescribed regulations under authority contained in chapter 37 of title 46, United States Code, section 311 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, section 4106 of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or section 105 or 106 of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act.
(2) In order to invoke the hazardous cargo exception for safety and environmental protection, the master or agent must indicate in the manifest that the vessel is a qualifying tanker or carries hazardous dry bulk cargo.
(i) All tankers qualify for the hazardous cargo exception, including parcel tankers, except for a tanker that has been gas-freed to transport non-hazardous dry bulk commodities.
(ii) In order for a vessel to qualify for the hazardous cargo exception as a dry bulk hazardous cargo carrier, the master or agent must show the immigration officer the dangerous cargo manifest that is required by Coast Guard regulation 46 CFR 148.02-3(a) to be kept near the bridge house.
(b)
Prevailing practice exception.
(1) Nonimmigrant crewmen may perform longshore work under this exception if:
(i) There is in effect in the local port one or more collective bargaining agreements, each covering at least 30 percent of the persons performing longshore work at the port, and each of which permits the longshore activity to be performed by the nonimmigrant crewman, or
(ii) There is no collective bargaining agreement in effect in the local port covering at least 30 percent of the persons performing longshore work at the port, and the employer of the crewmen has filed an attestation with the Secretary of Labor that the Secretary of Labor has accepted.
(2)
Documentation to be presented under the prevailing practice exception.
(i) If the master or agent indicates in the manifest, or on Form I-418 if submitting the paper version, that nonimmigrant crewmen will perform longshore work at a port under the prevailing practice exception as permitted by all collective bargaining agreements covering 30 percent or more of the persons performing longshore work at the port, then the master or agent must present to the examining immigration officer an affidavit from the local stevedore. The stevedore or a union representative of the employees' association must state on the affidavit that all bargaining agreements covering 30
percent or more of the longshore workers at the port allow nonimmigrant crewmen either to perform all longshore work or to perform those specified longshore activities that crewmen on the vessel intend to perform.
(ii) Where there is no collective bargaining agreement in effect at a port covering at least 30 percent of the persons who do longshore work, and the master or agent indicates in the manifest that nonimmigrant crewmen will perform such work under the prevailing practice exception, then the master or agent must present a copy of the notification received from the Secretary of Labor that the attestation required for this exception has been accepted.
(iii) When an unanticipated emergency occurs, the master or agent of a vessel may file an attestation with the Secretary of Labor up to the date on which crewmen perform longshore work.
(A) If, because of an unanticipated emergency, crewmen on a vessel perform longshore work under the prevailing practice exception at a port, a revised manifest must be submitted together with complete documentation, as specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, within 14 days of the longshore work having been done. Failure to present the required documentation may result in a fine under section 251 of the Act.
(B) All documents submitted after inspection must be sent to the CBP seaport office that inspected the vessel.
(iv) Attestations are valid for one year from the date of filing and cover nonimmigrant crewmen landing during that period if the master or agent indicates in the manifest that the vessel's crew continue to comply with the conditions in the attestation. When the vessel's master or agent intends to use a previously accepted attestation that is still valid, the master or agent must submit a copy of the notification from the Secretary of Labor that the attestation was accepted and must indicate in the manifest that the vessel continues to comply with the conditions of the attestation.
(3)
Use of automated self-unloading conveyor belt or vacuum-actuated system on a vessel.
An automated self-unloading conveyor belt or a vacuum-actuated system may be operated by a nonimmigrant crewman under the prevailing practice exception when no collective bargaining agreement at the local port prevents it. The master or agent is not required to file an attestation for nonimmigrant crewmen to perform such activity in such a circumstance unless the Secretary of Labor has determined that such activity is not the prevailing practice at that port, and has publicized this finding. When invoking this exception, the master or agent of the vessel must indicate in the manifest that the longshore work consists of operating a self-unloading conveyor belt or a vacuum-actuated system on the vessel under the prevailing practice exception.
(4)
Sanctions upon notification by the Secretary of Labor.
If CBP is notified by the Secretary of Labor that an entity has either misrepresented facts in its attestation or has failed to meet a condition attested to, then CBP will take the necessary steps to prevent the landing of vessels owned or chartered by the offending entity in accordance with section 258(c)(4)(E)(i) of the Act. CBP may also impose a sanction as provided in that section, including the prohibition of any vessel owned or chartered by the violating entity from landing at any United States port for up to one year.
(5) The three variations of the prevailing practice exception—collective bargaining agreement, attestation process, and automated equipment—are port specific. If a vessel is to use nonimmigrant crewmen to perform longshore work under the prevailing practice exception, the appropriate documentation required under paragraph (b)(2) of this section must be presented for each port at which the longshore work will be performed.
(c)
Reciprocity exception.
Nonimmigrant crewmen may perform longshore work in a United States port under this exception if:
(1) The vessel on which the crewmen serve is registered in a country that does not prohibit crewmen aboard United States vessels from performing longshore work, or a specified
longshore activity, when United States vessels land in that country, as determined by the Secretary of State; and
(2) The master or agent presents an affidavit from the crewmen's employer or the vessel's owner that a majority of the ownership interest in the vessel is held by nationals of a country or countries that do not prohibit such longshore activity by crewmen aboard United States vessels when they land in those countries.
(d)
Vessels that qualify for multiple exceptions.
A vessel that qualifies for more than one exception under this section may invoke the exception that the master or agent chooses.
(e)
Lack of documentation required by an exception.
If a vessel invokes an exception to the prohibition against nonimmigrant crewmen performing longshore work, but lacks any documentation required to accompany the manifest when invoking the exception, then the vessel's crewmen must not perform longshore work. If the longshore work is performed despite the lack of documentation that the immigration officer has indicated on the electronically populated, or in the circumstances specified in section 251.1 of this chapter, paper, Form I-418, then the vessel is subject to fine under section 251(d) of the Act.
[57 FR 40834, Sept. 8, 1992, as amended at 86 FR 73630, Dec. 28, 2021]
§ 258.3
Action upon arrival.
(a) The master or agent of the vessel shall state on the manifest at the first port of entry:
(1) Whether or not nonimmigrant crewmen aboard the vessel will perform longshore work at any port before departing the United States; and
(2) If nonimmigrant crewmen will perform longshore work, which exception in section 258 of the Act permits them to do so.
(b) If nonimmigrant crewmen will perform longshore work, the master or agent of the vessel shall present with the manifest any documentation required by 8 CFR 258.2 for the exception invoked.
(c) If, at the time of inspection, the master or agent fails to present the documentation required for the exception invoked, then the vessel is prohibited from using nonimmigrant crewmen to perform longshore work. If crewmen aboard the vessel perform longshore work despite the prohibition, the vessel is subject to fine under section 251(d) of the Act.
(d) The examining immigration officer shall give the master or agent a Receipt for Crew List, Form I-410, on which the officer shall note whether or not nonimmigrant crewmen will do longshore work at any port of call and, if so, under which exception. The officer shall also note which documentation supporting the exception accompanied the manifest, and any failure to present documentation which failure would prohibit crewmen from performing longshore work under the exception that the vessel invoked.
(e) If a vessel's crewmen perform longshore activity not sanctioned by an exception but performed to prevent the imminent destruction of goods or property; severe damage to vessels, docks, or real estate; possible environmental contamination; or possible injury or death to a person, a concise report of the incident shall be made within 14 days of the incident to the Immigration and Naturalization Service seaport office that performed the inspection. If the Service agrees that the situation was one of imminent danger requiring immediate action, no fine will be imposed for the performance of a longshore activity in this isolated instance.
(f) Failure to deliver true and complete information on the manifest or any documentation required to support an exception may result in a fine against the owner, agent, consignee, master, or commanding officer under section 251(d) of the Act.
§ 258.4
Debarment of vessels.
(a)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply throughout this section:
Good cause,
for purposes of extending the deadline for filing an answer, includes: technical difficulties or natural disasters that affect the violating entity's ability to receive, process, or transmit relevant information or data; or other instances in which CBP, in its discretion, determines that an undue
hardship on the violating entity warrants an extension of the deadline for filing an answer.
Mitigation
in a debarment proceeding means determining the length of the debarment, the ports covered by the debarment, and the vessels subject to the debarment. It does not include revocation of the requirement to debar.
Mitigation meeting
is a personal appearance before a designated CBP official in which representatives of the violating entity can provide information and explain why CBP should mitigate the debarment.
(b)
Notice of intent to debar
—(1)
Issuance of notice.
Upon receipt of a notice of violation from the Secretary of Labor pursuant to section 258 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1288(c)(4)(E)(i)), CBP will serve a notice of intent to debar on the entity subject to the notice of violation, as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2)
Contents of notice.
The notice of intent to debar will include the following:
(i) The proposed period of debarment, not to exceed one year;
(ii) The ports covered by the proposed debarment;
(iii) A brief explanation of the reasons for the proposed debarment;
(iv) The statutory and regulatory authority for the proposed debarment;
(v) A statement that the entity subject to the debarment may file an answer and request a mitigation meeting pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section;
(vi) The procedures for filing an answer and requesting a mitigation meeting, including the date by which the answer must be received and the address to which it may be submitted; and
(vii) A statement that in the absence of a timely filed answer, the proposed debarment will become final 30 days after service of the notice of intent to debar.
(3)
Service.
The notice of intent to debar will be served by a method that demonstrates receipt, such as certified mail with return receipt or express courier delivery, by the entity identified in the notice of violation received from the Secretary of Labor. The date of service is the date of receipt.
(c)
Answer; request for mitigation meeting
—(1)
General.
Any entity upon which the notice has been served, or its authorized representative, may file with CBP an answer that indicates the specific reasons why the proposed debarment should be mitigated and whether a mitigation meeting is requested. CBP must receive the answer within 30 days from the date of service of the notice of intent to debar.
(2)
Procedures
—(i)
Form.
The answer must be dated, typewritten or legibly written, signed under oath, and include the address at which the entity or its authorized representative desires to receive further communications. CBP may require that the answer and any supporting documentation be in English or be accompanied by an English translation certified by a competent translator.
(ii)
Supporting documentation required.
In addition to an answer, any entity responding to a notice of intent to debar must submit documentary evidence in support of any request for mitigation and may file a brief in support of any arguments made. The entity may present evidence in support of any request for mitigation at a mitigation meeting.
(iii)
Mitigation meeting.
A mitigation meeting will be conducted if requested by the entity subject to the proposed debarment in accordance with the requirements of this section, or if directed at any time by CBP.
(iv)
Good cause extension.
CBP, in its discretion, may extend the deadline for filing an answer up to an additional 30 days from the original receipt of CBP's notice upon a showing of good cause. Upon receipt of a request to extend the deadline for filing an answer, CBP will respond to the request for an extension within 5 business days by certified mail or express courier.
(d)
Disposition of case
—(1)
No response filed or allegations not contested.
If no answer is timely filed or the answer admits the allegations in the notice of intent to debar and does not request mitigation or a mitigation meeting, the proposed debarment specified in
the notice of intent to debar automatically will become a final order of debarment 30 days after service of the notice of intent to debar. If CBP grants a good cause extension pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section, and no answer is timely filed, the proposed debarment automatically will become a final order of debarment when the time for filing an answer expires.
(2)
Answer filed; mitigation meeting requested.
If an answer is timely filed that requests mitigation and/or a mitigation meeting, CBP will determine a final debarment in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(3)
Unavailability of appeal.
The final order of debarment is not subject to appeal.
(4)
Notice of final order of debarment.
(i) CBP will issue to the entity subject to the debarment a final order of debarment in writing.
(ii) CBP will send notice, by certified mail or express courier, to all interested parties, including the relevant U.S. ports of entry, that the entity subject to the debarment is debarred and stating the terms of the debarment.
(e)
Debarment
—(1)
Generally.
In determining a proposed debarment and a final debarment, CBP will consider the information received from the Secretary of Labor, any evidence or arguments timely presented by the entity subject to the debarment, and any other relevant factors.
(2)
Other relevant factors.
Other relevant factors include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) The previous history of violations of any provision of the INA by the entity subject to the debarment;
(ii) The number of U.S. workers adversely affected by the violation;
(iii) The gravity of the violation;
(iv) The efforts made by the entity subject to the debarment to comply in good faith with the regulatory and statutory requirements governing performance of longshore work by nonimmigrant crewmen;
(v) The remedial efforts by the entity subject to the debarment;
(vi) The commitment to future compliance by the entity subject to the debarment;
(vii) The extent of cooperation with the investigation by the entity subject to the debarment;
(viii) The extent of financial gain/loss to the entity subject to the debarment due to the violation; and
(ix) The potential financial loss, injury, or adverse effect to other parties, including U.S. workers, likely to result from the debarment.
(f)
Notice of completion of debarment.
Upon completion of any debarment, CBP will send notice, by certified mail or express courier, to all interested parties, including the entity subject to the debarment, and the relevant U.S. ports of entry, that the entity subject to the debarment has completed the debarment and is once again permitted to enter U.S. ports.
(g)
Record.
CBP will keep a record of the debarment proceedings which includes, but is not limited to, the materials exchanged between CBP and the parties. Records will be retained in accordance with CBP's Records Retention Schedule and the Freedom of Information Act.
[89 FR 23503, Apr. 4, 2024]
Pt. 264

# PART 264—REGISTRATION AND FINGERPRINTING OF ALIENS IN THE UNITED STATES
Sec.
264.1
Registration and fingerprinting.
264.2
Application for creation of record of permanent residence.
264.4
[Reserved]
264.5
Application for a replacement Permanent Resident Card.
264.6
Application for a nonimmigrant arrival-departure record.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1201, 1303-1305; 8 CFR part 2.
§ 264.1
Registration and fingerprinting.
(a)
Prescribed registration forms.
The following forms are prescribed as registration forms:

# Form No. and Class
I-67, Inspection Record—Hungarian refugees (Act of July 25, 1958).
I-94, Arrival-Departure Record—Aliens admitted as nonimmigrants; aliens paroled into the United States under section
212(d)(5) of the Immigration and Nationality Act; aliens whose claimed entry prior to July 1, 1924, cannot be verified, they having satisfactorily established residence in the United States since prior to July 1, 1924; aliens lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence who have not been registered previously; aliens who are granted permission to depart without the institution of deportation proceedings or against whom deportation proceedings are being instituted.
I-95, Crewmen's Landing Permit—Crewmen arriving by vessel or aircraft.
I-181, Memorandum of Creation of Record of Lawful Permanent Residence—Aliens presumed to be lawfully admitted to the United States under 8 CFR 101.1.
I-485, Application for Status as Permanent Resident—Applicants under sections 245 and 249 of the Immigration and Nationality Act as amended, and section 13 of the Act of September 11, 1957.
I-590, Registration for Classification as Refugee—Escapee—Refugee-escapees paroled pursuant to section 1 of the Act of July 14, 1960.
I-687, Application for Status as a Temporary Resident—Applicants under section 245A of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended.
I-691, Notice of Approval for Status as a Temporary Resident—Aliens adjusted to lawful temporary residence under 8 CFR 210.2 and 245A.2.
I-698, Application to Adjust Status from Temporary to Permanent Resident—Applicants under section 245A of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended.
I-700, Application for Status as a Temporary Resident—Applicants under section 210 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended.
I-817, Application for Voluntary Departure under the Family Unity Program.
(b)
Evidence of registration.
The following forms constitute evidence of registration:

# Form No. and Class
I-94, Arrival-Departure Record—Aliens admitted as nonimmigrants; aliens paroled into the United States under section 212(d)(5) of the Immigration and Nationality Act; aliens whose claimed entry prior to July 1, 1924, cannot be verified, they having satisfactorily established residence in the United States since prior to July 1, 1924; and aliens granted permission to depart without the institution of deportation proceedings.
I-95, Crewmen's Landing Permit—Crewmen arriving by vessel or aircraft.
I-184, Alien Crewman Landing Permit and Identification Card—Crewmen arriving by vessel.
I-185, Nonresident Alien Canadian Border Crossing Card—Citizens of Canada or British subjects residing in Canada.
I-186, Nonresident Alien Mexican Border Crossing Card—Citizens of Mexico residing in Mexico.
I-221, Order to Show Cause and Notice of Hearing—Aliens against whom deportation proceedings are being instituted.
I-221S, Order to Show Cause, Notice of Hearing, and Warrant for Arrest of Alien—Aliens against whom deportation proceedings are being instituted.
I-551, Permanent Resident Card—Lawful permanent resident of the United States.
I-766, Employment Authorization Document.
Form I-862, Notice to Appear—Aliens against whom removal proceedings are being instituted.
Form I-863, Notice of Referral to Immigration Judge—Aliens against whom removal proceedings are being instituted.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ):
In addition to the forms noted in this paragraph (b), a valid, unexpired nonimmigrant DHS admission or parole stamp in a foreign passport constitutes evidence of registration.
(c)
Replacement of alien registration.
Any alien whose registration document is not available for any reason must immediately apply for a replacement document in the manner prescribed by USCIS.
(d)
Surrender of registration.
If an alien is naturalized, dies, permanently departs, or is deported from the United States, or evidence of registration is found by a person other than the one to whom such evidence was issued, the person in possession of the document shall forward it to a USCIS office.
(e)
Fingerprinting waiver.
(1) Fingerprinting is waived for nonimmigrant aliens admitted as foreign government officials and employees; international organization representatives, officers and employees; NATO representatives, officers and employees, and holders of diplomatic visas while they maintain such nonimmigrant status. Fingerprinting is also waived for other nonimmigrant aliens, while they maintain nonimmigrant status, who are nationals of countries which do not require fingerprinting of United States citizens temporarily residing therein.
(2) Fingerprinting is waived for every nonimmigrant alien not included in
paragraph (e)(1) of this section who departs from the United States within one year of his admission, provided he maintains his nonimmigrant status during that time; each such alien not previously fingerprinted shall apply therefor at once if he remains in the United States in excess of one year.
(3) Every nonimmigrant alien not previously fingerprinted shall apply therefor at once upon his failure to maintain his nonimmigrant status.
(f) [Reserved]
(g)
Registration and fingerprinting of children who reach age 14.
Within 30 days after reaching the age of 14, any alien in the United States not exempt from alien registration under the Act and this chapter must apply for registration and fingerprinting, unless fingerprinting is waived under paragraph (e) of this section, in accordance with applicable form instructions.
(1)
Permanent residents.
If such alien is a lawful permanent resident of the United States and is temporarily absent from the United States when he reaches the age of 14, he must apply for registration and provide a photograph within 30 days of his or her return to the United States in accordance with applicable form instructions. The alien, if a lawful permanent resident of the United States, must surrender any prior evidence of alien registration. USCIS will issue the alien new evidence of alien registration.
(2)
Others.
In the case of an alien who is not a lawful permanent resident, the alien's previously issued registration document will be noted to show that he or she has been registered and the date of registration.
[25 FR 10495, Nov. 2, 1960]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 264.1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 264.2
Application for creation of record of permanent residence.
(a)
Jurisdiction.
An applicant who believes that he/she is eligible for presumption of lawful admission for permanent residence under § 101.1 or § 101.2 of this chapter or for lawful permanent residence as a person born in the United States to a foreign diplomatic officer under § 101.3 of this chapter shall submit his/her application for creation of a record of lawful permanent residence on Form I-485 in accordance with the instructions on the form and paragraph (c) of this section. The applicant must be physically present in the United States at the time of submission of his/her application.
(b)
Applicant under eighteen years old.
If the applicant is under eighteen years old, the applicant's parent or legal guardian shall prepare and sign the application in the applicant's behalf.
(c)
Filing application
—(1)
Presumption of lawful admission for permanent residence.
An applicant who believes that he/she is eligible for presumption of lawful admission for permanent residence under § 101.1 or § 101.2 of this chapter shall submit the following:
(i) A completed Form I-485, with the fee required in 8 CFR 106.2 and any initial evidence required on the application form and in this section.
(ii) Form G-325A, Biographic Information.
(iii) [Reserved]
(iv) A list of all the applicant's arrivals in and departures from the United States.
(v) A statement signed by the applicant indicating the basis of the applicant's claim to presumption of lawful admission for permanent residence.
(vi) Documentary evidence substantiating the applicant's claim to presumption of lawful admission for permanent residence, including proof of continuous residence in the United States.
(vii) Two photographs prepared in accordance with the specifications outlined in the instructions on the application form. The immigration officer to whom the application is submitted, however, may waive the photographs for just cause.
(2)
Lawful permanent residence as a person born in the United States under diplomatic status.
An applicant who believes that he/she is eligible for lawful permanent residence as a person born in the United States to a foreign diplomatic officer under § 101.3 of this chapter shall submit the following:
(i) A completed Form I-485, with the fee required in 8 CFR 106.2 and any initial evidence required in this application form and in this section.
(ii) Form G-325A, Biographic Information.
(iii) [Reserved]
(iv) The applicant's birth certificate.
(v) An executed Form I-508, Waiver of Rights, Privileges, Exemptions, and Immunities.
(vi) Official confirmation of the diplomatic classification and occupational title of the applicant's parent(s) at the time of the applicant's birth.
(vii) A list of all the applicant's arrivals in and departures from the United States.
(viii) Proof of continuous residence in the United States.
(ix) Two photographs prepared in accordance with the specifications outlined in the instructions on the application form. The immigration officer to whom the application is submitted, however, may waive the photographs for just cause.
(3)
Applicant under fourteen years old.
An applicant under fourteen years old shall not submit Form G-325A, Biographic Information.
(d)
Fingerprinting.
After filing an application, each applicant 14 years of age or older shall be fingerprinted as prescribed in 8 CFR 103.16.
(e)
Personal appearance.
Each applicant, including an applicant under eighteen years of age, must submit his/her application in person. This requirement may be waived at the discretion of the immigration officer to whom the application is submitted because of confinement of age, physical infirmity, illiteracy, or other compelling reason.
(f)
Interview.
The applicant may be required to appear in person before an immigration officer prior to adjudication of the application to be interviewed under oath concerning his/her eligibility for creation of a record of lawful permanent residence.
(g)
Decision.
The decision regarding creation of a record of lawful permanent residence for an alien eligible for presumption of lawful admission for permanent residence or for a person born in the United States to a foreign diplomatic officer will be made by the district director having jurisdiction over the applicant's place of residence.
(h)
Date of record of lawful permanent residence
—(1)
Presumption of lawful admission for permanent residence.
If the application is granted, the applicant's permanent residence will be recorded as of the date of the applicant's arrival in the United States under the conditions which caused him/her to be eligible for presumption of lawful admission for permanent residence.
(2)
Lawful permanent residence as a person born in the United States under diplomatic status.
If the application is granted, the applicant's permanent residence will be recorded as of his/her date of birth.
(i)
Denied application.
If the application is denied, the decision may not be appealed.
(Secs. 101(a)(20), 103, 262, 264 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended; 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20), 1103, 1302, 1304)
[47 FR 941, Jan. 8, 1982, as amended at 58 FR 48779, Sept. 20, 1993; 63 FR 12987, Mar. 17, 1998; 74 FR 26940, June 5, 2009; 76 FR 53795, Aug. 29, 2011; 85 FR 46927, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 264.4
[Reserved]
§ 264.5
Application for a replacement Permanent Resident Card.
(a)
Filing instructions.
A request to replace a Permanent Resident Card must be filed in accordance with the appropriate form instructions and with the fee specified in 8 CFR 106.2.
(b)
Permanent residents required to file.
A permanent resident shall apply for a replacement Permanent Resident Card:
(1) When the previous card has been lost, stolen, or destroyed;
(2) When the existing card will be expiring within six months;
(3) When the existing card has been mutilated;
(4) When the bearer's name or other biographic information has been legally changed since issuance of the existing card;
(5) When the applicant is taking up actual residence in the United States after having been a commuter, or is a permanent resident taking up commuter status;
(6) When the applicant has been automatically converted to permanent resident status;
(7) When the previous card was issued but never received;
(8) When the bearer of the card reaches the age of 14 years, unless the existing card will expire prior to the bearer's 16th birthday; or
(9) If the existing card bears incorrect data on account of Service error.
(c)
Other filings by a permanent resident.
(1) A permanent resident shall apply on the designated form to replace a prior edition of the alien registration card issued on Form AR-3, AR-103, or I-151.
(2) A permanent resident may apply on the designated form to replace any edition of the Permanent Resident Card for any other reason not specified in paragraphs (b) and (c)(1) of this section.
(d)
Conditional permanent residents required to file.
A conditional permanent resident whose card is expiring may apply to have the conditions on residence removed in accordance with 8 CFR 216.4 or 8 CFR 216.6. A conditional resident who seeks to replace a permanent resident card that is not expiring within 90 days may apply for a replacement card on the form prescribed by USCIS:
(1) To replace a card that was lost, stolen, or destroyed;
(2) To replace a card that was issued but never received;
(3) Where the prior card has been mutilated;
(4) Where the prior card is incorrect on account of Service error; or
(5) Where his or her name or other biographic data has changed since the card was issued.
(e)
Supporting documentation.
(1) The prior Permanent Resident Card must be surrendered to USCIS if a new card is being requested in accordance with paragraphs (b)(2) through (5) and (b)(8) and (9) of this section.
(2) A request to replace a Permanent Resident Card filed pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of this section must include evidence of the name change such as a court order or marriage certificate.
(3) A request to replace a Permanent Resident Card in order to change any other biographic data on the card must include documentary evidence verifying the new data.
(f)
Decision.
If an application is denied, the applicant shall be notified of the reasons for denial. No appeal shall lie from this decision.
(g)
Eligibility for evidence of permanent residence while in deportation, exclusion, or removal proceedings.
A person in deportation, exclusion, or removal proceedings is entitled to evidence of permanent resident status until ordered excluded, deported, or removed. USCIS will issue such evidence in the form of a temporary permanent resident document that will remain valid until the proceedings are concluded. Issuance of evidence of permanent residence to an alien who had permanent resident status when the proceedings commenced shall not affect those proceedings.
(h)
Temporary evidence of registration.
USCIS may issue temporary evidence of registration and lawful permanent resident status to a lawful permanent resident alien who is departing temporarily from the United States and has applied for issuance of a replacement permanent resident card if USCIS is unable to issue and deliver such card prior to the alien's contemplated return to the United States. The alien must surrender such temporary evidence upon receipt of his or her permanent resident card.
(i)
Waiver of requirements.
USCIS may waive the photograph, in person filing, and fingerprinting requirements of this section in cases of confinement due to advanced age or physical infirmity.
[58 FR 48779, Sept. 20, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 1466, Jan. 11, 1994; 59 FR 33905, July 1, 1994; 63 FR 12987, Mar. 17, 1998; 63 FR 70316, Dec. 21, 1998; 65 FR 57724, Sept. 26, 2000; 74 FR 26940, June 5, 2009; 76 FR 53795, Aug. 29, 2011; 85 FR 46927, Aug. 3, 2020; 89 FR 6399, Jan. 31, 2024]
§ 264.6
Application for a nonimmigrant arrival-departure record.
(a)
Eligibility.
USCIS may issue a new or replacement arrival-departure record to a nonimmigrant who seeks:
(1) To replace a lost or stolen record;
(2) To replace a mutilated record; or
(3) Was not issued an arrival-departure record pursuant to 8 CFR 235.1(h)(1)(i), (iii), (iv), (v), or (vi) when last admitted as a nonimmigrant, and has not since been issued such record but now requires one.
(b)
Application.
A nonimmigrant may request issuance or replacement of a nonimmigrant arrival-departure record by applying on the form designated by USCIS with the fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2 and in accordance with the form instructions.
(c)
Processing.
A pending application filed under paragraph (a) of this section is temporary evidence of registration. If the application is approved, USCIS will issue an arrival-departure document. There is no appeal from the denial of this application.
[76 FR 53795, Aug. 29, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 46927, Aug. 3, 2020]
Pt. 265

# PART 265—NOTICES OF ADDRESS

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103 and 1305.
§ 265.1
Reporting change of address.
Except for those exempted by section 263(b) of the Act, all aliens in the United States required to register under section 262 of the Act must report each change of address and new address within 10 days of such change in accordance with instructions provided by USCIS.
[76 FR 53796, Aug. 29, 2011]
Pt. 270

# PART 270—PENALTIES FOR DOCUMENT FRAUD
Sec.
270.1
Definitions.
270.2
Enforcement procedures.
270.3
Penalties.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1101, 1103, and 1324c; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended by Pub. L. 104-134, 110 Stat. 1321 and Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.

# Source:
57 FR 33866, July 31, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 270.1
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part—
Document
means an instrument on which is recorded, by means of letters, figures, or marks, matters which may be used to fulfill any requirement of the Act. The term “document” includes, but is not limited to, an application required to be filed under the Act and any other accompanying document or material;
Entity
means any legal entity, including, but not limited to, a corporation, partnership, joint venture, governmental body, agency, proprietorship, or association, including an agent or anyone acting directly or indirectly in the interest thereof.
§ 270.2
Enforcement procedures.
(a)
Procedures for the filing of complaints.
Any person or entity having knowledge of a violation or potential violation of section 274C of the Act may submit a signed, written complaint to the Service office having jurisdiction over the business or residence of the potential violator or the location where the violation occurred. The signed, written complaint must contain sufficient information to identify both the complainant and the alleged violator, including their names and addresses. The complaint should also contain detailed factual allegations relating to the potential violation including the date, time and place of the alleged violation and the specific act or conduct alleged to constitute a violation of the Act. Written complaints may be delivered either by mail to the appropriate Service office or by personally appearing before any immigration officer at a Service office.
(b)
Investigation.
When the Service receives complaints from a third party in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, it shall investigate only those complaints which, on their face, have a substantial probability of validity. The Service may also conduct investigations for violations on its own initiative, and without having received a written complaint. If it is determined after investigation that the person or entity has violated section 274C of the Act, the Service may issue and serve upon the alleged violator a Notice of Intent to Fine.
(c)
Issuance of a subpoena.
Service officers shall have reasonable access to examine any relevant evidence of any person or entity being investigated. The Service may issue subpoenas pursuant to its authority under sections 235(a) and 287 of the Act, in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 287.4 of this chapter.
(d)
Notice of Intent to Fine.
The proceeding to assess administrative penalties under section 274C of the Act is commenced when the Service issues a Notice of Intent to Fine. Service of this notice shall be accomplished by personal service pursuant to 8 CFR 103.8(a)(2). Service is effective upon receipt, as evidenced by the certificate of service or the certified mail return receipt. The person or entity identified in the Notice of Intent to Fine shall be known as the respondent. The Notice of Intent to Fine may be issued by an officer defined in § 242.1 of this chapter or by an INS port director designated by his or her district director.
(e)
Contents of the Notice of Intent to Fine.
(1) The Notice of Intent to Fine shall contain the basis for the charge(s) against the respondent, the statutory provisions alleged to have been violated, and the monetary amount of the penalty the Service intends to impose.
(2) The Notice of Intent to Fine shall provide the following advisals to the respondent:
(i) That the person or entity has the right to representation by counsel of his or her own choice at no expense to the government;
(ii) That any statement given may be used against the person or entity;
(iii) That the person or entity has the right to request a hearing before an administrative law judge pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 554-557, and that such request must be filed with INS within 60 days from the service of the Notice of Intent to Fine; and
(iv) That if a written request for a hearing is not timely filed, the Service will issue a final order from which there is no appeal.
(f)
Request for hearing before an administrative law judge.
If a respondent contests the issuance of a Notice of Intent to Fine, the respondent must file with the INS, within 60 days of the Notice of Intent to Fine, a written request for a hearing before an administrative law judge. Any written request for a hearing submitted in a foreign language must be accompanied by an English language translation. A request for hearing is deemed filed when it is either received by the Service office designated in the Notice of Intent to Fine, or addressed to such office, stamped with the proper postage, and postmarked within the 60-day period. In computing the 60-day period prescribed by this section, the day of service of the Notice of Intent to Fine shall not be included. In the request for a hearing, the respondent may, but is not required to, respond to each allegation listed in the Notice of Intent to Fine. A respondent may waive the 60-day period in which to request a hearing before an administrative law judge and ask that the INS issue a final order from which there is no appeal. Prior to execution of the waiver, a respondent who is not a United States citizen will be advised that a waiver of a section 274C hearing will result in the issuance of a final order and that the respondent will be excludable and/or deportable from the United States pursuant to the Act.
(g)
Failure to file a request for hearing.
If the respondent does not file a written request for a hearing within 60 days of service of the Notice of Intent to Fine, the INS shall issue a final order from which there shall be no appeal.
(h)
Issuance of the final order.
A final order may be issued by an officer defined in § 242.1 of this chapter, by an INS port director designated by his or her district director, or by the Director of the INS National Fines Office.
(i)
Service of the final order
—(1)
Generally.
Service of the final order shall be accomplished by personal service pursuant to 8 CFR 103.8(a)(2). Service is effective upon receipt, as evidenced by the certificate of service or the certified mail return receipt.
(2)
Alternative provisions for service in a foreign country.
When service is to be effected upon a party in a foreign country, it is sufficient if service of the final order is made: (i) In the manner prescribed by the law of the foreign country for service in that country in an action in any of its courts of general jurisdiction; or
(ii) As directed by the foreign authority in response to a letter rogatory, when service in either case is reasonably calculated to give actual notice; or
(iii) When applicable, pursuant to § 103.5a(a)(2) of this chapter.
Service is effective upon receipt of the final order. Proof of service may be
made as prescribed by the law of the foreign country, or, when service is pursuant to § 103.5a(a)(2) of this chapter, as evidenced by the certificate of service or the certified mail return receipt.
(j)
Declination to file charges for document fraud committed by refugees at the time of entry.
The Service shall not issue a Notice of Intent to Fine for acts of document fraud committed by an alien pursuant to direct departure from a country in which the alien has a well-founded fear of persecution or from which there is a significant danger that the alien would be returned to a country in which the alien would have a well-founded fear of persecution, provided that the alien has presented himself or herself without delay to an INS officer and shown good cause for his or her illegal entry or presence. Other acts of document fraud committed by such an alien may result in the issuance of a Notice of Intent to Fine and the imposition of civil money penalties.
[57 FR 33866, July 31, 1992, as amended at 76 FR 53796, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 270.3
Penalties.
(a)
Criminal penalties.
Nothing in section 274C of the Act shall be construed to diminish or qualify any of the penalties available for activities prohibited by this section but proscribed as well in title 18, United States Code.
(b)
Civil penalties.
A person or entity may face civil penalties for a violation of section 274C of the Act. Civil penalties may be imposed by the Service or by an administrative law judge for violations under section 274C of the Act. The Service may charge multiple violations of section 274C of the Act in a single Notice of Intent to Fine, and may impose separate penalties for each such unlawful act in a single proceeding or determination. However, in determining whether an offense is a first offense or a subsequent offense, a finding of more than one violation in the course of a single proceeding or determination will be counted as a single offense.
(1) A respondent found by the Service or an administrative law judge to have violated section 274C of the Act shall be subject to an order:
(i) To cease and desist from such behavior; and
(ii) To pay a civil penalty as follows:
(A)
First offense under section 274C(a)(1) through (a)(4).
Not less than $275 and not exceeding $2,200 for each fraudulent document or each proscribed activity described in section 274C(a)(1) through (a)(4) of the Act before March 27, 2008; not less than $375 and not exceeding $3,200 for each fraudulent document or each proscribed activity described in section 274C(a)(1) through (a)(4) of the Act on or after March 27, 2008, and on or before November 2, 2015; and not less than $575 and not exceeding $4,610 for each fraudulent document or each proscribed activity described in section 274C(a)(1) through (a)(4) of the Act after November 2, 2015.
(B)
First offense under section 274C(a)(5) or (a)(6).
Not less than $250 and not exceeding $2,000 for each fraudulent document or each proscribed activity described in section 274C(a)(5) or (a)(6) of the Act before March 27, 2008; not less than $275 and not exceeding $2,200 for each fraudulent document or each proscribed activity described in section 274C(a)(5) or (a)(6) of the Act on or after March 27, 2008, and on or before November 2, 2015; and not less than $487 and not exceeding $3,887 for each fraudulent document or each proscribed activity described in section 274C(a)(5) or (a)(6) of the Act after November 2, 2015.
(C)
Subsequent offenses under section 274C(a)(1) through (a)(4).
Not less than $2,200 and not more than $5,500 for each fraudulent document or each proscribed activity described in section 274C(a)(1) through (a)(4) of the Act before March 27, 2008; not less than $3,200 and not exceeding $6,500 for each fraudulent document or each proscribed activity described in section 274C(a)(1) through (a)(4) of the Act occurring on or after March 27, 2008 and on or before November 2, 2015; and not less than $4,610 and not more than $11,524 for each fraudulent document or each proscribed activity described in section 274C(a)(1) through (a)(4) of the Act after November 2, 2015.
(D)
Subsequent offenses under section 274C(a)(5) or (a)(6).
Not less than $2,000 and not more than $5,000 for each fraudulent document or each proscribed activity described in section
274C(a)(5) or (a)(6) of the Act before March 27, 2008; not less than $2,200 and not exceeding $5,500 for each fraudulent document or each proscribed activity described in section 274C(a)(5) or (a)(6) of the Act occurring on or after March 27, 2008, and on or before November 2, 2015; and not less than $3,887 and not more than $9,718 for each fraudulent document or each proscribed activity described in section 274C(a)(5) or (a)(6) of the Act after November 2, 2015.
(2) Where an order is issued to a respondent composed of distinct, physically separate subdivisions each of which provides separately for the hiring, recruiting, or referring for a fee for employment (without reference to the practices of, and not under the common control of or common control with, another subdivision), each subdivision shall be considered a separate person or entity.
[57 FR 33866, July 31, 1992, as amended at 64 FR 47101, Aug. 30, 1999; 73 FR 10135, Feb. 26, 2008; 81 FR 43001, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 8579, Jan. 27, 2017; 83 FR 13834, Apr. 2, 2018; 84 FR 13508, Apr. 5, 2019; 85 FR 36478, June 17, 2020; 86 FR 57539, Oct. 18, 2021; 87 FR 1326, Jan. 11, 2022; 88 FR 2182, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 53858, June 28, 2024]
Pt. 271

# PART 271—DILIGENT AND REASONABLE EFFORTS TO PREVENT THE UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY OF ALIENS BY THE OWNERS OF RAILROAD LINES, INTERNATIONAL BRIDGES OR TOLL ROADS

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103 and 1321.
§ 271.1
Procedures for inspections.
(a)
Applicability.
The following terms and conditions apply to those owners or operators of railroad lines, international bridges, or toll roads, which provide a means for an alien to come to the United States.
(b)
Inspection of facility.
Based upon a written request by the owners or operators, the INS district director or his designee shall inspect the facility or method utilized in order to ensure that owners and operators have acted diligently in taking adequate steps to prevent the unlawful entry of aliens into the United States. Such measures may include but are not necessarily limited to fencing, barricades, lighting, or security guards. If the district director determines that preventive measures are inadequate, he or she shall advise the owners or operators in writing, citing the reasons for such determination. If the owners or operators believe the requirements of the district director to be excessive or unnecessary, they may request that the Regional Commissioner having jurisdiction over the location where the facility is located, review the district director's requirements. The Regional Commissioner shall advise the owners or operators in writing of the results of his or her review.
(c)
Preventive measures and certification.
Upon a determination by the district director that reasonable and adequate preventive measures have been taken by the owners and operators, he or she shall certify that the owners and operators shall not be liable for the penalty described in section 271(a), so long as the facility or method utilized is maintained in the condition in which approved and certified.
(d)
Revocation of certification.
The District Director having jurisdiction over the location where the facility is located, in his or her discretion, may at any time, conduct an inspection of said facility to determine if any violation is occurring. If the facility is found to be not in compliance, said certification will be revoked.
[53 FR 26036, July 11, 1988]
Pt. 273

# PART 273—CARRIER RESPONSIBILITIES AT FOREIGN PORTS OF EMBARKATION; REDUCING, REFUNDING, OR WAIVING FINES UNDER SECTION 273 OF THE ACT
Sec.
273.1
General.
273.2
Definition.
273.3
Screening procedures.
273.4
Demonstration by carrier that screening requirements were met.
273.5
General criteria used for reduction, refund, or waiver of fines.
273.6
Memorandum of Understanding.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1323; 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
63 FR 23655, Apr. 30, 1998, unless otherwise noted.
§ 273.1
General.
In any fines case in which a fine is imposed under section 273 of the Act involving an alien brought to the United States after December 24, 1994, the carrier may seek a reduction, refund, or waiver of fine, as provided for by section 273(e) of the Act, in accordance with this part. The provisions of section 273(e) of the Act and of this part do not apply to any fine imposed under any provision other than section 273 (a)(1) and (b) of the Act.
§ 273.2
Definition.
As used in this part, the term
Carrier
means an individual or organization engaged in transporting passengers or goods for hire to the United States.
§ 273.3
Screening procedures.
(a)
Applicability.
The terms and conditions contained in paragraph (b) of this section apply to those owners, operators, or agents of carriers which transport passengers to the United States.
(b)
Procedures at ports of embarkation.
At each port of embarkation carriers shall take reasonable steps to prevent the boarding of improperly documented aliens destined to the United States by taking the following steps:
(1) Screening of passengers by carrier personnel prior to boarding and examination of their travel documents to ensure that:
(i) The passport or travel document presented is not expired and is valid for entry into the United States;
(ii) The passenger is the rightful holder;
(iii) If the passenger requires a visa, the visa is valid for the holder and any other accompanying passengers named in the passport; and
(iv) Passengers described in part 215, subpart B, of this chapter have complied with EVUS requirements as appropriate.
(2) Refusing to board any passenger determined to be improperly documented. Failure to refuse boarding when advised to do so by a Service or Consular Officer may be considered by the Service as a factor in its evaluation of applications under § 273.5.
(3) Implementing additional safeguards such as, but not necessarily limited to, the following:
(i) For instances in which the carrier suspects fraud, assessing the adequacy of the documents presented by asking additional, pertinent questions or by taking other appropriate steps to corroborate the identity of passengers, such as requesting secondary information.
(ii) Conducting a second check of passenger documents, when necessary at high-risk ports of embarkation, at the time of boarding to verify that all passengers are properly documented consistent with paragraph (b)(1) of this section. This includes a recheck of documents at the final foreign port of embarkation for all passengers, including those originally boarded at a prior stop or who are being transported to the United States under the Transit Without Visa (TWOV) or International-to-International (ITI) Programs.
(iii) Providing a reasonable level of security during the boarding process so that passengers are unable to circumvent any carrier document checks.
(4)
Transmitting visa numbers.
Carriers must transmit to U.S. Customs and Border Protection the visa number for any passenger who requires a visa. The visa number must be transmitted using the Advance Passenger Information System, consistent with the procedural requirements for transmission of electronic passenger manifests in 19 CFR parts 4 (vessel) and 122 (aircraft).
[63 FR 23655, Apr. 30, 1998, as amended at 81 FR 72493, Oct. 20, 2016]
§ 273.4
Demonstration by carrier that screening requirements were met.
(a) To be eligible to apply for reduction, refund, or waiver of a fine, the carrier shall provide evidence that it screened all passengers on the conveyance for the instant flight or voyage in accordance with the procedures listed in § 273.3.
(b) The Service may, at any time, conduct an inspection of a carrier's document screening procedures at ports of embarkation to determine compliance with the procedures listed in § 273.3, to the extent permitted by
the local competent authority responsible for port access or security. If necessary, the carrier shall use its good offices to obtain this permission from the local authority. If the carrier's port of embarkation operation is found not to be in compliance, the carrier will be notified by the Service that it will not be eligible for refund, reduction, or waiver of fines under section 273(e) of the Act unless the carrier can establish that lack of compliance was beyond the carrier's control.
§ 273.5
General criteria used for reduction, refund, or waiver of fines.
(a) Upon application by the carrier, the Service shall determine whether circumstances exist which would justify a reduction, refund, or waiver of fines pursuant to section 273(e) of the Act.
(b) Applications for reduction, refund, or waiver of fine under section 273(e) of the Act shall be made in accordance with the procedures outlined in 8 CFR 280.12 and 8 CFR 280.51.
(c) In determining the amount of the fine reduction, refund, or waiver, the Service shall consider:
(1) The effectiveness of the carrier's screening procedures;
(2) The carrier's history of fines violations, including fines, liquidated damages, and user fee payment records; and,
(3) The existence of any extenuating circumstances.
§ 273.6
Memorandum of Understanding.
(a) Carriers may apply to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Service for an automatic reduction, refund, or waiver of fines imposed under section 273 of the Act.
(b) Carriers signatory to an MOU will not be required to apply for reduction, refund, or waiver of fines in accordance with the procedures outlined in 8 CFR 280.12 and 8 CFR 280.51, but will follow procedures as set forth in the MOU.
(c) Carriers signatory to an MOU will have fines reduced, refunded, or waived according to performance standards enumerated in the MOU or as determined by the Service.
(d) Carriers signatory to an MOU are not precluded from seeking additional reduction, refund, or waiver of fines in accordance with the procedures outlined in 8 CFR 280.12 and 8 CFR 280.51.
Pt. 274

# PART 274—SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF CONVEYANCES
Sec.
274.1
Seizure and forfeiture authority.
274.2
Delegation of authority.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1324(b); 18 U.S.C. 983, 19 U.S.C. 66, 1600, 1618, 1619, 1624; 22 U.S.C. 401; 31 U.S.C. 5321; 49 U.S.C. 80304.

# Source:
53 FR 43187, Oct. 26, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 274.1
Seizure and forfeiture authority.
Any officer of Customs and Border Protection or Immigration and Customs Enforcement may seize and forfeit any property that has been or is being used in the commission of a violation of any statutory authority involving the unlawful introduction of aliens, contraband or proceeds of such introduction, pursuant to, but not limited to, section 274(a) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1324(a)). All seizures and forfeitures in such cases will be administered in accordance with 19 CFR parts 162 and 171.
[73 FR 9011, Feb. 19, 2008]
§ 274.2
Delegation of authority.
All powers provided to Fines, Penalties and Forfeitures Officers in 19 CFR parts 162 and 171 are provided to the Chief, Office of Border Patrol or his designees, for purposes of administering seizures and forfeitures made by Border Patrol Officers.
[73 FR 9011, Feb. 19, 2008]
Pt. 274a

# PART 274a—CONTROL OF EMPLOYMENT OF ALIENS

# Subpart A—Employer Requirements
Sec.
274a.1
Definitions.
274a.2
Verification of identity and employment authorization.
274a.3
Continuing employment of unauthorized aliens.
274a.4
Good faith defense.
274a.5
Use of labor through contract.
274a.6
State employment agencies.
274a.7
Pre-enactment provisions for employees hired prior to November 7, 1986 or in the CNMI prior to the transition program effective date.
274a.8
Prohibition of indemnity bonds.
274a.9
Enforcement procedures.
274a.10
Penalties.
274a.11
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Employment Authorization
274a.12
Classes of aliens authorized to accept employment.
274a.13
Application for employment authorization.
274a.14
Termination of employment authorization.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1101, 1103, 1324a; 48 U.S.C. 1806; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890 (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599 (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); 8 CFR part 2.

# Effective Date Notes:
1. At 89 FR 101267, Dec. 13, 2024, the part 274a authority citation was revised, effective Jan. 13, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1101, 1103, 1105a, 1158, 1184, 1254a, 1324a; 48 U.S.C. 1806; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890 (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599 (28 U.S.C. 2461 note); 8 CFR part 2.
2. At 89 FR 103334, Dec. 18, 2024, the part 274a authority citation was revised, effective Jan. 17, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1101, 1103, 1105a, 1324a; 48 U.S.C. 1806; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended by Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599; Title VII of Pub. L. 110-229, 122 Stat. 754; Pub. L. 115-218, 132 Stat. 1547; 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
52 FR 16221, May 1, 1987, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Employer Requirements
§ 274a.1
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part—
(a) The term
unauthorized alien
means, with respect to employment of an alien at a particular time, that the alien is not at that time either: (1) Lawfully admitted for permanent residence, or (2) authorized to be so employed by this Act or by the Attorney General;
(b) The term
entity
means any legal entity, including but not limited to, a corporation, partnership, joint venture, governmental body, agency, proprietorship, or association;
(c) The term
hire
means the actual commencement of employment of an employee for wages or other remuneration. For purposes of section 274A(a)(4) of the Act and 8 CFR 274a.5, a hire occurs when a person or entity uses a contract, subcontract, or exchange entered into, renegotiated, or extended after November 6, 1986 (or, with respect to the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, after the transition program effective date as defined in 8 CFR 1.1), to obtain the labor of an alien in the United States, knowing that the alien is an unauthorized alien;
(d) The term
refer for a fee
means the act of sending or directing a person or transmitting documentation or information to another, directly or indirectly, with the intent of obtaining employment in the United States for such person, for remuneration whether on a retainer or contingency basis; however, this term does not include union hiring halls that refer union members or non-union individuals who pay union membership dues;
(e) The term
recruit for a fee
means the act of soliciting a person, directly or indirectly, and referring that person to another with the intent of obtaining employment for that person, for remuneration whether on a retainer or contingency basis; however, this term does not include union hiring halls that refer union members or non-union individuals who pay union membership dues;
(f) The term
employee
means an individual who provides services or labor for an employer for wages or other remuneration but does not mean independent contractors as defined in paragraph (j) of this section or those engaged in casual domestic employment as stated in paragraph (h) of this section;
(g) The term
employer
means a person or entity, including an agent or anyone acting directly or indirectly in the interest thereof, who engages the services or labor of an employee to be performed in the United States for wages or other remuneration. In the case of an independent contractor or contract labor or services, the term
employer
shall mean the independent contractor or contractor and not the person or entity using the contract labor;
(h) The term
employment
means any service or labor performed by an employee for an employer within the United States, including service or labor performed on a vessel or aircraft that has arrived in the United States and has been inspected, or otherwise included within the provisions of the Anti-Reflagging Act codified at 46 U.S.C. 8704, but not including duties performed by nonimmigrant crewmen defined in sections 101 (a)(10) and (a)(15)(D) of the Act. However, employment does not include casual employment by individuals who provide domestic service in a private home that is sporadic, irregular or intermittent;
(i) The term
State employment agency
means any State government unit designated to cooperate with the United States Employment Service in the operation of the public employment service system;
(j) The term
independent contractor
includes individuals or entities who carry on independent business, contract to do a piece of work according to their own means and methods, and are subject to control only as to results. Whether an individual or entity is an independent contractor, regardless of what the individual or entity calls itself, will be determined on a case-by-case basis. Factors to be considered in that determination include, but are not limited to, whether the individual or entity: supplies the tools or materials; makes services available to the general public; works for a number of clients at the same time; has an opportunity for profit or loss as a result of labor or services provided; invests in the facilities for work; directs the order or sequence in which the work is to be done and determines the hours during which the work is to be done. The use of labor or services of an independent contractor are subject to the restrictions in section 274A(a)(4) of the Act and § 274a.5 of this part;
(k) The term
pattern
or
practice
means regular, repeated, and intentional activities, but does not include isolated, sporadic, or accidental acts;
(l)(1) The term
knowing
includes not only actual knowledge but also knowledge which may fairly be inferred through notice of certain facts and circumstances which would lead a person, through the exercise of reasonable care, to know about a certain condition. Constructive knowledge may include, but is not limited to, situations where an employer:
(i) Fails to complete or improperly completes the Employment Eligibility Verification Form, I-9;
(ii) Has information available to it that would indicate that the alien is not authorized to work, such as Labor Certification and/or an Application for Prospective Employer; or
(iii) Acts with reckless and wanton disregard for the legal consequences of permitting another individual to introduce an unauthorized alien into its work force or to act on its behalf.
(2) Knowledge that an employee is unauthorized may not be inferred from an employee's foreign appearance or accent. Nothing in this definition should be interpreted as permitting an employer to request more or different documents than are required under section 274(b) of the Act or to refuse to honor documents tendered that on their face reasonably appear to be genuine and to relate to the individual.
[52 FR 16221, May 1, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 8612, Mar. 16, 1988; 55 FR 25931, June 25, 1990; 56 FR 41783, Aug. 23, 1991; 72 FR 45623, Aug. 15, 2007; 73 FR 63867, Oct. 28, 2008; 74 FR 51452, Oct. 7, 2009; 74 FR 55739, Oct. 28, 2009]
§ 274a.2
Verification of identity and employment authorization.
(a)
General.
This section establishes requirements and procedures for compliance by persons or entities when hiring, or when recruiting or referring for a fee, or when continuing to employ individuals in the United States.
(1)
Recruiters and referrers for a fee.
For purposes of complying with section 274A(b) of the Act and this section, all references to recruiters and referrers for a fee are limited to a person or entity who is either an agricultural association, agricultural employer, or farm labor contractor (as defined in section 3 of the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act, Pub. L. 97-470 (29 U.S.C. 1802)).
(2)
Verification form.
Form I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification Form, is used in complying with the requirements of this 8 CFR 274a.1-274a.11. Form I-9 can be in paper or electronic
format. A fillable electronic Form I-9 as well as a paper format Form I-9 may be obtained and downloaded from
http://www.uscis.gov.
Paper forms may also be ordered at
https://www.uscis.gov/forms/forms-by-mail
or by contacting the USCIS Contact Center at 1-800-375-5283 or 1-800-767-1833 (TTY). Alternatively, Form I-9 can be electronically generated or retained, provided that the resulting form is legible; there is no change to the name, content, or sequence of the data elements and instructions; no additional data elements or language are inserted; and the standards specified under 8 CFR 274a.2(e), (f), (g), (h), and (i), as applicable, are met. When copying or printing the paper Form I-9, the text of the two-sided form may be reproduced by making either double-sided or single-sided copies.
(3)
Attestation Under Penalty and Perjury.
In conjunction with completing the Form I-9, an employer or recruiter or referrer for a fee must examine documents that evidence the identity and employment authorization of the individual. The employer or recruiter or referrer for a fee and the individual must each complete an attestation on the Form I-9 under penalty of perjury.
(b)
Employment verification requirements
—(1)
Examination of documents and completion of Form I-9.
(i) A person or entity that hires or recruits or refers for a fee an individual for employment must ensure that the individual properly:
(A) Completes section 1—“Employee Information and Verification”—on the Form I-9 at the time of hire and signs the attestation with a handwritten or electronic signature in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section; or if an individual is unable to complete the Form I-9 or needs it translated, someone may assist him or her. The preparer or translator must read the Form I-9 to the individual, assist him or her in completing Section 1—“Employee Information and Verification,” and have the individual sign or mark the Form I-9 by a handwritten signature, or an electronic signature in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section, in the appropriate place; and
(B) Present to the employer or the recruiter or referrer for a fee documentation as set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section establishing his or her identity and employment authorization within the time limits set forth in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) through (b)(1)(v) of this section.
(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(viii) of this section, an employer, his or her agent, or anyone acting directly or indirectly in the interest thereof, must within three business days of the hire:
(A) Physically examine (or otherwise examine pursuant to an alternative procedure authorized by the Secretary under paragraph (b)(1)(ix) of this section) the documentation presented by the individual establishing identity and employment authorization as set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section and ensure that the documents presented appear to be genuine and to relate to the individual; and
(B) Complete section 2—“Employer Review and Verification”—on the Form I-9 within three business days of the hire and sign the attestation with a handwritten signature or electronic signature in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section.
(iii) An employer who hires an individual for employment for a duration of less than three business days must comply with paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A) and (b)(1)(ii)(B) of this section at the time of the hire. An employer may not accept a receipt, as described in paragraph (b)(1)(vi) of this section, in lieu of the required document if the employment is for less than three business days.
(iv) A recruiter or referrer for a fee for employment must comply with paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A) and (b)(1)(ii)(B) of this section within three business days of the date the referred individual is hired by the employer. Recruiters and referrers may designate agents to complete the employment verification procedures on their behalf including but not limited to notaries, national associations, or employers. If a recruiter or referrer designates an employer to complete the employment verification procedures, the employer
need only provide the recruiter or referrer with a photocopy or printed electronic image of the Form I-9, electronic Form I-9, or a Form I-9 on microfilm or microfiche.
(v) The individual may present either an original document which establishes both employment authorization and identity, or an original document which establishes employment authorization and a separate original document which establishes identity. Only unexpired documents are acceptable. The identification number and expiration date (if any) of all documents must be noted in the appropriate space provided on the Form I-9.
(A) The following documents, so long as they appear to relate to the individual presenting the document, are acceptable to evidence both identity and employment authorization:
(
1
) A United States passport;
(
2
) An Alien Registration Receipt Card or Permanent Resident Card (Form I-551);
(
3
) A foreign passport that contains a temporary I-551 stamp, or temporary I-551 printed notation on a machine-readable immigrant visa;
(
4
) An Employment Authorization Document which contains a photograph (Form I-766);
(
5
) In the case of an individual who is employment-authorized incident to status or parole with a specific employer, a foreign passport with an Arrival/Departure Record, Form I-94 (as defined in 8 CFR 1.4) or Form I-94A, bearing the same name as the passport and containing an endorsement by DHS indicating such employment-authorized status or parole, as long as the period of endorsement has not yet expired and the employment is not in conflict with the individual's employment-authorized status or parole;
(
6
) A passport from the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM) or the Republic of the Marshall Islands (RMI) with Form I-94 or Form I-94A indicating nonimmigrant admission under the Compact of Free Association Between the United States and the FSM or RMI;
(
7
) In the case of an individual lawfully enlisted for military service in the Armed Forces under 10 U.S.C. 504, a military identification card issued to such individual may be accepted only by the Armed Forces.
(B) The following documents are acceptable to establish identity only:
(
1
) For individuals 16 years of age or older:
(
i
) A driver's license or identification card containing a photograph, issued by a state (as defined in section 101(a)(36) of the Act) or an outlying possession of the United States (as defined by section 101(a)(29) of the Act). If the driver's license or identification card does not contain a photograph, identifying information shall be included such as: name, date of birth, sex, height, color of eyes, and address;
(
ii
) School identification card with a photograph;
(
iii
) Voter's registration card;
(
vi
) U.S. military card or draft record;
(
v
) Identification card issued by federal, state, or local government agencies or entities. If the identification card does not contain a photograph, identifying information shall be included such as: name, date of birth, sex, height, color of eyes, and address;
(
vi
) Military dependent's identification card;
(
vii
) Native American tribal documents;
(
viii
) United States Coast Guard Merchant Mariner Card;
(
ix
) Driver's license issued by a Canadian government authority;
(
2
) For individuals under age 18 who are unable to produce a document listed in paragraph (b)(1)(v)(B)(
1
) of this section, the following documents are acceptable to establish identity only:
(
i
) School record or report card;
(
ii
) Clinic doctor or hospital record;
(
iii
) Daycare or nursery school record.
(
3
) Minors under the age of 18 who are unable to produce one of the identity documents listed in paragraph (b)(1)(v)(B) (
1
) or (
2
) of this section are exempt from producing one of the enumerated identity documents if:
(
i
) The minor's parent or legal guardian completes on the Form I-9 Section 1—“Employee Information and Verification” and in the space for the minor's signature, the parent or legal guardian writes the words, “minor under age 18.”
(
ii
) The minor's parent or legal guardian completes on the Form I-9 the “Preparer/Translator certification.”
(
iii
) The employer or the recruiter or referrer for a fee writes in Section 2—“Employer Review and Verification” under List B in the space after the words “Document Identification #” the words, “minor under age 18.”
(
4
) Individuals with handicaps, who are unable to produce one of the identity documents listed in paragraph (b)(1)(v)(B) (
1
) or (
2
) of this section, who are being placed into employment by a nonprofit organization, association or as part of a rehabilitation program, may follow the procedures for establishing identity provided in this section for minors under the age of 18, substituting where appropriate, the term “special placement” for “minor under age 18”, and permitting, in addition to a parent or legal guardian, a representative from the nonprofit organization, association or rehabilitation program placing the individual into a position of employment, to fill out and sign in the appropriate section, the Form I-9. For purposes of this section the term
individual with handicaps
means any person who
(
i
) Has a physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or more of such person's major life activities,
(
ii
) Has a record of such impairment, or
(
iii
) Is regarded as having such impairment.
(C) The following are acceptable documents to establish employment authorization only:
(
1
) A Social Security account number card other than one that specifies on the face that the issuance of the card does not authorize employment in the United States;
(
2
) Certification or report of birth issued by the Department of State, including Forms FS-545, DS-1350, FS-240;
(
3
) An original or certified copy of a birth certificate issued by a State, county, municipal authority or outlying possession of the United States bearing an official seal;
(
4
) Native American tribal document;
(
5
) United States Citizen Identification Card, Form I-197;
(
6
) Identification card for use of resident citizen in the United States, Form I-179;
(
7
) An employment authorization document issued by the Department of Homeland Security.
(D) The following are acceptable documents to establish both identity and employment authorization in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands only, for a two-year period starting from the transition program effective date (as defined in 8 CFR 1.1), in addition to those documents listed in paragraph (b)(1)(v)(A) of this section:
(1) In the case of an alien with employment authorization in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands incident to status for a period of up to two years following the transition program effective date that is unrestricted or otherwise authorizes a change of employer:
(i) The unexpired foreign passport and an Alien Entry Permit with red band issued to the alien by the Office of the Attorney General, Division of Immigration of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands before the transition program effective date, as long as the period of employment authorization has not yet expired, or
(ii) An unexpired foreign passport and temporary work authorization letter issued by the Department of Labor of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands before the transition program effective date, and containing the name and photograph of the individual, as long as the period of employment authorization has not yet expired and the proposed employment is not in conflict with any restrictions or limitations identified on the Temporary Work Authorization letter;
(iii) An unexpired foreign passport and a permanent resident card issued by the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(
2
) [Reserved]
(vi)
Special rules for receipts.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, unless the individual indicates or the employer or recruiter or referrer for a fee has actual or constructive knowledge that the individual is not authorized to work, an employer or recruiter or referrer for a fee must accept
a receipt for the application for a replacement document or a document described in paragraphs (b)(1)(vi)(B)(
1
) and (b)(1)(vi)(C)(
1
) of this section in lieu of the required document in order to comply with any requirement to examine documentation imposed by this section, in the following circumstances:
(A)
Application for a replacement document.
The individual:
(
1
) Is unable to provide the required document within the time specified in this section because the document was lost, stolen, or damaged;
(
2
) Presents a receipt for the application for the replacement document within the time specified in this section; and
(
3
) Presents the replacement document within 90 days of the hire or, in the case of reverification, the date employment authorization expires; or
(B)
Form I-94 or I-94A indicating temporary evidence of permanent resident status.
The individual indicates in section 1 of the Form I-9 that he or she is a lawful permanent resident and the individual:
(
1
) Presents the arrival portion of Form I-94 or Form I-94A containing an unexpired “Temporary I-551” stamp and a photograph of the individual, which is designated for purposes of this section as a receipt for Form I-551; and
(
2
) Presents the Form I-551 by the expiration date of the “Temporary I-551” stamp or, if the stamp has no expiration date, within one year from the issuance date of the arrival portion of the Form I-94 or Form I-94A; or
(C)
Form I-94 or I-94A indicating refugee status.
The individual indicates in section 1 of the Form I-9 that he or she is an alien authorized to work and the individual:
(
1
) Presents the departure portion of Form I-94 or I-94A containing an unexpired refugee admission stamp, which is designated for purposes of this section as a receipt for the Form I-766, or a social security account number card that contains no employment restrictions; and
(
2
) Presents, within 90 days of the hire or, in the case of reverification, the date employment authorization expires, either an unexpired Form I-766, or a social security account number card that contains no employment restrictions and a document described under paragraph (b)(1)(v)(B) of this section.
(vii) If an individual's employment authorization expires, the employer, recruiter or referrer for a fee must reverify on the Form I-9 to reflect that the individual is still authorized to work in the United States; otherwise, the individual may no longer be employed, recruited, or referred. Reverification on the Form I-9 must occur not later than the date work authorization expires and must comply with the applicable document presentation and examination procedures in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A) and (b)(1)(ix) of this section, and form instructions. If an Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766) as described in § 274a.13(d) was presented for completion of the Form I-9 in combination with a Notice of Action (Form I-797C), stating that the original Employment Authorization Document has been automatically extended for up to 180 days, reverification applies upon the expiration of the automatically extended validity period under § 274a.13(d) and not upon the expiration date indicated on the face of the individual's Employment Authorization Document. In order to reverify on the Form I-9, the employee or referred individual must present a document that either shows continuing employment eligibility or is a new grant of work authorization. The employer or the recruiter or referrer for a fee must review this document, and if it appears to be genuine and relate to the individual, reverify by noting the document's identification number and expiration date, if any, on the Form I-9 and signing the attestation by a handwritten signature or electronic signature in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section.
(viii) An employer will not be deemed to have hired an individual for employment if the individual is continuing in his or her employment and has a reasonable expectation of employment at all times.
(A) An individual is continuing in his or her employment in one of the following situations:
(
1
) An individual takes approved paid or unpaid leave on account of study,
illness or disability of a family member, illness or pregnancy, maternity or paternity leave, vacation, union business, or other temporary leave approved by the employer;
(
2
) An individual is promoted, demoted, or gets a pay raise;
(
3
) An individual is temporarily laid off for lack of work;
(
4
) An individual is on strike or in a labor dispute;
(
5
) An individual is reinstated after disciplinary suspension for wrongful termination, found unjustified by any court, arbitrator, or administrative body, or otherwise resolved through reinstatement or settlement;
(
6
) An individual transfers from one distinct unit of an employer to another distinct unit of the same employer; the employer may transfer the individual's Form I-9 to the receiving unit;
(
7
) An individual continues his or her employment with a related, successor, or reorganized employer, provided that the employer obtains and maintains from the previous employer records and Forms I-9 where applicable. For this purpose, a related, successor, or reorganized employer includes:
(
i
) The same employer at another location;
(
ii
) An employer who continues to employ some or all of a previous employer's workforce in cases involving a corporate reorganization, merger, or sale of stock or assets;
(
iii
) An employer who continues to employ any employee of another employer's workforce where both employers belong to the same multi-employer association and the employee continues to work in the same bargaining unit under the same collective bargaining agreement. For purposes of this subsection, any agent designated to complete and maintain the Form I-9 must record the employee's date of hire and/or termination each time the employee is hired and/or terminated by an employer of the multi-employer association; or
(
8
) An individual is engaged in seasonal employment.
(B) The employer who is claiming that an individual is continuing in his or her employment must also establish that the individual expected to resume employment at all times and that the individual's expectation is reasonable. Whether an individual's expectation is reasonable will be determined on a case-by-case basis taking into consideration several factors. Factors which would indicate that an individual has a reasonable expectation of employment include, but are not limited to, the following:
(
1
) The individual in question was employed by the employer on a regular and substantial basis. A determination of a regular and substantial basis is established by a comparison of other workers who are similarly employed by the employer;
(
2
) The individual in question complied with the employer's established and published policy regarding his or her absence;
(
3
) The employer's past history of recalling absent employees for employment indicates a likelihood that the individual in question will resume employment with the employer within a reasonable time in the future;
(
4
) The former position held by the individual in question has not been taken permanently by another worker;
(
5
) The individual in question has not sought or obtained benefits during his or her absence from employment with the employer that are inconsistent with an expectation of resuming employment with the employer within a reasonable time in the future. Such benefits include, but are not limited to, severance and retirement benefits;
(
6
) The financial condition of the employer indicates the ability of the employer to permit the individual in question to resume employment within a reasonable time in the future; or
(
7
) The oral and/or written communication between employer, the employer's supervisory employees and the individual in question indicates that it is reasonably likely that the individual in question will resume employment with the employer within a reasonable time in the future.
(ix) As an optional alternative to the physical examination procedure described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, the Secretary may, consistent with applicable law and via notice published in the
Federal Register,
authorize alternative documentation examination procedures with respect to
some or all employers. The Secretary may adopt such procedures:
(A) As part of a pilot program;
(B) Upon the Secretary's determination that such procedures offer an equivalent level of security to that of physical examination as indicated by, for instance, observed measures of system integrity (such as error or fraud rates) or the procedure's capacity for confirming certain documents or information; or
(C) As a temporary measure to address a public health emergency declared by the Secretary of Health and Human Services pursuant to Section 319 of the Public Health Service Act, or a national emergency declared by the President pursuant to Sections 201 and 301 of the National Emergencies Act.
(2)
Retention and Inspection of Form I-9.
(i) A paper (with original handwritten signatures), electronic (with acceptable electronic signatures that meet the requirements of paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section or original paper scanned into an electronic format, or a combination of paper and electronic formats that meet the requirements of paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this section), or microfilm or microfiche copy of the original signed version of Form I-9 must be retained by an employer or a recruiter or referrer for a fee for the following time periods:
(A) In the case of an employer, three years after the date of the hire or one year after the date the individual's employment is terminated, whichever is later; or
(B) In the case of a recruiter or referrer for a fee, three years after the date of the hire.
(ii) Any person or entity required to retain Forms I-9 in accordance with this section shall be provided with at least three business days notice prior to an inspection of Forms I-9 by officers of an authorized agency of the United States. At the time of inspection, Forms I-9 must be made available in their original paper, electronic form, a paper copy of the electronic form, or on microfilm or microfiche at the location where the request for production was made. If Forms I-9 are kept at another location, the person or entity must inform the officer of the authorized agency of the United States of the location where the forms are kept and make arrangements for the inspection. Inspections may be performed at an office of an authorized agency of the United States. A recruiter or referrer for a fee who has designated an employer to complete the employment verification procedures may present a photocopy or printed electronic image of the Form I-9 in lieu of presenting the Form I-9 in its original paper or electronic form or on microfilm or microfiche, as set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section. Any refusal or delay in presentation of the Forms I-9 for inspection is a violation of the retention requirements as set forth in section 274A(b)(3) of the Act. No Subpoena or warrant shall be required for such inspection, but the use of such enforcement tools is not precluded. In addition, if the person or entity has not complied with a request to present the Forms I-9, any officer listed in 8 CFR 287.4 may compel production of the Forms I-9 and any other relevant documents by issuing a subpoena. Nothing in this section is intended to limit the subpoena power under section 235(d)(4) of the Act.
(iii) The following standards shall apply to Forms I-9 presented on microfilm or microfiche submitted to an officer of the Service, the Special Counsel for Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices, or the Department of Labor: Microfilm, when displayed on a microfilm reader (viewer) or reproduced on paper must exhibit a high degree of legibility and readability. For this purpose, legibility is defined as the quality of a letter or numeral which enables the observer to positively and quickly identify it to the exclusion of all other letters or numerals. Readability is defined as the quality of a group of letters or numerals being recognizable as words or whole numbers. A detailed index of all microfilmed data shall be maintained and arranged in such a manner as to permit the immediate location of any particular record. It is the responsibility of the employer, recruiter or referrer for a fee:
(A) To provide for the processing, storage and maintenance of all microfilm, and
(B) To be able to make the contents thereof available as required by law. The person or entity presenting the microfilm will make available a reader-printer at the examination site for the ready reading, location and reproduction of any record or records being maintained on microfilm. Reader-printers made available to an officer of the Service, the Special Counsel for Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices, or the Department of Labor shall provide safety features and be in clean condition, properly maintained and in good working order. The reader-printers must have the capacity to display and print a complete page of information. A person or entity who is determined to have failed to comply with the criteria established by this regulation for the presentation of microfilm or microfiche to the Service, the Special Counsel for Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices, or the Department of Labor, and at the time of the inspection does not present a properly completed Form I-9 for the employee, is in violation of section 274A(a)(1)(B) of the Act and § 274a.2(b)(2).
(iv) Paragraphs (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) of this section specify the standards for electronic Forms I-9.
(3)
Copying of documentation.
An employer, or a recruiter or referrer for a fee may, but is not required to, copy or make an electronic image of a document presented by an individual solely for the purpose of complying with the verification requirements of this section. If such a copy or electronic image is made, it must either be retained with the Form I-9 or stored with the employee's records and be retrievable consistent with paragraphs (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) of this section. The copying or electronic imaging of any such document and retention of the copy or electronic image does not relieve the employer from the requirement to fully complete section 2 of the Form I-9. An employer, recruiter or referrer for a fee should not, however, copy or electronically image only the documents of individuals of certain national origins or citizenship statuses. To do so may violate section 274B of the Act.
(4)
Limitation on use of Form I-9.
Any information contained in or appended to the Form I-9, including copies or electronic images of documents listed in paragraph (c) of this section used to verify an individual's identity or employment eligibility, may be used only for enforcement of the Act and sections 1001, 1028, 1546, or 1621 of title 18, United States Code.
(c)
Employment verification requirements in the case of hiring an individual who was previously employed.
(1) When an employer hires an individual whom that person or entity has previously employed, if the employer has previously completed the Form I-9 and complied with the verification requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section with regard to the individual, the employer may (in lieu of completing a new Form I-9) inspect the previously completed Form I-9 and:
(i) If upon inspection of the Form I-9, the employer determines that the Form I-9 relates to the individual and that the individual is still eligible to work, that previously executed Form I-9 is sufficient for purposes of section 274A(b) of the Act if the individual is hired within three years of the date of the initial execution of the Form I-9 and the employer updates the Form I-9 to reflect the date of rehire; or
(ii) If upon inspection of the Form I-9, the employer determines that the individual's employment authorization has expired, the employer must reverify such employment authorization on the Form I-9 in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section, including complying with the applicable document presentation and examination procedures in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A) and (b)(1)(ix) of this section, and form instructions; otherwise the individual may no longer be employed.
(2) For purposes of retention of the Form I-9 by an employer for a previously employed individual hired pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the employer shall retain the Form I-9 for a period of three years commencing from the date of the initial execution of the Form I-9 or one year after the individual's employment is terminated, whichever is later.
(d)
Employment verification requirements in the case of recruiting or referring
for a fee an individual who was previously recruited or referred.
(1) When a recruiter or referrer for a fee refers an individual for whom that recruiter or referrer for a fee has previously completed a Form I-9 and complied with the verification requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section with regard to the individual, the recruiter or referrer may (in lieu of completing a new Form I-9) inspect the previously completed Form I-9 and:
(i) If upon inspection of the Form I-9, the recruiter or referrer for a fee determines that the Form I-9 relates to the individual and that the individual is still eligible to work, that previously executed Form I-9 is sufficient for purposes of section 274A(b) of the Act if the individual is referred within three years of the date of the initial execution of the Form I-9 and the recruiter or referrer for a fee updates the Form I-9 to reflect the date of rehire; or
(ii) If upon inspection of the Form I-9, the recruiter or referrer determines that the individual's employment authorization has expired, the recruiter or referrer for a fee must reverify on the Form I-9 in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section; otherwise the individual may no longer be recruited or referred.
(2) For purposes of retention of the Form I-9 by a recruiter or referrer for a previously recruited or referred individual pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the recruiter or referrer shall retain the Form I-9 for a period of three years from the date of the rehire.
(e)
Standards for electronic retention of Form I-9.
(1) Any person or entity who is required by this section to complete and retain Forms I-9 may complete or retain electronically only those pages of the Form I-9 on which employers and employees enter data in an electronic generation or storage system that includes:
(i) Reasonable controls to ensure the integrity, accuracy and reliability of the electronic generation or storage system;
(ii) Reasonable controls designed to prevent and detect the unauthorized or accidental creation of, addition to, alteration of, deletion of, or deterioration of an electronically completed or stored Form I-9, including the electronic signature if used;
(iii) An inspection and quality assurance program evidenced by regular evaluations of the electronic generation or storage system, including periodic checks of the electronically stored Form I-9, including the electronic signature if used;
(iv) In the case of electronically retained Forms I-9, a retrieval system that includes an indexing system that permits searches consistent with the requirements of paragraph (e)(6) of this section; and
(v) The ability to reproduce legible and readable hardcopies.
(2) All documents reproduced by the electronic retention system must exhibit a high degree of legibility and readability when displayed on a video display terminal or when printed on paper, microfilm, or microfiche. The term “legibility” means the observer must be able to identify all letters and numerals positively and quickly, to the exclusion of all other letters or numerals. The term “readability” means that the observer must be able to recognize any group of letters or numerals that form words or numbers as those words or complete numbers. The employer, or recruiter or referrer for a fee, must ensure that the reproduction process maintains the legibility and readability of the electronically stored document.
(3) An electronic generation or storage system must not be subject, in whole or in part, to any agreement (such as a contract or license) that would limit or restrict access to and use of the electronic generation or storage system by an agency of the United States, on the premises of the employer, recruiter or referrer for a fee (or at any other place where the electronic generation or storage system is maintained), including personnel, hardware, software, files, indexes, and software documentation.
(4) A person or entity who chooses to complete or retain Forms I-9 electronically may use one or more electronic generation or storage systems. Each electronic generation or storage system must meet the requirements of this paragraph, and remain available as long as required by the Act and these
regulations. Employers may implement new electronic storage systems provided:
(i) All systems meet the requirements of paragraphs (e), (f), (g), (h) and (i) of this section; and
(ii) Existing Forms I-9 are retained in a system that remains fully accessible.
(5) For each electronic generation or storage system used, the person or entity retaining the Form I-9 must maintain, and make available upon request, complete descriptions of:
(i) The electronic generation and storage system, including all procedures relating to its use; and
(ii) The indexing system.
(6) An “indexing system” for the purposes of paragraphs (e)(1)(iv) and (e)(5) of this section is a system that permits the identification and retrieval for viewing or reproducing of relevant documents and records maintained in an electronic storage system. For example, an indexing system might consist of assigning each electronically stored document a unique identification number and maintaining a separate database that contains descriptions of all electronically stored books and records along with their identification numbers. In addition, any system used to maintain, organize, or coordinate multiple electronic storage systems is treated as an indexing system. The requirement to maintain an indexing system will be satisfied if the indexing system is functionally comparable to a reasonable hardcopy filing system. The requirement to maintain an indexing system does not require that a separate electronically stored documents and records description database be maintained if comparable results can be achieved without a separate description database.
(7) Any person or entity choosing to retain completed Forms I-9 electronically may use reasonable data compression or formatting technologies as part of the electronic storage system as long as the requirements of 8 CFR 274a.2 are satisfied.
(8) At the time of an inspection, the person or entity required to retain completed Forms I-9 must:
(i) Retrieve and reproduce (including printing copies on paper, if requested) only the Forms I-9 electronically retained in the electronic storage system and supporting documentation specifically requested by an agency of the United States, along with associated audit trails. Generally, an audit trail is a record showing who has accessed a computer system and the actions performed within or on the computer system during a given period of time;
(ii) Provide a requesting agency of the United States with the resources (e.g., appropriate hardware and software, personnel and documentation) necessary to locate, retrieve, read, and reproduce (including paper copies) any electronically stored Forms I-9, any supporting documents, and their associated audit trails, reports, and other data used to maintain the authenticity, integrity, and reliability of the records; and
(iii) Provide, if requested, any reasonably available or obtainable electronic summary file(s), such as a spreadsheet, containing all of the information fields on all of the electronically stored Forms I-9 requested by a requesting agency of the United States.
(f)
Documentation.
(1) A person or entity who chooses to complete and/or retain Forms I-9 electronically must maintain and make available to an agency of the United States upon request documentation of the business processes that:
(i) Create the retained Forms I-9;
(ii) Modify and maintain the retained Forms I-9; and
(iii) Establish the authenticity and integrity of the Forms I-9, such as audit trails.
(2) Insufficient or incomplete documentation is a violation of section 274A(a)(1)(B) of the Act.
(3) Any officer listed in 8 CFR 287.4 may issue a subpoena to compel production of any documentation required by 8 CFR 274a.2. Nothing in this section is intended to limit the subpoena power of an agency of the United States under section 235(d)(4) of the Act.
(g)
Security.
(1) Any person or entity who elects to complete or retain Forms I-9 electronically must implement an effective records security program that:
(i) Ensures that only authorized personnel have access to electronic records;
(ii) Provides for backup and recovery of records to protect against information loss, such as power interruptions;
(iii) Ensures that employees are trained to minimize the risk of unauthorized or accidental alteration or erasure of electronic records; and
(iv) Ensure that whenever the electronic record is created, completed, updated, modified, altered, or corrected, a secure and permanent record is created that establishes the date of access, the identity of the individual who accessed the electronic record, and the particular action taken.
(2) An action or inaction resulting in the unauthorized alteration, loss, or erasure of electronic records, if it is known, or reasonably should be known, to be likely to have that effect, is a violation of section 274A(b)(3) of the Act.
(h)
Electronic signatures for employee.
(1) If a Form I-9 is completed electronically, the attestations in Form I-9 must be completed using a system for capturing an electronic signature that meets the standards set forth in this paragraph. The system used to capture the electronic signature must include a method to acknowledge that the attestation to be signed has been read by the signatory. The electronic signature must be attached to, or logically associated with, an electronically completed Form I-9. In addition, the system must:
(i) Affix the electronic signature at the time of the transaction;
(ii) Create and preserve a record verifying the identity of the person producing the signature; and
(iii) Upon request of the employee, provide a printed confirmation of the transaction to the person providing the signature.
(2) Any person or entity who is required to ensure proper completion of a Form I-9 and who chooses electronic signature for a required attestation, but who has failed to comply with the standards set forth in this paragraph, is deemed to have not properly completed the Form I-9, in violation of section 274A(a)(1)(B) of the Act and 8 CFR 274a.2(b)(2).
(i)
Electronic signatures for employer, recruiter or referrer, or representative.
If a Form I-9 is completed electronically, the employer, the recruiter or referrer for a fee, or the representative of the employer or the recruiter or referrer, must attest to the required information in Form I-9. The system used to capture the electronic signature should include a method to acknowledge that the attestation to be signed has been read by the signatory. Any person or entity who has failed to comply with the criteria established by this regulation for electronic signatures, if used, and at the time of inspection does not present a properly completed Form I-9 for the employee, is in violation of section 274A(a)(1)(B) of the Act and 8 CFR 274a.2(b)(2).
[52 FR 16221, May 1, 1987]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 274a.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274a.2, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 101267, Dec. 13, 2024, § 274a.2 was amended by revising the third sentence of paragraph (b)(1)(vii), effective Jan. 13, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 274a.2
Verification of identity and employment authorization
(b) * * *
(1) * * *
(vii) * * * If an Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766) as described in 8 CFR 274a.13(d) was presented for completion of the Form I-9 in combination with a Notice of Action (Form I-797C), stating that the original Employment Authorization Document has been automatically extended, reverification applies upon the expiration of the automatically extended validity period under 8 CFR 274a.13(d) and not upon the expiration date indicated on the face of the individual's Employment Authorization Document. * * *
§ 274a.3
Continuing employment of unauthorized aliens.
An employer who continues the employment of an employee hired after
November 6, 1986, knowing that the employee is or has become an unauthorized alien with respect to that employment, is in violation of section 274A(a)(2) of the Act.
[52 FR 16221, May 1, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 8613, Mar. 16, 1988]
§ 274a.4
Good faith defense.
An employer or a recruiter or referrer for a fee for employment who shows good faith compliance with the employment verification requirements of § 274a.2(b) of this part shall have established a rebuttable affirmative defense that the person or entity has not violated section 274A(a)(1)(A) of the Act with respect to such hiring, recruiting, or referral.
§ 274a.5
Use of labor through contract.
Any person or entity who uses a contract, subcontract, or exchange entered into, renegotiated, or extended after November 6, 1986 (or, with respect to the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, after the transition program effective date as defined in 8 CFR 1.1), to obtain the labor or services of an alien in the United States knowing that the alien is an unauthorized alien with respect to performing such labor or services, shall be considered to have hired the alien for employment in the United States in violation of section 274A(a)(1)(A) of the Act.
[74 FR 55739, Oct. 28, 2009]
§ 274a.6
State employment agencies.
(a)
General.
Pursuant to sections 274A(a)(5) and 274A(b) of the Act, a state employment agency as defined in § 274a.1 of this part may, but is not required to, verify identity and employment eligibility of individuals referred for employment by the agency. However, should a state employment agency choose to do so, it must:
(1) Complete the verification process in accordance with the requirements of § 274a.2(b) of this part
provided
that the individual may not present receipts in lieu of documents in order to complete the verification process as otherwise permitted by § 274a.2(b)(1)(vi) of this part; and
(2) Complete the verification process prior to referral for all individuals for whom a certification is required to be issued pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Compliance with the provisions of section 274A of the Act.
A state employment agency which chooses to verify employment eligibility of individuals pursuant to § 274a.2(b) of this part shall comply with all provisions of section 274A of the Act and the regulations issued thereunder.
(c)
State employment agency certification.
(1) A state employment agency which chooses to verify employment eligibility pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall issue to an employer who hires an individual referred for employment by the agency, a certification as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. The certification shall be transmitted by the state employment agency directly to the employer, personally by an agency official, or by mail, so that it will be received by the employer within 21 business days of the date that the referred individual is hired. In no case shall the certification be transmitted to the employer from the state employment agency by the individual referred. During this period:
(i) The job order or other appropriate referral form issued by the state employment agency to the employer, on behalf of the individual who is referred and hired, shall serve as evidence, with respect to that individual, of the employer's compliance with the provisions of section 274A(a)(1)(B) of the Act and the regulations issued thereunder.
(ii) In the case of a telephonically authorized job referral by the state employment agency to the employer, an appropriate annotation by the employer shall be made and shall serve as evidence of the job order. The employer should retain the document containing the annotation where the employer retains Forms I-9.
(2) Job orders or other referrals, including telephonic authorizations, which are used as evidence of compliance pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section shall contain:
(i) The name of the referred individual;
(ii) The date of the referral;
(iii) The job order number or other applicable identifying number relating to the referral;
(iv) The name and title of the referring state employment agency official; and
(v) The telephone number and address of the state employment agency.
(3) A state employment agency shall not be required to verify employment eligibility or to issue a certification to an employer to whom the agency referred an individual if the individual is hired for a period of employment not to exceed 3 days in duration. Should a state agency choose to verify employment eligibility and to issue a certification to an employer relating to an individual who is hired for a period of employment not to exceed 3 days in duration, it must verify employment eligibility and issue certifications relating to
all
such individuals. Should a state employment agency choose not to verify employment eligibility or issue certifications to employers who hire, for a period not to exceed 3 days in duration, agency-referred individuals, the agency shall notify employers that, as a matter of policy, it does not perform verifications for individuals hired for that length of time, and that the employers must complete the identity and employment eligibility requirements pursuant to § 274a.2(b) of this part. Such notification may be incorporated into the job order or other referral form utilized by the state employment agency as appropriate.
(4) An employer to whom a state employment agency issues a certification relating to an individual referred by the agency and hired by the employer, shall be deemed to have complied with the verification requirements of § 274a.2(b) of this part provided that the employer:
(i) Reviews the identifying information contained in the certification to ensure that it pertains to the individual hired;
(ii) Observes the signing of the certification by the individual at the time of its receipt by the employer as provided for in paragraph (d)(13) of this section;
(iii) Complies with the provisions of § 274a.2(b)(1)(vii) of this part by either:
(A) Updating the state employment agency certification in lieu of Form I-9, upon expiration of the employment authorization date, if any, which was noted on the certification issued by the state employment agency pursuant to paragraph (d)(11) of this section; or
(B) By no longer employing an individual upon expiration of his or her employment authorization date noted on the certification;
(iv) Retains the certification in the same manner prescribed for Form I-9 in § 274a.2(b)(2) of this part, to wit, three years after the date of the hire or one year after the date the individual's employment is terminated, whichever is later; and
(v) Makes it available for inspection to officers of the Service or the Department of Labor, pursuant to the provisions of section 274A(b)(3) of the Act, and § 274a.2(b)(2) of this part.
(5) Failure by an employer to comply with the provisions of paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section shall constitute a violation of section 274A(a)(2) of the Act and shall subject the employer to the penalties contained in section 274A(e)(4) of the Act, and § 274a.10 of this part.
(d)
Standards for state employment agency certifications.
All certifications issued by a state employment agency pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section shall conform to the following standards. They must:
(1) Be issued on official agency letterhead;
(2) Be signed by an appropriately designated official of the agency;
(3) Bear a date of issuance;
(4) Contain the employer's name and address;
(5) State the name and date of birth of the individual referred;
(6) Identify the position or type of employment for which the individual is referred;
(7) Bear a job order number relating to the position or type of employment for which the individual is referred;
(8) Identify the document or documents presented by the individual to the state employment agency for the purposes of identity and employment eligibility verification;
(9) State the identifying number or numbers of the document or documents described in paragraph (d)(8) of this section;
(10) Certify that the agency has complied with the requirements of section
274A(b) of the Act concerning verification of the identity and employment eligibility of the individual referred, and has determined that, to the best of the agency's knowledge, the individual is authorized to work in the United States;
(11) Clearly state any restrictions, conditions, expiration dates or other limitations which relate to the individual's employment eligibility in the United States, or contain an affirmative statement that the employment authorization of the referred individual is not restricted;
(12) State that the employer is not required to verify the individual's identity or employment eligibility, but must retain the certification in lieu of Form I-9;
(13) Contain a space or a line for the signature of the referred individual, requiring the individual under penalty of perjury to sign his or her name before the employer at the time of receipt of the certification by the employer; and
(14) State that counterfeiting, falsification, unauthorized issuance or alteration of the certification constitutes a violation of federal law pursuant to title 18, U.S.C. 1546.
(e)
Retention of Form I-9 by state employment agencies.
A Form I-9 utilized by a state employment agency in verifying the identity and employment eligibility of an individual pursuant to § 274a.2(b) of this part must be retained by a state employment agency for a period of three years from the date that the individual was last referred by the agency and hired by an employer. A state employment agency may retain a Form I-9 either in its original form, or on microfilm or microfiche.
(f)
Retention of state employment agency certifications.
A certification issued by a state employment agency pursuant to this section shall be retained:
(1) By a state employment agency, for a period of three years from the date that the individual was last referred by the agency and hired by an employer, and in a manner to be determined by the agency which will enable the prompt retrieval of the information contained on the original certification for comparison with the relating Form I-9;
(2) By the employer, in the original form, and in the same manner and location as the employer has designated for retention of Forms I-9, and for the period of time provided in paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section.
(g)
State employment agency verification requirements in the case of an individual who was previously referred and certified.
When a state employment agency refers an individual for whom the verification requirements have been previously complied with and a Form I-9 completed, the agency shall inspect the previously completed Form I-9:
(1) If, upon inspection of the Form, the agency determines that the Form I-9 pertains to the individual and that the individual remains authorized to be employed in the United States, no additional verification need be conducted and no new Form I-9 need be completed prior to issuance of a new certification
provided
that the individual is referred by the agency within 3 years of the execution of the initial Form I-9.
(2) If, upon inspection of the Form, the agency determines that the Form I-9 pertains to the individual but that the individual does not appear to be authorized to be employed in the United States based on restrictions, expiration dates or other conditions annotated on the Form I-9, the agency shall not issue a certification unless the agency follows the updating procedures pursuant to § 274a.2(b)(1)(vii) of this part; otherwise the individual may no longer be referred for employment by the state employment agency.
(3) For the purposes of retention of the Form I-9 by a state employment agency pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, for an individual previously referred and certified, the state employment agency shall retain the Form for a period of 3 years from the date that the individual is last referred and hired.
(h)
Employer verification requirements in the case of an individual who was previously referred and certified.
When an employer rehires an individual for whom the verification and certification requirements have been previously complied with by a state employment agency, the employer shall inspect the previously issued certification.
(1) If, upon inspection of the certification, the employer determines that the certification pertains to the individual and that the individual remains authorized to be employed in the United States, no additional verification need be conducted and no new Form I-9 or certification need be completed
provided
that the individual is rehired by the employer within 3 years of the issuance of the initial certification, and that the employer follows the same procedures for the certification which pertain to Form I-9, as specified in § 274a.2(c)(1)(i) of this part.
(2) If, upon inspection of the certification, the employer determines that the certification pertains to the individual but that the certification reflects restrictions, expiration dates or other conditions which indicate that the individual no longer appears authorized to be employed in the United States, the employer shall verify that the individual remains authorized to be employed and shall follow the updating procedures for the certification which pertain to Form I-9, as specified in § 274a.2(c)(1)(ii) of this part; otherwise the individual may no longer be employed.
(3) For the purposes of retention of the certification by an employer pursuant to this paragraph for an individual previously referred and certified by a state employment agency and rehired by the employer, the employer shall retain the certification for a period of 3 years after the date that the individual is last hired, or one year after the date the individual's employment is terminated, whichever is later.
[52 FR 43053, Nov. 9, 1987]
§ 274a.7
Pre-enactment provisions for employees hired prior to November 7, 1986 or in the CNMI prior to the transition program effective date.
(a) For employees who are continuing in their employment and have a reasonable expectation of employment at all times (as set forth in 8 CFR 274a.2(b)(1)(viii)), except those individuals described in 8 CFR 274a.2(b)(1)(viii)(A)(
7
)(
iii
) and (b)(1)(viii)(A)(
8
):
(1) The penalty provisions set forth in section 274A(e) and (f) of the Act for violations of sections 274A(a)(1)(B) and 274A(a)(2) of the Act shall not apply to employees who were hired prior to November 7, 1986.
(2) The penalty provisions set forth in section 274A(e) and (f) of the Act for violations of section 274A(a)(1)(B) of the Act shall not apply to employees who were hired in the CNMI prior to the transition program effective date as defined in 8 CFR 1.1.
(b) For purposes of this section, an employee who was hired prior to November 7, 1986 (or if hired in the CNMI, prior to the transition program effective date) shall lose his or her pre-enactment status if the employee:
(1) Quits; or
(2) Is terminated by the employer; the term termination shall include, but is not limited to, situations in which an employee is subject to seasonal employment; or
(3) Is excluded or deported from the United States or departs the United States under a grant of voluntary departure; or
(4) Is no longer continuing his or her employment (or does not have a reasonable expectation of employment at all times) as set forth in § 274a.2(b)(1)(viii).
[52 FR 16221, May 1, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 8613, Mar. 16, 1988; 55 FR 25935, June 25, 1990; 56 FR 41786, Aug. 23, 1991; 74 FR 55740, Oct. 28, 2009]
§ 274a.8
Prohibition of indemnity bonds.
(a)
General.
It is unlawful for a person or other entity, in hiring or recruiting or referring for a fee for employment of an individual, to require the individual to post a bond or security, to pay or agree to pay an amount, or otherwise to provide a financial guarantee or indemnity, against any potential liability arising under this part relating to such hiring, recruiting, or referring of the individual. However, this prohibition does not apply to performance clauses which are stipulated by agreement between contracting parties.
(b)
Penalty.
Any person or other entity who requires any individual to post a bond or security as stated in this section shall, after notice and opportunity for an administrative hearing in accordance with section 274A(e)(3)(B) of the Act, be subject to a civil monetary
penalty of $1,000 for each violation before September 29, 1999, of $1,100 for each violation occurring on or after September 29, 1999, but on or before November 2, 2015, and of $2,789 for each violation occurring after November 2, 2015, and to an administrative order requiring the return to the individual of any amounts received in violation of this section or, if the individual cannot be located, to the general fund of the Treasury.
[52 FR 16221, May 1, 1987, as amended at 64 FR 47101, Aug. 30, 1999; 81 FR 43002, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 8580, Jan. 27, 2017; 83 FR 13835, Apr. 2, 2018; 84 FR 13508, Apr. 5, 2019; 85 FR 36478, June 17, 2020; 86 FR 57540, Oct. 18, 2021; 87 FR 1326, Jan. 11, 2022; 88 FR 2183, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 53859, June 28, 2024]
§ 274a.9
Enforcement procedures.
(a)
Procedures for the filing of complaints.
Any person or entity having knowledge of a violation or potential violation of section 274A of the Act may submit a signed, written complaint in person or by mail to the Service office having jurisdiction over the business or residence of the potential violator. The signed, written complaint must contain sufficient information to identify both the complainant and the potential violator, including their names and addresses. The complaint should also contain detailed factual allegations relating to the potential violation including the date, time and place of the alleged violation and the specific act or conduct alleged to constitute a violation of the Act. Written complaints may be delivered either by mail to the appropriate Service office or by personally appearing before any immigration officer at a Service office.
(b)
Investigation.
The Service may conduct investigations for violations on its own initiative and without having received a written complaint. When the Service receives a complaint from a third party, it shall investigate only those complaints that have a reasonable probability of validity. If it is determined after investigation that the person or entity has violated section 274A of the Act, the Service may issue and serve a Notice of Intent to Fine or a Warning Notice upon the alleged violator. Service officers shall have reasonable access to examine any relevant evidence of any person or entity being investigated.
(c)
Warning notice.
The Service and/or the Department of Labor may in their discretion issue a Warning Notice to a person or entity alleged to have violated section 274A of the Act. This Warning Notice will contain a statement of the basis for the violations and the statutory provisions alleged to have been violated.
(d)
Notice of Intent to Fine.
The proceeding to assess administrative penalties under section 274A of the Act is commenced when the Service issues a Notice of Intent to Fine on Form I-763. Service of this Notice shall be accomplished pursuant to part 103 of this chapter. The person or entity identified in the Notice of Intent to Fine shall be known as the respondent. The Notice of Intent to Fine may be issued by an officer defined in § 242.1 of this chapter with concurrence of a Service attorney.
(1)
Contents of the Notice of Intent to Fine.
(i) The Notice of Intent to Fine will contain the basis for the charge(s) against the respondent, the statutory provisions alleged to have been violated, and the penalty that will be imposed.
(ii) The Notice of Intent to Fine will provide the following advisals to the respondent:
(A) That the person or entity has the right to representation by counsel of his or her own choice at no expense to the government;
(B) That any statement given may be used against the person or entity;
(C) That the person or entity has the right to request a hearing before an Administrative Law Judge pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 554-557, and that such request must be made within 30 days from the service of the Notice of Intent to Fine;
(D) That the Service will issue a final order in 45 days if a written request for a hearing is not timely received and that there will be no appeal of the final order.
(2) [Reserved]
(e)
Request for Hearing Before an Administrative Law Judge.
If a respondent contests the issuance of a Notice of Intent to Fine, the respondent must file with the INS, within thirty days of the service of the Notice of Intent to Fine, a written request for a hearing before
an Administrative Law Judge. Any written request for a hearing submitted in a foreign language must be accompanied by an English language translation. A request for a hearing is not deemed to be filed until received by the Service office designated in the Notice of Intent to Fine. In computing the thirty day period prescribed by this section, the day of service of the Notice of Intent to Fine shall not be included. If the Notice of Intent to Fine was served by ordinary mail, five days shall be added to the prescribed thirty day period. In the request for a hearing, the respondent may, but is not required to, respond to each allegation listed in the Notice of Intent to Fine.
(f)
Failure to file a request for hearing.
If the respondent does not file a request for a hearing in writing within thirty days of the day of service of the Notice of Intent to Fine (thirty-five days if served by ordinary mail), the INS shall issue a final order from which there is no appeal.
[52 FR 16221, May 1, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 8613, Mar. 16, 1988; 55 FR 25935, June 25, 1990; 56 FR 41786, Aug. 23, 1991; 61 FR 52236, Oct. 7, 1996]
§ 274a.10
Penalties.
(a)
Criminal penalties.
Any person or entity which engages in a pattern or practice of violations of subsection (a)(1)(A) or (a)(2) of the Act shall be fined not more than $3,000 for each unauthorized alien, imprisoned for not more than six months for the entire pattern or practice, or both, notwithstanding the provisions of any other Federal law relating to fine levels.
(b)
Civil penalties.
A person or entity may face civil penalties for a violation of section 274A of the Act. Civil penalties may be imposed by the Service or an administrative law judge for violations under section 274A of the Act. In determining the level of the penalties that will be imposed, a finding of more than one violation in the course of a single proceeding or determination will be counted as a single offense. However, a single offense will include penalties for each unauthorized alien who is determined to have been knowingly hired or recruited or referred for a fee.
(1) A respondent found by the Service or an administrative law judge to have knowingly hired, or to have knowingly recruited or referred for a fee, an unauthorized alien for employment in the United States or to have knowingly continued to employ an unauthorized alien in the United States, shall be subject to the following order:
(i) To cease and desist from such behavior;
(ii) To pay a civil fine according to the following schedule:
(A) First offense—not less than $275 and not more than $2,200 for each unauthorized alien with respect to whom the offense occurred before March 27, 2008; not less than $375 and not exceeding $3,200, for each unauthorized alien with respect to whom the offense occurred occurring on or after March 27, 2008, and on or before November 2, 2015; and not less than $698 and not more than $5,579 for each unauthorized alien with respect to whom the offense occurred occurring after November 2, 2015;
(B) Second offense—not less than $2,200 and not more than $5,500 for each unauthorized alien with respect to whom the second offense occurred before March 27, 2008; not less than $3,200 and not more than $6,500, for each unauthorized alien with respect to whom the second offense occurred on or after March 27, 2008, and on or before November 2, 2015; and not less than $5,579 and not more than $13,946 for each unauthorized alien with respect to whom the second offense occurred after November 2, 2015; or
(C) More than two offenses—not less than $3,300 and not more than $11,000 for each unauthorized alien with respect to whom the third or subsequent offense occurred before March 27, 2008; not less than $4,300 and not exceeding $16,000, for each unauthorized alien with respect to whom the third or subsequent offense occurred on or after March 27, 2008, and on or before November 2, 2015; and not less than $8,369 and not more than $27,894 for each unauthorized alien with respect to whom the third or subsequent offense occurred after November 2, 2015; and
(iii) To comply with the requirements of section 274a.2(b) of this part,
and to take such other remedial action as is appropriate.
(2) A respondent determined by the Service (if a respondent fails to request a hearing) or by an administrative law judge, to have failed to comply with the employment verification requirements as set forth in § 274a.2(b), shall be subject to a civil penalty in an amount of not less than $100 and not more than $1,000 for each individual with respect to whom such violation occurred before September 29, 1999; not less than $110 and not more than $1,100 for each individual with respect to whom such violation occurred on or after September 29, 1999, and on or before November 2, 2015; and not less than $281 and not more than $2,789 for each individual with respect to whom such violation occurred after November 2, 2015. In determining the amount of the penalty, consideration shall be given to:
(i) The size of the business of the employer being charged;
(ii) The good faith of the employer;
(iii) The seriousness of the violation;
(iv) Whether or not the individual was an unauthorized alien; and
(v) The history of previous violations of the employer.
(3) Where an order is issued with respect to a respondent composed of distinct, physically separate subdivisions which do their own hiring, or their own recruiting or referring for a fee for employment (without reference to the practices of, and under the control of, or common control with another subdivision) the subdivision shall be considered a separate person or entity.
(c)
Enjoining pattern or practice violations.
If the Attorney General has reasonable cause to believe that a person or entity is engaged in a pattern or practice of employment, recruitment or referral in violation of section 274A(a)(1)(A) or (2) of the Act, the Attorney General may bring civil action in the appropriate United States District Court requesting relief, including a permanent or temporary injunction, restraining order, or other order against the person or entity, as the Attorney General deems necessary.
[52 FR 16221, May 1, 1987, as amended at 55 FR 25935, June 25, 1990; 56 FR 41786, Aug. 23, 1991; 64 FR 47101, Aug. 30, 1999; 73 FR 10136, Feb. 26, 2008; 81 FR 43002, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 8580, Jan. 27, 2017; 83 FR 13835, Apr. 2, 2018; 84 FR 13509, Apr. 5, 2019; 85 FR 36479, June 17, 2020; 86 FR 57540, Oct. 18, 2021; 87 FR 1326, Jan. 11, 2022; 88 FR 2183, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 53859, June 28, 2024]
§ 274a.11
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Employment Authorization
§ 274a.12
Classes of aliens authorized to accept employment.
(a)
Aliens authorized employment incident to status.
Pursuant to the statutory or regulatory reference cited, the following classes of aliens are authorized to be employed in the United States without restrictions as to location or type of employment as a condition of their admission or subsequent change to one of the indicated classes. Any alien who is within a class of aliens described in paragraphs (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)-(a)(8), (a)(10)-(a)(15), or (a)(20) of this section, and who seeks to be employed in the United States, must apply to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) for a document evidencing such employment authorization. USCIS may, in its discretion, determine the validity period assigned to any document issued evidencing an alien's authorization to work in the United States.
(1) An alien who is a lawful permanent resident (with or without conditions pursuant to section 216 of the Act), as evidenced by Form I-551 issued by the Service. An expiration date on the Form I-551 reflects only that the card must be renewed, not that the bearer's work authorization has expired;
(2) An alien admitted to the United States as a lawful temporary resident pursuant to sections 245A or 210 of the Act, as evidenced by an employment authorization document issued by the Service;
(3) An alien admitted to the United States as a refugee pursuant to section 207 of the Act for the period of time in
that status, as evidenced by an employment authorization document issued by the Service;
(4) An alien paroled into the United States as a refugee for the period of time in that status, as evidenced by an employment authorization document issued by the Service;
(5) An alien granted asylum under section 208 of the Act for the period of time in that status, as evidenced by an employment authorization document, issued by USCIS to the alien. An expiration date on the employment authorization document issued by USCIS reflects only that the document must be renewed, and not that the bearer's work authorization has expired. Evidence of employment authorization shall be granted in increments not exceeding 5 years for the period of time the alien remains in that status.
(6) An alien admitted to the United States as a nonimmigrant fiancé or fiancée pursuant to section 101(a)(15)(K)(i) of the Act, or an alien admitted as a child of such alien, for the period of admission in that status, as evidenced by an employment authorization document issued by the Service;
(7) An alien admitted as a parent (N-8) or dependent child (N-9) of an alien granted permanent residence under section 101(a)(27)(I) of the Act, as evidenced by an employment authorization document issued by the Service;
(8) An alien admitted to the United States as a nonimmigrant pursuant to the Compact of Free Association between the United States and of the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the Republic of Palau;
(9) Any alien admitted as a nonimmigrant spouse pursuant to section 101(a)(15)(K)(ii) of the Act, or an alien admitted as a child of such alien, for the period of admission in that status, as evidenced by an employment authorization document, with an expiration date issued by the Service;
(10) An alien granted withholding of deportation or removal for the period of time in that status, as evidenced by an employment authorization document issued by the Service;
(11) An alien whose enforced departure from the United States has been deferred in accordance with a directive from the President of the United States to the Secretary. Employment is authorized for the period of time and under the conditions established by the Secretary pursuant to the Presidential directive;
(12) An alien granted Temporary Protected Status under section 244 of the Act for the period of time in that status, as evidenced by an employment authorization document issued by the Service;
(13) An alien granted voluntary departure by the Attorney General under the Family Unity Program established by section 301 of the Immigration Act of 1990, as evidenced by an employment authorization document issued by the Service;
(14) An alien granted Family Unity benefits under section 1504 of the Legal Immigrant Family Equity (LIFE) Act Amendments, Public Law 106-554, and the provisions of 8 CFR part 245a, Subpart C of this chapter, as evidenced by an employment authorization document issued by the Service;
(15) Any alien in V nonimmigrant status as defined in section 101(a)(15)(V) of the Act and 8 CFR 214.15.
(16) Any alien in T-1 nonimmigrant status, pursuant to 8 CFR 214.11, for the period in that status, as evidenced by an employment authorization document issued by USCIS to the alien.
(17)-(18) [Reserved]
(19) Any alien in U-1 nonimmigrant status, pursuant to 8 CFR 214.14, for the period of time in that status, as evidenced by an employment authorization document issued by USCIS to the alien.
(20) Any alien in U-2, U-3, U-4, or U-5 nonimmigrant status, pursuant to 8 CFR 214.14, for the period of time in that status, as evidenced by an employment authorization document issued by USCIS to the alien.
(b)
Aliens authorized for employment with a specific employer incident to status or parole.
The following classes of aliens are authorized to be employed in the United States by the specific employer and subject to any restrictions
described in the section(s) of this chapter indicated as a condition of their parole or of their admission in, or subsequent change to, the designated nonimmigrant classification. An alien in one of these classes is not issued an employment authorization document by DHS:
(1) A foreign government official (A-1 or A-2), pursuant to § 214.2(a) of this chapter. An alien in this status may be employed only by the foreign government entity;
(2) An employee of a foreign government official (A-3), pursuant to § 214.2(a) of this chapter. An alien in this status may be employed only by the foreign government official;
(3) A foreign government official in transit (C-2 or C-3), pursuant to § 214.2(c) of this chapter. An alien in this status may be employed only by the foreign government entity;
(4) [Reserved]
(5) A nonimmigrant treaty trader (E-1) or treaty investor (E-2), pursuant to § 214.2(e) of this chapter. An alien in this status may be employed only by the treaty-qualifying company through which the alien attained the status. Employment authorization does not extend to the dependents of the principal treaty trader or treaty investor (also designated “E-1” or “E-2”), other than those specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section;
(6) A nonimmigrant (F-1) student who is in valid nonimmigrant student status and pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(f) is seeking:
(i) On-campus employment for not more than twenty hours per week when school is in session or full-time employment when school is not in session if the student intends and is eligible to register for the next term or session. Part-time on-campus employment is authorized by the school and no specific endorsement by a school official or Service officer is necessary;
(ii) [Reserved]
(iii) Curricular practical training (internships, cooperative training programs, or work-study programs which are part of an established curriculum) after having been enrolled full-time in a Service approved institution for one full academic year. Curricular practical training (part-time or full-time) is authorized by the Designated School Official on the student's Form I-20. No Service endorsement is necessary.
(iv) An Employment Authorization Document, Form I-766 or successor form, under paragraph (c)(3)(i)(C) of this section based on a STEM Optional Practical Training extension, and whose timely filed Form I-765 or successor form is pending and employment authorization and accompanying Form I-766 or successor form issued under paragraph (c)(3)(i)(B) of this section have expired. Employment is authorized beginning on the expiration date of the Form I-766 or successor form issued under paragraph (c)(3)(i)(B) of this section and ending on the date of USCIS' written decision on the current Form I-765 or successor form, but not to exceed 180 days. For this same period, such Form I-766 or successor form is automatically extended and is considered unexpired when combined with a Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant (F-1/M-1) Students, Form I-20 or successor form, endorsed by the Designated School Official recommending such an extension; or
(v) Pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h) is seeking H-1B nonimmigrant status and whose duration of status and employment authorization have been extended pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(f)(5)(vi).
(7) A representative of an international organization (G-1, G-2, G-3, or G-4), pursuant to § 214.2(g) of this chapter. An alien in this status may be employed only by the foreign government entity or the international organization;
(8) A personal employee of an official or representative of an international organization (G-5), pursuant to § 214.2(g) of this chapter. An alien in this status may be employed only by the official or representative of the international organization;
(9) A temporary worker or trainee (H-1, H-2A, H-2B, or H-3), under 8 CFR 214.2(h), or a nonimmigrant specialty occupation worker under section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b)(1) of the Act. An alien in this status may be employed only by the petitioner through whom the status was obtained. In the case of a professional H-2B athlete who is traded from one organization to another organization, employment authorization
for the player will automatically continue for a period of 30 days after acquisition by the new organization, within which time the new organization is expected to file a new petition for H-2B classification. If a new petition is not filed within 30 days, employment authorization will cease. If a new petition is filed within 30 days, the professional athlete's employment authorization will continue until the petition is adjudicated. If the new petition is denied, employment authorization will cease. In the case of a nonimmigrant with H-1B status, employment authorization will automatically continue upon the filing of a qualifying petition under 8 CFR 214.2(h)(2)(i)(H) until such petition is adjudicated, in accordance with section 214(n) of the Act and 8 CFR 214.2(h)(2)(i)(H).
(10) An information media representative (I), pursuant to § 214.2(i) of this chapter. An alien in this status may be employed only for the sponsoring foreign news agency or bureau. Employment authorization does not extend to the dependents of an information media representative (also designated “I”);
(11) An exchange visitor (J-1), pursuant to § 214.2(j) of this chapter and 22 CFR part 62. An alien in this status may be employed only by the exchange visitor program sponsor or appropriate designee and within the guidelines of the program approved by the Department of State as set forth in the Form DS-2019, Certificate of Eligibility, issued by the program sponsor;
(12) An intra-company transferee (L-1), pursuant to § 214.2(1) of this chapter. An alien in this status may be employed only by the petitioner through whom the status was obtained;
(13) An alien having extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics (O-1), and an accompanying alien (O-2), under 8 CFR 214.2(o). An alien in this status may be employed only by the petitioner through whom the status was obtained. In the case of a professional O-1 athlete who is traded from one organization to another organization, employment authorization for the player will automatically continue for a period of 30 days after the acquisition by the new organization, within which time the new organization is expected to file a new petition for O nonimmigrant classification. If a new petition is not filed within 30 days, employment authorization will cease. If a new petition is filed within 30 days, the professional athlete's employment authorization will continue until the petition is adjudicated. If the new petition is denied, employment authorization will cease.
(14) An athlete, artist, or entertainer (P-1, P-2, or P-3), under 8 CFR 214.2(p). An alien in this status may be employed only by the petitioner through whom the status was obtained. In the case of a professional P-1 athlete who is traded from one organization to another organization, employment authorization for the player will automatically continue for a period of 30 days after the acquisition by the new organization, within which time the new organization is expected to file a new petition for P-1 nonimmigrant classification. If a new petition is not filed within 30 days, employment authorization will cease. If a new petition is filed within 30 days, the professional athlete's employment authorization will continue until the petition is adjudicated. If the new petition is denied, employment authorization will cease.
(15) An international cultural exchange visitor (Q-1), according to § 214.2(q)(1) of this chapter. An alien may only be employed by the petitioner through whom the status was obtained;
(16) An alien having a religious occupation, pursuant to § 214.2(r) of this chapter. An alien in this status may be employed only by the religious organization through whom the status was obtained;
(17) Officers and personnel of the armed services of nations of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and representatives, officials, and staff employees of NATO (NATO-1, NATO-2, NATO-3, NATO-4, NATO-5 and NATO-6), pursuant to § 214.2(o) of this chapter. An alien in this status may be employed only by NATO;
(18) An attendant, servant or personal employee (NATO-7) of an alien admitted as a NATO-1, NATO-2, NATO-3, NATO-4, NATO-5, or NATO-6, pursuant to § 214.2(o) of this chapter.
An alien admitted under this classification may be employed only by the NATO alien through whom the status was obtained;
(19) A nonimmigrant pursuant to section 214(e) of the Act. An alien in this status must be engaged in business activities at a professional level in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 16 of the Agreement Between the United States of America, the United Mexican States, and Canada (USMCA);
(20) A nonimmigrant alien within the class of aliens described in paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(5), (b)(8), (b)(9), (b)(10), (b)(11), (b)(12), (b)(13), (b)(14), (b)(16), (b)(19), (b)(23) and (b)(25) of this section whose status has expired but on whose behalf an application for an extension of stay was timely filed pursuant to § 214.2 or § 214.6 of this chapter. These aliens are authorized to continue employment with the same employer for a period not to exceed 240 days beginning on the date of the expiration of the authorized period of stay. Such authorization shall be subject to any conditions and limitations noted on the initial authorization. However, if the district director or service center director adjudicates the application prior to the expiration of this 240 day period and denies the application for extension of stay, the employment authorization under this paragraph shall automatically terminate upon notification of the denial decision;
(21) A nonimmigrant alien within the class of aliens described in 8 CFR 214.2(h)(1)(ii)(C) who filed an application for an extension of stay pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2 during his or her period of admission. Such alien is authorized to be employed by a new employer that has filed an H-2A petition naming the alien as a beneficiary and requesting an extension of stay for the alien for a period not to exceed 120 days beginning from the “Received Date” on Form I-797 (Notice of Action) acknowledging receipt of the petition requesting an extension of stay, provided that the employer has enrolled in and is a participant in good standing in the E-Verify program, as determined by USCIS in its discretion. Such authorization will be subject to any conditions and limitations noted on the initial authorization, except as to the employer and place of employment. However, if the District Director or Service Center director adjudicates the application prior to the expiration of this 120-day period and denies the application for extension of stay, the employment authorization under this paragraph (b)(21) shall automatically terminate upon 15 days after the date of the denial decision. The employment authorization shall also terminate automatically if the employer fails to remain a participant in good standing in the E-Verify program, as determined by USCIS in its discretion;
(22) An alien in E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrant status pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(e)(23). An alien in this status may be employed only by the qualifying company through which the alien attained the status. An alien in E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrant status may be employed only in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands for a qualifying entity. An alien who attained E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrant status based upon a Foreign Retiree Investment Certificate or Certification is not employment-authorized. Employment authorization does not extend to the dependents of the principal investor (also designated E-2 CNMI Investor nonimmigrants) other than those specified in paragraph (c)(12) of this section;
(23)
A Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands transitional worker (CW-1) pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(w).
An alien in this status may be employed only in the CNMI during the transition period, and only by the petitioner through whom the status was obtained, or as otherwise authorized by 8 CFR 214.2(w).
(24) [Reserved]
(25) A nonimmigrant treaty alien in a specialty occupation (E-3) pursuant to section 101(a)(15)(E)(iii) of the Act; or
(26)-(30) [Reserved]
(31)(i) Pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(27) and notwithstanding 8 CFR 214.2(h)(2)(i)(D), an alien is authorized to be employed no earlier than the start date of employment indicated in the H-2B petition and no earlier than January 28, 2022, by a new employer that has filed an H-2B petition naming the alien as a beneficiary and requesting an extension of stay for the alien,
for a period not to exceed 60 days beginning on:
(A) The later of the “Received Date” on Form I-797 (Notice of Action) acknowledging receipt of the petition, or the start date of employment indicated on the new H-2B petition, for petitions filed on or after January 28, 2022; or
(B) The later of January 28, 2022 or the start date of employment indicated on the new H-2B petition, for petitions that are pending as of January 28, 2022
(ii) If USCIS adjudicates the new petition prior to the expiration of the 60-day period in paragraph (b)(31)(i) of this section and denies the new petition for extension of stay, or if the petitioner withdraws the new petition before the expiration of the 60-day period, the employment authorization under this paragraph (b)(31) will automatically terminate upon 15 days after the date of the denial decision or the date on which the new petition is withdrawn. Nothing in this section is intended to alter the availability of employment authorization related to professional H-2B athletes who are traded between organizations pursuant to paragraph (b)(9) of this section and 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(vii).
(iii) Authorization to initiate employment changes pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(27) and paragraph (b)(31)(i) of this section begins at 12 a.m. on January 28, 2022, and ends at the end of July 27, 2022.
(32)(i) Pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(28) and notwithstanding 8 CFR 214.2(h)(2)(i)(D), an alien is authorized to be employed no earlier than the start date of employment indicated in the H-2B petition and no earlier than July 28, 2022, by a new employer that has filed an H-2B petition naming the alien as a beneficiary and requesting an extension of stay for the alien, for a period not to exceed 60 days beginning on:
(A) The later of the “Received Date” on Form I-797 (Notice of Action) acknowledging receipt of the petition, or the start date of employment indicated on the new H-2B petition, for petitions filed on or after July 28, 2022; or
(B) The later of July 28, 2022 or the start date of employment indicated on the new H-2B petition, for petitions that are pending as of July 28, 2022.
(ii) If USCIS adjudicates the new petition prior to the expiration of the 60-day period in paragraph (b)(32)(i) of this section and denies the new petition for extension of stay, or if the petitioner withdraws the new petition before the expiration of the 60-day period, the employment authorization under this paragraph (b)(32) will automatically terminate upon 15 days after the date of the denial decision or the date on which the new petition is withdrawn. Nothing in this section is intended to alter the availability of employment authorization related to professional H-2B athletes who are traded between organizations pursuant to paragraph (b)(9) of this section and 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(vii).
(iii) Authorization to initiate employment changes pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(28) and paragraph (b)(32)(i) of this section begins at 12 a.m. on July 28, 2022, and ends at the end of January 24, 2023.
(33) (i) Pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(29) and notwithstanding 8 CFR 214.2(h)(2)(i)(D), an alien is authorized to be employed no earlier than the start date of employment indicated in the H-2B petition and no earlier than January 25, 2023, by a new employer that has filed an H-2B petition naming the alien as a beneficiary and requesting an extension of stay for the alien, for a period not to exceed 60 days beginning on:
(A) The later of the “Received Date” on Form I-797 (Notice of Action) acknowledging receipt of the petition, or the start date of employment indicated on the new H-2B petition, for petitions filed on or after January 25, 2023; or
(B) The later of January 25, 2023 or the start date of employment indicated on the new H-2B petition, for petitions that are pending as of January 25, 2023.
(ii) If USCIS adjudicates the new petition prior to the expiration of the 60-day period in paragraph (b)(33)(i) of this section and denies the new petition for extension of stay, or if the petitioner withdraws the new petition before the expiration of the 60-day period, the employment authorization under this paragraph (b)(33) will automatically terminate upon 15 days after the date of the denial decision or the date
on which the new petition is withdrawn. Nothing in this section is intended to alter the availability of employment authorization related to professional H-2B athletes who are traded between organizations pursuant to paragraph (b)(9) of this section and 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(vii).
(iii) Authorization to initiate employment changes pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(29) and paragraph (b)(33)(i) of this section begins at 12 a.m. on January 25, 2023, and ends at the end of January 24, 2024.
(34)(i) Pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(31) and notwithstanding 8 CFR 214.2(h)(2)(i)(D), an alien is authorized to be employed no earlier than the start date of employment indicated in the H-2B petition and no earlier than January 25, 2024, by a new employer that has filed an H-2B petition naming the alien as a beneficiary and requesting an extension of stay for the alien, for a period not to exceed 60 days beginning on:
(A) The later of the “Received Date” on Form I-797 (Notice of Action) acknowledging receipt of the petition, or the start date of employment indicated on the new H-2B petition, for petitions filed on or after January 25, 2024; or
(B) The later of January 25, 2024, or the start date of employment indicated on the new H-2B petition, for petitions that are pending as of January 25, 2024.
(ii) If USCIS adjudicates the new petition prior to the expiration of the 60-day period in paragraph (b)(34)(i) of this section and denies the new petition for extension of stay, or if the petitioner withdraws the new petition before the expiration of the 60-day period, the employment authorization under this paragraph (b)(34) will automatically terminate upon 15 days after the date of the denial decision or the date on which the new petition is withdrawn. Nothing in this section is intended to alter the availability of employment authorization related to professional H-2B athletes who are traded between organizations pursuant to paragraph (b)(9) of this section and 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(vii).
(iii) Authorization to initiate employment changes pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(31) and paragraph (b)(34)(i) of this section begins at 12 a.m. on January 25, 2024, and ends at the end of January 24, 2025.
(35)(i) Pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(32) and notwithstanding 8 CFR 214.2(h)(2)(i)(D), an alien is authorized to be employed no earlier than the start date of employment indicated in the H-2B petition and no earlier than January 25, 2025, by a new employer that has filed an H-2B petition naming the alien as a beneficiary and requesting an extension of stay for the alien, for a period not to exceed 60 days beginning on:
(A) The later of the “Received Date” on Form I-797 (Notice of Action) acknowledging receipt of the petition, or the start date of employment indicated on the new H-2B petition, for petitions filed on or after January 25, 2025; or
(B) The later of January 25, 2025, or the start date of employment indicated on the new H-2B petition, for petitions that are pending as of January 25, 2025.
(ii) If USCIS adjudicates the new petition prior to the expiration of the 60-day period in paragraph (b)(35)(i) of this section and denies the new petition for extension of stay, or if the petitioner withdraws the new petition before the expiration of the 60-day period, the employment authorization under this paragraph (b)(35) will automatically terminate upon 15 days after the date of the denial decision or the date on which the new petition is withdrawn. Nothing in this section is intended to alter the availability of employment authorization related to professional H-2B athletes who are traded between organizations pursuant to paragraph (b)(9) of this section and 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(vii).
(iii) Authorization to initiate employment changes pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(32) and paragraph (b)(35)(i) of this section begins at 12 a.m. on January 25, 2025, and ends at the end of January 24, 2026.
(36) [Reserved]
(37) An alien paroled into the United States as an entrepreneur pursuant to 8 CFR 212.19 for the period of authorized parole. An entrepreneur who has timely filed a non-frivolous application requesting re-parole with respect to the same start-up entity in accordance
with 8 CFR 212.19 prior to the expiration of his or her parole, but whose authorized parole period expires during the pendency of such application, is authorized to continue employment with the same start-up entity for a period not to exceed 240 days beginning on the date of expiration of parole. Such authorization shall be subject to any conditions and limitations on such expired parole. If DHS adjudicates the application prior to the expiration of this 240-day period and denies the application for re-parole, the employment authorization under this paragraph shall automatically terminate upon notification to the alien of the denial decision.
(c)
Aliens who must apply for employment authorization.
An alien within a class of aliens described in this section must apply for work authorization. If authorized, such an alien may accept employment subject to any restrictions stated in the regulations or cited on the employment authorization document. USCIS, in its discretion, may establish a specific validity period for an employment authorization document, which may include any period when an administrative appeal or judicial review of an application or petition is pending.
(1) An alien spouse or unmarried dependent child; son or daughter of a foreign government official (A-1 or A-2) pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(a)(2) and who presents an endorsement from an authorized representative of the Department of State;
(2) An alien spouse or unmarried dependent son or daughter of an alien employee of the Coordination Council for North American Affairs (E-1) pursuant to § 214.2(e) of this chapter;
(3) A nonimmigrant (F-1) student who:
(i)(A) Is seeking pre-completion practical training pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(f)(10)(ii)(A)(
1
) and (
2
);
(B) Is seeking authorization to engage in up to 12 months of post-completion Optional Practical Training (OPT) pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(f)(10)(ii)(A)(
3
); or
(C) Is seeking a 24-month OPT extension pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(f)(10)(ii)(C);
(ii) Has been offered employment under the sponsorship of an international organization within the meaning of the International Organization Immunities Act (59 Stat. 669) and who presents a written certification from the international organization that the proposed employment is within the scope of the organization's sponsorship. The F-1 student must also present a Form I-20 ID or SEVIS Form I-20 with employment page completed by DSO certifying eligibility for employment; or
(iii) Is seeking employment because of severe economic hardship pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(f)(9)(ii)(C) and has filed the Form I-20 ID and Form I-538 (for non-SEVIS schools), or SEVIS Form I-20 with employment page completed by the DSO certifying eligibility, and any other supporting materials such as affidavits which further detail the unforeseen economic circumstances that require the student to seek employment authorization.
(4) An alien spouse or unmarried dependent child; son or daughter of a foreign government official (G-1, G-3 or G-4) pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(g) and who presents an endorsement from an authorized representative of the Department of State;
(5) An alien spouse or minor child of an exchange visitor (J-2) pursuant to § 214.2(j) of this chapter;
(6) A nonimmigrant (M-1) student seeking employment for practical training pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(m) following completion of studies. The alien may be employed only in an occupation or vocation directly related to his or her course of study as recommended by the endorsement of the designated school official on the I-20 ID;
(7) A dependent of an alien classified as NATO-1 through NATO-7 pursuant to § 214.2(n) of this chapter;
(8) An alien who has filed a complete application for asylum or withholding of deportation or removal pursuant to 8 CFR part 208, whose application:
(i) Has not been decided, and who is eligible to apply for employment authorization under § 208.7 of this chapter because the 150-day period set forth in that section has expired. Employment authorization may be granted according to the provisions of § 208.7 of this chapter in increments to be determined
by the Commissioner and shall expire on a specified date; or
(ii) Has been recommended for approval, but who has not yet received a grant of asylum or withholding or deportation or removal;
(9) An alien who has filed an application for adjustment of status to lawful permanent resident pursuant to part 245 of this chapter. For purposes of section 245(c)(8) of the Act, an alien will not be deemed to be an “unauthorized alien” as defined in section 274A(h)(3) of the Act while his or her properly filed Form I-485 application is pending final adjudication, if the alien has otherwise obtained permission from the Service pursuant to 8 CFR 274a.12 to engage in employment, or if the alien had been granted employment authorization prior to the filing of the adjustment application and such authorization does not expire during the pendency of the adjustment application. Upon meeting these conditions, the adjustment applicant need not file an application for employment authorization to continue employment during the period described in the preceding sentence;
(10) An alien who has filed an application for suspension of deportation under section 244 of the Act (as it existed prior to April 1, 1997), cancellation of removal pursuant to section 240A of the Act, or special rule cancellation of removal under section 309(f)(1) of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, enacted as Pub. L. 104-208 (110 Stat. 3009-625) (as amended by the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act (NACARA)), title II of Pub. L. 105-100 (111 Stat. 2160, 2193) and whose properly filed application has been accepted by the Service or EOIR.
(11) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(37) and (c)(34) of this section and § 212.19(h)(4) of this chapter, an alien paroled into the United States temporarily for urgent humanitarian reasons or significant public benefit pursuant to section 212(d)(5) of the Act.
(12) An alien spouse of a long-term investor in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (E-2 CNMI Investor) other than an E-2 CNMI investor who obtained such status based upon a Foreign Retiree Investment Certificate, pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(e)(23). An alien spouse of an E-2 CNMI Investor is eligible for employment in the CNMI only;
(13) [Reserved]
(14) Except as provided for in paragraph (c)(33) of this section, an alien who has been granted deferred action, an act of administrative convenience to the government that gives some cases lower priority, if the alien establishes an economic necessity for employment.
(15) [Reserved]
(16) Any alien who has filed an application for creation of record of lawful admission for permanent residence pursuant to part 249 of this chapter.
(17) A nonimmigrant visitor for business (B-1) who:
(i) Is a personal or domestic servant who is accompanying or following to join an employer who seeks admission into, or is already in, the United States as a nonimmigrant defined under sections 101(a)(15) (B), (E), (F), (H), (I), (J), (L) or section 214(e) of the Act. The personal or domestic servant shall have a residence abroad which he or she has no intention of abandoning and shall demonstrate at least one year's experience as a personal or domestic servant. The nonimmigrant's employer shall demonstrate that the employer/employee relationship has existed for at least one year prior to the employer's admission to the United States; or, if the employer/employee relationship existed for less than one year, that the employer has regularly employed (either year-round or seasonally) personal or domestic servants over a period of several years preceding the employer's admission to the United States;
(ii) Is a domestic servant of a United States citizen accompanying or following to join his or her United States citizen employer who has a permanent home or is stationed in a foreign country, and who is visiting temporarily in the United States. The employer/employee relationship shall have existed prior to the commencement of the employer's visit to the United States; or
(iii) Is an employee of a foreign airline engaged in international transportation of passengers freight, whose position with the foreign airline would
otherwise entitle the employee to classification under section 101(a)(15)(E)(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, and who is precluded from such classification solely because the employee is not a national of the country of the airline's nationality or because there is no treaty of commerce and navigation in effect between the United States and the country of the airline's nationality.
(18) An alien against whom a final order of deportation or removal exists and who is released on an order of supervision under the authority contained in section 241(a)(3) of the Act may be granted employment authorization in the discretion of the district director only if the alien cannot be removed due to the refusal of all countries designated by the alien or under section 241 of the Act to receive the alien, or because the removal of the alien is otherwise impracticable or contrary to the public interest. Additional factors which may be considered by the district director in adjudicating the application for employment authorization include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) The existence of economic necessity to be employed;
(ii) The existence of a dependent spouse and/or children in the United States who rely on the alien for support; and
(iii) The anticipated length of time before the alien can be removed from the United States.
(19) An alien applying for Temporary Protected Status pursuant to section 244 of the Act shall apply for employment authorization only in accordance with the procedures set forth in part 244 of this chapter.
(20) Any alien who has filed a completed legalization application pursuant to section 210 of the Act (and part 210 of this chapter).
(21) A principal nonimmigrant witness or informant in S classification, and qualified dependent family members.
(22) Any alien who has filed a completed legalization application pursuant to section 245A of the Act (and part 245a of this chapter). Employment authorization shall be granted in increments not exceeding 1 year during the period the application is pending (including any period when an administrative appeal is pending) and shall expire on a specified date.
(23) [Reserved]
(24) An alien who has filed an application for adjustment pursuant to section 1104 of the LIFE Act, Public Law 106-553, and the provisions of 8 CFR part 245a, Subpart B of this chapter.
(25) Any alien in T-2, T-3, T-4, T-5, or T-6 nonimmigrant status, pursuant to 8 CFR 214.11, for the period in that status, as evidenced by an employment authorization document issued by USCIS to the alien.
(26) An H-4 nonimmigrant spouse of an H-1B nonimmigrant described as eligible for employment authorization in 8 CFR 214.2(h)(9)(iv).
(27)-(32) [Reserved]
(33) An alien who has been granted deferred action pursuant to 8 CFR 236.21 through 236.23, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, if the alien establishes an economic necessity for employment.
(34) A spouse of an entrepreneur parolee described as eligible for employment authorization in § 212.19(h)(3) of this chapter.
(35) An alien who is the principal beneficiary of a valid immigrant petition under section 203(b)(1), 203(b)(2) or 203(b)(3) of the Act described as eligible for employment authorization in 8 CFR 204.5(p).
(36) A spouse or child of a principal beneficiary of a valid immigrant petition under section 203(b)(1), 203(b)(2) or 203(b)(3) of the Act described as eligible for employment authorization in 8 CFR 204.5(p).
(37)-(39) [Reserved]
(40) A noncitizen applicant for T nonimmigrant status, and eligible family members, who have pending, bona fide applications, and who merit a favorable exercise of discretion.
(d) An alien lawfully enlisted in one of the Armed Forces, or whose enlistment the Secretary with jurisdiction over such Armed Force has determined would be vital to the national interest under 10 U.S.C. 504(b)(2), is authorized to be employed by that Armed Force in military service, if such employment is not otherwise authorized under this section and the immigration laws. An
alien described in this section is not issued an employment authorization document.
(e)
Basic criteria to establish economic necessity.
Title 45—Public Welfare, Poverty Guidelines, 45 CFR 1060.2 should be used as the basic criteria to establish eligibility for employment authorization when the alien's economic necessity is identified as a factor. The alien shall submit an application for employment authorization listing his or her assets, income, and expenses as evidence of his or her economic need to work. Permission to work granted on the basis of the alien's application for employment authorization may be revoked under § 274a.14 of this chapter upon a showing that the information contained in the statement was not true and correct.
[52 FR 16221, May 1, 1987]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 274a.12, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274a.12, Nt.

# Effective Date Notes:
1. At 87 FR 4760, Jan. 28, 2022, § 274a.12 was amended by adding paragraph (b)(31), effective Jan. 28, 2022, through Jan. 28, 2025.
2. At 87 FR 30377, May 18, 2022, § 274a.12 was amended by adding paragraph (b)(32), effective May 18, 2022, through May 18, 2025.
3. At 87 FR 76876, Dec. 15, 2022, § 274a.12 was amended by adding paragraph (b)(33), effective Dec. 15, 2022, through Dec. 15, 2025.
4. At 88 FR 80458, Nov. 17, 2023, § 274a.12 was amended by adding paragraph (b)(34), effective Nov. 17, 2023, through Nov. 17, 2026.
5. At 89 FR 95683, Dec. 2, 2024, § 274a.12 was amended by adding paragraph (b)(35), effective Dec. 2, 2024, through Dec. 2, 2027.
6. At 89 FR 103334, Dec. 18, 2024, § 274a.12 was amended by revising paragraph (b)(21), effective Jan. 17, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 274a.12
Classes of aliens authorized to accept employment.
(b) * * *
(21) A nonimmigrant alien within the class of aliens described in 8 CFR 214.2(h)(1)(ii)(C) or 8 CFR 214.2(h)(1)(ii)(D) for whom a nonfrivolous petition requesting an extension of stay is properly filed pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2 and 8 CFR 103.2(a) requesting the same classification that the nonimmigrant alien currently holds. Pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(2)(i)(I), such alien is authorized to start new employment upon the proper filing of the nonfrivolous petition requesting an extension of stay in the same classification, or as of the requested start date, whichever is later. The employment authorization under this paragraph (b)(21) automatically ceases upon the adjudication or withdrawal of the H-2A or H-2B petition;
§ 274a.13
Application for employment authorization.
(a)
Application.
An alien requesting employment authorization or an Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766), or both, may be required to apply on a form designated by USCIS with any prescribed fee(s) in accordance with the form instructions. An alien may file such request concurrently with a related benefit request that, if granted, would form the basis for eligibility for employment authorization, only to the extent permitted by the form instructions or as announced by USCIS on its Web site.
(1) The approval of applications filed under 8 CFR 274a.12(c), except for 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(8), are within the discretion of USCIS. Where economic necessity has been identified as a factor, the alien must provide information regarding his or her assets, income, and expenses.
(2) An initial employment authorization request for asylum applicants under 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(8) must be filed on the form designated by USCIS in accordance with the form instructions. The applicant also must submit a copy of the underlying application for asylum or withholding of deportation, together with evidence that the application has been filed in accordance with 8 CFR 208.3 and 208.4. An application for an initial employment authorization or for a renewal of employment authorization filed in relation to a pending claim for asylum shall be adjudicated in accordance with 8 CFR 208.7. An application for renewal or replacement of employment authorization submitted in relation to a pending claim for asylum, as provided in 8 CFR 208.7, must be filed, with fee or application for waiver of such fee.
(b)
Approval of application.
If the application is granted, the alien shall be
notified of the decision and issued an employment authorization document valid for a specific period and subject to any terms and conditions as noted.
(c)
Denial of application.
If the application is denied, the applicant shall be notified in writing of the decision and the reasons for the denial. There shall be no appeal from the denial of the application.
(d)
Renewal application
—(1)
Automatic extension of Employment Authorization Documents.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or by law, notwithstanding 8 CFR 274a.14(a)(1)(i), the validity period of an expiring Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766) and, for aliens who are not employment authorized incident to status, also the attendant employment authorization, will be automatically extended for an additional period not to exceed 180 days from the date of such document's and such employment authorization's expiration if a request for renewal on a form designated by USCIS is:
(i) Properly filed as provided by form instructions before the expiration date shown on the face of the Employment Authorization Document, or during the filing period described in the applicable
Federal Register
notice regarding procedures for obtaining Temporary Protected Status-related EADs;
(ii) Based on the same employment authorization category as shown on the face of the expiring Employment Authorization Document or is for an individual approved for Temporary Protected Status whose EAD was issued pursuant to 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(19); and
(iii) Based on a class of aliens whose eligibility to apply for employment authorization continues notwithstanding expiration of the Employment Authorization Document and is based on an employment authorization category that does not require adjudication of an underlying application or petition before adjudication of the renewal application, including aliens described in 8 CFR 274a.12(a)(12) granted Temporary Protected Status and pending applicants for Temporary Protected Status who are issued an EAD under 8 CFR 274a.12(c)(19), as may be announced on the USCIS Web site.
(2)
Terms and conditions.
Any extension authorized under this paragraph (d) shall be subject to any conditions and limitations noted in the immediately preceding employment authorization.
(3)
Termination.
The period authorized by paragraph (d)(1) of this section will automatically terminate the earlier of up to 180 days after the expiration date of the Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766), or upon issuance of notification of a decision denying the renewal request. Nothing in paragraph (d) of this section will affect DHS's ability to otherwise terminate any employment authorization or Employment Authorization Document, or extension period for such employment or document, by written notice to the applicant, by notice to a class of aliens published in the
Federal Register,
or as provided by statute or regulation including 8 CFR 274a.14.
(4)
Unexpired Employment Authorization Documents.
An Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766) that has expired on its face is considered unexpired when combined with a Notice of Action (Form I-797C), which demonstrates that the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section have been met.
(5)
Temporary increase in the automatic extension period for renewal applications properly filed on or before October 26, 2023.
The authorized extension period stated in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, 8 CFR 274a.2(b)(1)(vii), and referred to in paragraphs (d)(3) and (4) of this section is increased to up to 540 days for all eligible classes of aliens as described in paragraph (d)(1) who properly filed their renewal application on or before October 26, 2023. Such automatic extension period will automatically terminate the earlier of up to 540 days after the expiration date of the Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766, or successor form) or upon issuance of notification of a denial on the renewal request, even if such date is after October 26, 2023. Aliens whose automatic extension under paragraph (d)(1) expired before May 4, 2022, will receive an automatic resumption of employment authorization and the validity of their Employment Authorization Document, as applicable, for an
additional period beginning from May 4, 2022, and up to 540 days from the expiration of their employment authorization and/or Employment Authorization Document as shown on the face of such document. An Employment Authorization Document that has expired on its face is considered unexpired when combined with a Notice of Action (Form I-797C), which demonstrates that the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section and this paragraph (d)(5) have been met, notwithstanding any notations on such notice indicating an automatic extension of up to 180 days. Nothing in this paragraph (d)(5) will affect DHS's ability to otherwise terminate any employment authorization or Employment Authorization Document, or extension period for such employment authorization or document, by written notice to the applicant, by notice to a class of aliens published in the
Federal Register,
or as provided by statute or regulation, including 8 CFR 274a.14.
(6)
Temporary increase in the automatic extension period for renewal applications properly filed on or after October 27, 2023.
The authorized extension period stated in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, 8 CFR 274a.2(b)(1)(vii), and referred to in paragraph (d)(3) and (4) of this section is increased to up to 540 days for all eligible classes of aliens as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section who properly filed their renewal application on or after October 27, 2023, and on or before September 30, 2025. Such automatic extension period will automatically terminate the earlier of up to 540 days after the expiration date of the Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766, or successor form) or upon issuance of notification of a denial on the renewal request, even if such date is after September 30, 2025. An Employment Authorization Document that has expired on its face is considered unexpired when combined with a Notice of Action (Form I-797C), which demonstrates that the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section and this paragraph (d)(6) have been met, notwithstanding any notations on such notice indicating an automatic extension of up to 180 days. Nothing in this paragraph (d)(6) will affect DHS's ability to otherwise terminate any employment authorization or Employment Authorization Document, or extension period for such employment authorization or document, by written notice to the applicant, by notice to a class of aliens published in the
Federal Register,
or as provided by statute or regulation, including 8 CFR 274a.14.
[52 FR 16221, May 1, 1987]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 274a.13, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 274a.13, Nt.

# Effective Date Notes:
1. At 87 FR 26651, May 4, 2022, § 274a.13 was amended by adding paragraph (d)(5), effective May 4, 2022, through Oct. 15, 2025.
2. At 89 FR 24676, Apr. 8, 2024, § 274a.13 was amended by revising the heading of paragraph (d)(5), effective Apr. 8, 2024, through Oct. 15, 2025.
3. At 89 FR 24676, Apr. 8, 2024, § 274a.13 was amended by adding paragraph (d)(6), effective Apr. 8, 2024, through Sept. 20, 2027.
4. At 89 FR 101267, Dec. 13, 2024, § 274a.13 was amended by revising paragraphs (d)(1) introductory text and (d)(1)(i); revising and republishing paragraph (d)(3); and removing paragraphs (d)(5) and (6), effective Jan. 13, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 274a.13
Application for employment authorization.
(d) * * *
(1)
Automatic extension of Employment Authorization Documents.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or by law, notwithstanding § 274a.14(a)(1)(i), the validity period of an expired or expiring Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766) and, for aliens who are not employment authorized incident to status, also the attendant employment authorization, will be automatically extended for an additional period not to exceed 540 days if the request for renewal meets all of the criteria listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section and was pending on May 4, 2022, or was properly filed on or after May 4, 2022. For renewal applications properly filed and adjudicated before May 4, 2022, the validity period of such an expired or expiring Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766) and, for aliens who were not employment authorized incident to status, also the attendant employment authorization, was automatically extended for an additional period not to exceed 180 days if the request for renewal met all of the criteria listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through
(iii) of this section. The first day of the automatic extension under this paragraph is the day after the expiration date shown on the face of the expired or expiring Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766). To be eligible for the automatic extension under this paragraph, the request must be:
(i) Properly filed on a form designated by USCIS and as provided by form instructions before the expiration date shown on the face of the Employment Authorization Document, or, for Temporary Protected Status-related Employment Authorization Documents (EADs), during the re-registration filing period described in the applicable
Federal Register
notice;
(3)
Termination.
For renewal requests pending on May 4, 2022, or properly filed on or after May 4, 2022, the period authorized by paragraph (d)(1) of this section automatically terminates the earlier of up to 540 days after the expiration date of the Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766), or upon issuance of notification of a decision denying the renewal request. For renewal applications that were properly filed and adjudicated before May 4, 2022, the period authorized by paragraph (d)(1) of this section automatically terminated upon the earlier of up to 180 days after the expiration date of the Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766) or issuance of notification of a decision denying the renewal request. Nothing in paragraph (d) of this section will affect DHS's ability to otherwise terminate any employment authorization or Employment Authorization Document, or extension period for such employment or document, by written notice to the applicant, by notice to a class of aliens published in the
Federal Register,
or as provided by statute or regulation including 8 CFR 274a.14.
§ 274a.14
Termination of employment authorization.
(a)
Automatic termination of employment authorization.
(1) Employment authorization granted under § 274a.12(c) of this chapter shall automatically terminate upon the occurrence of one of the following events:
(i) The expiration date specified by the Service on the employment authorization document is reached;
(ii) Exclusion or deportation proceedings are instituted (however, this shall not preclude the authorization of employment pursuant to § 274a.12(c) of this part where appropriate); or
(iii) The alien is granted voluntary departure.
(2) Termination of employment authorization pursuant to this paragraph does not require the service of a notice of intent to revoke; employment authorization terminates upon the occurrence of any event enumerated in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
However, automatic revocation under this section does not preclude reapplication for employment authorization under § 274.12(c) of this part.
(b)
Revocation of employment authorization
—(1)
Basis for revocation of employment authorization.
Employment authorization granted under § 274a.12(c) of this chapter may be revoked by the district director:
(i) Prior to the expiration date, when it appears that any condition upon which it was granted has not been met or no longer exists, or for good cause shown; or
(ii) Upon a showing that the information contained in the application is not true and correct.
(2)
Notice of intent to revoke employment authorization.
When a district director determines that employment authorization should be revoked prior to the expiration date specified by the Service, he or she shall serve written notice of intent to revoke the employment authorization. The notice will cite the reasons indicating that revocation is warranted. The alien will be granted a period of fifteen days from the date of service of the notice within which to submit countervailing evidence. The decision by the district director shall be final and no appeal shall lie from the decision to revoke the authorization.
(c)
Automatic termination of temporary employment authorization granted prior to June 1, 1987.
(1) Temporary employment authorization granted prior to June 1, 1987, pursuant to 8 CFR 274a.12(c) (§ 109.1(b) contained in the 8 CFR edition revised as of January 1, 1987), shall automatically terminate on the date specified by the Service on the document issued to the alien, or on December 31, 1996, whichever is earlier. Automatic termination of temporary employment authorization does not preclude a subsequent application for temporary employment authorization.
(2) A document issued by the Service prior to June 1, 1987, that authorized temporary employment authorization for any period beyond December 31, 1996, is null and void pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The alien shall be issued a new employment authorization document upon application to the Service if the alien is eligible for temporary employment authorization pursuant to 274A.12(c).
(3) No notice of intent to revoke is necessary for the automatic termination of temporary employment authorization pursuant to this part.
[52 FR 16221, May 1, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 8614, Mar. 16, 1988; 53 FR 20087, June 1, 1988; 61 FR 46537, Sept. 4, 1996; 85 FR 38628, June 26, 2020; 87 FR 57799, Sept. 22, 2022]
Pt. 280

# PART 280—IMPOSITION AND COLLECTION OF FINES
Sec.
280.1
Notice of intention to fine; administrative proceedings not exclusive.
280.2
Special provisions relating to aircraft.
280.3
Departure of vessel or aircraft prior to denial of clearance.
280.4
Data concerning cost of transportation.
280.5
Mitigation or remission of fines.
280.6
Bond to obtain clearance; form.
280.7
Approval of bonds or acceptance of cash deposit to obtain clearance.
280.11
Notice of intention to fine; procedure.
280.12
Answer and request or order for interview.
280.13
Disposition of case.
280.14
Record.
280.15
Notice of final decision to district director of customs.
280.21
Seizure of aircraft.
280.51
Application for mitigation or remission.
280.52
Payment of fines.
280.53
Civil monetary penalties inflation adjustment.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1221, 1223, 1227, 1229, 1253, 1281, 1283, 1284, 1285, 1286, 1322, 1323, 1330; 66 Stat. 173, 195, 197, 201, 203, 212, 219, 221-223, 226, 227, 230; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended by Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 599.

# Source:
22 FR 9807, Dec. 6, 1957, unless otherwise noted.
§ 280.1
Notice of intention to fine; administrative proceedings not exclusive.
Whenever a district director or the Associate Commissioner for Examinations, or the Director for the National Fines Office has reason to believe that any person has violated any of the provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act and has thereby become liable to the imposition of an administrative fine under the Immigration and Nationality Act, he shall cause a Notice of Intention to Fine, Form I-79, to be served as provided in this part. Nothing in this subchapter shall affect, restrict, or prevent the institution of a civil suit, in the discretion of the Attorney General, under the authority contained in section 280 of the Immigration and Nationality Act.
[22 FR 9807, Dec. 6, 1957, as amended at 54 FR 18649, May 2, 1989]
§ 280.2
Special provisions relating to aircraft.
In any case in which the imposition of a fine is predicated upon an alleged violation of a regulation promulgated under authority of section 239 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, the procedure prescribed in this part shall be followed and the aircraft involved shall not be granted clearance pending determination of the question of liability to the payment of any fine, or while the fine remains unpaid; but clearance may be granted prior to the determination of such question upon the deposit of a sum sufficient to cover such fine or of a bond with sufficient surety to secure the payment thereof, approved by the Commissioner. If the alleged violation was by the owner or person in command of the aircraft, the penalty provided for shall be a lien against the aircraft, which, except as provided in § 280.21, shall be seized by the district director or by an immigration officer designated by the district director, and placed in the custody of the customs officer who is in charge of the port of entry or customs station nearest the place of seizure. If the owner or owners of the airport at which such aircraft is located are the owners of the seized aircraft, the aircraft shall be removed to another suitable place for storage if practicable.
[22 FR 9807, Dec. 6, 1957, as amended at 32 FR 17651, Dec. 12, 1967; 56 FR 26020, June 6, 1991]
§ 280.3
Departure of vessel or aircraft prior to denial of clearance.
If any vessel or aircraft which is subject to the imposition of a fine shall have departed from the United States prior to the denial of clearance by the district director of customs and such vessel or aircraft is subsequently found in the United States, a Notice of Intention to Fine, Form I-79, shall be served as provided in this part, if such form has not been previously served for the same violation. Clearance of such vessel or aircraft shall be withheld by the district director of customs, and the procedure prescribed in this part shall be followed to the same extent and in the same manner as though the vessel or aircraft had not departed from the United States. Aircraft subject to the provisions of § 280.2, which shall have departed from the United States prior to the time of seizure could be effected, shall be subject to all of the provisions of this part, if subsequently found in the United States, to the same extent as though it had not departed from the United States.
[22 FR 9807, Dec. 6, 1957, as amended at 32 FR 17651, Dec. 12, 1967]
§ 280.4
Data concerning cost of transportation.
Within five days after request therefor, transportation companies shall furnish to the district director or the Associate Commissioner for Examinations, or the Director for the National Fines Office pertinent information contained in the original transportation contract of all rejected aliens whose cases are within the purview of any of the provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act relating to refund of passage monies, and shall specify the exact amounts paid for transportation from the initial point of departure (which point shall be indicated) to the foreign port of embarkation, from the latter to the port of arrival in the United States and from the port of arrival to the inland point of destination, respectively, and also the amount paid for headtax, if any.
[22 FR 9807, Dec. 6, 1957, as amended at 54 FR 18649, May 2, 1989]
§ 280.5
Mitigation or remission of fines.
In any case in which mitigation or remission of a fine is authorized by the Immigration and Nationality Act, the party served with Notice of Intention to Fine may apply in writing to the district director or the Associate Commissioner for Examinations, or the Director for the National Fines Office for such mitigation or remission.
[22 FR 9807, Dec. 6, 1957, as amended at 54 FR 18649, May 2, 1989]
§ 280.6
Bond to obtain clearance; form.
A bond to obtain clearance of a vessel or aircraft under section 231, 237, 239, 243, 251, 253, 254, 255, 256, 272, or 273 of the Immigration and Nationality Act shall be filed on Form I-310.
[22 FR 9807, Dec. 6, 1957, as amended at 54 FR 102, Jan. 4, 1989]
§ 280.7
Approval of bonds or acceptance of cash deposit to obtain clearance.
The district director of customs is authorized to approve the bond, or accept the sum of money which is being offered for deposit under any provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act or by this chapter for the purpose of obtaining clearance of a vessel or aircraft with the exception of sections 239, 251(d), 255, 256, 272, and 273(d) in which the Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service is authorized to approve the bond or accept the sum of money which is being offered for deposit.
[22 FR 9807, Dec. 6, 1957, as amended at 32 FR 17651, Dec. 12, 1967; 56 FR 26020, June 6, 1991]
§ 280.11
Notice of intention to fine; procedure.
Notice of Intention to Fine, Form I-79, shall be prepared in triplicate, with one additional copy for each additional person on whom the service of such notice is contemplated. The notice shall be addressed to any or all of the available persons subject to fine. A copy of the notice shall be served by personal service on each such person. If the notice is delivered personally, the person upon whom it is served shall be requested to acknowledge such service by signing his name to the duplicate and
triplicate copies. The officer effecting such service shall attest to the service by signing his name thereon and shall indicate thereon the date and place of service. If the person so served refuses to acknowledge service, or if service is made by leaving it at an office or mailing it, the person making such service shall indicate the method and date on the duplicate and triplicate copies of Form I-79, and shall sign his name upon such copies. The duplicate copy shall be retained by the district director of immigration and naturalization or the Associate Commissioner for Examinations, or the Director for the National Fines Office and the triplicate copy shall be delivered directly to the district director of customs for the district in which the vessel or aircraft is located, and the district director of customs shall withhold clearance until deposit is made or bond furnished as provided in the Immigration and Nationality Act. If the vessel or aircraft is located in a customs district which is outside the jurisdiction of the office of the Service having jurisdiction over the matter, the triplicate copy shall be forwarded to the office of the Service nearest such customs district for delivery to the district director of customs.
[22 FR 9807, Dec. 6, 1957, as amended at 32 FR 17651, Dec. 12, 1967; 37 FR 11471, June 8, 1972; 54 FR 18649, May 2, 1989]
§ 280.12
Answer and request or order for interview.
Within 30 days following the service of the Notice of Intention to Fine (which period the district director or the Associate Commissioner for Examinations, or the Director for the National Fines Office may extend for an additional period of 30 days upon good cause being shown), any person upon whom a notice under this part has been served may file with the district director or the Associate Commissioner for Examinations, or the Director for the National Fines Office a written defense, in duplicate, under oath setting forth the reasons why a fine should not be imposed, or if imposed, why it should be mitigated or remitted if permitted by the Immigration and Nationality Act, and stating whether a personal appearance is desired. Documentary evidence shall be submitted in support of such defense and a brief may be submitted in support of any argument made. If a personal interview is requested, the evidence in opposition to the imposition of the fine and in support of the request for mitigation or remission may be presented at such interview. An interview shall be conducted if requested by the party as provided hereinabove or, if directed at any time by the Board, the Commissioner, or the district director or the Associate Commissioner for Examinations, or the Director for the National Fines Office.
[22 FR 9807, Dec. 6, 1957, as amended at 54 FR 18649, May 2, 1989]
§ 280.13
Disposition of case.
(a)
Allegations admitted or no answer filed.
If a request for personal appearance is not filed and (1) the answer admits the allegations in the notice, or (2) no answer is filed, the district director or the Associate Commissioner for Examinations, or the Director for the National Fines Office shall enter such order in the case as he deems appropriate and no appeal from his decision may be taken.
(b)
Answer filed; personal appearance.
Upon receipt of an answer asserting a defense to the allegations in the notice without requesting a personal appearance, or if a personal appearance is requested or directed, the case shall be assigned to an immigration officer. The immigration officer shall prepare a report summarizing the evidence and containing his findings and recommendation. The record, including the report and recommendation of the immigration officer, shall be forwarded to the district director or the Associate Commissioner for Examinations, or the Director for the National Fines Office. The district director or the Associate Commissioner for Examinations, or the Director for the National Fines Office shall note on the report of the immigration officer whether he approves or disapproves the recommendation of the immigration officer. The person shall be informed in writing of the decision of the district director or the Associate Commissioner for Examinations, or the Director for the National Fines Office and, if his decision is that a fine shall
be imposed or that the requested mitigation or remission shall not be granted, of the reasons for such decision. From the decision of the district director or the Associate Commissioner for Examinations, or the Director for the National Fines Office an appeal may be taken to the Board as provided in 8 CFR part 1003.
[22 FR 9808, Dec. 6, 1957, as amended at 23 FR 9124, Nov. 26, 1958; 54 FR 18649, May 2, 1989; 76 FR 74629, Dec. 1, 2011]
§ 280.14
Record.
The record made under § 280.13 shall include the request for the interview or a reference to the order directing the interview; the medical certificate, if any; a copy of any record of hearing before a Board of Special Inquiry, Hearing Examiner, Hearing Officer, or Special Inquiry Officer which is relevant to the fine proceedings; the duplicate copy of the Notice of Intention to Fine; the evidence upon which such Notice was based; the duplicate of any notices to detain, deport, deliver, or remove aliens; notice to pay expenses; evidence as to whether any deposit was made or bond furnished in accordance with the Immigration and Nationality Act; reports of investigations conducted; documentary evidence and testimony adduced at the interview; the original of any affidavit or brief filed in opposition to the imposition of fine; the application for mitigation or remission; and any other relevant matter.
§ 280.15
Notice of final decision to district director of customs.
At such time as the decision under this part is final, the regional administrative officer shall be furnished a copy of the decision by the district director of immigration and naturalization or the Associate Commissioner for Examinations, or the Director for the National Fines Office. The regional administrative officer shall notify the district director of customs who was furnished a copy of the Notice of Intention to Fine of the final decision made in the case. Such notification need not be made if the regional administrative officer has been previously furnished with a notice of collection of the amount of the penalty by the district director of customs.
[32 FR 17651, Dec. 12, 1967, as amended at 54 FR 18649, May 2, 1989]
§ 280.21
Seizure of aircraft.
Seizure of an aircraft under the authority of section 239 of the Act and § 280.2 will not be made if such aircraft is damaged to an extent that its value is less than the amount of the fine which may be imposed. If seizure of an aircraft for violation of section 239 of the Act is to be made, Form G-297 (Order to Seize Aircraft) and Form G-298 (Public Notice of Seizure) shall be prepared in septuple and the originals furnished to the immigration officer who will effect the seizure. The original of Form G-297, properly endorsed as to date and place of seizure, shall be returned for retention in the relating file after seizure is effected. The original of Form G-298 shall be placed on the seized aircraft and a copy retained in the file. Copies of both forms shall be served upon the owner of the aircraft and the pilot if other than the owner. Copies shall also be furnished the district director of customs and the United States Attorney for the district in which the seizure was made. In addition, immediately upon the seizure of an aircraft, or prior thereto, if circumstances permit, a full report of the facts in the case shall be submitted by the district director to the United States Attorney for the district in which the seizure was made, together with copies of Form G-296 (Report of Violation) and Form I-79 (Notice of Intention to Fine). The report shall include the cost incurred in seizing and guarding the aircraft and an estimate of the further additional cost likely to be incurred.
[29 FR 14433, Oct. 21, 1964, as amended at 32 FR 17651, Dec. 12, 1967]
§ 280.51
Application for mitigation or remission.
(a)
When application may be filed.
An application for mitigation or remission of a fine may be filed as provided under § 280.12 of this part; or, within 30 days after the date of receipt of the district
director's or the Associate Commissioner for Examinations, or the Director for the National Fines Office's decision to impose a fine whether or not the applicant responded to the Notice of Intention to Fine.
(b)
Form and contents of application.
An application for mitigation or remission shall be filed in duplicate under oath and shall include information, supported by documentary evidence, as to the basis of the claim to mitigation or remission, and as to the action, if any, which may have been taken by the applicant, or as to the circumstances present in the case which, in the opinion of the applicant, justified the granting of his application.
(c)
Disposition of application.
The application, if filed with the answer, shall be disposed of as provided in § 280.13. In any other case the application shall be considered and decided by the district director or the Associate Commissioner for Examinations, or the Director for the National Fines Office from whose decision an appeal may be taken to the Board as provided in 8 CFR part 1003.
[22 FR 9808, Dec. 6, 1957, as amended at 23 FR 9124, Nov. 26, 1958; 46 FR 28624, May 28, 1981; 54 FR 18649, May 2, 1989; 76 FR 74629, Dec. 1, 2011]
§ 280.52
Payment of fines.
(a) All fines assessed pursuant to sections 231(d); 237(b); 239; 251(d); 254(a); 255; 256; 271(a); 272, 273 and 274(c) of the Act shall be made payable to and collected by the Service.
(b) All fines collected pursuant to sections 271(a) and 273 of the Act shall be deposited in the Immigration User Fee Account established in accordance with the provisions of section 286 of the Act.
(c) From the amounts collected under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the increase in penalties collected resulting from the amendments made by sections 203(b), 543(a), and 544 of the Immigration Act of 1990, shall be credited to the appropriation for activities authorized under section 280(b) of the Act.
[56 FR 26020, June 6, 1991]
§ 280.53
Civil monetary penalties inflation adjustment.
(a)
Statutory authority.
In accordance with the requirements of the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, Public Law 101-410, 104 Stat. 890, as amended by the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015, Public Law 114-74, Sec. 701, 129 Stat. 599, the civil monetary penalties listed in paragraph (b) of this section are adjusted as provided in paragraph (b).
(b)
Adjustment of penalties.
For violations occurring on or before November 2, 2015, the penalty amount prior to adjustment applies. For violations occurring after November 2, 2015, the listed penalties are adjusted as follows:
(1) Section 231(g) of the Act, penalties for non-compliance with arrival and departure manifest requirements for passengers, crewmembers, or occupants transported on commercial vessels or aircraft arriving to or departing from the United States: From $1,643 to $1,696.
(2) Section 234 of the Act, penalties for non-compliance with landing requirements at designated ports of entry for aircraft transporting aliens: From $4,465 to $4,610.
(3) Section 240B(d) of the Act, penalties for failure to depart voluntarily: From $1,881 minimum/$9,413 maximum to $1,942 minimum/$9,718 maximum.
(4) Section 243(c)(1)(A) of the Act, penalties for violations of removal orders relating to aliens transported on vessels or aircraft, under section 241(d) of the Act, or for costs associated with removal under section 241(e) of the Act: From $3,765 to $3,887.
(5) Penalties for failure to remove alien stowaways under section 241(d)(2) of the Act: From $9,413 to $9,718.
(6) Section 251(d) of the Act, penalties for failure to report an illegal landing or desertion of alien crewmen, and for each alien not reported on arrival or departure manifest or lists required in accordance with section 251 of the Act: From $446 to $460; and penalties for use of alien crewmen for longshore work in violation of section 251(d) of the Act: From $11,162 to $11,524.
(7) Section 254(a) of the Act, penalties for failure to control, detain, or remove alien crewmen: From $1,116 minimum/
$6,696 maximum to $1,152 minimum/$6,913 maximum.
(8) Section 255 of the Act, penalties for employment on passenger vessels of aliens afflicted with certain disabilities: From $2,232 to $2,304.
(9) Section 256 of the Act, penalties for discharge of alien crewmen: From $3,348 minimum/$6,696 maximum to $3,457 minimum/$6,913 maximum.
(10) Section 257 of the Act, penalties for bringing into the United States alien crewmen with intent to evade immigration laws: From $22,324 maximum to $23,048 maximum.
(11) Section 271(a) of the Act, penalties for failure to prevent the unauthorized landing of aliens: From $6,696 to $6,913.
(12) Section 272(a) of the Act, penalties for bringing to the United States aliens subject to denial of admission on a health-related ground: From $6,696 to $6,913.
(13) Section 273(b) of the Act, penalties for bringing to the United States aliens without required documentation: From $6,696 to $6,913.
(14) Section 274D of the Act, penalties for failure to depart: From $942 maximum to $973 maximum, for each day the alien is in violation.
(15) Section 275(b) of the Act, penalties for improper entry: From $94 minimum/$472 maximum to $97 minimum/$487 maximum, for each entry or attempted entry.
[82 FR 8580, Jan. 27, 2017, as amended at 83 FR 13835, Apr. 2, 2018; 84 FR 13509, Apr. 5, 2019; 85 FR 36479, June 17, 2020; 86 FR 57540, Oct. 18, 2021; 87 FR 1327, Jan. 11, 2022; 88 FR 2183, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 53859, June 28, 2024]
Pt. 286

# PART 286—IMMIGRATION USER FEE
Sec.
286.1
Definitions.
286.2
Fee for arrival of passengers aboard commercial aircraft or commercial vessels.
286.3
Exceptions.
286.4
Fee collection responsibility.
286.5
Remittance and statement procedures.
286.6
Maintenance of records.
286.7
Penalties.
286.8
Establishment of pilot programs for the charging of a land border fee for inspection services.
286.9
Fee for processing applications and issuing documentation at land border Ports-of-Entry.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1101, 1103, 1356; Title VII of Public Law 110-229; 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
53 FR 5757, Feb. 26, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 286.1
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to the following terms in this part:
(a) The term
adjacent islands
means Anguilla, Antigua, Aruba, Bahamas, Barbados, Barbuda, Bermuda, Bonaire, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Cuba, Curacao, Dominica, the Dominican Republic, Grenada, Guadeloupe, Haiti, Jamaica, Marie-Galante, Martinique, Miquelon, Montserrat, Saba, Saint Barthélemy, Saint Christopher, Saint Eustatius, Saint Kitts-Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Maarten, Saint Martin, Saint Pierre, Saint Vincent and Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, Turks and Caicos Islands, and other British, French and Netherlands territory or possessions bordering on the Caribbean Sea.
(b) The term
collector
means an air or sea carrier, travel agent, tour wholesaler, or other entity which collects, but may or may not be required to remit, fees pursuant to this part.
(c) The term
commercial aircraft
means any civilian aircraft being used to transport persons or property for compensation or hire.
(d) The term
commercial vessel
means any civilian vessel being used to transport persons or property for compensation or hire.
(e) The term
Assistant Commissioner, Office of Financial Management
means the Office of the Assistant Commissioner, Financial Management, Immigration and Naturalization Service, Room 6307, 425 I Street NW., Washington, DC 20536.
(f) The term
fee
means the immigration user fee.
(g) The term
port of entry
means a port or place designated by the Commissioner at which a person may apply for admission into the United States.
(h) The term
remitter
means an air or sea carrier, travel agent, tour wholesaler, or other entity which collects, including receipt of fees collected by collectors which are not required to remit fees, and remits fees pursuant to this part.
(i)
Territories or possessions of the United States
means American Samoa, Baker Island, Howland Island, Jarvis Island, Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Midway, Swains Island, Palmyra Island, and Wake Island.
(j) The term
document for transportation
means any document accepted by a carrier in return for transportation.
(k)
United States,
when used in a geographical sense, means the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
[53 FR 5757, Feb. 26, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 49349, Sept. 28, 1994; 63 FR 51272, Sept. 25, 1998; 74 FR 55740, Oct. 28, 2009]
§ 286.2
Fee for arrival of passengers aboard commercial aircraft or commercial vessels.
(a) A fee, in the amount prescribed in section 286(d) of the Act, per individual is charged and collected by the Commissioner for the immigration inspection of each passenger aboard a commercial aircraft or commercial vessel, arriving at a port-of-entry in the United States, or for the preinspection of a passenger in a place outside the United States prior to such arrival, except as provided in § 286.3.
(b) A fee, in the amount prescribed in section 286(e)(3) of the Act, per individual, is charged and collected by the Commissioner for the immigration inspection at a port-of-entry in the United States, or for the preinspection in a place outside the United States of each commercial vessel passenger whose journey originated in the United States, Canada, Mexico, territories or possessions of the United States, or adjacent islands, except as provided in § 286.3. All tickets or documents for transportation on voyages that are booked on or after February 27, 2003, will be subject to this immigration user fee.
(c) Each commercial aircraft and vessel carrier or ticket-selling agent whose monthly collections in any month exceed $50,000 shall submit a summary statement showing the amount of user fees collected that month. The summary statement is due on the last business day of the following month. This information shall be forwarded to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Chief, Analysis and Formulation Branch, 425 I Street, NW., Room 6307, Washington, DC 20536. For the months of December, March, June, and August, the quarterly remittance and statement required by § 286.5 will serve as the monthly report for those months. Therefore, a monthly report is required for all other months in which monthly collections exceed $50,000.
[59 FR 49348, Sept. 28, 1994, as amended at 63 FR 51272, Sept. 25, 1998; 67 FR 15334, Apr. 1, 2002; 68 FR 4092, Jan. 28, 2003]
§ 286.3
Exceptions.
The fees set forth in §§ 286.2(a) and 286.2(b) shall not be charged or collected from passengers who fall within any one of the following categories:
(a) Persons arriving at designated ports-of-entry by the following vessels, when operating on a regular schedule: Great Lakes international ferries or Great Lakes vessels on the Great Lakes and connecting waterways;
(b) Persons directly connected with the operation, navigation, or business of the commercial aircraft or commercial vessel including working crew, deadheading crew, U.S. Federal Aviation Administration inspectors, sky marshals, and commercial airline or commercial vessel employees on official business;
(c) Persons who are listed as foreign diplomats on the accreditation list maintained by the U.S. Department of State or who are in possession of a diplomatic visa (A-1 and 2, G-1 thru 4) valid for entry into the United States;
(d) Persons who are passengers on any commercial aircraft or commercial vessel owned or operated exclusively by the Government of the United States or a foreign government, including any agency or political subdivision thereof, so long as that aircraft or vessel is not transporting any persons or property for commercial purposes.
(e) Persons who are passengers on commercial aircraft or commercial vessels under contract to the U.S. Department of Defense, if they have been preinspected outside of the United States under a joint Service and U.S. Department of Defense military inspection program;
(f) Persons arriving on an aircraft or vessel due to an emergency or forced landing when the original destination of the aircraft or vessel was not the United States; and
(g) Persons transiting the United States who are not inspected by the Service. Transit without visa passengers who are inspected by the Service are not excepted from payment of the fee under this section.
[53 FR 5757, Feb. 26, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 49348, Sept. 28, 1994; 68 FR 4092, Jan. 28, 2003]
§ 286.4
Fee collection responsibility.
(a) It is the responsibility of the air or sea carriers, travel agents, tour wholesalers, or other parties, which issue tickets or documents for transportation on or after December 1, 1986, to collect the fee set forth in § 286.2 of this part from all passengers transported to the United States who are not excepted under § 286.3 of this part.
(b) Tickets and documents for transportation shall be marked by the collector of the fee to indicate that the required fee has been collected. Such markings shall be in accordance with the procedures set forth in the ARC Industry Agents Handbook, the SATO Ticketing Handbook, or compatible procedures set forth in the operations manual of individual collectors.
(c) It is the responsibility of the carrier transporting a passenger from the United States to collect the fee upon departure, if the passenger was not excepted under § 286.3 of this part and tickets or documents for transportation of the passenger do not reflect collection of the fee at the time of issuance. If at the time of departure such a passenger refuses to pay the fee, the carrier shall record the full name, complete address, nationality, passport number, and alien file number, if any, of the passenger and immediately notify the Associate Commissioner, Finance.
[53 FR 5757, Feb. 26, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 49349, Sept. 28, 1994]
§ 286.5
Remittance and statement procedures.
(a) The air or sea carrier whose ticket stock or document for transportation reflects collection of the fee is responsible for remittance of the fee to the Service. The travel agent, tour wholesaler, or other entity, which issues their own non-carrier related ticket or document for transportation to an air or sea passenger who is not excepted from the fee pursuant to § 286.3 of this part, is responsible for remittance of the fee to the Service, unless by contract the carrier will remit the fee.
(b)(1) Fee remittances shall be sent to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, at a designated Treasury depository, for receipt no later than 31 days after the close of the calendar quarter in which the fees are collected, except the fourth quarter payment for fees collected shall be made on the date that is 10 days before the end of the U.S. Government's fiscal year, and the first quarter payment shall include any collections made in the preceding quarter that were not remitted with the previous payment. The fourth quarter payment shall include collections for the months of July and August. The fiscal year referenced is the U.S. Government's fiscal year which begins on October 1 and ends on September 30.
(2) Late payments will be subject to interest, penalty, and handling charges as provided in the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (31 U.S.C. 3717). Refunds by a remitter of fees collected in conjunction with unused tickets or documents for transportation shall be netted against the next subsequent remittance.
(c) Along with the remittance, as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, each remitter making such remittance shall attach a statement which sets forth the following:
(1) Name and address;
(2) Taxpayer identification number;
(3) Calendar quarter covered by the payment;
(4) Interest and penalty charges; and
(5) Total amount collected and remitted.
(d) Remittances shall be made in U.S. dollars by check or money order through a U.S. bank, to Assistant Commissioner, Office of Financial Management, INS.
(e) Annually, each U.S. based remitter, which retains an independent accountant and which remits $10,000 or
more in fees in any one calendar quarter, shall submit to the Assistant Commissioner, Financial Management a report from the independent accountant in accordance with the
Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements
on the application of Passenger User Fee Collection and Remittance Procedures established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the Service, to the Assistant Commissioner, Financial Management. Each foreign-based remitter, which retains an independent accountant and which remits $10,000 or more in fees in any one calendar quarter, shall submit a similar report to the Assistant Commissioner, Financial Management from the independent accountant in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles of their respective countries. These reports from the independent accountants are to be submitted for receipt by the Assistant Commissioner, Financial Management no later than ninety (90) days after the close of the fiscal year of each remitter. Each remitter, which does not retain an independent accountant or which does not remit $10,000 or more in any one calendar quarter, shall certify under oath on each statement submitted pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section that they have complied with the applicable statutes and regulations.
(f) The Commissioner reserves the right to conduct an independent audit of any collector or remitter not providing the report or certification required pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section or based upon other information indicating non-compliance in order to assure the accuracy of the remittances of fees collected and remitted and compliance with the applicable statutes and regulations.
(g) In order to enforce compliance with the provisions of this part, the Commissioner may issue a subpoena requiring the production of records, evidence, and witnesses pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 287.4 of this chapter. The authority to issue a subpoena pursuant to this section is limited to the Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner, Associate Commissioner for Management, Director for Program Inspection, all Regional Commissioners; and all District Directors.
[53 FR 5757, Feb. 26, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 729, Jan. 9, 1990; 59 FR 49348, 49349, Sept. 28, 1994; 63 FR 51272, Sept. 25, 1998]
§ 286.6
Maintenance of records.
Each collector and remitter shall maintain records necessary for the Service to verify the accuracy of fees collected and remitted and to otherwise determine compliance with the applicable statutes and regulations. Such records shall be maintained for a period of two years from the date of fee collection. Each remitter shall advise the Assistant Commissioner, Office of Financial Management of the name, address, and telephone number of a responsible officer who shall have the authority to verify and produce any records required to be maintained under this part. The Assistant Commissioner, Office of Financial Management shall be promptly notified of any changes of the responsible officer.
[53 FR 5757, Feb. 26, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 49349, Sept. 28, 1994; 63 FR 51272, Sept. 25, 1998]
§ 286.7
Penalties.
Failure of any air or sea carrier to comply with the provisions of section 286 of the Act and this part shall subject it to one or more of the following:
(a) Termination of existing agreements under the provisions of section 238 of the Act; and
(b) Suspension of enroute inspections or preinspections.
§ 286.8
Establishment of pilot programs for the charging of a land border fee for inspection services.
Under the provisions of section 286(q) of the Act, the Service may establish pilot programs at one or more land border ports-of-entry to charge fees for immigration inspection services to be collected by the Commissioner. Individual ports-of-entry selected by the Commissioner to participate in such pilot programs may charge a fee to enhance inspection services and to recover the cost of:
(a) Hiring additional immigration inspectors, including all associated personnel costs such as salary, benefits, and overtime;
(b) Expansion, operation, and maintenance of information systems for nonimmigrant control;
(c) Construction costs, including those associated with adding new primary traffic lanes (with the concurrence of the General Services Administration);
(d) Procuring detection devices and conducting training to identify fraudulent documents used by applicants for entry to the United States;
(e) Other administrative costs associated with the PORTPASS Program; and
(f) Costs associated with the administration of the Land Border Inspection Fee account.
[60 FR 50390, Sept. 29, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 53833, Oct. 16, 1996]
§ 286.9
Fee for processing applications and issuing documentation at land border Ports-of-Entry.
(a)
General.
A fee may be charged and collected by the Commissioner for the processing and issuance of specified Service documents at land border Ports-of-Entry. These fees, as specified in 8 CFR 103.7(d), shall be dedicated to funding the cost of providing application-processing services at land border ports.
(b)
Forms for which a fee may be charged.
(1) A nonimmigrant alien who is required to be issued, or requests to be issued, Form I-94 (see § 1.4), Arrival/Departure Record, for admission at a land border Port-of-Entry must remit the required fee for issuance of Form I-94 upon determination of admissibility.
(2) A nonimmigrant alien applying for admission at a land border Port-of-Entry as a Visa Waiver Program applicant pursuant to § 217.2(c) or § 217.3(c) of this chapter must remit the required fee for issuance of Form I-94W, as prescribed in § 103.7(d)(5) of this chapter, upon determination of admissibility.
(3) A Mexican national in possession of a valid Form DSP-150, B-1/B-2 Visa and Border Crossing Card, issued by the DOS, or a passport and combined B-1/B-2 visa and non-biometric BCC (or similar stamp in a passport) issued by the DOS, who is required to be issued Form I-94, Arrival/Departure Record, pursuant to § 235.1(f) of this chapter, must remit the required fee for issuance of Form I-94 upon determination of admissibility.
(4) A citizen or lawful permanent resident alien of the United States or a Canadian citizen or permanent resident of Canada who is a national of a designated Visa Waiver Program country listed in § 217.2(a) of this chapter who requests Form I-68, Canadian Border Boat Landing Permit, pursuant to § 235.1(e) of this chapter, for entry to the United States from Canada as an eligible pleasure boater on a designated body of water, must remit the required fee at the time of application for Form I-68.
[60 FR 40069, Aug. 7, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 10390, Mar. 6, 1997; 67 FR 71450, Dec. 2, 2002; 68 FR 5194, Jan. 31, 2003; 78 FR 18472, Mar. 27, 2013; 85 FR 46928, Aug. 3, 2020; 85 FR 53645, Aug. 31, 2020; 87 FR 18981, Apr. 1, 2022]
Pt. 287

# PART 287—FIELD OFFICERS; POWERS AND DUTIES
Sec.
287.1
Definitions.
287.2
Disposition of criminal cases.
287.3
Disposition of cases of aliens arrested without warrant.
287.4
Subpoena.
287.5
Exercise of power by immigration officers.
287.6
Proof of official records.
287.7
Detainer provisions under section 287(d)(3) of the Act.
287.8
Standards for enforcement activities.
287.9
Criminal search warrant and firearms policies.
287.10
Expedited internal review process.
287.11
Pre-enrolled Access Lane.
287.12
Scope.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1182, 1225, 1226, 1251, 1252, 1357; Homeland Security Act of 2002, Pub. L. 107-296 (6 U.S.C. 1,
et seq.
); 8 CFR part 2.
§ 287.1
Definitions.
(a)(1)
External boundary.
The term
external boundary,
as used in section 287(a)(3) of the Act, means the land boundaries and the territorial sea of the United States extending 12 nautical miles from the baselines of the United States determined in accordance with international law.
(2)
Reasonable distance.
The term
reasonable distance,
as used in section 287(a) (3) of the Act, means within 100 air miles from any external boundary
of the United States or any shorter distance which may be fixed by the chief patrol agent for CBP, or the special agent in charge for ICE, or, so far as the power to board and search aircraft is concerned any distance fixed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Reasonable distance; fixing by chief patrol agents and special agents in charge.
In fixing distances not exceeding 100 air miles pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, chief patrol agents and special agents in charge shall take into consideration topography, confluence of arteries of transportation leading from external boundaries, density of population, possible inconvenience to the traveling public, types of conveyances used, and reliable information as to movements of persons effecting illegal entry into the United States:
Provided,
That whenever in the opinion of a chief patrol agent or special agent in charge a distance in his or her sector or district of more than 100 air miles from any external boundary of the United States would because of unusual circumstances be reasonable, such chief patrol agent or special agent in charge shall forward a complete report with respect to the matter to the Commissioner of CBP, or the Assistant Secretary for ICE, as appropriate, who may, if he determines that such action is justified, declare such distance to be reasonable.
(c)
Patrolling the border.
The phrase
patrolling the border to prevent the illegal entry of aliens into the United States
as used in section 287 of the Immigration and Nationality Act means conducting such activities as are customary, or reasonable and necessary, to prevent the illegal entry of aliens into the United States.
(d)
Arrested by federal, state, or local law enforcement official.
The term
arrested,
as used in section 287(d) of the Act (as amended by section 1701 (Subtitle M) of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986, Pub. L. 99-509), means that an alien has been—
(1) Physically taken into custody for a criminal violation of the controlled substance laws; and
(2) Subsequently booked, charged or otherwise officially processed; or
(3) Provided an initial appearance before a judicial officer where the alien has been informed of the charges and the right to counsel.
(e)
Law enforcement or other official.
The phrase
law enforcement official (or other official),
as used in section 287(d) of the Act, means an officer or employee of an agency engaged in the administration of criminal justice pursuant to statute or executive order, including (1) courts; (2) a government agency or component which performs the administration of criminal justice as defined in 28 CFR part 20 including performance of any of the following activities: detection, apprehension, detention, pretrial release, post-trial release, prosecution, adjudication, correctional supervision, or rehabilitation of accused persons or criminal offenders.
(f)
Controlled substance.
The term
controlled substance,
as used in section 287(d)(3) of the Act, shall mean the same as that referenced in the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 801
et seq.,
and shall include any substance contained in Schedules I through V of 21 CFR 1308.1
et seq.
For the purposes of this chapter, the term
controlled substance
includes controlled substance analogues as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802(23) and 813.
(g)
Basic immigration law enforcement training.
The phrase basic immigration law enforcement training, as used in §§ 287.5 and 287.8, means the successful completion of one of the following courses of training provided at the Immigration Officer Academy or Border Patrol Academy: Immigration Officer Basic Training Course after 1971; Border Patrol Basic Training Course after 1950; Immigration Detention Enforcement Officer Basic Training Course after 1977; and Immigration Customs Enforcement Special Agent Training, after 2002; or training substantially equivalent thereto as determined by the Commissioner of CBP or the Assistant Secretary for ICE with respect to personnel in their respective bureaus. The phrase basic immigration law enforcement training also means the successful completion of the Other than Permanent Full-Time (OTP) Immigration Inspector Basic Training Course after 1991 in the case of individuals who are OTP immigration inspectors. Conversion by OTP immigration to any
other status requires training applicable to that position.
(h) References to specific titles of officers mean all individuals holding such positions and any individual acting in such position.
(i) Nothing in this part limits the authority of any DHS officers to act pursuant to any authorities that they may otherwise possess.
[22 FR 9808, Dec. 6, 1957, as amended at 29 FR 13244, Sept. 24, 1964; 53 FR 9283, Mar. 22, 1988; 57 FR 47258, Oct. 15, 1992; 59 FR 42415, Aug. 17, 1994; 68 FR 35276, June 13, 2003]
§ 287.2
Disposition of criminal cases.
Whenever a special agent in charge, port director, or chief patrol agent has reason to believe that there has been a violation punishable under any criminal provision of the immigration and nationality laws administered or enforced by the Department, he or she shall immediately initiate an investigation to determine all the pertinent facts and circumstances and shall take such further action as he or she deems necessary. In no case shall this investigation prejudice the right of an arrested person to be taken without unnecessary delay before a United States magistrate judge, a United States district judge, or, if necessary, a judicial officer empowered in accordance with 18 U.S.C. 3041 to commit persons charged with offenses against the laws of the United States.
[59 FR 42415, Aug. 17, 1994, as amended at 68 FR 35276, June 13, 2003]
§ 287.3
Disposition of cases of aliens arrested without warrant.
(a)
Examination.
An alien arrested without a warrant of arrest under the authority contained in section 287(a)(2) of the Act will be examined by an officer other than the arresting officer. If no other qualified officer is readily available and the taking of the alien before another officer would entail unnecessary delay, the arresting officer, if the conduct of such examination is a part of the duties assigned to him or her, may examine the alien.
(b)
Determination of proceedings.
If the examining officer is satisfied that there is prima facie evidence that the arrested alien was entering, attempting to enter, or is present in the United States in violation of the immigration laws, the examining officer will refer the case to an immigration judge for further inquiry in accordance with 8 CFR parts 235, 239, or 240, order the alien removed as provided for in section 235(b)(1) of the Act and § 235.3(b) of this chapter, or take whatever other action may be appropriate or required under the laws or regulations applicable to the particular case.
(c)
Notifications and information.
Except in the case of an alien subject to the expedited removal provisions of section 235(b)(1)(A) of the Act, an alien arrested without warrant and placed in formal proceedings under section 238 or 240 of the Act will be advised of the reasons for his or her arrest and the right to be represented at no expense to the Government. The examining officer will provide the alien with a list of the available free legal services provided by organizations and attorneys qualified under 8 CFR part 1003 and organizations recognized under § 292.2 of this chapter or 8 CFR 1292.2 that are located in the district where the hearing will be held. The examining officer shall note on Form I-862 that such a list was provided to the alien. The officer will also advise the alien that any statement made may be used against him or her in a subsequent proceeding.
(d)
Custody procedures.
Unless voluntary departure has been granted pursuant to subpart C of 8 CFR part 240, a determination will be made within 48 hours of the arrest, except in the event of an emergency or other extraordinary circumstance in which case a determination will be made within an additional reasonable period of time, whether the alien will be continued in custody or released on bond or recognizance and whether a notice to appear and warrant of arrest as prescribed in 8 CFR parts 236 and 239 will be issued.
[62 FR 10390, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 66 FR 48335, Sept. 20, 2001; 68 FR 35276, June 13, 2003]
§ 287.4
Subpoena.
(a)
Who may issue
—(1)
Criminal or civil investigations.
All District Directors; Deputy District Directors; Chief Patrol Agents; Deputy Chief Patrol Agents; Assistant Chief Patrol Agents; Officers
in Charge; Patrol Agents in Charge; Assistant Patrol Agents in Charge; Field Operations Supervisors; Special Operations Supervisors; Supervisory Border Patrol Agents; Assistant District Directors, Investigations; Supervisory Criminal Investigators, Anti-Smuggling; Regional Directors; Service Center Directors; Assistant District Directors, Examinations; Director, Detention and Removal; Special Agents in Charge; all Special Agents in supervisory positions; Field Office Directors; Deputy Field Office Directors; and any other immigration officer who has been expressly delegated such authority as provided by 8 CFR 2.1 may issue a subpoena requiring the production of records and evidence for use in criminal or civil investigations.
(2)
Proceedings other than naturalization proceedings
—(i)
Prior to commencement of proceedings.
All District Directors; Deputy District Directors; Chief Patrol Agents; Deputy Chief Patrol Agents; Officers in Charge; Director, Detention and Removal; Special Agents in Charge; Deputy Special Agents in Charge; Resident Agents in Charge; District Field Officers; Field Office Directors; Deputy Field Office Directors; and Port Directors may issue a subpoena requiring the attendance of witnesses or the production of documentary evidence, or both, for use in any proceeding under this chapter I, other than under 8 CFR part 335, or any application made ancillary to the proceeding.
(ii)
Subsequent to commencement of any immigration court proceeding.
Procedures for the issuance of a subpoena after the commencement of proceedings, in cases other than those arising under part 335 of this chapter, are set forth at 8 CFR 1003.35(b) and 1287.4.
(b)
Form of subpoena.
All subpoenas shall be issued on Form I-138.
(1)
Criminal or civil investigations.
The subpoena shall command the person or entity to which it is addressed to attend and to give testimony at a time or place specified. A subpoena shall also command the person or entity to which it is addressed to produce the books, papers, or documents specified in the subpoena. A subpoena may direct the taking of a deposition before an immigration officer of the Department.
(2)
Proceedings other than naturalization proceedings.
Every subpoena issued under the provisions of this section shall state the title of the proceeding and shall command the person to whom it is directed to attend and to give testimony at a time and place specified. A subpoena shall also command the person to whom it is directed to produce the books, papers, or documents specified in the subpoena. A subpoena may direct the taking of a deposition before an immigration officer of the Department.
(c)
Service.
A subpoena issued under this section may be served by any person, over 18 years of age not a party to the case, designated to make such service by the District Director; Deputy District Director; Chief Patrol Agent; Deputy Chief Patrol Agent; Assistant Chief Patrol Agent; Patrol Agent in Charge; Officer in Charge; Assistant District Director, Investigations; Supervisory Criminal Investigator, Anti-Smuggling; Regional Director; Special Agent in Charge; Deputy Special Agent in Charge; Resident Agent in Charge; District Field Officer; Field Office Director; Deputy Field Office Director; Supervisory Deportation Officer; Supervisory Detention and Deportation Officer; and Port Director having administrative jurisdiction over the office in which the subpoena is issued. The Director, Detention and Removal, shall also have the authority to make such designation. Service of the subpoena shall be made by delivering a copy thereof to the person named therein and by tendering to him/her the fee for one day's attendance and the mileage allowed by law by the United States District Court for the district in which the testimony is to be taken. When the subpoena is issued on behalf of the Department, fee and mileage need not be tendered at the time of service. A record of such service shall be made and attached to the original copy of the subpoena.
(d)
Invoking aid of court.
If a witness neglects or refuses to appear and testify as directed by the subpoena served upon him or her in accordance with the provisions of this section, the officer or immigration judge issuing the subpoena shall request the United States Attorney for the district in which the
subpoena was issued to report such neglect or refusal to the United States District Court and to request such court to issue an order requiring the witness to appear and testify and to produce the books, papers, or documents designated in the subpoena.
[50 FR 30134, July 24, 1985; 50 FR 47205, Nov. 15, 1985, as amended at 60 FR 56937, Nov. 13, 1995; 62 FR 10390, Mar. 6, 1997; 67 FR 39260, June 7, 2002; 68 FR 35276, June 13, 2003]
§ 287.5
Exercise of power by immigration officers.
(a)
Power and authority to interrogate and administer oaths.
Any immigration officer is hereby authorized and designated to exercise anywhere in or outside the United States the power conferred by:
(1) Section 287(a)(1) of the Act to interrogate, without warrant, any alien or person believed to be an alien concerning his or her right to be, or to remain, in the United States, and
(2) Section 287(b) of the Act to administer oaths and to take and consider evidence concerning the privilege of any person to enter, reenter, pass through, or reside in the United States; or concerning any matter which is material or relevant to the enforcement of the Act and the administration of the immigration and naturalization functions of the Department.
(b)
Power and authority to patrol the border.
The following immigration officers who have successfully completed basic immigration law enforcement training are hereby authorized and designated to exercise the power to patrol the border conferred by section 287(a)(3) of the Act:
(1) Border patrol agents;
(2) Air and marine agents;
(3) Special agents;
(4) CBP officers;
(5) Supervisory and managerial personnel who are responsible for supervising the activities of those officers listed in this paragraph; and
(6) Immigration officers who need the authority to patrol the border under section 287(a)(3) of the Act in order to effectively accomplish their individual missions and who are designated, individually or as a class, by the Commissioner of CBP, or the Assistant Secretary/Director of ICE.
(c)
Power and authority to arrest.
(1) Arrests of aliens under section 287(a)(2) of the Act for immigration violations. The following immigration officers who have successfully completed basic immigration law enforcement training are hereby authorized and designated to exercise the arrest power conferred by section 287(a)(2) of the Act and in accordance with 8 CFR 287.8(c):
(i) Border patrol agents;
(ii) Air and marine agents;
(iii) Special agents;
(iv) Deportation officers;
(v) CBP officers;
(vi) Immigration enforcement agents;
(vii) Supervisory and managerial personnel who are responsible for supervising the activities of those officers listed in this paragraph; and
(viii) Immigration officers who need the authority to arrest aliens under section 287(a)(2) of the Act in order to effectively accomplish their individual missions and who are designated, individually or as a class, by the Commissioner of CBP, the Assistant Secretary/Director of ICE, or the Director of the USCIS.
(2) Arrests of persons under section 287(a)(4) of the Act for felonies regulating the admission or removal of aliens. The following immigration officers who have successfully completed basic immigration law enforcement training are hereby authorized and designated to exercise the arrest power conferred by section 287(a)(4) of the Act and in accordance with 8 CFR 287.8(c):
(i) Border patrol agents;
(ii) Air and marine agents;
(iii) Special agents;
(iv) Deportation officers;
(v) CBP officers;
(vi) Immigration enforcement agents;
(vii) Supervisory and managerial personnel who are responsible for supervising the activities of those officers listed in this paragraph; and
(viii) Immigration officers who need the authority to arrest persons under section 287(a)(4) of the Act in order to effectively accomplish their individual missions and who are designated, individually or as a class, by the Commissioner of CBP, the Assistant Secretary/Director of ICE, or the Director of the USCIS.
(3) Arrests of persons under section 287(a)(5)(A) of the Act for any offense against the United States. The following immigration officers who have successfully completed basic immigration law enforcement training are hereby authorized and designated to exercise the arrest power conferred by section 287(a)(5)(A) of the Act and in accordance with 8 CFR 287.8(c):
(i) Border patrol agents;
(ii) Air and marine agents;
(iii) Special agents;
(iv) Deportation officers;
(v) CBP officers;
(vi) Supervisory and managerial personnel who are responsible for supervising the activities of those officers listed in this paragraph; and
(vii) Immigration officers who need the authority to arrest persons under section 287(a)(5)(A) of the Act in order to effectively accomplish their individual missions and who are designated, individually or as a class, by the Commissioner of CBP, or the Assistant Secretary/Director of ICE.
(4) Arrests of persons under section 287(a)(5)(B) of the Act for any felony. (i) Section 287(a)(5)(B) of the Act authorizes designated immigration officers, as listed in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section, to arrest persons, without warrant, for any felony cognizable under the laws of the United States if:
(A) The immigration officer has reasonable grounds to believe that the person to be arrested has committed or is committing such a felony;
(B) The immigration officer is performing duties relating to the enforcement of the immigration laws at the time of the arrest;
(C) There is a likelihood of the person escaping before a warrant can be obtained for his or her arrest; and
(D) The immigration officer has been certified as successfully completing a training program that covers such arrests and the standards with respect to the immigration enforcement activities of the Department as defined in 8 CFR 287.8.
(ii) The following immigration officers who have successfully completed basic immigration law enforcement training are hereby authorized and designated to exercise the arrest power conferred by section 287(a)(5)(B) of the Act and in accordance with 8 CFR 287.8(c):
(A) Border patrol agents;
(B) Air and marine agents;
(C) Special agents;
(D) Deportation officers;
(E) CBP officers;
(F) Supervisory and managerial personnel who are responsible for supervising the activities of those officers listed in this paragraph; and
(G) Immigration officers who need the authority to arrest persons under section 287(a)(5)(B) of the Act in order to effectively accomplish their individual missions and who are designated, individually or as a class, by the Commissioner of CBP or the Assistant Secretary/Director of ICE.
(iii) Notwithstanding the authorization and designation set forth in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section, no immigration officer is authorized to make an arrest for any felony under the authority of section 287(a)(5)(B) of the Act until such time as he or she has been certified as successfully completing a training course encompassing such arrests and the standards for enforcement activities are defined in 8 CFR 287.8. Such certification will be valid for the duration of the immigration officer's continuous employment, unless it is suspended or revoked by the Commissioner of CBP or the Assistant Secretary/Director of ICE, or their respective designees, for just cause.
(5) Arrests of persons under section 274(a) of the Act who bring in, transport, or harbor certain aliens, or induce them to enter.
(i) Section 274(a) of the Act authorizes designated immigration officers, as listed in paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section, to arrest persons who bring in, transport, or harbor aliens, or induce them to enter the United States in violation of law. When making an arrest, the designated immigration officer shall adhere to the provisions of the enforcement standard governing the conduct of arrests in 8 CFR 287.8(c).
(ii) The following immigration officers who have successfully completed basic immigration law enforcement training are authorized and designated to exercise the arrest power conferred by section 274(a) of the Act:
(A) Border patrol agents;
(B) Air and marine agents;
(C) Special agents;
(D) Deportation officers;
(E) CBP officers;
(F) Supervisory and managerial personnel who are responsible for supervising the activities of those officers listed in this paragraph; and
(G) Immigration officers who need the authority to arrest persons under section 274(a) of the Act in order to effectively accomplish their individual missions and who are designated, individually or as a class, by the Commissioner of CBP or the Assistant Secretary/Director of ICE.
(6) Custody and transportation of previously arrested persons. In addition to the authority to arrest pursuant to a warrant of arrest in paragraph (e)(3)(iv) of this section, detention enforcement officers and immigration enforcement agents who have successfully completed basic immigration law enforcement training are hereby authorized and designated to take and maintain custody of and transport any person who has been arrested by an immigration officer pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of this section.
(d)
Power and authority to conduct searches.
The following immigration officers who have successfully completed basic immigration law enforcement training are hereby authorized and designated to exercise the power to conduct searches conferred by section 287(c) of the Act:
(1) Border patrol agents;
(2) Air and marine agents;
(3) Special agents;
(4) Deportation officers;
(5) CBP officers;
(6) Immigration enforcement agents;
(7) Supervisory and managerial personnel who are responsible for supervising the activities of those officers listed in this paragraph; and
(8) Immigration officers who need the authority to conduct searches under section 287(c) of the Act in order to effectively accomplish their individual missions and who are designated, individually or as a class, by the Commissioner of CBP, the Assistant Secretary/Director of ICE, or the Director of USCIS.
(e)
Power and authority to execute warrants
—(1)
Search warrants.
The following immigration officers who have successfully completed basic immigration law enforcement training are hereby authorized and designated to exercise the power conferred by section 287(a) of the Act to execute a search warrant:
(i) Border patrol agents;
(ii) Air and marine agents;
(iii) CBP officers;
(iv) Special agents;
(v) Deportation officers;
(vi) Immigration enforcement agents;
(vii) Supervisory and managerial personnel who are responsible for supervising the activities of those officers listed in this paragraph; and
(viii) Immigration officers who need the authority to execute search warrants under section 287(a) of the Act in order to effectively accomplish their individual missions and who are designated, individually or as a class, by the Commissioner of CBP or the Assistant Secretary/Director of ICE.
(2)
Issuance of arrest warrants for immigration violations.
A warrant of arrest may be issued by any of the following immigration officials who have been authorized or delegated such authority:
(i) District directors (except foreign);
(ii) Deputy district directors (except foreign);
(iii) Assistant district directors for investigations;
(iv) Deputy assistant district directors for investigations;
(v) Assistant district directors for deportation;
(vi) Deputy assistant district directors for deportation;
(vii) Assistant district directors for examinations;
(viii) Deputy assistant district directors for examinations;
(ix) Officers in charge (except foreign);
(x) Assistant officers in charge (except foreign);
(xi) Chief patrol agents;
(xii) Deputy chief patrol agents;
(xiii) Division chiefs;
(xiv) Assistant chief patrol agents;
(xv) Patrol agents in charge;
(xvi) Deputy patrol agents in charge;
(xvii) Border Patrol watch commanders;
(xviii) Special operations supervisors;
(xix) Supervisory border patrol agents;
(xx) Directors of air operations;
(xxi) Directors of marine operations;
(xxii) Supervisory air and marine interdiction agents;
(xxiii) Executive Associate Director of Homeland Security Investigations;
(xxiv) Institutional Hearing Program directors;
(xxv) Director, Field Operations;
(xxvi) Assistant Director, Field Operations;
(xxvii) Port directors;
(xxviii) Assistant port directors;
(xxix) Field operations watch commanders;
(xxx) Field operations chiefs;
(xxxi) Supervisory deportation officers;
(xxxii) Supervisory detention and deportation officers;
(xxxiii) Group Supervisors;
(xxxiv) Director, Office of Detention and Removal Operations;
(xxxv) Special Agents in Charge;
(xxxvi) Deputy Special Agents in Charge;
(xxxvii) Associate Special Agents in Charge;
(xxxviii) Assistant Special Agents in Charge;
(xxxix) Field Office Directors;
(xl) Deputy Field Office Directors;
(xli) District Field Officers;
(xlii) Supervisory immigration services officers;
(xliii) Supervisory immigration officers;
(xliv) Supervisory asylum officers;
(xlv) Supervisory special agents;
(xlvi) Director of investigations;
(xlvii) Directors or officers in charge of detention facilities;
(xlviii) Directors of field operations;
(xlix) Deputy or assistant directors of field operations;
(l) Unit Chief, Law Enforcement Support Center;
(li) Section Chief, Law Enforcement Support Center;
(lii) Immigration Enforcement Agents; or
(liii) Other duly authorized officers or employees of the Department of Homeland Security or the United States who are delegated the authority as provided in 8 CFR 2.1 to issue warrants of arrest, and who have successfully completed any required immigration law enforcement training.
(3)
Service of warrant of arrests for immigration violations.
The following immigration officers who have successfully completed basic immigration law enforcement training are hereby authorized and designated to exercise the power pursuant to section 287(a) of the Act to execute warrants of arrest for administrative immigration violations issued under section 236 of the Act or to execute warrants of criminal arrest issued under the authority of the United States:
(i) Border patrol agents;
(ii) Air and marine agents;
(iii) Special agents;
(iv) Deportation officers;
(v) Detention enforcement officers or immigration enforcement agents (warrants of arrest for administrative immigration violations only);
(vi) CBP officers;
(vii) Supervisory and managerial personnel who are responsible for supervising the activities of those officers listed in this paragraph; and
(viii) Immigration officers who need the authority to execute arrest warrants for immigration violations under section 287(a) of the Act in order to effectively accomplish their individual missions and who are designated, individually or as a class, by the Commissioner of CBP or the Assistant Secretary/Director of ICE.
(4)
Service of warrant of arrests for non-immigration violations.
The following immigration officers who have successfully completed basic immigration law enforcement training are hereby authorized and designated to exercise the power to execute warrants of criminal arrest for non-immigration violations issued under the authority of the United States:
(i) Border patrol agents;
(ii) Air and marine agents;
(iii) CBP officers
(iv) Special agents;
(v) Deportation officers;
(vi) Immigration enforcement agents;
(vii) Supervisory and managerial personnel who are responsible for supervising the activities of those officers listed in this paragraph; and
(viii) Immigration officers who need the authority to execute warrants of arrest for non-immigration violations under section 287(a) of the Act in order to effectively accomplish their individual missions and who are designated, individually or as a class, by the Commissioner of CBP or the Assistant Secretary/Director of ICE.
(f)
Power and authority to carry firearms.
The following immigration officers who have successfully completed basic immigration enforcement training are hereby authorized and designated to exercise the power conferred by section 287(a) of the Act to carry firearms provided that they are individually qualified by training and experience to handle and safely operate the firearms they are permitted to carry, maintain proficiency in the use of such firearms, and adhere to the provisions of the enforcement standard governing the use of force in 8 CFR 287.8(a):
(1) Border patrol agents;
(2) Air and marine agents;
(3) Special agents;
(4) Deportation officers;
(5) Detention enforcement officers or immigration enforcement agents;
(6) CBP officers;
(7) Supervisory and managerial personnel who are responsible for supervising the activities of those officers listed in this paragraph; and
(8) Immigration officers who need the authority to carry firearms under section 287(a) of the Act in order to effectively accomplish their individual missions and who are designated, individually or as a class, by the Commissioner of CBP or the Assistant Secretary/Director of ICE.
[68 FR 35277, June 13, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 67089, Nov. 4, 2005; 76 FR 53797, Aug. 29, 2011; 81 FR 62356, Sept. 9, 2016]
§ 287.6
Proof of official records.
(a)
Domestic.
In any proceeding under this chapter, an official record or entry therein, when admissible for any purpose, shall be evidenced by an official publication thereof, or by a copy attested by the official having legal custody of the record or by an authorized deputy.
(b)
Foreign: Countries not Signatories to Convention.
(1) In any proceeding under this chapter, an official record or entry therein, when admissible for any purpose, shall be evidenced by an official publication thereof, or by a copy attested by an officer so authorized. This attested copy in turn may but need not be certified by any authorized foreign officer both as to the genuineness of the signature of the attesting officer and as to his/her official position. The signature and official position of this certifying foreign officer may then likewise be certified by any other foreign officer so authorized, thereby creating a chain of certificates.
(2) The attested copy, with the additional foreign certificates if any, must be certified by an officer in the Foreign Service of the United States, stationed in the foreign country where the record is kept. This officer must certify the genuineness of the signature and the official position either of (i) the attesting officer; or (ii) any foreign officer whose certification of genuineness of signature and official position relates directly to the attestation or is in a chain of certificates of genuineness of signature and official position relating to the attestation.
(c)
Foreign: Countries Signatory to Convention Abolishing the Requirement of Legislation for Foreign Public Document.
(1) In any proceeding under this chapter, a public document or entry therein, when admissible for any purpose, may be evidenced by an official publication, or by a copy properly certified under the Convention. To be properly certified, the copy must be accompanied by a certificate in the form dictated by the Convention. This certificate must be signed by a foreign officer so authorized by the signatory country, and it must certify (i) the authenticity of the signature of the person signing the document; (ii) the capacity in which that person acted, and (iii) where appropriate, the identity of the seal or stamp which the document bears.
(2) No certification is needed from an officer in the Foreign Service of public documents.
(3) In accordance with the Convention, the following are deemed to be public documents:
(i) Documents emanating from an authority or an official connected with
the courts of tribunals of the state, including those emanating from a public prosecutor, a clerk of a court or a process server;
(ii) Administrative documents;
(iii) Notarial acts; and
(iv) Official certificates which are placed on documents signed by persons in their private capacity, such as official certificates recording the registration of a document or the fact that it was in existence on a certain date, and official and notarial authentication of signatures.
(4) In accordance with the Convention, the following are deemed not to be public documents, and thus are subject to the more stringent requirements of § 287.6(b) above:
(i) Documents executed by diplomatic or consular agents; and
(ii) Administrative documents dealing directly with commercial or customs operations.
(d)
Canada.
In any proceedings under this chapter, an official record or entry therein, issued by a Canadian governmental entity within the geographical boundaries of Canada, when admissible for any purpose, shall be evidenced by a certified copy of the original record attested by the official having legal custody of the record or by an authorized deputy.
[50 FR 37834, Sept. 18, 1985, as amended at 54 FR 39337, Sept. 26, 1989; 54 FR 48851, Nov. 28, 1989]
§ 287.7
Detainer provisions under section 287(d)(3) of the Act.
(a)
Detainers in general.
Detainers are issued pursuant to sections 236 and 287 of the Act and this chapter 1. Any authorized immigration officer may at any time issue a Form I-247, Immigration Detainer-Notice of Action, to any other Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency. A detainer serves to advise another law enforcement agency that the Department seeks custody of an alien presently in the custody of that agency, for the purpose of arresting and removing the alien. The detainer is a request that such agency advise the Department, prior to release of the alien, in order for the Department to arrange to assume custody, in situations when gaining immediate physical custody is either impracticable or impossible.
(b)
Authority to issue detainers.
The following officers are authorized to issue detainers:
(1) Border patrol agents, including aircraft pilots;
(2) Special agents;
(3) Deportation officers;
(4) Immigration inspectors;
(5) Adjudications officers;
(6) Immigration enforcement agents;
(7) Supervisory and managerial personnel who are responsible for supervising the activities of those officers listed in this paragraph; and
(8) Immigration officers who need the authority to issue detainers under section 287(d)(3) of the Act in order to effectively accomplish their individual missions and who are designated individually or as a class, by the Commissioner of CBP, the Assistant Secretary for ICE, or the Director of the USCIS.
(c)
Availability of records.
In order for the Department to accurately determine the propriety of issuing a detainer, serving a notice to appear, or taking custody of an alien in accordance with this section, the criminal justice agency requesting such action or informing the Department of a conviction or act that renders an alien inadmissible or removable under any provision of law shall provide the Department with all documentary records and information available from the agency that reasonably relates to the alien's status in the United States, or that may have an impact on conditions of release.
(d)
Temporary detention at Department request.
Upon a determination by the Department to issue a detainer for an alien not otherwise detained by a criminal justice agency, such agency shall maintain custody of the alien for a period not to exceed 48 hours, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays in order to permit assumption of custody by the Department.
(e)
Financial responsibility for detention.
No detainer issued as a result of a determination made under this chapter I shall incur any fiscal obligation on
the part of the Department, until actual assumption of custody by the Department, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.
[68 FR 35279, June 13, 2003, as amended at 76 FR 53797, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 287.8
Standards for enforcement activities.
The following standards for enforcement activities contained in this section must be adhered to by every immigration officer involved in enforcement activities. Any violation of this section shall be reported to the Office of the Inspector General or such other entity as may be provided for in 8 CFR 287.10.
(a)
Use of force
—(1)
Non-deadly force.
(i) Non-deadly force is any use of force other than that which is considered deadly force as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(ii) Non-deadly force may be used only when a designated immigration officer, as listed in paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section, has reasonable grounds to believe that such force is necessary.
(iii) A designated immigration officer shall always use the minimum non-deadly force necessary to accomplish the officer's mission and shall escalate to a higher level of non-deadly force only when such higher level of force is warranted by the actions, apparent intentions, and apparent capabilities of the suspect, prisoner, or assailant.
(iv) The following immigration officers who have successfully completed basic immigration law enforcement training are hereby authorized and designated to exercise the power conferred by section 287(a) of the Act to use non-deadly force should circumstances warrant it:
(A) Border patrol agents;
(B) Air and marine agents;
(C) Special agents;
(D) Deportation officers;
(E) Detention enforcement officers or immigration enforcement agents;
(F) CBP officers;
(G) Supervisory and managerial personnel who are responsible for supervising the activities of those officers listed in this paragraph; and
(H) Immigration officers who need the authority to use non-deadly force under section 287(a) of the Act in order to effectively accomplish their individual missions and who are designated, individually or as a class, by the Commissioner of CBP or the Assistant Secretary/Director of ICE.
(2)
Deadly force.
(i) Deadly force is any use of force that is likely to cause death or serious physical injury.
(ii) Deadly force may be used only when a designated immigration officer, as listed in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, has reasonable grounds to believe that such force is necessary to protect the designated immigration officer or other persons from the imminent danger of death or serious physical injury.
(iii) The following immigration officers who have successfully completed basic immigration law enforcement training are hereby authorized and designated to exercise the power conferred by section 287(a) of the Act to use deadly force should circumstances warrant it:
(A) Border patrol agents;
(B) Air and marine agents;
(C) Special agents
(D) Deportation officers;
(E) Detention enforcement officers or immigration enforcement agents;
(F) CBP officers;
(G) Supervisory and managerial personnel who are responsible for supervising the activities of those officers listed above; and
(H) Immigration officers who need the authority to use deadly force under section 287(a) of the Act in order to effectively accomplish their individual missions and who are designated, individually or as a class, by the Commissioner of CBP or the Assistant Secretary/Director of ICE.
(b)
Interrogation and detention not amounting to arrest.
(1) Interrogation is questioning designed to elicit specific information. An immigration officer, like any other person, has the right to ask questions of anyone as long as the immigration officer does not restrain the freedom of an individual, not under arrest, to walk away.
(2) If the immigration officer has a reasonable suspicion, based on specific articulable facts, that the person being questioned is, or is attempting to be, engaged in an offense against the United States or is an alien illegally in
the United States, the immigration officer may briefly detain the person for questioning.
(3) Information obtained from this questioning may provide the basis for a subsequent arrest, which must be effected only by a designated immigration officer, as listed in 8 CFR 287.5(c). The conduct of arrests is specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Conduct of arrests
—(1)
Authority.
Only designated immigration officers are authorized to make an arrest. The list of designated immigration officers may vary depending on the type of arrest as listed in § 287.5(c)(1) through (c)(5).
(2)
General procedures.
(i) An arrest shall be made only when the designated immigration officer has reason to believe that the person to be arrested has committed an offense against the United States or is an alien illegally in the United States.
(ii) A warrant of arrest shall be obtained except when the designated immigration officer has reason to believe that the person is likely to escape before a warrant can be obtained.
(iii) At the time of the arrest, the designated immigration officer shall, as soon as it is practical and safe to do so:
(A) Identify himself or herself as an immigration officer who is authorized to execute an arrest; and
(B) State that the person is under arrest and the reason for the arrest.
(iv) With respect to an alien arrested and administratively charged with being in the United States in violation of law, the arresting officer shall adhere to the procedures set forth in 8 CFR 287.3 if the arrest is made without a warrant.
(v) With respect to a person arrested and charged with a criminal violation of the laws of the United States, the arresting officer shall advise the person of the appropriate rights as required by law at the time of the arrest, or as soon thereafter as practicable. It is the duty of the immigration officer to assure that the warnings are given in a language the subject understands, and that the subject acknowledges that the warnings are understood. The fact that a person has been advised of his or her rights shall be documented on appropriate Department forms and made a part of the arrest record.
(vi) Every person arrested and charged with a criminal violation of the laws of the United States shall be brought without unnecessary delay before a United States magistrate judge, a United States district judge or, if necessary, a judicial officer empowered in accordance with 18 U.S.C. 3041 to commit persons charged with such crimes. Accordingly, the immigration officer shall contact an Assistant United States Attorney to arrange for an initial appearance.
(vii) The use of threats, coercion, or physical abuse by the designated immigration officer to induce a suspect to waive his or her rights or to make a statement is prohibited.
(d)
Transportation
—(1)
Vehicle transportation.
All persons will be transported in a manner that ensures the safety of the persons being transported. When persons arrested or detained are being transported by vehicle, each person will be searched as thoroughly as circumstances permit before being placed in the vehicle. The person being transported shall not be handcuffed to the frame or any part of the moving vehicle or an object in the moving vehicle. The person being transported shall not be left unattended during transport unless the immigration officer needs to perform a law enforcement function.
(2)
Airline transportation.
Escorting officers must abide by all Federal Aviation Administration, Transportation Security Administration, and airline carrier rules and regulations pertaining to weapons and the transportation of prisoners.
(e)
Vehicular pursuit.
(1) A vehicular pursuit is an active attempt by a designated immigration officer, as listed in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, in a designated pursuit vehicle to apprehend fleeing suspects who are attempting to avoid apprehension. A designated pursuit vehicle is defined as a vehicle equipped with emergency lights and siren, placed in or on the vehicle, that emit audible and visual signals in order to warn others that emergency law enforcement activities are in progress.
(2) The following immigration officers who have successfully completed
basic immigration law enforcement training are hereby authorized and designated to initiate a vehicular pursuit:
(i) Border patrol agents;
(ii) Air and marine agents;
(iii) CBP officers;
(iv) Supervisory personnel who are responsible for supervising the activities of those officers listed in this paragraph; and
(v) Immigration officers who need the authority to initiate a vehicular pursuit in order to effectively accomplish their individual mission and who are designated, individually or as a class, by the Commissioner of CBP or the Assistant Secretary/Director of ICE.
(f)
Site inspections.
(1) Site inspections are Border and Transportation Security Directorate enforcement activities undertaken to locate and identify aliens illegally in the United States, or aliens engaged in unauthorized employment, at locations where there is a reasonable suspicion, based on articulable facts, that such aliens are present.
(2) An immigration officer may not enter into the non-public areas of a business, a residence including the curtilage of such residence, or a farm or other outdoor agricultural operation, except as provided in section 287(a)(3) of the Act, for the purpose of questioning the occupants or employees concerning their right to be or remain in the United States unless the officer has either a warrant or the consent of the owner or other person in control of the site to be inspected. When consent to enter is given, the immigration officer must note on the officer's report that consent was given and, if possible, by whom consent was given. If the immigration officer is denied access to conduct a site inspection, a warrant may be obtained.
(3) Adequate records must be maintained noting the results of every site inspection, including those where no illegal aliens are located.
(4) Nothing in this section prohibits an immigration officer from entering into any area of a business or other activity to which the general public has access or onto open fields that are not farms or other outdoor agricultural operations without a warrant, consent, or any particularized suspicion in order to question any person whom the officer believes to be an alien concerning his or her right to be or remain in the United States.
(g)
Guidelines.
The criminal law enforcement authorities authorized under this part will be exercised in a manner consistent with all applicable guidelines and policies of the Department of Justice and the Department of Homeland Security.
[68 FR 35280, June 13, 2003, as amended at 81 FR 62357, Sept. 9, 2016]
§ 287.9
Criminal search warrant and firearms policies.
(a) A search warrant should be obtained prior to conducting a search in a criminal investigation unless a specific exception to the warrant requirement is authorized by statute or recognized by the courts. Such exceptions may include, for example, the consent of the person to be searched, exigent circumstances, searches incident to a lawful arrest, and border searches. The Commissioner of CBP and the Assistant Secretary of ICE shall promulgate guidelines governing officers' conduct relating to search and seizure.
(b) In using a firearm, an immigration officer shall adhere to the standard of conduct set forth in 8 CFR 287.8(a)(2). An immigration officer may carry only firearms (whether Department issued or personally owned) that have been approved pursuant to guidelines promulgated by the Commissioner of CBP or the Assistant Secretary for ICE. These officials shall promulgate guidelines with respect to:
(1) Investigative procedures to be followed after a shooting incident involving an officer;
(2) Loss or theft of an approved firearm;
(3) Maintenance of records with respect to the issuance of firearms and ammunition; and
(4) Procedures for the proper care, storage, and maintenance of firearms, ammunition, and related equipment.
[59 FR 42420, Aug. 17, 1994, as amended at 68 FR 35280, June 13, 2003]
§ 287.10
Expedited internal review process.
(a)
Violations of standards for enforcement activities.
Alleged violations of the
standards for enforcement activities established in accordance with the provisions of § 287.8 shall be investigated expeditiously consistent with the policies and procedures of the Department of Homeland Security and pursuant to any guidelines issued by the Secretary.
(b)
Complaints.
Any persons wishing to lodge a complaint pertaining to violations of enforcement standards contained in § 287.8 may contact the Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Inspector General, 245 Murray Drive—Building 410, Washington, DC, 20548, or telephone 1-800-323-8603. With respect to employees of the former INS, persons may contact the Office of Internal Audit, Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, 425 I Street NW., Washington, DC, 20536.
(c)
Expedited processing of complaints.
When an allegation or complaint of violation of § 287.8 is lodged against an employee or officer of the Department, the allegation or complaint shall be referred promptly for investigation in accordance with the policies and procedures of the Department. At the conclusion of an investigation of an allegation or complaint of violation of § 287.8, the investigative report shall be referred promptly for appropriate action in accordance with the policies and procedures of the Department.
(d)
Unsubstantiated complaints.
When an investigative report does not support the allegation, the employee or officer against whom the allegation was made shall be informed in writing that the matter has been closed as soon as practicable. No reference to the allegation shall be filed in the official's or employee's official personnel file.
(e)
Jurisdiction of Department of Justice organizations.
Nothing in this section alters or limits, is intended to alter or limit, or shall be construed to alter or limit, the jurisdiction or authority conferred upon the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the United States Attorneys, the Criminal Division or the Civil Rights Division, or any other component of the Department of Justice that may have jurisdiction regarding criminal violations of law.
[68 FR 35281, June 13, 2003]
§ 287.11
Pre-enrolled Access Lane.
(a)
Pre-enrolled Access Lane
(PAL). A PAL is a designated traffic lane located at a Service checkpoint, which, when in operation, may be used exclusively by enrolled participants and their passengers in vehicles authorized by the Service to pass through the checkpoint.
(b)
General requirements for Pre-enrolled Access Lane Program.
(1) Participation in the Pre-enrolled Access Lane program is wholly voluntary and failure to apply or denial of an application does not prevent any person from passing through the checkpoint in the regular traffic lanes.
(2) Only United States citizens and members of the classes of aliens which the Commissioner of the Service or her delegates determine to be eligible may enroll in the PAL program. To participate in the PAL program, an applicant must have a permanent or temporary residence in the United States, and must agree to furnish all information requested on the application.
(3) The applicant must agree to all terms and conditions required for use of a Pre-enrolled Access Lane. Immigration, criminal justice information, and law enforcement records and databases will be checked to assist in determining the applicant's eligibility. The Service may require applicants to submit fingerprints, and the Service may provide those fingerprints to Federal, State, and local government agencies for the purpose of determining eligibility to participate in the PAL program.
(4) Any vehicle used in a Pre-enrolled Access Lane must have current approval from the Service for use in the PAL program.
(5) Enrolled participants may be issued an identification document showing authorization to participate in the PAL program, and, if such a document is issued, participants must have it in their possession whenever using the PAL. In addition, alien participants must be in possession of a valid form constituting evidence of alien registration pursuant to § 264.1(b) of this chapter at all times while using the PAL.
(6) The Service will install any and all equipment, decals, devices, technology, or methodology it deems necessary on registered vehicles to ensure that only authorized persons and vehicles use the PAL.
(7) All devices, decals, or other equipment, methodology, or technology used to identify persons or vehicles using a Pre-enrolled Access Lane remain the property of the United States Government at all times and must be surrendered upon request of the Service. Enrolled participants must abide by the terms set forth by the Service for use of any device, decal, or other equipment, methodology, or technology. If a vehicle is sold or otherwise disposed of, it is the responsibility of the enrolled participant to remove or obliterate any identifying decal or other authorization for participation in the PAL program before or at the time of sale or disposal unless otherwise notified by the Service. If the Service installs an electronic transmitter or similar device on the vehicle, the enrolled participant must have that device removed by the Service at the PAL enrollment center prior to sale or disposal of an authorized vehicle.
(8) Enrolled participants in the PAL program may carry passengers who are not enrolled in the program in their authorized vehicles in the PAL as long as all passengers are United States citizens, lawful permanent residents of the United States, or rightful holders of valid nonimmigrant United States visas.
(c)
Application.
(1) Application for Pre-enrolled Access Lane participation shall be made on Form I-866, Application—Checkpoint Pre-enrolled Access Lane.
(2) Each person wishing to enroll in the Pre-enrolled Access Lane program must submit a separate application.
(3) Applications must be supported by documents establishing identity, United States citizenship or lawful immigration status in the United States, a valid driver's license, and vehicle registration for all vehicles being registered. The Service may require additional documentation where appropriate to substantiate information provided on the application, as well as written permission from the vehicle owner to use any vehicle not owned by the applicant in the PAL.
(4) Each person filing an application may be required to present himself or herself for an interview at a time and place designated by the Service prior to approval of the application.
(5) The Service may inspect any vehicle that a PAL applicant desires to register for use in the PAL to ensure that it does not present evidence of having been used or prepared to be used to smuggle aliens or controlled substances, and the Service must approve all vehicles prior to use in the PAL. The Service may prohibit the use of certain types of vehicles in the PAL for reasons of safety and law enforcement.
(6) An application may be denied by the Chief Patrol Agent having jurisdiction over the PAL enrollment center where the application is filed. Written notice of the decision on the application shall be given to the applicant or mailed by ordinary mail to the applicant's last known address. There is no appeal from a denial, but denial is without prejudice to reapplying for this program. Re-applications following denial or revocation of the privilege to participate in the PAL program will not be considered by the Service until 90 days after the date of denial or revocation.
(7) Registration in the PAL program is limited to individuals who the Service has determined present a low risk of using the PAL for unlawful purposes. Criteria that will be considered in the decision to approve or deny the application include the following: lawful presence in the United States, criminal history and/or evidence of criminality, employment, residency, prior immigration history, possession of a valid driver's license, vehicle type, registration, and inspection.
(8) Applications approved by the Service will entitle the authorized person and the authorized vehicle to use the PAL for 2 years from the date of approval of the application or until authorization is revoked, whichever occurs first.
(d)
Acknowledgments and agreements.
By signing and submitting the Form I-866 each applicant acknowledges and
agrees to all of the conditions for participation in the PAL program and the statements on the Form I-866.
(e)
Violation of conditions of a Pre-enrolled Access Lane and Revocation.
An enrolled participant who violates any condition of the PAL program, or any applicable law or regulation, or who is otherwise determined by an immigration officer to be ineligible to participate in the PAL program, may have his or her authorization and the authorization of his or her vehicle(s) revoked by the Chief Patrol Agent with jurisdiction over the PAL enrollment center where the application is filed and may be subject to other applicable sanctions, such as criminal and/or civil penalties, removal, and/or possible seizure of goods and/or vehicles. If an authorized vehicle is sold, stolen, or otherwise disposed of, authorization to use that vehicle in the PAL is automatically revoked. Within 24 hours of when an authorized vehicle is stolen, or within 7 days of when such vehicle is sold, or otherwise disposed of or the license plates are changed, enrolled participants must give, in person or by facsimile transmission, written notice of such occurrence to the PAL enrollment center at which their application was filed. Failure to do so will result in the automatic revocation of the authorization to use the PAL of the person who registered such vehicle in the PAL program. Unless revocation is automatic, the Service will give notice of revocation to the enrolled PAL participant or mail it by ordinary mail to his or her last known address. However, written notification is not necessary prior to revocation of the privilege to participate in the PAL program. There is no appeal from the revocation of an authorization to participate in the PAL program.
(f)
No benefits or rights conferred.
This section does not, is not intended to, shall not be construed to, and may not be relied upon to confer any immigration benefit or status to any alien or create any rights, substantive or procedural, enforceable in law or equity by any party in any matter.
[62 FR 19025, Apr. 18, 1997]
§ 287.12
Scope.
With regard to this part, these regulations provide internal guidance on specific areas of law enforcement authority. These regulations do not, are not intended to, and shall not be construed to exclude, supplant, or limit otherwise lawful activities of the Department or the Secretary. These regulations do not, are not intended to, shall not be construed to, and may not be relied upon to create any rights, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by any party in any matter, civil or criminal. The Secretary shall have exclusive authority to enforce these regulations through such administrative and other means as he may deem appropriate.
[68 FR 35282, June 13, 2003]
Pt. 289

# PART 289—AMERICAN INDIANS BORN IN CANADA
Sec.
289.1
Definition.
289.2
Lawful admission for permanent residence.
289.3
Recording the entry of certain American Indians born in Canada.

# Authority:
Secs. 103, 262, 289, 66 Stat. 173, 224, 234; 8 U.S.C. 1103, 1302, 1359; 45 Stat. 401, 54 Stat. 670; 8 U.S.C. 226a, 451.
§ 289.1
Definition.
The term
American Indian born in Canada
as used in section 289 of the Act includes only persons possessing 50 per centum or more of the blood of the American Indian race. It does not include a person who is the spouse or child of such an Indian or a person whose membership in an Indian tribe or family is created by adoption, unless such person possesses at least 50 per centum or more of such blood.
[29 FR 11494, Aug. 11, 1964]
§ 289.2
Lawful admission for permanent residence.
Any American Indian born in Canada who at the time of entry was entitled to the exemption provided for such person by the Act of April 2, 1928 (45 Stat. 401), or section 289 of the Act, and has maintained residence in the United
States since his entry, shall be regarded as having been lawfully admitted for permanent residence. A person who does not possess 50 per centum of the blood of the American Indian race, but who entered the United States prior to December 24, 1952, under the exemption provided by the Act of April 2, 1928, and has maintained his residence in the United States since such entry shall also be regarded as having been lawfully admitted for permanent residence. In the absence of a Service record of arrival in the United States, the record of registration under the Alien Registration Act, of 1940 (54 Stat. 670; 8 U.S.C. 451), or section 262 of the Act, or other satisfactory evidence may be accepted to establish the date of entry.
[29 FR 11494, Aug. 11, 1964]
§ 289.3
Recording the entry of certain American Indians born in Canada.
The lawful admission for permanent residence of an American Indian born in Canada shall be recorded on Form I-181.
[33 FR 7485, May 21, 1968]
Pt. 292

# PART 292—REPRESENTATION AND APPEARANCES
Sec.
292.1
Representation of others.
292.2
Organizations qualified for recognition; requests for recognition; withdrawal of recognition; accreditation of representatives; roster.
292.3
Professional conduct for practitioners—Rules and procedures.
292.4
Appearances.
292.5
Service upon and action by attorney or representative of record.
292.6
Interpretation.

# Authority:
6 U.S.C. 112; 8 U.S.C. 1103, 1252b, 1362.
§ 292.1
Representation of others.
(a) A person entitled to representation may be represented by any of the following, subject to the limitations in 8 CFR 103.2(a)(3):
(1)
Attorneys in the United States.
Any attorney as defined in8 CFR 1.2.
(2)
Law students and law graduates not yet admitted to the bar.
A law student who is enrolled in an accredited U.S. law school, or a graduate of an accredited U.S. law school who is not yet admitted to the bar, provided that:
(i) He or she is appearing at the request of the person entitled to representation;
(ii) In the case of a law student, he or she has filed a statement that he or she is participating, under the direct supervision of a faculty member, licensed attorney, or accredited representative, in a legal aid program or clinic conducted by a law school or non-profit organization, and that he or she is appearing without direct or indirect remuneration from the alien he or she represents;
(iii) In the case of a law graduate, he or she has filed a statement that he or she is appearing under the supervision of a licensed attorney or accredited representative and that he or she is appearing without direct or indirect remuneration from the alien he or she represents; and
(iv) The law student's or law graduate's appearance is permitted by the DHS official before whom he or she wishes to appear. The DHS official may require that a law student be accompanied by the supervising faculty member, attorney, or accredited representative.
(3)
Reputable individuals.
Any reputable individual of good moral character, provided that:
(i) He is appearing on an individual case basis, at the request of the person entitled to representation;
(ii) He is appearing without direct or indirect renumeration and files a written declaration to that effect;
(iii) He has a pre-existing relationship or connection with the person entitled to representation (e.g., as a relative, neighbor, clergyman, business associate or personal friend), provided that such requirement may be waived, as a matter of administrative discretion, in cases where adequate representation would not otherwise be available; and
(iv) His or her appearance is permitted by the DHS official before whom he or she seeks to appear, provided that such permission will not be granted with respect to any individual who regularly engages in immigration
and naturalization practice or preparation, or holds himself or herself out to the public as qualified to do so.
(4)
Accredited representatives.
A person representing an organization described in § 292.2 of this chapter who has been accredited by the Board.
(5)
Accredited officials.
An accredited official, in the United States, of the government to which an alien owes allegiance, if the official appears solely in his official capacity and with the alien's consent.
(6)
Attorneys outside the United States.
An attorney, other than one described in 8 CFR 1.2, who is licensed to practice law and is in good standing in a court of general jurisdiction of the country in which he or she resides and who is engaged in such practice, may represent parties in matters before DHS, provided that he or she represents persons only in matters outside the geographical confines of the United States as defined in section 101(a)(38) of the Act, and that the DHS official before whom he or she wishes to appear allows such representation as a matter of discretion.
(b)
Persons formerly authorized to practice.
A person, other than a representative of an organization described in § 292.2 of this chapter, who on December 23, 1952, was authorized to practice before the Board and the Service may continue to act as a representative, subject to the provisions of § 292.3 of this chapter.
(c)
Former employees.
No person previously employed by the Department of Justice shall be permitted to act as a representative in any case in violation of the provisions of 28 CFR 45.735-7.
(d)
Amicus curiae.
The Board may grant permission to appear, on a case-by-case basis, as amicus curiae, to an attorney or to an organization represented by an attorney, if the public interest will be served thereby.
(e) Except as set forth in this section, no other person or persons shall represent others in any case.
[40 FR 23271, May 29, 1975, as amended at 53 FR 7728, Mar. 10, 1988; 55 FR 49251, Nov. 27, 1990; 61 FR 53610, Oct. 15, 1996; 62 FR 23635, May 1, 1997; 75 FR 5227, Feb. 2, 2010; 76 FR 53797, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 292.2
Organizations qualified for recognition; requests for recognition; withdrawal of recognition; accreditation of representatives; roster.
(a)
Qualifications of organizations.
A non-profit religious, charitable, social service, or similar organization established in the United States and recognized as such by the Board may designate a representative or representatives to practice before the Service alone or the Service and the Board (including practice before the Immigration Court). Such organization must establish to the satisfaction of the Board that:
(1) It makes only nominal charges and assesses no excessive membership dues for persons given assistance; and
(2) It has at its disposal adequate knowledge, information and experience.
(b)
Requests for recognition.
An organization having the qualifications prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section may file an application for recognition on a Form G-27 directly with the Board, along with proof of service of a copy of the application on the district director having jurisdiction over the area in which the organization is located. The district director, within 30 days from the date of service, shall forward to the Board a recommendation for approval or disapproval of the application and the reasons therefor, or request a specified period of time in which to conduct an investigation or otherwise obtain relevant information regarding the applicant. The district director shall include proof of service of a copy of such recommendation or request on the organization. The organization shall have 30 days in which to file a response with the Board to a recommendation by a district director that is other than favorable, along with proof of service of a copy of such response on the district director. If the Board approves a request for time to conduct an investigation, or in its discretion remands the application to the district director for further information, the organization shall be advised of the time granted for such purpose. The Service shall promptly forward the results of any investigation or inquiry
to the Board, along with its recommendations for approval or disapproval and the reasons therefor, and proof of service of a copy of the submission on the organization. The organization shall have 30 days from the date of such service to file a response with the Board to any matters raised therein, with proof of service of a copy of the response on the district director. Requests for extensions of filing times must be submitted in writing with the reasons therefor and may be granted by the Board in its discretion. Oral argument may be heard before the Board in its discretion at such date and time as the Board may direct. The organization and Service shall be informed by the Board of the action taken regarding an application. Any recognized organization shall promptly notify the Board of any changes in its name, address, or public telephone number.
(c)
Withdrawal of recognition.
The Board may withdraw the recognition of any organization which has failed to maintain the qualifications required by § 292.2(a). Withdrawal of recognition may be accomplished in accordance with the following procedure:
(1) The Service, by the district director within whose jurisdiction the organization is located, may conduct an investigation into any organization it believes no longer meets the standards for recognition.
(2) If the investigation establishes to the satisfaction of the district director that withdrawal proceedings should be instituted, he shall cause a written statement of the grounds upon which withdrawal is sought to be served upon the organization, with notice to show cause why its recognition should not be withdrawn. The notice will call upon the organization to appear before a special inquiry officer for a hearing at a time and place stated, not less than 30 days after service of the notice.
(3) The special inquiry officer shall hold a hearing, receive evidence, make findings of fact, state his recommendations, and forward the complete record to the Board.
(4) The organization and the Service shall have the opportunity of appearing at oral argument before the Board at a time specified by the Board.
(5) The Board shall consider the entire record and render its decision. The order of the Board shall constitute the final disposition of the proceedings.
(d)
Accreditation of representatives.
An organization recognized by the Board under paragraph (b) of this section may apply for accreditation of persons of good moral character as its representatives. An organization may apply to have a representative accredited to practice before the Service alone or the Service and the Board (including practice before immigration judges). An application for accreditation shall fully set forth the nature and extent of the proposed representative's experience and knowledge of immigration and naturalization law and procedure and the category of accreditation sought. No individual may submit an application on his or her own behalf. An application shall be filed directly with the Board, along with proof of service of a copy of the application on the district director having jurisdiction over the area in which the requesting organization is located. The district director, within 30 days from the date of service, shall forward to the Board a recommendation for approval or disapproval of the application and the reasons therefor, or request a specified period of time in which to conduct an investigation or otherwise obtain relevant information regarding the applicant. The district director shall include proof of service of a copy of such recommendation or request on the organization. The organization shall have 30 days in which to file a response with the Board to a recommendation by a district director that is other than favorable, with proof of service of a copy of such response on the district director. If the Board approves a request for time to conduct an investigation, or in its discretion remands the application to the district director for further information, the organization shall be advised of the time granted for such purpose. The district director shall promptly forward the results of any investigation or inquiry to the Board, along with a recommendation for approval or disapproval and the reasons therefor, and proof of service of a copy of the submission on the organization. The organization shall have 30 days
from the date of service to file a response with the Board to any matters raised therein, with proof or service of a copy of the response on the district director. Requests for extensions of filing times must be submitted in writing with the reasons therefor and may be granted by the Board in its discretion. Oral argument may be heard before the Board in its discretion at such date and time as the Board may direct. The Board may approve or disapprove an application in whole or in part and shall inform the organization and the district director of the action taken with regard to an application. The accreditation of a representative shall be valid for a period of three years only; however, the accreditation shall remain valid pending Board consideration of an application for renewal of accreditation if the application is filed at least 60 days before the third anniversary of the date of the Board's prior accreditation of the representative. Accreditation terminates when the Board's recognition of the organization ceases for any reason or when the representative's employment or other connection with the organization ceases. The organization shall promptly notify the Board of such changes.
(e)
Roster.
The Board shall maintain an alphabetical roster of recognized organizations and their accredited representatives. A copy of the roster shall be furnished to the Commissioner and he shall be advised from time to time of changes therein.
[40 FR 23272, May 29, 1975, as amended at 49 FR 44086, Nov. 2, 1984; 62 FR 9075, Feb. 28, 1997]
§ 292.3
Professional conduct for practitioners—Rules and procedures.
(a)
General provisions
—(1)
Authority to sanction.
An adjudicating official or the Board of Immigration Appeals (Board) may impose disciplinary sanctions against any practitioner if it finds it to be in the public interest to do so. It will be in the public interest to impose disciplinary sanctions against a practitioner who is authorized to practice before DHS when such person has engaged in criminal, unethical, or unprofessional conduct, or in frivolous behavior, as set forth in 8 CFR 1003.102. In accordance with the disciplinary proceedings set forth in 8 CFR part 1003, an adjudicating official or the Board may impose any of the following disciplinary sanctions:
(i) Expulsion which is permanent, from practice before the Board and the Immigration Courts, or DHS, or before all three authorities;
(ii) Suspension, including immediate suspension, from practice before the Board and the Immigration Courts, or DHS, or before all three authorities;
(iii) Public or private censure; or
(iv) Such other disciplinary sanctions as the adjudicating official or the Board deems appropriate.
(2)
Persons subject to sanctions.
Persons subject to sanctions include any practitioner. A practitioner is any attorney as defined in 8 CFR 1.2 who does not represent the federal government, or any representative as defined in 8 CFR 1.2. Attorneys employed by DHS will be subject to discipline pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section.
(b)
Grounds of discipline.
It is deemed to be in the public interest for the adjudicating official or the Board to impose disciplinary sanctions as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section against any practitioner who falls within one or more of the categories enumerated in 8 CFR 1003.102. These categories do not constitute the exclusive grounds for which disciplinary sanctions may be imposed in the public interest. Nothing in this regulation should be read to denigrate the practitioner's duty to represent zealously his or her client within the bounds of the law.
(c)
Immediate suspension and summary disciplinary proceedings; duty of practitioner to notify DHS of conviction or discipline
—(1)
Immediate suspension proceedings.
Immediate suspension proceedings will be conducted in accordance with the provisions set forth in 8 CFR 1003.103. DHS shall file a petition with the Board to suspend immediately from practice before DHS any practitioner who has been found guilty of, or pleaded guilty or nolo contendere to, a serious crime, as defined in 8 CFR 1003.102(h), any practitioner who has been suspended or disbarred by, or while a disciplinary investigation or proceeding is pending has resigned from, the highest court of any State,
possession, territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia, or any Federal court; or who has been placed on an interim suspension pending a final resolution of the underlying disciplinary matter.
(2)
Copies and proof of service.
A copy of the petition will be forwarded to EOIR, which may submit a written request to the Board that entry of any order immediately suspending a practitioner before DHS also apply to the practitioner's authority to practice before the Board and the Immigration Courts. Proof of service on the practitioner of EOIR's request to broaden the scope of any immediate suspension must be filed with the Board.
(3)
Summary disciplinary proceedings.
Summary disciplinary proceedings will be conducted in accordance with the provisions set forth in 8 CFR 1003.103. DHS shall promptly initiate summary disciplinary proceedings against any practitioner described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section by the issuance of a Notice of Intent to Discipline, upon receipt of a certified copy of the order, judgment, and/or record evidencing the underlying criminal conviction, discipline, or resignation, and accompanied by a certified copy of such document. Delays in initiation of summary disciplinary proceedings under this section will not impact an immediate suspension imposed pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Any such proceeding will not be concluded until all direct appeals from an underlying criminal conviction have been completed.
(4)
Duty of practitioner to notify DHS of conviction or discipline.
Within 30 days of the issuance of the initial order, even if an appeal of the conviction or discipline is pending, of any conviction or discipline for professional misconduct entered on or after July 27, 2000, a practitioner must notify DHS disciplinary counsel if the practitioner has been: Found guilty of, or pleaded guilty or nolo contendere to, a serious crime, as defined in 8 CFR 1003.102(h); suspended or disbarred by, or while a disciplinary investigation or proceeding is pending has resigned from, the highest court of any State, possession, territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia, or any Federal court; or placed on an interim suspension pending a final resolution of the underlying disciplinary matter. Failure to notify DHS disciplinary counsel as required may result in immediate suspension as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(d)
Filing of complaints of misconduct occurring before DHS; preliminary inquiry; resolutions; referral of complaints
—(1)
Filing of complaints of misconduct occurring before DHS.
Complaints of criminal, unethical, or unprofessional conduct, or of frivolous behavior by a practitioner before DHS must be filed with the DHS disciplinary counsel. Disciplinary complaints must be submitted in writing and must state in detail the information that supports the basis for the complaint, including, but not limited to, the names and addresses of the complainant and the practitioner, the date(s) of the conduct or behavior, the nature of the conduct or behavior, the individuals involved, the harm or damages sustained by the complainant, and any other relevant information. The DHS disciplinary counsel will notify EOIR disciplinary counsel of any disciplinary complaint that pertains, in whole or in part, to a matter before the Board or the Immigration Courts.
(2)
Preliminary inquiry.
Upon receipt of a disciplinary complaint or on its own initiative, the DHS disciplinary counsel will initiate a preliminary inquiry. If a complaint is filed by a client or former client, the complainant thereby waives the attorney-client privilege and any other applicable privilege, to the extent necessary to conduct a preliminary inquiry and any subsequent proceeding based thereon. If the DHS disciplinary counsel determines that a complaint is without merit, no further action will be taken. The DHS disciplinary counsel may, in his or her discretion, close a preliminary inquiry if the complainant fails to comply with reasonable requests for assistance, information, or documentation. The complainant and the practitioner will be notified of any such determination in writing.
(3)
Resolutions reached prior to the issuance of a Notice of Intent to Discipline.
The DHS disciplinary counsel may, in his or her discretion, issue warning letters and admonitions, and may enter into agreements in lieu of discipline, prior to the issuance of a Notice of Intent to Discipline.
(e)
Notice of Intent to Discipline
—(1)
Issuance of Notice to Practitioner.
If, upon completion of the preliminary inquiry, the DHS disciplinary counsel determines that sufficient prima facie evidence exists to warrant charging a practitioner with professional misconduct as set forth in 8 CFR 1003.102, it will file with the Board and issue to the practitioner who was the subject of the preliminary inquiry a Notice of Intent to Discipline. Service of this notice will be made upon the practitioner by either certified mail to his or her last known address, as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, or by personal delivery. Such notice shall contain a statement of the charge(s), a copy of the preliminary inquiry report, the proposed disciplinary sanctions to be imposed, the procedure for filing an answer or requesting a hearing, and the mailing address and telephone number of the Board. In summary disciplinary proceedings brought pursuant to § 292.3(c), a preliminary inquiry report is not required to be filed with the Notice of Intent to Discipline. Notice of Intent to Discipline proceedings will be conducted in accordance with the provisions set forth in 8 CFR 1003.105 and 1003.106.
(2)
Practitioner's address.
For the purposes of this section, the last known address of a practitioner is the practitioner's address as it appears in DHS records if the practitioner is actively representing an applicant or petitioner before DHS on the date the DHS disciplinary counsel issues the Notice of Intent to Discipline. If the practitioner does not have a matter pending before DHS on the date of the issuance of a Notice of Intent to Discipline, then the last known address for a practitioner will be as follows:
(i)
Attorneys in the United States:
The attorney's address that is on record with a state jurisdiction that licensed the attorney to practice law.
(ii)
Accredited representatives:
The address of a recognized organization with which the accredited representative is affiliated.
(iii)
Accredited officials:
The address of the embassy of the foreign government that employs the accredited official.
(iv)
All other practitioners:
The address for the practitioner that appears in DHS records for the application or petition proceeding in which the DHS official permitted the practitioner to appear.
(3)
Copy of Notice to EOIR; reciprocity of disciplinary sanctions.
A copy of the Notice of Intent to Discipline shall be forwarded to the EOIR disciplinary counsel. Under Department of Justice regulations in 8 CFR chapter V, the EOIR disciplinary counsel may submit a written request to the Board or the adjudicating official requesting that any discipline imposed upon a practitioner which restricts his or her authority to practice before DHS also apply to the practitioner's authority to practice before the Board and the Immigration Courts. Proof of service on the practitioner of any request to broaden the scope of the proposed discipline must be filed with the Board or the adjudicating official.
(4)
Answer.
The practitioner shall file a written answer or a written request for a hearing to the Notice of Intent to Discipline in accordance with 8 CFR 1003.105. If a practitioner fails to file a timely answer, proceedings will be conducted according to 8 CFR 1003.105.
(f)
Right to be heard and disposition; decision; appeal; and reinstatement after expulsion or suspension.
Upon the filing of an answer, the matter shall be heard, decided, and appeals filed according to the procedures set forth in 8 CFR 1003.106. Reinstatement proceedings after expulsion or suspension shall be conducted according to the procedures set forth in 8 CFR 1003.107.
(g)
Referral.
In addition to, or in lieu of, initiating disciplinary proceedings against a practitioner, the DHS disciplinary counsel may notify any appropriate Federal and/or state disciplinary or regulatory authority of any complaint filed against a practitioner. Any final administrative decision imposing sanctions against a practitioner (other than a private censure) will be
reported to any such disciplinary or regulatory authority in every jurisdiction where the disciplined practitioner is admitted or otherwise authorized to practice.
(h)
Confidentiality
—(1)
Complaints and preliminary inquiries.
Except as otherwise provided by law or regulation or as authorized by this regulation, information concerning complaints or preliminary inquiries is confidential. A practitioner whose conduct is the subject of a complaint or preliminary inquiry, however, may waive confidentiality, except that the DHS disciplinary counsel may decline to permit a waiver of confidentiality if it is determined that an ongoing preliminary inquiry may be substantially prejudiced by a public disclosure before the filing of a Notice of Intent to Discipline.
(i)
Disclosure of information for the purpose of protecting the public.
The DHS disciplinary counsel may disclose information concerning a complaint or preliminary inquiry for the protection of the public when the necessity for disclosing information outweighs the necessity for preserving confidentiality in circumstances including, but not limited to, the following:
(A) A practitioner has caused, or is likely to cause, harm to client(s), the public, or the administration of justice, such that the public or specific individuals should be advised of the nature of the allegations. If disclosure of information is made pursuant to this paragraph, the DHS disciplinary counsel may define the scope of information disseminated and may limit the disclosure of information to specified individuals or entities;
(B) A practitioner has committed criminal acts or is under investigation by law enforcement authorities;
(C) A practitioner is under investigation by a disciplinary or regulatory authority, or has committed acts or made omissions that may reasonably result in investigation by such an authority;
(D) A practitioner is the subject of multiple disciplinary complaints and the DHS disciplinary counsel has determined not to pursue all of the complaints. The DHS disciplinary counsel may inform complainants whose allegations have not been pursued of the status of any other preliminary inquiries or the manner in which any other complaint(s) against the practitioner have been resolved.
(ii)
Disclosure of information for the purpose of conducting a preliminary inquiry.
The DHS disciplinary counsel may, in his or her discretion, disclose documents and information concerning complaints and preliminary inquiries to the following individuals or entities:
(A) To witnesses or potential witnesses in conjunction with a complaint or preliminary inquiry;
(B) To other governmental agencies responsible for the enforcement of civil or criminal laws;
(C) To agencies and other jurisdictions responsible for conducting disciplinary investigations or proceedings;
(D) To the complainant or a lawful designee; and
(E) To the practitioner who is the subject of the complaint or preliminary inquiry or the practitioner's counsel of record.
(2)
Resolutions reached prior to the issuance of a Notice of Intent to Discipline.
Resolutions, such as warning letters, admonitions, and agreements in lieu of discipline, reached prior to the issuance of a Notice of Intent to Discipline, will remain confidential. However, such resolutions may become part of the public record if the practitioner becomes subject to a subsequent Notice of Intent to Discipline.
(3)
Notices of Intent to Discipline and action subsequent thereto.
Notices of Intent to Discipline and any action that takes place subsequent to their issuance, except for the imposition of private censures, may be disclosed to the public, except that private censures may become part of the public record if introduced as evidence of a prior record of discipline in any subsequent disciplinary proceeding. Settlement agreements reached after the issuance of a Notice of Intent to Discipline may be disclosed to the public upon final approval by the adjudicating official or the Board. Disciplinary hearings are open to the public, except as noted in 8 CFR 1003.106(a)(v).
(i)
Discipline of government attorneys.
Complaints regarding the conduct or behavior of DHS attorneys shall be directed to the Office of the Inspector
General, DHS. If disciplinary action is warranted, it will be administered pursuant to the Department's attorney discipline procedures.
[75 FR 5228, Feb. 2, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 53797, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 292.4
Appearances.
(a)
Authority to appear and act.
An appearance must be filed on the appropriate form as prescribed by DHS by the attorney or accredited representative appearing in each case. The form must be properly completed and signed by the petitioner, applicant, or respondent to authorize representation in order for the appearance to be recognized by DHS. The appearance will be recognized by the specific immigration component of DHS in which it was filed until the conclusion of the matter for which it was entered. This does not change the requirement that a new form must be filed with an appeal filed with the Administrative Appeals Office of USCIS. Substitution may be permitted upon the written withdrawal of the attorney or accredited representative of record or upon the filing of a new form by a new attorney or accredited representative. When an appearance is made by a person acting in a representative capacity, his or her personal appearance or signature will constitute a representation that under the provisions of this chapter he or she is authorized and qualified to appear as a representative as provided in 8 CFR 103.2(a)(3) and 292.1. Further proof of authority to act in a representative capacity may be required.
(b) A party to a proceeding and his or her attorney or representative will be permitted to examine the record of proceeding in accordance with 6 CFR part 5.
[23 FR 2673, Apr. 23, 1958, as amended at 32 FR 9633, July 4, 1967; 52 FR 2941, Jan. 29, 1987; 59 FR 1466, Jan. 11, 1994; 75 FR 5230, Feb. 2, 2010; 76 FR 53797, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 292.5
Service upon and action by attorney or representative of record.
(a)
Representative capacity.
Whenever a person is required by any of the provisions of this chapter to give or be given notice; to serve or be served with any paper other than a warrant of arrest or a subpoena; to make a motion; to file or submit an application or other document; or to perform or waive the performance of any act, such notice, service, motion, filing, submission, performance, or waiver shall be given by or to, served by or upon, made by, or requested of the attorney or representative of record, or the person himself if unrepresented.
(b)
Right to representation.
Whenever an examination is provided for in this chapter, the person involved shall have the right to be represented by an attorney or representative who shall be permitted to examine or cross-examine such person and witnesses, to introduce evidence, to make objections which shall be stated succinctly and entered on the record, and to submit briefs. Provided, that nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to provide any applicant for admission in either primary or secondary inspection the right to representation, unless the applicant for admission has become the focus of a criminal investigation and has been taken into custody.
[37 FR 11471, June 8, 1972 and 45 FR 81733, Dec. 12, 1980; 46 FR 2025, Jan. 8, 1981; 58 FR 49911, Sept. 24, 1993]
§ 292.6
Interpretation.
Interpretations of this part will be made by the Board of Immigration Appeals, subject to the provisions of 8 CFR part 1003.
[32 FR 9633, July 4, 1967, as amended at 75 FR 5230, Feb. 2, 2010]
Pt. 293

# PART 293—DEPOSIT OF AND INTEREST ON CASH RECEIVED TO SECURE IMMIGRATION BONDS
Sec.
293.1
Computation of interest.
293.2
Interest rate.
293.3
Simple interest table.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1363.

# Source:
36 FR 13677, July 23, 1971, unless otherwise noted.
§ 293.1
Computation of interest.
The Secretary of the Treasury determines the rate at which an immigration bond secured by cash shall bear interest, consistent with 8 CFR 293.2. Interest shall be computed from the deposit date to and including the refund
date or breach date of the immigration bond. For purposes of this part, the deposit date shall be the date shown on the receipt for the cash received as security on an immigration bond. The refund date shall be the date upon which the interest is certified to the Treasury Department for payment. The breach date shall be the date the immigration bond was breached as shown on Form I-323—“Notice—Immigration Bond Breached.” In counting the number of days for which interest shall be computed, the day on which the cash was deposited shall not be counted; however, the refund date or the breach date shall be counted.
[80 FR 34242, June 16, 2015]
§ 293.2
Interest rate.
Interest on cash deposited to secure immigration bonds will be at the rate as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, but in no case will exceed 3 per centum per annum or be less than zero. The rate will be published by Treasury on the Treasury Web site or through another mechanism.
[80 FR 34242, June 16, 2015]
§ 293.3
Time of payment.
Interest shall be paid only at time of disposition of principal cash when the immigration bond has been cancelled or declared breached.
[80 FR 34242, June 16, 2015]
Pt. 299

# PART 299—IMMIGRATION FORMS
Sec.
299.1
Prescribed forms.
299.2
Distribution of Service forms.
299.3
[Reserved]
299.4
Reproduction of Public Use Forms by public and private entities.
299.5
[Reserved]

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1101 and note, 1103; 8 CFR part 2.
§ 299.1
Prescribed forms.
A listing of USCIS, ICE, and CBP approved forms referenced in chapter I can be viewed on the Office of Management and Budget Web site at
http://www.reginfo.gov.
A listing of approved USCIS forms can also be viewed on its Internet Web site.
[76 FR 53797, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 299.2
Distribution of Service forms.
The distribution of official Immigration and Naturalization applications, petitions, and related forms is as follows:
(a) Any officer or employee of the Service may issue official application or petition and related forms to the person for whose use the form is intended or to a person identified as a representative of the intended user in the quantity required for filing the application or petition and related forms.
(b) A small quantity, twenty-five (25) copies, may be issued to organizations and practitioners who make written request to the Regional Commissioner for the geographic location of the requester if such forms have not been made available for purchase from the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, DC 20402.
(c) Voluntary agencies (VOLAGS) participating in the Outreach Program of the Service who make written request to the Regional Commissioner for the geographic location of the requester may be furnished Service forms gratis in the volumes requested.
[43 FR 14304, Apr. 5, 1978, as amended at 45 FR 6777, Jan. 30, 1980; 45 FR 21611, Apr. 2, 1980]
§ 299.3
[Reserved]
§ 299.4
Reproduction of Public Use Forms by public and private entities.
(a)
Duplication requirements.
All forms required for applying for a specific benefit in compliance with the immigration and naturalization regulations, including those which have been made available for purchase by the Superintendent of Documents as listed in § 299.3, may be printed or otherwise reproduced. Such reproduction must be by an appropriate duplicating process and at the expense of the public or private entity. Forms printed or reproduced by public or private entities shall be:
(1) In black ink or dye that will not fade or “feather” within 20 years, and
(2) Conform to the officially printed forms currently in use with respect to:
(i) Size,
(ii) Wording and language,
(iii) Arrangement, style and size of type, and
(iv) Paper specifications (White, standard copier or typing paper).
(b)
Requirements for electronic generation.
Public or private entities may electronically generate forms required for applying for a specific benefit, in compliance with the immigration and naturalization regulations, at their own expense. This includes forms that have been made available for purchase by the Superintendent of Documents, as listed in § 299.3 provided that each form satisfies the following requirements:
(1) An electronic reproduction must be complete, containing all questions which appear on the official form. The wording and punctuation of all data elements and identifying information must match exactly. No data elements may be added or deleted. The sequence and format for each item on the form must be replicated to mirror the authorized agency form. Each item must be printed on the same page in the same location. Likewise, multiple-part sets may be printed as single sheets provided that the destination of the carbon copy is clearly identified on the bottom of the form. An electronic reproduction of a multi page form does not need to match the head-to-head or head-to-foot printing configuration of the official form. In the case of the Form I-20 A-B/I-20ID, Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant (F-1) Student Status—For Academic and Language Students, private entities may generate this form in single-page format rather than double-sided format, provided that the student's name, school, and date of birth is printed in a shaded box on the top of page 4 of the form, using the same type size and font style as the body of the form.
(2) The final form must match the design, format, and dimensions of the official form. All blocks must remain the same size and lines must remain the same length. No variations will be permissible.
(c) The accuracy of electronically generated forms is the responsibility of the private entities. Changes to existing forms, as announced by the Service, must be promptly incorporated into the private entity software program application. Deviations from the aforementioned standards may result in the return or denial of the applicant's application/petition for a particular benefit.
(d) Electronic printers that provide for near-letter-quality documents should be used to generate electronic forms. Dot matrix printers that are only capable of producing draft quality documents should not be used for form generation, but may be used for the entry of data in a preprinted form where appropriate.
(e) Any form with poor print quality or other defect which renders it illegible, difficult to read, or displays added or missing data elements, will be rejected by the Service. Any problems regarding the acceptability of a specific electronic version of a particular Service form may be brought to the attention of the Director, Policy Directives and Instructions Branch, 425 “I” Street, NW., Room 4034, Washington, DC 20536, telephone number (202) 514-3048.
[59 FR 25558, May 17, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 47801, Sept. 11, 1996; 65 FR 61260, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 299.5
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER C—NATIONALITY REGULATIONS
Pt. 301

# PART 301—NATIONALS AND CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES AT BIRTH

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1401; 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
62 FR 39927, July 25, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 301.1
Procedures.
(a)
Application.
(1) As provided in 8 CFR part 341, a person residing in the United States who desires to be documented as a United States citizen pursuant to section 301(h) of the Act may apply for a passport at a United States passport agency or may submit an application on the form specified by USCIS in accordance with the form instructions and with the fee prescribed by 8 CFR 106.2. The applicant will be notified when and where to appear before a USCIS officer for examination on his or her application.
(2) A person residing outside of the United States who desires to be documented as a United States citizen under section 301(h) of the Act shall make his or her claim at a United States embassy or consulate, in accordance with such regulations as may be prescribed in the Secretary of State.
(b)
Oath of allegiance; issuance of certificate.
Upon determination by the district director that a person is a United States citizen pursuant to section 301(h) of the Act, the person shall take the oath of allegiance, prescribed in 8 CFR part 337, before an officer of the Service designated to administer the oath of allegiance within the United States, and a certificate of citizenship shall be issued. The person shall be considered a United States citizen as of the date of his or her birth.
[62 FR 39927, July 25, 1997, as amended at 74 FR 26940, June 5, 2009; 76 FR 53797, Aug. 29, 2011; 85 FR 46928, Aug. 3, 2020]
Pt. 306

# PART 306—SPECIAL CLASSES OF PERSONS WHO MAY BE NATURALIZED: VIRGIN ISLANDERS
Sec.
306.1
Persons eligible.
306.2
United States citizenship; when acquired.
306.11
Preliminary application form; filing; examination.
306.12
Renunciation forms; disposition.

# Authority:
Secs. 103, 306, 332, 66 Stat. 173, 237, 252; 8 U.S.C. 1103, 1406, 1443.

# Source:
22 FR 9812, Dec. 6, 1957, unless otherwise noted.
§ 306.1
Persons eligible.
Any Danish citizen who resided in the Virgin Islands of the United States on January 17, 1917, and in those Islands, Puerto Rico, or the United States on February 25, 1927, and who had preserved his Danish citizenship by making the declaration prescribed by Article VI of the treaty entered into between the United States and Denmark on August 4, 1916, and proclaimed January 25, 1917, may renounce his Danish citizenship before any court of record in the United States irrespective of his place of residence, in accordance with the provisions of this part.
§ 306.2
United States citizenship; when acquired.
Immediately upon making the declaration of renunciation as described in § 306.12 the declarant shall be deemed to be a citizen of the United States. No certificate of naturalization or of citizenship shall be issued by the clerk of court to any person obtaining, or who has obtained citizenship solely under section 306(a)(1) of the Immigration and Nationality Act or under section 1 of the act of February 25, 1927.
§ 306.11
Preliminary application form; filing; examination.
A person of the class described in § 306.1 shall submit to the Service on Form N-350 preliminary application to renounce Danish citizenship, in accordance with the instructions contained therein. The applicant shall be notified in writing when and where to appear
before a representative of the Service for examination as to his eligibility to renounce Danish citizenship and for assistance in filing the renunciation.
§ 306.12
Renunciation forms; disposition.
The renunciation shall be made and executed by the applicant under oath, in duplicate, on Form N-351 and filed in the office of the clerk of court. The usual procedural requirements of the Immigration and Nationality Act shall not apply to proceedings under this part. The fee shall be fixed by the court or the clerk thereof in accordance with the law and rules of the court, and no accounting therefor shall be required to be made to the Service. The clerk shall retain the original of Form N-351 as the court record and forward the duplicate to the district director exercising administrative naturalization jurisdiction over the area in which the court is located.
Pt. 310

# PART 310—NATURALIZATION AUTHORITY
Sec.
310.1
Administrative naturalization authority.
310.2
Jurisdiction to accept applications for naturalization.
310.3
Administration of the oath of allegiance.
310.4
Judicial naturalization authority and withdrawal of petitions.
310.5
Judicial review.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1421, 1443, 1447, 1448; 8 CFR 2.

# Source:
56 FR 50480, Oct. 7, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 310.1
Administrative naturalization authority.
(a)
Attorney General.
Commencing October 1, 1991, section 310 of the Act confers the sole authority to naturalize persons as citizens of the United States upon the Attorney General.
(b)
Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Pursuant to § 2.1 of this chapter, the Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service is authorized to perform such acts as are necessary and proper to implement the Attorney General's authority under the provisions of section 310 of the Act.
§ 310.2
Jurisdiction to accept applications for naturalization.
USCIS shall accept an application for naturalization from an applicant who is subject to a continuous residence requirement under section 316(a) or 319(a) of the Act as much as three months before the date upon which the applicant would otherwise satisfy such continuous residence requirement in the State or Service district, as defined in 8 CFR 316.1, where residence is to be established for naturalization purposes. At the time of examination on the application, the applicant will be required to prove that he or she satisfies the residence requirements for the residence reflected in the application.
[56 FR 50480, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 53797, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 310.3
Administration of the oath of allegiance.
(a) An applicant for naturalization may elect, at the time of filing of, or at the examination on, the application, to have the oath of allegiance and renunciation under section 337(a) of the Act administered in a public ceremony conducted by the Service or by any court described in section 310(b) of the Act, subject to section 310(b)(1)(B) of the Act.
(b) The jurisdiction of all such courts specified to administer the oath of allegiance shall extend only to those persons who are resident within the respective jurisdictional limits of such courts, except as otherwise provided in section 316(f)(2) of the Act. Persons who temporarily reside within the jurisdictional limits of a court in order to pursue an application properly filed pursuant to section 319(b), 328(a), or 329 of the Act or section 405 of the Immigration Act of 1990 are not subject to the exclusive jurisdiction provisions of section 310(b)(1)(B) of the Act.
(c)(1) A court that wishes to exercise exclusive jurisdiction to administer the oath of allegiance for the 45-day period specified in section 310(b)(1)(B) of the Act shall notify, in writing, the district director of the Service office having jurisdiction over the place in which the court is located, of the
court's intent to exercise such exclusive jurisdiction.
(2) At least 60 days prior to the holding of any oath administration ceremony referred to in § 337.8 of this chapter, the clerk of court shall give written notice to the appropriate district director of the time, date, and place of such ceremony and of the number of persons who may be accommodated.
(d) A court that has notified the Service pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall have exclusive authority to administer the oath of allegiance to persons residing within its jurisdiction for a period of 45 days beginning on the date that the Service notifies the clerk of court of the applicant's eligibility for naturalization. Such exclusive authority shall be effective only if on the date the Service notifies the clerk of court of the applicant's eligibility, the court has notified the Service of the day or days during such 45-day period on which the court has scheduled oath administration ceremonies available to the applicant. The Service must submit the notification of the applicant's eligibility to the clerk of court within 10 days of the approval of the application pursuant to § 337.8 of this chapter.
(e)
Waiver of exclusive authority.
A court exercising exclusive authority to administer the oath of allegiance pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section may waive such exclusive authority when it is determined by the court that the Service failed to notify the court within a reasonable time prior to a scheduled oath ceremony of the applicant's eligibility such that it is impractical for the applicant to appear at that ceremony. The court shall notify the district director in writing of the waiver of exclusive authority as it relates to a specific applicant, and the Service shall promptly notify the applicant. The Service shall then arrange for the administration of the oath of allegiance pursuant to § 337.2 of this chapter.
[58 FR 49911, Sept. 24, 1993, as amended at 66 FR 32144, June 13, 2001]
§ 310.4
Judicial naturalization authority and withdrawal of petitions.
(a)
Jurisdiction.
No court shall have jurisdiction under section 310(a) of the Act, to naturalize a person unless a petition for naturalization with respect to that person was filed with the naturalization court before October 1, 1991.
(b)
Withdrawal of petitions.
(1) In the case of any petition for naturalization which was pending in any court as of November 29, 1990, the petitioner may elect to withdraw such petition, and have the application for naturalization considered under the administrative naturalization process. Such petition must be withdrawn after October 1, 1991, but not later than December 31, 1991.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the petitioner shall not be permitted to withdraw his or her petition for naturalization, unless the Attorney General consents to the withdrawal.
(c)
Judicial proceedings.
(1) All pending petitions not withdrawn in the manner and terms described in paragraph (b) of this section, shall be decided, on the merits, by the naturalization court, in conformity with the applicable provisions of the judicial naturalization authority of the prior statute. The reviewing court shall enter a final order.
(2) In cases where the petitioner fails to prosecute his or her petition, the court shall decide the petition upon its merits unless the Attorney General moves that the petition be dismissed for lack of prosecution.
§ 310.5
Judicial review.
(a)
After 120 days following examination.
An applicant for naturalization may seek judicial review of a pending application for naturalization in those instances where the Service fails to make a determination under section 335 of the Act within 120 days after an examination is conducted under part 335 of this chapter. An applicant shall make a proper application for relief to the United States District Court having jurisdiction over the district in which the applicant resides. The court may either determine the issues brought before it on their merits, or remand the matter to the Service with appropriate instructions.
(b)
After denial of an application.
After an application for naturalization is denied following a hearing before a Service officer pursuant to section 336(a) of the Act, the applicant may seek judicial review of the decision pursuant to section 310 of the Act.
Pt. 312

# PART 312—EDUCATIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR NATURALIZATION
Sec.
312.1
Literacy requirements.
312.2
Knowledge of history and government of the United States.
312.3
Testing of applicants who obtained permanent residence pursuant to section 245A of the Act.
312.4
Selection of interpreter.
312.5
Failure to meet educational and literacy requirements.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1423, 1443, 1447, 1448.

# Source:
56 FR 50481, Oct. 7, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 312.1
Literacy requirements.
(a)
General.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, no person shall be naturalized as a citizen of the United States upon his or her own application unless that person can demonstrate an understanding of the English language, including an ability to read, write, and speak words in ordinary usage in the English language.
(b)
Exceptions.
The following persons need not demonstrate an ability to read, write and speak words in ordinary usage in the English language:
(1) A person who, on the date of filing of his or her application for naturalization, is over 50 years of age and has been living in the United States for periods totalling at least 20 years subsequent to a lawful admission for permanent residence;
(2) A person who, on the date of filing his or her application for naturalization, is over 55 years of age and has been living in the United States for periods totalling at least 15 years subsequent to a lawful admission for permanent residence; or
(3) The requirements of paragraph(a) of this section shall not apply to any person who is unable, because of a medically determinable physical or mental impairment or combination of impairments which has lasted or is expected to last at least 12 months, to demonstrate an understanding of the English language as noted in paragraph (a) of this section. The loss of any cognitive abilities based on the direct effects of the illegal use of drugs will not be considered in determining whether a person is unable to demonstrate an understanding of the English language. For purposes of this paragraph, the term
medically determinable
means an impairment that results from anatomical, physiological, or psychological abnormalities which can be shown by medically acceptable clinical or laboratory diagnostic techniques to have resulted in functioning so impaired as to render an individual unable to demonstrate an understanding of the English language as required by this section, or that renders the individual unable to fulfill the requirements for English proficiency, even with reasonable modifications to the methods of determining English proficiency, as outlined in paragraph(c) of this section.
(c)
Literacy examination
—(1)
Verbal skills.
The ability of an applicant to speak English will be determined by a designated immigration officer from the applicant's answers to questions normally asked in the course of the examination.
(2)
Reading and writing skills.
Except as noted in 8 CFR 312.3, an applicant's ability to read and write English must be tested in a manner prescribed by USCIS. USCIS will provide a description of test study materials and testing procedures on the USCIS Internet Web site.
[56 FR 50481, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 12923, Mar. 19, 1997; 62 FR 15751, Apr. 2, 1997; 64 FR 7993, Feb. 18, 1999; 76 FR 53797, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 312.2
Knowledge of history and government of the United States.
(a)
General.
No person shall be naturalized as a citizen of the United States upon his or her own application unless that person can demonstrate a knowledge and understanding of the fundamentals of the history, and of the principles and form of government, of
the United States. A person who is exempt from the literacy requirement under § 312.1(b) (1) and (2) must still satisfy this requirement.
(b)
Exceptions.
(1) The requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to any person who is unable to demonstrate a knowledge and understanding of the fundamentals of the history, and of the principles and form of government of the United States because of a medically determinable physical or mental impairment, that already has or is expected to last at least 12 months. The loss of any cognitive skills based on the direct effects of the illegal use of drugs will not be considered in determining whether an individual may be exempted. For the purposes of this paragraph the term
medically determinable
means an impairment that results from anatomical, physiological, or psychological abnormalities which can be shown by medically acceptable clinical or laboratory diagnosis techniques to have resulted in functioning so impaired as to render an individual to be unable to demonstrate the knowledge required by this section or that renders the individuals unable to participate in the testing procedures for naturalization, even with reasonable modifications.
(2)
Medical certification.
All persons applying for naturalization and seeking an exception from the requirements of § 312.1(a) and paragraph (a) of this section based on the disability exceptions must submit Form N-648, Medical Certification for Disability Exceptions, to be completed by a medical or osteopathic doctor licensed to practice medicine in the United States or a clinical psychologist licensed to practice psychology in the United States (including the United States territories of Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands). Form N-648 must be submitted as an attachment to the applicant's Form N-400, Application for Naturalization. These medical professionals shall be experienced in diagnosing those with physical or mental medically determinable impairments and shall be able to attest to the origin, nature, and extent of the medical condition as it relates to the disability exceptions noted under § 312.1(b)(3) and paragraph (b)(1) of this section. In addition, the medical professionals making the disability determination must sign a statement on the Form N-648 that they have answered all the questions in a complete and truthful manner, that they (and the applicant) agree to the release of all medical records relating to the applicant that may be requested by the Service and that they attest that any knowingly false or misleading statements may subject the medical professional to the penalties for perjury pursuant to title 18, United Stated Code, Section 1546 and to civil penalties under section 274C of the Act. The Service also reserves the right to refer the applicant to another authorized medical source for a supplemental disability determination. This option shall be invoked when the Service has credible doubts about the veracity of a medical certification that has been presented by the applicant. An affidavit or attestation by the applicant, his or her relatives, or guardian on his or her medical condition is not a sufficient medical attestation for purposes of satisfying this requirement.
(c)
History and government examination
—(1)
Procedure.
The examination of an applicant's knowledge of the history and form of government of the United States must be given orally in English by a designated immigration officer, except:
(i) If the applicant is exempt from the English literacy requirement under 8 CFR 312.1(b), the examination may be conducted in the applicant's native language with the assistance of an interpreter selected in accordance with 8 CFR 312.4 but only if the applicant's command of spoken English is insufficient to conduct a valid examination in English;
(ii) The examination may be conducted in the applicant's native language, with the assistance of an interpreter selected in accordance with 8 CFR 312.4, if the applicant is required to satisfy and has satisfied the English literacy requirement under 8 CFR 312.1(a), but the officer conducting the examination determines that an inaccurate or incomplete record of the examination would result if the examination on technical or complex issues were conducted in English, or
(iii) The applicant has met the requirements of 8 CFR 312.3.
(2)
Scope and substance.
The scope of the examination will be limited to subject matters prescribed by USCIS. In choosing the subject matters, in phrasing questions and in evaluating responses, due consideration must be given to the applicant's:
(i) Education,
(ii) Background,
(iii) Age,
(iv) Length of residence in the United States,
(v) Opportunities available and efforts made to acquire the requisite knowledge, and
(vi) Any other elements or factors relevant to an appraisal of the adequacy of the applicant's knowledge and understanding.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1115-0208)
[56 FR 50481, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 58 FR 49912, Sept. 24, 1993; 62 FR 12923, Mar. 19, 1997; 62 FR 15751, Apr. 2, 1997; 64 FR 7993, Feb. 18, 1999; 76 FR 53797, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 312.3
Testing of applicants who obtained permanent residence pursuant to section 245A of the Act.
An applicant who has obtained lawful permanent resident alien status pursuant to section 245A of the Act, and who, at that time, demonstrated English language proficiency in reading and writing, and knowledge of the government and history of the United States through either an examination administered by USCIS or the INS or a standardized section 312 test authorized by the USCIS or the INS for use with Legalization applicants as provided in section 245A(b)(1)(D)(iii) of the Act, will not be reexamined on those skills at the time of the naturalization interview. However, such applicant, unless otherwise exempt, must still demonstrate his or her ability to speak and understand English in accordance with 8 CFR 312.1(c)(1) and establish eligibility for naturalization through testimony in the English language.
[76 FR 53798, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 312.4
Selection of interpreter.
An interpreter to be used under § 312.2 may be selected either by the applicant or by the Service. However, the Service reserves the right to disqualify an interpreter provided by the applicant in order to ensure the integrity of the examination. Where the Service disqualifies an interpreter, the Service must provide another interpreter for the applicant in a timely manner. If rescheduling of the interview is required, then a new date shall be set as soon as practicable so as not to delay unduly the adjudication of the application. The officer who disqualifies an interpreter shall make a written record of the reason(s) for disqualification as part of the record of the application.
[60 FR 6651, Feb. 3, 1995]
§ 312.5
Failure to meet educational and literacy requirements.
(a) An applicant for naturalization who fails the English literacy or history and government test at the first examination will be afforded a second opportunity to pass the test(s) within 90 days after the first examination during the pendency of the application.
(b) If an applicant who receives notice of the second scheduled examination date fails to appear without good cause for that second examination without prior notification to the Service, the applicant will be deemed to have failed this second examination. Before an applicant may request a postponement of the second examination to a date that is more than 90 days after the initial examination, the applicant must agree in writing to waive the requirement under section 336 of the Act that the Service must render a determination on the application within 120 days from the initial interview, and instead to permit the Service to render a decision within 120 days from the second interview.
[56 FR 50481, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 58 FR 49912, Sept. 24, 1993]
Pt. 313

# PART 313—MEMBERSHIP IN THE COMMUNIST PARTY OR ANY OTHER TOTALITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS
Sec.
313.1
Definitions.
313.2
Prohibitions.
313.3
Statutory exemptions.
313.4
Procedure.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1424, 1443.

# Source:
56 FR 50482, Oct. 7, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 313.1
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
Advocate
includes, but is not limited to, advising, recommending, furthering by overt act, or admitting a belief in a doctrine, and may include the giving, lending, or promising of support or of money or any thing of value to be used for advocating such doctrine.
Advocating Communism
means advocating the establishment of a totalitarian communist dictatorship, including the economic, international, and governmental doctrines of world communism, in all countries of the world through the medium of an internationally coordinated communist revolutionary movement.
Affiliation
with an organization includes, but is not limited to, the giving, lending, or promising of support or of money or any thing of value, to that organization to be used for any purpose.
Circulate
includes circulating, distributing, or displaying a work.
Communist Party
includes:
(1) The Communist Party of the United States;
(2) The Communist Political Association;
(3) The Communist Party of any state of the United States, of any foreign state, or of any political or geographical subdivision of any foreign state;
(4) Any section, subsidiary, branch, affiliate, or subdivision of any such association or party;
(5) The direct predecessors or successors of any such association or party, regardless of what name such group or organization may have used, may now bear, or may hereafter adopt; and
(6) Any communist-action or communist-front organization that is registered or required to be registered under section 786 of title 50 of the United States Code, provided that the applicant knew or had reason to believe, while he or she was a member, that such organization was a communist-front organization.
Organization
includes, but is not limited to, an organization, corporation, company, partnership, association, trust, foundation, or fund, and any group of persons, whether incorporated or not, permanently or temporarily associated together for joint action on any subject or subjects.
Publication
or
publishing
of a work includes writing or printing a work; permitting, authorizing, or consenting to the writing or printing of a work; and paying for the writing or printing of a work.
Subversive
is any individual who advocates or teaches:
(1) Opposition to all organized government;
(2) The overthrow, by force or violence or other unconstitutional means, of the Government of the United States or of all forms of law;
(3) The duty, necessity, or propriety of the unlawful assaulting or killing, either individually or by position, of any officer or officers of the United States or of any other organized government, because of his, her, or their official character;
(4) The unlawful damage, injury, or destruction of property; or
(5) Sabotage.
Totalitarian dictatorship
and
totalitarianism
refer to systems of government not representative in fact and characterized by:
(1) The existence of a single political party, organized on a dictatorial basis, with so close an identity between the policies of such party and the government policies of the country in which the party exists that the government and the party constitute an indistinguishable unit; and
(2) The forcible suppression of all opposition to such a party.
Totalitarian party
includes:
(1) Any party in the United States which advocates totalitarianism;
(2) Any party in any State of the United States, in any foreign state, or in any political or geographical subdivision of any foreign state which advocates or practices totalitarianism;
(3) Any section, subsidiary, branch, affiliate, or subdivision of any such association or party; and
(4) The direct predecessors or successors of any such association or party, regardless of what name such group or
organization may have used, may now bear, or may hereafter adopt.
[56 FR 50482, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 58 FR 49912, Sept. 24, 1993]
§ 313.2
Prohibitions.
Except as provided in § 313.3, no applicant for naturalization shall be naturalized as a citizen of the United States if, within ten years immediately preceding the filing of an application for naturalization or after such filing but before taking the oath of citizenship, such applicant:
(a) Is or has been a member of or affiliated with the Communist Party or any other totalitarian party; or
(b) Is or has advocated communism or the establishment in the United States of a totalitarian dictatorship; or
(c) Is or has been a member of or affiliated with an organization that advocates communism or the establishment in the United States of a totalitarian dictatorship, either through its own utterance or through any written or printed matter published by such organization; or
(d) Is or has been a subversive, or a member of, or affiliated with, a subversive organization; or
(e) Knowingly is publishing or has published any subversive written or printed matter, or written or printed matter advocating communism; or
(f) Knowingly circulates or has circulated, or knowingly possesses or has possessed for the purpose of circulating, subversive written or printed matter, or written or printed matter advocating communism; or
(g) Is or has been a member of, or affiliated with, any organization that publishes or circulates, or that possesses for the purpose of publishing or circulating, any subversive written or printed matter, or any written or printed matter advocating communism.
§ 313.3
Statutory exemptions.
(a)
General.
An applicant shall bear the burden of establishing that classification in one of the categories listed under § 313.2 is not a bar to naturalization.
(b)
Exemptions.
Despite membership in or affiliation with an organization covered by § 313.2, an applicant may be naturalized if the applicant establishes that such membership or affiliation is or was:
(1) Involuntary:
(2) Without awareness of the nature or the aims of the organization, and was discontinued if the applicant became aware of the nature or aims of the organization;
(3) Terminated prior to the attainment of age sixteen by the applicant, or more than ten years prior to the filing of the application for naturalization;
(4) By operation of law; or
(5) Necessary for purposes of obtaining employment, food rations, or other essentials of living.
(c)
Awareness and participation
—(1)
Exemption applicable.
The exemption under paragraph (b)(2) of this section may be found to apply only to an applicant whose participation in the activities of an organization covered under § 313.2 was minimal in nature, and who establishes that he or she was unaware of the nature of the organization while a member of the organization.
(2)
Exemptions inapplicable.
The exemptions under paragraphs (b)(4) and (b)(5) of this section will not apply to any applicant who served as a functionary of an organization covered under § 313.2, or who was aware of and believed in the organization's doctrines.
(d)
Essentials of living
—(1)
Exemption applicable.
The exemption under paragraph (b)(5) of this section may be found to apply only to an applicant who can demonstrate:
(i) That membership in the covered organization was necessary to obtain the essentials of living like food, shelter, clothing, employment, and an education, which were routinely available to the rest of the population—for purposes of this exemption, higher education will qualify as an essential of living only if the applicant can establish the existence of special circumstances which convert the need for higher education into a need as basic as the need for food or employment: and,
(ii) That he or she participated only to the minimal extent necessary to receive the essential of living.
(2)
Exemption inapplicable.
The exemption under paragraph (b)(5) of this section will not be applicable to an applicant who became a member of an organization covered under 313.2 to receive certain benefits:
(i) Without compulsion from the governing body of the relevant country; or
(ii) Which did not qualify as essentials of living.
§ 313.4
Procedure.
In all cases in which the applicant claims membership or affiliation in any of the organizations covered by § 313.2, the applicant shall attach to the application a detailed written statement describing such membership or affiliation, including the periods of membership or affiliation, whether the applicant held any office in the organization, and whether membership or affiliation was voluntary or involuntary. If the applicant alleges that membership or affiliation was involuntary, or that one of the other exemptions in § 313.3 applies, the applicant's statement shall set forth the basis of that allegation.
Pt. 315

# PART 315—PERSONS INELIGIBLE TO CITIZENSHIP: EXEMPTION FROM MILITARY SERVICE
Sec.
315.1
Definitions.
315.2
Ineligibility and exceptions.
315.3
Evidence.
315.4
Exemption treaties.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1443.

# Source:
56 FR 50483, Oct. 7, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 315.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Exemption from military service
means either:
(1) A permanent exemption from induction into the Armed Forces or the National Security Training Corps of the United States for military training or military service; or
(2) The release or discharge from military training or military service in the Armed Forces or in the National Security Training Corps of the United States.
Induction
means compulsory entrance into military service of the United States whether by conscription or, after being notified of a pending conscription, by enlistment.
Treaty national
means an alien who is a national of a country with which the United States has a treaty relating to the reciprocal exemption of aliens from military training or military service.
§ 315.2
Ineligibility and exceptions.
(a)
Ineligibility.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any alien who has requested, applied for, and obtained an exemption from military service on the ground that he or she is an alien shall be ineligible for approval of his or her application for naturalization as a citizen of the United States.
(b)
Exceptions.
The prohibition in paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to an alien who establishes by clear and convincing evidence that:
(1) At the time that he or she requested an exemption from military service, the applicant had no liability for such service even in the absence of an exemption;
(2) The applicant did not request or apply for the exemption from military service, but such exemption was automatically granted by the United States government;
(3) The exemption from military service was based upon a ground other than the applicant's alienage;
(4) In claiming an exemption from military service, the applicant did not knowingly and intentionally waive his or her eligibility for naturalization because he or she was misled by advice from a competent United States government authority, or from a competent authority of the government of his or her country of nationality, of the consequences of applying for an exemption from military service and was, therefore, unable to make an intelligent choice between exemption and citizenship;
(5) The applicant applied for and received an exemption from military service on the basis of alienage, but was subsequently inducted into the Armed Forces, or the National Security Training Corps, of the United States; however, an applicant who voluntarily enlists in and serves in the Armed Forces of the United States,
after applying for and receiving an exemption from military service on the basis of alienage, does not satisfy this exception to paragraph (a) of this section;
(6) Prior to requesting the exemption from military service:
(i) The applicant was a treaty national who had served in the armed forces of the country of which he or she was a national; however, a treaty national who did not serve in the armed forces of the country of nationality prior to requesting the exemption from military service does not satisfy this exception to paragraph (a) of this section;
(ii) The applicant served a minimum of eighteen months in the armed forces of a nation that was a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization at the time of the applicant's service; or
(iii) The applicant served a minimum of twelve months in the armed forces of a nation that was a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization at the time of the applicant's service, provided that the applicant applied for registration with the Selective Service Administration after September 28, 1971; or
(7) The applicant is applying for naturalization pursuant to section 329 of the Act.
§ 315.3
Evidence.
(a) The records of the Selective Service System and the military department under which the alien served shall be conclusive evidence of whether the alien was relieved or discharged from liability for military service because he or she was an alien.
(b) The regulations of the Selective Service Administration and its predecessors will be controlling with respect to the requirement to register for, and liability for, service in the Armed Forces of the United States.
§ 315.4
Exemption treaties.
(a) The following countries currently have effective treaties providing reciprocal exemption of aliens from military service:
Argentina (Art. X, 10 Stat. 1005, 1009, effective 1853)
Austria (Art. VI, 47 Stat. 1876, 1880, effective 1928)
China (Art. XIV, 63 Stat. 1299, 1311, effective 1946)
Costa Rica (Art. IX, 10 Stat. 916, 921, effective 1851)
Estonia (Art. VI, 44 Stat. 2379, 2381, effective 1925)
Honduras (Art. VI, 45 Stat. 2618, 2622, effective 1927)
Ireland (Art. III, 1 US 785, 789, effective 1950)
Italy (Art. XIII, 63 Stat. 2255, 2272, effective 1948)
Latvia (Art. VI, 45 Stat. 2641, 2643, effective 1928)
Liberia (Art. VI, 54 Stat. 1739, 1742, effective 1938)
Norway (Art. VI, 47 Stat. 2135, 2139, effective 1928)
Paraguay (Art. XI, 12 Stat. 1091, 1096, effective 1859)
Spain (Art. V, 33 Stat. 2105, 2108, effective 1902)
Switzerland (Art. II, 11 Stat. 587, 589, effective 1850)
Yugoslavia (Serbia) (Art. IV, 22 Stat. 963, 964, effective 1881)
(b) The following countries previously had treaties providing for reciprocal exemption of aliens from military service:
El Salvador (Art. VI, 46 Stat. 2817, 2821, effective 1926 to February 8, 1958)
Germany (Art. VI, 44 Stat. 2132, 2136, effective 1923 to June 2, 1954)
Hungary (Art. VI, 44 Stat, 2441, 2445, effective 1925 to July 5, 1952)
Thailand (Siam) (Art. 1, 53 Stat. 1731, 1732, effective 1937 to June 8, 1968)
Pt. 316

# PART 316—GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR NATURALIZATION
Sec.
316.1
Definitions.
316.2
Eligibility.
316.3
[Reserved]
316.4
Application; documents.
316.5
Residence in the United States.
316.6
Physical presence for certain spouses of military personnel.
316.7-316.9
[Reserved]
316.10
Good moral character.
316.11
Attachment to the Constitution; favorable disposition towards the good order and happiness.
316.12
Applicant's legal incompetency during statutory period.
316.13
[Reserved]
316.14
Adjudication—examination, grant, denial.
316.15-316.19
[Reserved]
316.20
American institutions of research, public international organizations, and designations under the International Immunities Act.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1181, 1182, 1443, 1447; 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
56 FR 50484, Oct. 7, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 316.1
Definitions.
As used in this part, the term:
Application
means any form, as defined in 8 CFR part 1, on which an applicant requests a benefit relating to naturalization.
Residence in the Service district where the application is filed
means residence in the geographical area over which a particular local field office of USCIS ordinarily has jurisdiction for purposes of naturalization, regardless of where or how USCIS may require such benefit request to be submitted, or whether jurisdiction for the purpose of adjudication is relocated or internally reassigned to another USCIS office.
Service district
means the geographical area over which a particular local field office of USCIS ordinarily has jurisdiction for purposes of naturalization.
[76 FR 53798, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 316.2
Eligibility.
(a)
General.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, to be eligible for naturalization, an alien must establish that he or she:
(1) Is at least 18 years of age;
(2) Has been lawfully admitted as a permanent resident of the United States;
(3) Has resided continuously within the United States, as defined under § 316.5, for a period of at least five years after having been lawfully admitted for permanent residence;
(4) Has been physically present in the United States for at least 30 months of the five years preceding the date of filing the application;
(5) Immediately preceding the filing of an application, or immediately preceding the examination on the application if the application was filed early pursuant to section 334(a) of the Act and the three month period falls within the required period of residence under section 316(a) or 319(a) of the Act, has resided, as defined under § 316.5, for at least three months in a State or Service district having jurisdiction over the applicant's actual place of residence;
(6) Has resided continuously within the United States from the date of application for naturalization up to the time of admission to citizenship;
(7) For all relevant time periods under this paragraph, has been and continues to be a person of good moral character, attached to the principles of the Constitution of the United States, and favorably disposed toward the good order and happiness of the United States; and
(8) Is not a person described in Section 314 of the Act relating to deserters of the United States Armed Forces or those persons who departed from the United States to evade military service in the United States Armed Forces.
(b)
Burden of proof.
The applicant shall bear the burden of establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that he or she meets all of the requirements for naturalization, including that the applicant was lawfully admitted as a permanent resident to the United States, in accordance with the immigration laws in effect at the time of the applicant's initial entry or any subsequent reentry.
[56 FR 50484, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 58 FR 49912, Sept. 24, 1993; 60 FR 6651, Feb. 3, 1995; 76 FR 53798, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 316.3
[Reserved]
§ 316.4
Application; documents.
(a) The applicant will apply for naturalization in accordance with instructions provided on the form prescribed by USCIS for that purpose.
(b) At the time of the examination on the application for naturalization, the applicant may be required to establish the status of lawful permanent resident by submitting the original evidence, issued by the Service, of lawful permanent residence in the United States. The applicant may be also required to submit any passports, or any other documents that have been used to enter the United States at any time after the original admission for permanent residence.
[56 FR 50484, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 58 FR 48780, Sept. 20, 1993; 63 FR 12987, Mar. 17, 1998; 63 FR 70316, Dec. 21, 1998; 76 FR 53798, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 316.5
Residence in the United States.
(a)
General.
Unless otherwise specified, for purposes of this chapter, including § 316.2 (a)(3), (a)(5), and (a)(6), an alien's residence is the same as that alien's domicile, or principal actual dwelling place, without regard to the alien's intent, and the duration of an alien's residence in a particular location is measured from the moment the alien first establishes residence in that location.
(b)
Residences in specific cases
—(1)
Military personnel.
For applicants who are serving in the Armed Forces of the United States but who do not qualify for naturalization under part 328 of this chapter, the applicant's residence shall be:
(i) The State or Service District where the applicant is physically present for at least three months, immediately preceding the filing of an application for naturalization, or immediately preceding the examination on the application if the application was filed early pursuant to section 334(a) of the Act and the three month period falls within the required period of residence under section 316(a) or 319(a) of the Act;
(ii) The location of the residence of the applicant's spouse and/or minor child(ren); or
(iii) The applicant's home of record as declared to the Armed Forces at the time of enlistment and as currently reflected in the applicant's military personnel file.
(2)
Students.
An applicant who is attending an educational institution in a State or Service District other than the applicant's home residence may apply for naturalization:
(i) Where that institution is located; or
(ii) In the State of the applicant's home residence if the applicant can establish that he or she is financially dependent upon his or her parents at the time that the application is filed and during the naturalization process.
(3)
Commuter aliens.
An applicant who is a commuter alien, as described in § 211.5 of this chapter, must establish a principal dwelling place in the United States with the intention of permanently residing there, and must thereafter acquire the requisite period of residence before eligibility for naturalization may be established. Accordingly, a commuter resident alien may not apply for naturalization until he or she has actually taken up permanent residence in the United States and until such residence has continued for the required statutory period. Such an applicant bears the burden of providing evidence to that effect.
(4)
Residence in multiple states.
If an applicant claims residence in more than one State, the residence for purposes of this part shall be determined by reference to the location from which the annual federal income tax returns have been and are being filed.
(5)
Residence during absences of less than one year.
(i) An applicant's residence during any absence of less than one year shall continue to be the State or Service district where the applicant last resided at the time of the applicant's departure abroad.
(ii)
Return to the United States.
If, upon returning to the United States, an applicant returns to the State or Service district where the applicant last resided, the applicant will have complied with the continuous residence requirement specified in § 316.2(a)(5) when at least three months have elapsed, including any part of the applicant's absence, from the date on which the applicant first established that residence. If the applicant establishes residence in a State or Service district other than the one in which he or she last resided, the applicant must complete three months at that new residence to be eligible for naturalization.
(6)
Spouse of military personnel.
Pursuant to section 319(e) of the Act, any period of time the spouse of a United States citizen resides abroad will be treated as residence in any State or district of the United States for purposes of naturalization under section 316(a) or 319(a) of the Act if, during the period of time abroad, the applicant establishes that he or she was:
(i) The spouse of a member of the Armed Forces;
(ii) Authorized to accompany and reside abroad with that member of the Armed Forces pursuant to the member's official orders; and
(iii) Accompanying and residing abroad with that member of the Armed
Forces in marital union in accordance with 8 CFR 319.1(b).
(c)
Disruption of continuity of residence
—(1)
Absence from the United States
—(i)
For continuous periods of between six (6) months and one (1) year.
Absences from the United States for continuous periods of between six (6) months and one (1) year during the periods for which continuous residence is required under § 316.2 (a)(3) and (a)(6) shall disrupt the continuity of such residence for purposes of this part unless the applicant can establish otherwise to the satisfaction of the Service. This finding remains valid even if the applicant did not apply for or otherwise request a nonresident classification for tax purposes, did not document an abandonment of lawful permanent resident status, and is still considered a lawful permanent resident under immigration laws. The types of documentation which may establish that the applicant did not disrupt the continuity of his or her residence in the United States during an extended absence include, but are not limited to, evidence that during the absence:
(A) The applicant did not terminate his or her employment in the United States;
(B) The applicant's immediate family remained in the United States;
(C) The applicant retained full access to his or her United States abode; or
(D) The applicant did not obtain employment while abroad.
(ii)
For period in excess of one (1) year.
Unless an applicant applies for benefits in accordance with § 316.5(d), absences from the United States for a continuous period of one (1) year or more during the period for which continuous residence is required under § 316.2 (a)(3) and (a)(5) shall disrupt the continuity of the applicant's residence. An applicant described in this paragraph who must satisfy a five-year statutory residence period may file an application for naturalization four years and one day following the date of the applicant's return to the United States to resume permanent residence. An applicant described in this paragraph who must satisfy a three-year statutory residence period may file an application for naturalization two years and one day following the date of the applicant's return to the United States to resume permanent residence.
(2)
Claim of nonresident alien status for income tax purposes after lawful admission as a permanent resident.
An applicant who is a lawfully admitted permanent resident of the United States, but who voluntarily claims nonresident alien status to qualify for special exemptions from income tax liability, or fails to file either federal or state income tax returns because he or she considers himself or herself to be a nonresident alien, raises a rebuttable presumption that the applicant has relinquished the privileges of permanent resident status in the United States.
(3)
Removal and return.
Any departure from the United States while under an order of removal (including previously issued orders of exclusion or deportation) terminates the applicant's status as a lawful permanent resident and, therefore, disrupts the continuity of residence for purposes of this part.
(4)
Readmission after a deferred inspection or exclusion proceeding.
An applicant who has been readmitted as a lawful permanent resident after a deferred inspection or by the immigration judge during exclusion proceedings shall satisfy the residence and physical presence requirements under § 316.2 (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), and (a)(6) in the same manner as any other applicant for naturalization.
(d)
Application for benefits with respect to absences; appeal
—(1)
Preservation of residence under section 316(b) of the Act.
(i) An application for the residence benefits under section 316(b) of the Act to cover an absence from the United States for a continuous period of one year or more shall be submitted to the Service on Form N-470 with the required fee, in accordance with the form's instructions. The application may be filed either before or after the applicant's employment commences, but must be filed before the applicant has been absent from the United States for a continuous period of one year.
(ii) An approval of Form N-470 under section 316(b) of the Act shall cover the spouse and dependent unmarried sons and daughters of the applicant who are residing abroad as members of the applicant's household during the period covered by the application. The notice
of approval, Form N-472, shall identify the family members so covered.
(iii) An applicant whose Form N-470 application under section 316(b) of the Act has been approved, but who voluntarily claims nonresident alien status to qualify for special exemptions from income tax liability, raises a rebuttable presumption that the applicant has relinquished a claim of having retained lawful permanent resident status while abroad. The applicant's family members who were covered under section 316(b) of the Act and who were listed on the applicant's Form N-472 will also be subject to the rebuttable presumption that they have relinquished their claims to lawful permanent resident status.
(2)
Preservation of residence under section 317 of the Act.
An application for the residence and physical presence benefits of section 317 of the Act to cover any absences from the United States, whether before or after December 24, 1952, shall be submitted to the Service on Form N-470 with the required fee, in accordance with the form's instructions. The application may be filed either before or after the applicant's absence from the United States or the performance of the functions or services described in section 317 of the Act.
(3)
Approval, denial, and appeal.
The applicant under paragraphs (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section shall be notified of the Service's disposition of the application on Form N-472. If the application is denied, the Service shall specify the reasons for the denial, and shall inform the applicant of the right to appeal in accordance with the provisions of part 103 of this chapter.
[56 FR 50484, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 50487, Oct. 7, 1991; 58 FR 49913, Sept. 24, 1993; 60 FR 6651, Feb. 3, 1995; 62 FR 10394, Mar. 6, 1997; 76 FR 53798, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 316.6
Physical presence for certain spouses of military personnel.
Pursuant to section 319(e) of the Act, any period of time the spouse of a United States citizen resides abroad will be treated as physical presence in any State or district of the United States for purposes of naturalization under section 316(a) or 319(a) of the Act if, during the period of time abroad, the applicant establishes that he or she was:
(a) The spouse of a member of the Armed Forces;
(b) Authorized to accompany and reside abroad with that member of the Armed Forces pursuant to the member's official orders; and
(c) Accompanying and residing abroad with that member of the Armed Forces in marital union in accordance with 8 CFR 319.1(b).
[76 FR 53798, Aug. 29, 2011]
§§ 316.7-316.9
[Reserved]
§ 316.10
Good moral character.
(a)
Requirement of good moral character during the statutory period.
(1) An applicant for naturalization bears the burden of demonstrating that, during the statutorily prescribed period, he or she has been and continues to be a person of good moral character. This includes the period between the examination and the administration of the oath of allegiance.
(2) In accordance with section 101(f) of the Act, the Service shall evaluate claims of good moral character on a case-by-case basis taking into account the elements enumerated in this section and the standards of the average citizen in the community of residence. The Service is not limited to reviewing the applicant's conduct during the five years immediately preceding the filing of the application, but may take into consideration, as a basis for its determination, the applicant's conduct and acts at any time prior to that period, if the conduct of the applicant during the statutory period does not reflect that there has been reform of character from an earlier period or if the earlier conduct and acts appear relevant to a determination of the applicant's present moral character.
(b)
Finding of a lack of good moral character.
(1) An applicant shall be found to lack good moral character, if the applicant has been:
(i) Convicted of murder at any time; or
(ii) Convicted of an aggravated felony as defined in section 101(a)(43) of the Act on or after November 29, 1990.
(2) An applicant shall be found to lack good moral character if during the statutory period the applicant:
(i) Committed one or more crimes involving moral turpitude, other than a purely political offense, for which the applicant was convicted, except as specified in section 212(a)(2)(ii)(II) of the Act;
(ii) Committed two or more offenses for which the applicant was convicted and the aggregate sentence actually imposed was five years or more, provided that, if the offense was committed outside the United States, it was not a purely political offense;
(iii) Violated any law of the United States, any State, or any foreign country relating to a controlled substance, provided that the violation was not a single offense for simple possession of 30 grams or less of marijuana;
(iv) Admits committing any criminal act covered by paragraphs (b)(2) (i), (ii), or (iii) of this section for which there was never a formal charge, indictment, arrest, or conviction, whether committed in the United States or any other country;
(v) Is or was confined to a penal institution for an aggregate of 180 days pursuant to a conviction or convictions (provided that such confinement was not outside the United States due to a conviction outside the United States for a purely political offense);
(vi) Has given false testimony to obtain any benefit from the Act, if the testimony was made under oath or affirmation and with an intent to obtain an immigration benefit; this prohibition applies regardless of whether the information provided in the false testimony was material, in the sense that if given truthfully it would have rendered ineligible for benefits either the applicant or the person on whose behalf the applicant sought the benefit;
(vii) Is or was involved in prostitution or commercialized vice as described in section 212(a)(2)(D) of the Act;
(viii) Is or was involved in the smuggling of a person or persons into the United States as described in section 212(a)(6)(E) of the Act;
(ix) Has practiced or is practicing polygamy;
(x) Committed two or more gambling offenses for which the applicant was convicted;
(xi) Earns his or her income principally from illegal gambling activities; or
(xii) Is or was a habitual drunkard.
(3) Unless the applicant establishes extenuating circumstances, the applicant shall be found to lack good moral character if, during the statutory period, the applicant:
(i) Willfully failed or refused to support dependents;
(ii) Had an extramarital affair which tended to destroy an existing marriage; or
(iii) Committed unlawful acts that adversely reflect upon the applicant's moral character, or was convicted or imprisoned for such acts, although the acts do not fall within the purview of § 316.10(b) (1) or (2).
(c)
Proof of good moral character in certain cases
—(1)
Effect of probation or parole.
An applicant who has been on probation, parole, or suspended sentence during all or part of the statutory period is not thereby precluded from establishing good moral character, but such probation, parole, or suspended sentence may be considered by the Service in determining good moral character. An application will not be approved until after the probation, parole, or suspended sentence has been completed.
(2)
Full and unconditional executive pardon
—(i)
Before the statutory period.
An applicant who has received a full and unconditional executive pardon prior to the beginning of the statutory period is not precluded by § 316.10(b)(1) from establishing good moral character provided the applicant demonstrates that reformation and rehabilitation occurred prior to the beginning of the statutory period.
(ii)
During the statutory period.
An applicant who receives a full and unconditional executive pardon during the statutory period is not precluded by § 316.10(b)(2) (i) and (ii) from establishing good moral character, provided the applicant can demonstrate that extenuating and/or exonerating circumstances exist that would establish his or her good moral character.
(3)
Record expungement
—(i)
Drug offenses.
Where an applicant has had his or her record expunged relating to one of the narcotics offenses under section 212(a)(2)(A)(i)(II) and section 241(a)(2)(B) of the Act, that applicant shall be considered as having been “convicted” within the meaning of § 316.10(b)(2)(ii), or, if confined, as having been confined as a result of “conviction” for purposes of § 316.10(b)(2)(iv).
(ii)
Moral turpitude.
An applicant who has committed or admits the commission of two or more crimes involving moral turpitude during the statutory period is precluded from establishing good moral character, even though the conviction record of one such offense has been expunged.
[56 FR 50484, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 58 FR 49913, Sept. 24, 1993]
§ 316.11
Attachment to the Constitution; favorable disposition towards the good order and happiness.
(a)
General.
An applicant for naturalization must establish that during the statutorily prescribed period, he or she has been and continues to be attached to the principles of the Constitution of the United States and favorably disposed toward the good order and happiness of the United States. Attachment implies a depth of conviction which would lead to active support of the Constitution. Attachment and favorable disposition relate to mental attitude, and contemplate the exclusion from citizenship of applicants who are hostile to the basic form of government of the United States, or who disbelieve in the principles of the Constitution.
(b)
Advocacy of peaceful change.
At a minimum, the applicant shall satisfy the general standard of paragraph (a) of this section by demonstrating an acceptance of the democratic, representational process established by the Constitution, a willingness to obey the laws which may result from that process, and an understanding of the means for change which are prescribed by the Constitution. The right to work for political change shall be consistent with the standards in paragraph (a) of this section only if the changes advocated would not abrogate the current Government and establish an entirely different form of government.
(c)
Membership in the Communist Party or any other totalitarian organization.
An applicant who is or has been a member of or affiliated with the Communist Party or any other totalitarian organization shall be ineligible for naturalization, unless the applicant's membership meets the exceptions in sections 313 and 335 of the Act and § 313.4 of this chapter.
§ 316.12
Applicant's legal incompetency during statutory period.
(a)
General.
An applicant who is legally competent at the time of the examination on the naturalization application and of the administration of the oath of allegiance may be admitted to citizenship, provided that the applicant fully understands the purpose and responsibilities of the naturalization procedures.
(b)
Legal incompetence.
Naturalization is not precluded if, during part of the statutory period, the applicant was legally incompetent or confined to a mental institution.
(1) There is a presumption that the applicant's good moral character, attachment, and favorable disposition which existed prior to the period of legal incompetency continued through that period. The Service may, however, consider an applicant's actions during a period of legal incompetence, as evidence tending to rebut this presumption.
(2) If the applicant has been declared legally incompetent, the applicant has the burden of establishing that legal competency has been restored. The applicant shall submit legal and medical evidence to determine and establish the claim of legal competency.
(3) The applicant shall bear the burden of establishing that any crimes committed, regardless of whether the applicant was convicted, occurred while the applicant was declared legally incompetent.
§ 316.13
[Reserved]
§ 316.14
Adjudication—examination, grant, denial.
(a)
Examination.
The examination on an application for naturalization shall
be conducted in accordance with Section 335 of the Act.
(b)
Determination
—(1)
Grant or denial.
Subject to supervisory review, the employee of the Service who conducts the examination under paragraph (a) of this section shall determine whether to grant or deny the application, and shall provide reasons for the determination, as required under section 335(d) of the Act.
(2)
Appeal.
An applicant whose application for naturalization has been denied may request a hearing, which shall be carried out in accordance with section 336 of the Act.
§§ 316.15-316.19
[Reserved]
§ 316.20
American institutions of research, public international organizations, and designations under the International Immunities Act.
(a)
American institutions of research.
The following-listed organizations have been determined to be American Institutions of research recognized by the Attorney General:
African Medical and Research Foundation (AMREF-USA).
Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University (only in relationship to its research programs).
American Friends of the Middle East, Inc.
American Institutes of Research in the Behavioral Sciences (only in relationship to research projects abroad).
American Universities Field Staff, Inc.
American University, The, Cairo, Egypt.
American University of Beirut (Near East College Associations).
Arctic Institute of North America, Inc.
Armour Research Foundation of Illinois Institute of Technology.
Asia Foundation, The (formerly Committee for a Free Asia, Inc.).
Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy (AURA, Inc.), Tucson, AZ.
Atomic Bomb Casualty Commission.
Beirut University College.
Bermuda Biological Station for Research, Inc.
Bernice P. Biship Museum of Polynesian Antiquities, Ethnology and Natural History at Honolulu, HI.
Brookhaven National Laboratory, Associated Universities, Inc.
Brown University (Department of Engineering), Providence, RI.
Buffalo Eye Bank and Research Society, Inc.
Burma Office of Robert N. Nathan Associates, Inc.
California State University at Long Beach, Department of Geological Sciences.
Carleton College (Department of Sociology and Anthropology), Northfield, MN.
Center of Alcohol Studies, Laboratory of Applied Biodynamics of Yale University.
Central Registry of Jewish Losses in Egypt.
College of Engineering, University of Wisconsin.
College of Medicine, State University of New York.
Colorado State University (Research Foundation), Fort Collins, CO.
Colorado University (International Economic Studies Center), Boulder, CO.
Columbia University (Parker School of Foreign and Comparative Law) and (Faculty of Pure Science), New York, NY.
Cornell University (International Agricultural Development, University of the Philippines-Cornell University Graduate Education Program).
Dartmouth Medical School.
Department of French, Department of Scandinavian Languages, and Department of Near Eastern Languages of the University of California, Berkeley, CA.
Duke University.
Environmental Research Laboratory of the University of Arizona.
Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Medford, MA.
Ford Foundation, 477 Madison Avenue, New York, NY.
Free Europe, Inc. (formerly Free Europe Committee, Inc.; National Committee for a Free Europe (including Radio Free Europe)).
Georgetown University.
George Williams Hooper Foundation, San Francisco Medical Center, University of California, San Francisco, CA.
Gorgas Memorial Institute of Tropical and Preventive Medicine, Inc., and its operating unit, the Gorgas Memorial Laboratory.
Graduate Faculty of Political and Social Science Division of the New School for Social Research, New York, NY.
Harvard University (research and educational programs only)
Harvard-Yenching Institute.
Humboldt State University, School of Natural Resources, Wildlife Management Department.
Indiana University at Bloomington, Indianapolis, South Bend, Northwest, Kokomo, Southeast, East, and Fort Wayne
Institute for Development Anthropology, Inc.
Institute of International Education, Inc.
Institute of International Studies, University of California, Berkeley, CA.
International Center for Social Research, New York, NY.
International Development Foundation, Inc.
International Development Services, Inc.
International Research Associates, Inc.
Inter-University Program for Chinese Language Studies (formerly Stanford Center for Chinese Studies) in Taipei, Taiwan.
Iowa State University.
Iran Foundation, Inc., The.
Kossuth Foundation, Inc., The, New York, NY.
Louisiana State University.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI.
Missouri Botanical Garden (research and educational programs only)
Natural Science Foundation, Philadelphia, PA.
New York Zoological Society.
Paderewski Foundation, Inc.
Peabody Museum of Natural History of Yale University.
People to People Health Foundation, Inc., The (only in relationship to the scientific research activities that will be carried on abroad by the medical staff of the SS “Hope”).
Pierce College (in relationship to research by an instructor, Department of Psychology), Athens, Greece.
Population Council, The, New York, NY.
Radio Liberty Committee, Inc. (formerly American Committee for Liberation, Inc.; American Committee for Liberation of the Peoples of Russia, Inc.; American Committee for Liberation from Bolshevism, Inc.).
Rockefeller Foundation.
Rutgers University, the State University of New Jersey
School of International Relations of the University of Southern California.
SIRIMAR (Societa Internazionale Recerche Marine) Division, Office of the Vice President for Research, Pennsylvania State University.
Social Science Research Council.
Solar Energy Research Institute (SERI).
Stanford Electronic Laboratories, Department of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering, Stanford University, Stanford, CA.
Stanford Research Institute, Menlo Park, CA.
Stanford University (the George Vanderbilt Foundation), Stanford, CA.
Syracuse University.
Tulane University Graduate School.
Tulane University Medical School.
University of Alabama.
University of Alabama Medical Center.
University of Chicago (as a participant in the International Cooperation Administration Program No. W-74 only).
University of Colorado (Department of History), Boulder, CO.
University of Connecticut, College of Liberal Arts and Science (Department of Germanic and Slavic Languages).
University of Hawaii, Honolulu, HI.
University of Ilinois at Urbana-Champaign, Austria-Illinois Exchange Program.
University of Kansas, Office of International Programs.
University of La Verne (La Verne College of Athens)
University of Michigan (School of Natural Resources), Ann Arbor, MI.
University of Minnesota, Department of Plant Pathology (in relationship to research project abroad).
University of Nebraska Mission in Columbia, South America.
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN.
University of Puerto Rico.
University of Washington (Department of Marketing, Transportation, and International Business) and (The School of Public Health and Community Medicine), Seattle, WA.
Wayne State University, Detroit, MI.
Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, Inc.
Williams College, Economic Department, Williamstown, MA.
(b)
Public international organizations of which the United States is a member by treaty or statute.
The following-listed organizations have been determined to be public international organizations of which the United States is a member by treaty or statute:
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
United Nations and all agencies and organizations which are a part thereof.
(c)
International Organizations Immunities Act designations.
The following public international organizations are entitled to enjoy the privileges, exemptions, and immunities provided for in the International Organizations Immunities Act, and are considered as public international organizations of which the United States is a member by treaty or statute within the meaning of section 316(b) of the Act and as public international organizations in which the United States participates by treaty or statute within the meaning of section 319(b) of the Act:
African Development Bank (E.O. 12403, Feb. 8, 1983).
African Development Fund (E.O. 11977, Mar. 14, 1977).
Asian Development Bank (E.O. 11334, Mar. 7, 1967).
Caribbean Organization (E.O. 10983, Dec. 30, 1961).
Criminal Police Organization (E.O. 12425, June 16, 1983).
Customs Cooperation Council (E.O. 11596, June 5, 1971).
European Space Research Organization (ESRO) (E.O. 11760, Jan. 17, 1974).
Food and Agriculture Organization, The (E.O. 9698, Feb 19, 1946).
Great Lakes Fishery Commission (E.O. 11059, Oct. 23, 1962).
Inter-American Defense Board (E.O. 10228, Mar. 26, 1951).
Inter-American Development Bank (E.O. 10873, Apr. 8, 1960).
Inter-American Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture (E.O. 9751, July 11, 1946).
Inter-American Statistical Institute (E.O. 9751, July 11, 1946).
Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission (E.O. 11059, Oct. 23, 1962).
Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration (formerly the Provisional Intergovernmental Committee for the Movement of Migrants from Europe) (E.O. 10335, Mar. 28, 1952).
Intergovernmental Maritime Consultative Organization (E.O. 10795, Dec. 13, 1958).
International Atomic Energy Agency (E.O. 10727, Aug. 31, 1957).
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (E.O. 9751, July 11, 1946).
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (E.O. 11966, Jan. 19, 1977).
International Civil Aviation Organization (E.O. 9863, May 31, 1947).
International Coffee Organization (E.O. 11225, May 22, 1965).
International Cotton Advisory Committee (E.O. 9911, Dec. 19, 1947).
International Development Association (E.O. 11966, Jan. 19, 1977).
International Fertilizer Development Center (E.O. 11977, Mar. 14, 1977).
International Finance Corporation (E.O. 10680, Oct. 2, 1956).
International Food Policy Research Institute (E.O. 12359, Apr. 22, 1982).
International Hydrographic Bureau (E.O. 10769, May 29, 1958).
International Institute for Cotton (E.O. 11283, May 27, 1966).
International Joint Commission—United States and Canada (E.O. 9972, June 25, 1948).
International Labor Organization, The (functions through staff known as The International Labor Office) (E.O. 9698, Feb. 19, 1946).
International Maritime Satellite Organization (E.O. 12238, Sept. 12, 1980).
International Monetary Fund (E.O. 9751, July 11, 1946).
International Pacific Halibut Commission (E.O. 11059, Oct. 23, 1962).
International Secretariat for Volunteer Service (E.O. 11363, July 20, 1967).
International Telecommunication Union (E.O. 9863, May 31, 1947).
International Telecommunications Satellite Organization (INTELSAT) (E.O. 11718, May 14, 1973).
International Wheat Advisory Committee (E.O. 9823, Jan. 24, 1947).
Multinational Force and Observers (E.O. 12359, Apr. 22, 1982).
Organization for European Economic Cooperation (E.O. 10133, June 27, 1950) (Now known as Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; 28 FR 2959, Mar. 26, 1963).
Organization of African Unity (OAU) (E.O. 11767, Feb. 19, 1974).
Organization of American States (includes Pan American Union) (E.O. 10533, June 3, 1954).
Pan American Health Organization (includes Pan American Sanitary Bureau) (E.O. 10864, Feb. 18, 1960).
Preparatory Commission of the International Atomic Energy Agency (E.O. 10727, Aug. 31, 1957).
Preparatory Commission for the International Refugee Organization and its successor, the International Refugee Organization (E.O. 9887, Aug. 22, 1947).
South Pacific Commission (E.O. 10086, Nov. 25, 1949).
United International Bureau for the Protection of Intellectual Property (BIRPI) (E.O. 11484, Sept. 29, 1969).
United Nations, The (E.O. 9698, Feb. 19, 1946).
United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organizations (E.O. 9863, May 31, 1947).
Universal Postal Union (E.O. 10727, Aug. 31, 1957).
World Health Organization (E.O. 10025, Dec. 30, 1948).
World Intellectual Property Organization (E.O. 11866, June 18, 1975).
World Meteorological Organization (E.O. 10676, Sept. 1, 1956).
[32 FR 9634, July 4, 1967]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 316.20, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
Pt. 318

# PART 318—PENDING REMOVAL PROCEEDINGS

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1252, 1429, 1443; 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
62 FR 10394, Mar. 6, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 318.1
Warrant of arrest.
For the purposes of section 318 of the Act, a notice to appear issued under 8
CFR part 239 (including a charging document issued to commence proceedings under sections 236 or 242 of the Act prior to April 1, 1997) shall be regarded as a warrant of arrest.
Pt. 319

# PART 319—SPECIAL CLASSES OF PERSONS WHO MAY BE NATURALIZED: SPOUSES OF UNITED STATES CITIZENS
Sec.
319.1
Person living in marital union with United States citizen spouse.
319.2
Person whose United States citizen spouse is employed abroad.
319.3
Surviving spouses of United States citizens who died during a period of honorable service in an active duty status in the Armed Forces of the United States.
319.4
Persons continuously employed for 5 years by United States organizations engaged in disseminating information.
319.5
Public international organizations in which the U.S. participates by treaty or statute.
319.6
United States nonprofit organizations engaged abroad in disseminating information which significantly promotes U.S. interests.
319.7-319.10
[Reserved]
319.11
Filing of application.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1430, 1443.
§ 319.1
Persons living in marital union with United States citizen spouse.
(a)
Eligibility.
To be eligible for naturalization under section 319(a) of the Act, the spouse of a United States citizen must establish that he or she:
(1) Has been lawfully admitted for permanent residence to the United States;
(2) Has resided continuously within the United States, as defined under § 316.5 of this chapter, for a period of at least three years after having been lawfully admitted for permanent residence;
(3) Has been living in marital union with the citizen spouse for the three years preceding the date of examination on the application, and the spouse has been a United States citizen for the duration of that three year period;
(4) Has been physically present in the United States for periods totaling at least 18 months;
(5) Has resided, as defined in § 316.5 of this chapter, for at least 3 months immediately preceding the filing of the application, or immediately preceding the examination on the application if the application was filed early pursuant to section 334(a) of the Act and the three month period falls within the required period of residence under section 316(a) or 319(a) of the Act, in the State or Service district having jurisdiction over the alien's actual place of residence;
(6) Has resided continuously within the United States from the date of application for naturalization until the time of admission to citizenship;
(7) For all relevant periods under this paragraph, has been and continues to be a person of good moral character, attached to the principles of the Constitution of the United States, and favorably disposed toward the good order and happiness of the United States; and
(8) Has complied with all other requirements for naturalization as provided in part 316 of this chapter, except for those contained in § 316.2 (a)(3) through (a)(5) of this chapter.
(b)
Marital union
—(1)
General.
An applicant lives in marital union with a citizen spouse if the applicant actually resides with his or her current spouse. The burden is on the applicant to establish, in each individual case, that a particular marital union satisfies the requirements of this part.
(2)
Loss of Marital Union
—(i)
Divorce, death or expatriation.
A person is ineligible for naturalization as the spouse of a United States citizen under section 319(a) of the Act if, before or after the filing of the application, the marital union ceases to exist due to death or divorce, or the citizen spouse has expatriated. Eligibility is not restored to an applicant whose relationship to the citizen spouse terminates before the applicant's admission to citizenship, even though the applicant subsequently marries another United States citizen.
(ii)
Separation
—(A)
Legal separation.
Any legal separation will break the continuity of the marital union required for purposes of this part.
(B)
Informal separation.
Any informal separation that suggests the possibility of marital disunity will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis to determine whether it is sufficient enough to signify the dissolution of the marital union.
(C)
Involuntary separation.
In the event that the applicant and spouse live apart because of circumstances beyond their control, such as military service in the Armed Forces of the United States or essential business or occupational demands, rather than because of voluntary legal or informal separation, the resulting separation, even if prolonged, will not preclude naturalization under this part.
(c)
Physical presence in the United States.
In the event that the alien spouse has never been in the United States, eligibility under this section is not established even though the alien spouse resided abroad in marital union with the citizen spouse during the three year period.
[56 FR 50488, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 53798, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 319.2
Person whose United States citizen spouse is employed abroad.
(a)
Eligibility.
To be eligible for naturalization under section 319(b) of the Act, the alien spouse of a United States citizen must:
(1) Establish that his or her citizen spouse satisfies the requirements under section 319(b)(1) of the Act, including that he or she is regularly stationed abroad. For purposes of this section, a citizen spouse is regularly stationed abroad if he or she proceeds abroad, for a period of not less than one year, pursuant to an employment contract or orders, and assumes the duties of employment;
(2) At the time of examination on the application for naturalization, be present in the United States pursuant to a lawful admission for permanent residence;
(3) At the time of naturalization, be present in the United States;
(4) Declare in good faith, upon naturalization before the Service, an intention:
(i) To reside abroad with the citizen spouse; and
(ii) To take up residence within the United States immediately upon the termination of the citizen spouse's employment abroad;
(5) Be a person of good moral character, attached to the principles of the Constitution of the United States, and favorably disposed toward the good order and happiness of the United States; and
(6) Comply with all other requirements for naturalization as provided in part 316 of this chapter, except for those contained in § 316.2(a)(3) through (a)(6) of this chapter.
(b)
Alien spouse's requirement to depart abroad immediately after naturalization.
An alien spouse seeking naturalization under section 319(b) of the Act must:
(1) Establish that he or she will depart to join the citizen spouse within 30 to 45 days after the date of naturalization;
(2) Notify the Service immediately of any delay or cancellation of the citizen spouse's assignment abroad; and
(3) Notify the Service immediately if he or she is unable to reside with the citizen spouse because the citizen spouse is employed abroad in an area of hostilities where dependents may not reside.
(c)
Loss of marital union due to death, divorce, or expatriation of the citizen spouse.
A person is ineligible for naturalization as the spouse of a United States citizen under section 319(b) of the Act if, before or after the filing of the application, the marital union ceases to exist due to death or divorce, or the citizen spouse has expatriated. Eligibility is not restored to an applicant whose relationship to the citizen spouse terminates before the applicant's admission into citizenship, even though the applicant subsequently marries another United States citizen.
[56 FR 50488, Oct. 7, 1991]
§ 319.3
Surviving spouses of United States citizens who died during a period of honorable service in an active duty status in the Armed Forces of the United States.
(a)
Eligibility.
To be eligible for naturalization under section 319(d) of the Act, the surviving spouse, child, or parent of a United States citizen must:
(1) Establish that his or her citizen spouse, child, or parent died during a period of honorable service in an active duty status in the Armed Forces of the United States and, in the case of a surviving spouse, establish that he or she was living in marital union with the citizen spouse, in accordance with 8
CFR 319.1(b), at the time of the citizen spouse's death;
(2) At the time of examination on the application for naturalization, reside in the United States pursuant to a lawful admission for permanent residence;
(3) Be a person of good moral character, attached to the principles of the Constitution of the United States, and favorably disposed toward the good order and happiness of the United States; and
(4) Comply with all other requirements for naturalization as provided in 8 CFR 316, except for those contained in 8 CFR 316.2(a)(3) through (6).
(b)
Remarriage of the surviving spouse.
The surviving spouse of a United States citizen described under paragraph (a)(1) of this section remains eligible for naturalization under section 319(d) of the Act, even if the surviving spouse remarries.
[56 FR 50488, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 53798, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 319.4
Persons continuously employed for 5 years by United States organizations engaged in disseminating information.
To be eligible for naturalization under section 319(c) of the Act, an applicant must:
(a) Establish that he or she is employed as required under section 319(c)(1) of the Act;
(b) Reside in the United States pursuant to a lawful admission for permanent residence;
(c) Establish that he or she has been employed as required under paragraph (a) of this section continuously for a period of not less than five years after a lawful admission for permanent residence;
(d) File his or her application for naturalization while employed as required under paragraph (a) of this section, or within six months following the termination of such employment;
(e) Be present in the United States at the time of naturalization;
(f) Declare in good faith, upon naturalization before the Service, an intention to take up residence within the United States immediately upon his or her termination of employment;
(g) Be a person of good moral character, attached to the principles of the Constitution of the United States, and favorably disposed toward the good order and happiness of the United States; and
(h) Comply with all other requirements for naturalization as provided in part 316 of this chapter, except for those contained in § 316.2(a)(3) through (a)(6) of this chapter.
[56 FR 50489, Oct. 7, 1991]
§ 319.5
Public international organizations in which the U.S. participates by treaty or statute.
Organizations designated by the President as international organizations pursuant to the International Organizations Immunities Act are considered as public international organizations in which the United States participates by treaty or statute within the meaning of section 319(b) or the Act. For a list of such organizations see § 316.20(b) of this chapter. In addition, the following have been determined to be public international organizations within the purview of section 319(b) of the Act:
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
The United Nations and all agencies and organizations which are a part thereof.
The regional commissioner shall forward a copy of each decision regarding a public international organization to the Assistant Commissioner, Naturalization.
[32 FR 9635, July 4, 1967. Redesignated at 33 FR 255, Jan. 9, 1968. Further redesignated and amended at 56 FR 50489, Oct. 7, 1991]
§ 319.6
United States nonprofit organizations engaged abroad in disseminating information which significantly promotes U.S. interests.
The following have been determined to be U.S. incorporated nonprofit organizations principally engaged in conducting abroad through communications media the dissemination of information which significantly promotes U.S. interests abroad within the purview of section 319(c) of the Act:
Free Europe, Inc.; formerly Free Europe Committee, Inc.; National Committee for a Free Europe (including Radio Free Europe)).
Radio Liberty Committee, Inc. (formerly American Committee for Liberation, Inc.;
American Committee for Liberation of the Peoples of Russia, Inc.; American Committee for Liberation from Bolshevism, Inc.).
[33 FR 255, Jan. 9, 1968. Redesignated and amended at 56 FR 50489, Oct. 7, 1991]
§§ 319.7-319.10
[Reserved]
§ 319.11
Filing of application.
(a)
General.
An applicant under this part must submit an application for naturalization in accordance with the form instructions with the fee required by 8 CFR 106.2. An alien spouse applying for naturalization under section 319(b) of the Act who is described in 8 CFR 319.2 must also submit a statement of intent containing the following information about the citizen spouse's employment and future intent:
(1) The name of the employer and:
(i) The nature of the employer's business; or
(ii) The ministerial, religious, or missionary activity in which the employer is engaged;
(2) Whether the employing entity is owned in whole or in part by United States interests;
(3) Whether the employing entity is engaged in whole or in part in the development of the foreign trade and commerce of the United States;
(4) The nature of the activity in which the citizen spouse is engaged;
(5) The anticipated period of employment abroad;
(6) Whether the alien spouse intends to reside abroad with the citizen spouse; and,
(7) Whether the alien spouse intends to take up residence within the United States immediately upon the termination of such employment abroad of the citizen spouse.
(b)
Applications by military spouses
—(1)
General.
The alien spouses of United States military personnel being assigned abroad must satisfy the basic requirements of section 319(b) of the Act and of paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Government expense.
In the event that transportation expenses abroad for the alien spouse are to be paid by military authorities, a properly executed Certificate of Overseas Assignment to Support Application to File Petition for Naturalization, DD Form 1278 will be submitted in lieu of the statement of intent required by paragraph (a) of this section. Any DD Form 1278 issued more than 90 days in advance of departure is unacceptable for purposes of this section.
(3)
Private expense.
In the event that the alien spouse is not authorized to travel abroad at military expense, the alien spouse must submit in lieu of the statement of intent required by paragraph (a) of this section:
(i) A copy of the citizen spouse's military travel orders,
(ii) A letter from the citizen spouse's commanding officer indicating that the military has no objection to the applicant traveling to and residing in the vicinity of the citizen spouse's new duty station; and
(iii) Evidence of transportation arrangements to the new duty station.
[56 FR 50489, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 53798, Aug. 29, 2011; 85 FR 46928, Aug. 3, 2020]
Pt. 320

# PART 320—CHILD BORN OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES AND RESIDING PERMANENTLY IN THE UNITED STATES; REQUIREMENTS FOR AUTOMATIC ACQUISITION OF CITIZENSHIP
Sec.
320.1
What definitions are used in this part?
320.2
Who is eligible for citizenship?
320.3
How, where, and what forms and other documents should be filed?
320.4
Who must appear for an interview on the application for citizenship?
320.5
Decision.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1443; 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
66 FR 32144, June 13, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 320.1
What definitions are used in this part?
As used in this part, the term:
Adopted
means adopted pursuant to a full, final and complete adoption. If a foreign adoption of an orphan was not full and final, was defective, or the unmarried U.S. citizen parent or U.S. citizen parent and spouse jointly did not see and observe the child in person prior to or during the foreign adoption proceedings, the child is not considered
to have been fully, finally and completely adopted and must be readopted in the United States. Readoption requirements may be waived if the state of residence of the United States citizen parent(s) recognizes the foreign adoption as full and final under that state's adoption laws.
Adopted child
means a person who has been adopted as defined above and who meets the requirements of section 101(b)(1)(E) or (F) of the Act.
Child
means a person who meets the requirements of section 101(c)(1) of the Act.
Joint custody,
in the case of a child of divorced or legally separated parents, means the award of equal responsibility for and authority over the care, education, religion, medical treatment, and general welfare of a child to both parents by a court of law or other appropriate government entity pursuant to the laws of the state or country of residence.
Legal custody
refers to the responsibility for and authority over a child.
(1) For the purpose of the CCA, the Service will presume that a U.S. citizen parent has legal custody of a child, and will recognize that U.S. citizen parent as having lawful authority over the child, absent evidence to the contrary, in the case of:
(i) A biological child who currently resides with both natural parents (who are married to each other, living in marital union, and not separated),
(ii) A biological child who currently resides with a surviving natural parent (if the other parent is deceased), or
(iii) In the case of a biological child born out of wedlock who has been legitimated and currently resides with the natural parent.
(2) In the case of an adopted child, a determination that a U.S. citizen parent has legal custody will be based on the existence of a final adoption decree. In the case of a child of divorced or legally separated parents, the Service will find a U.S. citizen parent to have legal custody of a child, for the purpose of the CCA, where there has been an award of primary care, control, and maintenance of a minor child to a parent by a court of law or other appropriate government entity pursuant to the laws of the state or country of residence. The Service will consider a U.S. citizen parent who has been awarded “joint custody,” to have legal custody of a child. There may be other factual circumstances under which the Service will find the U.S. citizen parent to have legal custody for purposes of the CCA.
§ 320.2
Who is eligible for citizenship?
(a)
General.
To be eligible for citizenship under section 320 of the Act, a person must establish that the following conditions have been met after February 26, 2001:
(1) The child has at least one United States citizen parent (by birth or naturalization);
(2) The child is under 18 years of age; and
(3) The child is residing in the United States in the legal and physical custody of the United States citizen parent, pursuant to a lawful admission for permanent residence.
(b)
Additional requirements if child is adopted.
If adopted, the child must meet all of the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section as well as satisfy the requirements applicable to adopted children under section 101(b)(1) of the Act.
§ 320.3
How, where, and what forms and other documents should be filed?
(a)
Application.
Individuals who are applying for a certificate of citizenship on their own behalf should submit the request in accordance with the form instructions on the form prescribed by USCIS for that purpose. An application for a certificate of citizenship under this section on behalf of a child who has not reached the age of 18 years must be submitted by that child's U.S. citizen biological or adoptive parent(s), or legal guardian.
(b)
Evidence.
(1) An applicant under this section must establish eligibility as described in 8 CFR 320.2. An applicant must submit the following supporting evidence unless such evidence is already contained in USCIS administrative file(s):
(i) The child's birth certificate or record;
(ii) Marriage certificate of child's parents (if applicable);
(iii) If the child's parents were married before their marriage to each other, proof of termination of any previous marriage of each parent (e.g., death certificate or divorce decree);
(iv) Evidence of U.S. citizenship of parent, (
i.e.
, birth certificate; naturalization certificate; FS-240, Report of Birth Abroad; a valid unexpired U.S. passport; or certificate of citizenship);
(v) If the child was born out of wedlock, documents verifying legitimation according to the laws of the child's residence or domicile or father's residence or domicile (if applicable);
(vi) In case of divorce, legal separation, or adoption, documentation of legal custody;
(vii) Copy of Permanent Resident Card/Alien Registration Receipt Card or other evidence of lawful permanent resident status (e.g. I-551 stamp in a valid foreign passport or Service-issued travel document);
(viii) If adopted, a copy of the full, final adoption decree and, if the adoption was outside of the United States and the child immigrated as an IR-4 (orphans coming to the United States to be adopted by U.S. citizen parent(s)), evidence that the foreign adoption is recognized by the state where the child is permanently residing; and
(ix) Evidence of all legal name changes, if applicable, for the child and U.S. citizen parent.
(2) If the Service requires any additional documentation to make a decision on the application for certificate of citizenship, applicants may be asked to provide that documentation under separate cover or at the time of interview. Applicants do not need to submit documents that were submitted in connection with: An application for immigrant visa and retained by the American Consulate for inclusion in the immigrant visa package, or an immigrant petition or application and included in a Service administrative file. Applicants should indicate that they wish to rely on such documents and identify the administrative file(s) by name and alien number. The Service will only request the required documentation again if necessary.
[66 FR 32144, June 13, 2001, as amended at 74 FR 26940, June 5, 2009; 76 FR 53799, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 320.4
Who must appear for an interview on the application for citizenship?
All applicants (and U.S. citizen parent(s) if application filed on behalf of a minor biological or adopted child) must appear for examination unless such examination is waived under the guidelines expressed in § 341.2 of this chapter.
§ 320.5
Decision.
(a)
Approval of application.
If the application for the certificate of citizenship is approved, after the applicant takes the oath of allegiance prescribed in 8 CFR 337.1 (unless the oath is waived), USCIS will issue a certificate of citizenship.
(b)
Denial of application.
If the decision of USCIS is to deny the application for a certificate of citizenship under this section, the applicant will be advised in writing of the reasons for denial and of the right to appeal in accordance with 8 CFR 103.3(a). An applicant may file an appeal within 30 days of service of the decision in accordance with the instructions on the form prescribed by USCIS for that purpose, and with the fee required by 8 CFR 106.2.
(c)
Subsequent application.
After an application for a certificate of citizenship has been denied and the time for appeal has expired, USCIS will reject a subsequent application submitted by the same individual and the applicant will be instructed to submit a motion for reopening or reconsideration in accordance with 8 CFR 103.5. The motion must be accompanied by the rejected application and the fee specified in 8 CFR 106.2.
[76 FR 53799, Aug. 29, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 46928, Aug. 3, 2020]
Pt. 322

# PART 322—CHILD BORN OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES; REQUIREMENTS FOR APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF CITIZENSHIP
Sec.
322.1
What are the definitions used in this part?
322.2
Eligibility.
322.3
Application and supporting documents.
322.4
Interview.
322.5
Decision.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1443; 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
66 FR 32144, June 13, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 322.1
What are the definitions used in this part?
As used in this part the term:
Adopted
means adopted pursuant to a full, final and complete adoption. In the case of an orphan adoption, if a foreign adoption was not full and final, was defective, or the unmarried U.S. citizen parent or U.S. citizen parent and spouse jointly did not see and observe the child in person prior to or during the foreign adoption proceedings, an orphan is not considered to have been adopted and must be readopted in the United States or satisfy the requirements of section 101(b)(1)(E) of the Act.
Adopted child
means a person who has been adopted as defined above and who meets the requirements of section 101(b)(1)(E), (F) or (G) of the Act.
Child
means a person who meets the requirements of section 101(c)(1) of the Act.
Lawful admission
shall have the same meaning as provided in section 101(a)(13) of the Act.
Joint custody,
in the case of a child of divorced or legally separated parents, means the award of equal responsibility for and authority over the care, education, religion, medical treatment and general welfare of a child to both parents by a court of law or other appropriate government entity pursuant to the laws of the state or country of residence.
Legal custody
refers to the responsibility for and authority over a child.
(1) For the purpose of the CCA, the Service will presume that a U.S. citizen parent has legal custody of a child, and will recognize that U.S. citizen parent as having lawful authority over the child, absent evidence to the contrary, in the case of:
(i) A biological child who currently resides with both natural parents (who are married to each other, living in marital union, and not separated),
(ii) A biological child who currently resides with a surviving natural parent (if the other parent is deceased), or
(iii) In the case of a biological child born out of wedlock who has been legitimated and currently resides with the natural parent.
(2) In the case of an adopted child, a determination that a U.S. citizen parent has legal custody will be based on the existence of a final adoption decree. In the case of a child of divorced or legally separated parents, the Service will find a U.S. citizen parent to have legal custody of a child, for the purpose of the CCA, where there has been an award of primary care, control, and maintenance of a minor child to a parent by a court of law or other appropriate government entity pursuant to the laws of the state or country of residence. The Service will consider a U.S. citizen parent who has been awarded “joint custody,” to have legal custody of a child. There may be other factual circumstances under which the Service will find the U.S. citizen parent to have legal custody for purposes of the CCA.
[66 FR 32144, June 13, 2001, as amended at 76 FR 53799, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 322.2
Eligibility.
(a)
General.
A child will be eligible for citizenship under section 322 of the Act, if the following conditions have been fulfilled:
(1) The child has at least one United States citizen parent (by birth or naturalization);
(2) The United States citizen parent has been physically present in the United States or its outlying possessions for at least 5 years, at least 2 of which were after the age of 14, or the United States citizen parent has a United States citizen parent who has been physically present in the United States or its outlying possessions for at least 5 years, at least 2 of which were after the age of 14;
(3) The child currently is under 18 years of age;
(4) The child currently is residing outside the United States in the legal and physical custody of the United States citizen parent; and
(5) The child is temporarily present in the United States pursuant to a lawful admission and is maintaining such lawful status in the United States.
(b)
Additional requirements if child is adopted.
If an adopted child, all of the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section must be fulfilled and the child must satisfy the requirements applicable to adopted children under section 101(b)(1) of the Act.
(c)
Exceptions for children of military personnel.
Pursuant to section 322(d) of the Act, a child of a member of the Armed Forces of the United States residing abroad is exempt from the temporary physical presence, lawful admission, and maintenance of lawful status requirements under 8 CFR 322.2(a)(5), if the child:
(1) Is authorized to accompany and reside abroad with the member of the Armed Forces pursuant to the member's official orders; and
(2) Is accompanying and residing abroad with the member of the Armed Forces.
[66 FR 32144, June 13, 2001, as amended at 76 FR 53799, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 322.3
Application and supporting documents.
(a)
Application.
A U.S. citizen parent of an alien child (including an adopted child) may file an application for the child to become a citizen and obtain a certificate of citizenship under section 322 of the Act by submitting an application on the form prescribed by USCIS in accordance with the form instructions and with the fee prescribed by 8 CFR 106.2. If the U.S. citizen parent has died, the child's U.S. citizen grandparent or U.S. citizen legal guardian may submit the application, provided the application is filed not more than 5 years after the death of the U.S. citizen parent.
(b)
Evidence.
(1) An applicant under this section shall establish eligibility under § 322.2. In addition to the forms and the appropriate fee as required in 8 CFR 106.2, an applicant must submit the following required documents unless such documents are already contained in the Service administrative file(s):
(i) The child's birth certificate or record;
(ii) Marriage certificate of child's parents (if applicable);
(iii) If the child's parents were married before their marriage to each other, proof of termination of any previous marriage of each parent (e.g., death certificate or divorce decree);
(iv) Evidence of U.S. citizenship of parent (
i.e.,
birth certificate; naturalization certificate; FS-240, Report of Birth Abroad; a valid unexpired U.S. passport; or certificate of citizenship);
(v) If the child was born out of wedlock, documents verifying legitimation according to the laws of the child's residence or domicile or father's residence or domicile (if applicable);
(vi) In case of divorce, legal separation, or adoption, documentation of legal custody (if applicable);
(vii) Documentation establishing that the U.S. citizen parent or U.S. citizen grandparent meets the required physical presence requirements (e.g., school records, military records, utility bills, medical records, deeds, mortgages, contracts, insurance policies, receipts, or attestations by churches, unions, or other organizations);
(viii) Evidence that the child is present in the United States pursuant to a lawful admission and is maintaining such lawful status, or evidence establishing that the child qualifies for an exception to these requirements as provided in 8 CFR 322.2(c) pursuant to section 322(d) of the Act. Such evidence may be presented at the time of interview when appropriate;
(ix) If adopted, a copy of a full, final adoption decree;
(x) For adopted children (not orphans) applying under section 322 of the Act, evidence that they satisfy the requirements of section 101(b)(1)(E);
(xi) For adopted orphans applying under section 322 of the Act, a copy of notice of approval of the orphan petition and supporting documentation for such petition (except the home study) or evidence that the child has been admitted for lawful permanent residence in the United States with the immigrant classification of IR-3 (Orphan adopted abroad by a U.S. citizen) or IR-4 (Orphan to be adopted by a U.S. citizen);
(xii) For a Hague Convention adoptee applying under section 322 of the Act, a copy of the notice of approval of the Convention adoptee petition and its supporting documentation, or evidence that the child has been admitted for
lawful permanent residence in the United States with the immigrant classification of IH-3 (Hague Convention Orphan adopted abroad by a U.S. citizen) or IH-4 (Hague Convention Orphan to be adopted by a U.S. citizen); and
(xiii) Evidence of all legal name changes, if applicable, for the child, U.S. citizen parent, U.S. citizen grandparent, or U.S. citizen legal guardian.
(2) If USCIS requires any additional documentation to make a decision on the application, the parents may be asked to provide that documentation under separate cover or at the time of interview. Parents do not need to submit documents that were submitted in connection with: An application for immigrant visa and retained by the American Consulate for inclusion in the immigrant visa package, or another immigrant petition or application and included in a Service administrative file. Parents should indicate that they wish to rely on such documents and identify the administrative file(s) by name and alien number. The Service will only request the required documentation again if necessary.
[66 FR 32144, June 13, 2001, as amended at 72 FR 56867, Oct. 4, 2007; 74 FR 26940, June 5, 2009; 76 FR 53799, Aug. 29, 2011; 85 FR 46928, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 322.4
Interview.
The U.S. citizen parent and the child must appear in person before a USCIS officer for examination on the application under this section. If the U.S. citizen parent is deceased, the child's U.S. citizen grandparent or U.S. citizen legal guardian who filed the application on the child's behalf must appear.
[76 FR 53799, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 322.5
Decision.
(a)
Approval of application.
If the application for certificate of citizenship is approved, after the applicant takes the oath of allegiance prescribed in 8 CFR 337.1 (unless the oath is waived), USCIS will issue a certificate of citizenship. The child is a citizen as of the date of approval and administration of the oath of allegiance.
(b)
Denial of application.
If the USCIS decision is to deny the application for a certificate of citizenship under this section, the applicant will be furnished with the reasons for denial and advised of the right to appeal in accordance with the provisions of 8 CFR 103.3(a). An applicant may file an appeal within 30 days of service of the decision in accordance with the instructions on the form prescribed by USCIS for that purpose, and with the fee required by 8 CFR 106.2.
(c)
Subsequent application.
After an application for a certificate of citizenship has been denied and the time for appeal has expired, USCIS will reject a subsequent application submitted by the same individual and the applicant will be instructed to submit a motion for reopening or reconsideration in accordance with 8 CFR 103.5. The motion must be accompanied by the rejected application and the fee specified in 8 CFR 106.2.
[76 FR 53800, Aug. 29, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 46928, Aug. 3, 2020]
Pt. 324

# PART 324—SPECIAL CLASSES OF PERSONS WHO MAY BE NATURALIZED: WOMEN WHO HAVE LOST UNITED STATES CITIZENSHIP BY MARRIAGE AND FORMER CITIZENS WHOSE NATURALIZATION IS AUTHORIZED BY PRIVATE LAW
Sec.
324.1
Definitions.
324.2
Former citizen at birth or by naturalization.
324.3
Women, citizens of the United States at birth, who lost or are believed to have lost citizenship by marriage and whose marriage has terminated.
324.4
Women restored to United States citizenship by the act of June 25, 1936, as amended by the act of July 2, 1940.
324.5
Former citizen of the United States whose naturalization by taking the oath is authorized by a private law.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1435, 1443, 1448, 1101 note.
§ 324.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Oath
means the Oath of Allegiance as prescribed in section 337 of the Act.
[56 FR 50490, Oct. 7, 1991]
§ 324.2
Former citizen at birth or by naturalization.
(a)
Eligibility.
To be eligible for naturalization under section 324(a) of the Act, an applicant must establish that she:
(1) Was formerly a United States citizen;
(2) Lost or may have lost United States citizenship:
(i) Prior to September 22, 1922, by marriage to an alien, or by the loss of United States citizenship of the applicant's spouse; or
(ii) On or after September 22, 1922, by marriage before March 3, 1931 to an alien ineligible to citizenship;
(3) Did not acquire any other nationality by affirmative act other than by marriage;
(4) Either:
(i) Has resided in the United States continuously since the date of the marriage referred to in paragraph (a)(2) of this section; or
(ii) Has been lawfully admitted for permanent residence prior to filing an application for naturalization;
(5) Has been and is a person of good moral character, attached to the principles of the Constitution of the United States, and favorably disposed toward the good order and happiness of the United States, for the period of not less than five years immediately preceding the examination on the application for naturalization up to the time of admission to citizenship; and
(6) Complies with all other requirements for naturalization as provided in part 316 of this chapter, except that:
(i) The applicant is not required to satisfy the residence requirements under § 316.2(a)(3) through (a)(6) of this chapter; and,
(ii) The applicant need not set forth an intention to reside permanently within the United States.
(b)
Application.
An applicant for naturalization under this section must submit an application on the form designated by USCIS in accordance with the form instructions and with the fee prescribed in 8 CFR 106.2 as required by 8 CFR 316.4. The application must be accompanied by a statement describing the applicant's eligibility as provided in paragraph (a) of this section as well as any available documentation to establish those facts.
[56 FR 50490, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 74 FR 26941, June 5, 2009; 76 FR 53800, Aug. 29, 2011; 76 FR 73477, Nov. 29, 2011; 85 FR 46928, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 324.3
Women, citizens of the United States at birth, who lost or are believed to have lost citizenship by marriage and whose marriage has terminated.
(a)
Eligibility.
To be eligible for naturalization under section 324(c) of the Act, an applicant must establish:
(1) That she was formerly a United States citizen by birth;
(2) That she lost or may have lost her United States citizenship:
(i) Prior to September 22, 1922, by marriage to an alien; or
(ii) On or after September 22, 1922, by marriage to an alien ineligible to citizenship before March 3, 1931;
(3) That the marriage specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section terminated subsequent to January 12, 1941;
(4) That she did not acquire any other nationality by affirmative act other than by marriage; and
(5) That she is not proscribed from naturalization under section 313 of the Act.
(b)
Procedures
—(1)
Application.
An applicant eligible for naturalization pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, who desires to regain citizenship pursuant to section 324(c) of the Act, shall submit, without fee, an application for naturalization on the form prescribed by USCIS in accordance with the instructions on the form.
(2)
Oath of Allegiance.
The USCIS shall review the applicant's submission, and shall inform the applicant of her eligibility under section 324(c) of the Act to take the oath in conformity with part 337 of this chapter. After the applicant has taken the oath, the applicant will be furnished with a copy of the oath by the clerk of the Court or USCIS, as appropriate, properly certified, for which a fee not exceeding $5 may be charged. The oath may also be taken abroad before any diplomatic or consular officer of the United States, in accordance with such regulations as
may be prescribed by the Secretary of State.
[56 FR 50490, 50491, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 74 FR 26941, June 5, 2009; 76 FR 53800, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 324.4
Women restored to United States citizenship by the act of June 25, 1936, as amended by the act of July 2, 1940.
A woman who was restored to citizenship by the act of June 25, 1936, as amended by the act of July 2, 1940, but who failed to take the oath of allegiance prescribed by the naturalization laws prior to December 24, 1952, may take the oath before any naturalization court or USCIS office within the United States. Such woman shall comply with the procedural requirements of § 324.4(b) and (c) except that a fee not exceeding $1.00 may be charged if the woman requests a copy of the oath.
[22 FR 9814, Dec. 6, 1957. Redesignated and amended at 56 FR 50490, 50491, Oct. 7, 1991; 74 FR 26941, June 5, 2009]
§ 324.5
Former citizen of the United States whose naturalization by taking the oath is authorized by a private law.
A former citizen of the United States whose naturalization by taking the oath before any naturalization court or office of USCIS within the United States is authorized by a private law must submit an application on the form specified by USCIS, without fee, in accordance with the form instructions.
[76 FR 53800, Aug. 29, 2011]
Pt. 325

# PART 325—NATIONALS BUT NOT CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES; RESIDENCE WITHIN OUTLYING POSSESSIONS
Sec.
325.1
[Reserved]
325.2
Eligibility.
325.3
Residence.
325.4
Application; documents.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1436, 1443.

# Source:
56 FR 50491, Oct. 7, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 325.1
[Reserved]
§ 325.2
Eligibility.
An applicant for naturalization under section 325 of the Act who owes permanent allegiance to the United States, and who is otherwise qualified may be naturalized if:
(a) The applicant becomes a resident of any State; and
(b) The applicant complies with all of the applicable requirements in parts 316 or 319 of this chapter, as appropriate, except as modified in this part.
§ 325.3
Residence.
(a) For purposes of applying the residence and physical presence requirements in parts 316 and 319 of this chapter, except as they relate to the required three months' residence in a State or Service district, residence and physical presence in an outlying possession of the United States will count as residence and physical presence in the United States.
(b) An applicant who intends to resume residence in an outlying possession after naturalization will be regarded as having established that he or she intends to reside permanently in the United States.
§ 325.4
Application; documents.
(a) An application for naturalization under this part shall be submitted in compliance with § 316.4(a) of this chapter.
(b) The applicant shall submit with the application:
(1) A birth certificate or other evidence of national status;
(2) Proof of identity; and
(3) Evidence of actual residence in the State or Service district, as defined in 8 CFR 316.1, for three months immediately preceding the filing of the application, or immediately preceding the examination on the application if the application was filed early pursuant to section 334(a) of the Act and the three month period falls within the required period of residence under section 316(a) or 319(a) of the Act.
[56 FR 50491, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 53800, Aug. 29, 2011]
Pt. 327

# PART 327—SPECIAL CLASSES OF PERSONS WHO MAY BE NATURALIZED: PERSONS WHO LOST UNITED STATES CITIZENSHIP THROUGH SERVICE IN ARMED FORCES OF FOREIGN COUNTRY DURING WORLD WAR II
Sec.
327.1
Eligibility.
327.2
Procedure for naturalization.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1438, 1443.
§ 327.1
Eligibility.
To be eligible for naturalization under section 327 of the Act, an applicant must establish that:
(a) The applicant, on or after September 1, 1939 and on or before September 2, 1945:
(1) Served in the military, air or naval forces of any country at war with a country with which the United States was at war after December 7, 1941 and before September 2, 1945; or
(2) Took an oath of allegiance or obligation for purposes of entering or serving in the military, air, or, naval forces of any country at war with a country with which the United States was at war after December 7, 1941 and before September 2, 1945;
(b) The applicant was a United States citizen at the time of the service or oath specified in paragraph (a) of this section;
(c) The applicant lost United States citizenship as a result of the service or oath specified in paragraph (a) of this section;
(d) The applicant has been lawfully admitted for permanent residence and intends to reside permanently in the United States;
(e) The applicant is, and has been for a period of at least five years immediately preceding taking the oath required in § 327.2(c), a person of good moral character, attached to the principles of the Constitution of the United States, and favorably disposed toward the good order and happiness of the United States; and
(f) The applicant has complied with all other requirements for naturalization as provided in part 316 of this chapter, except for those contained in § 316.2 (a)(3) through (a)(6) of this chapter.
[56 FR 50492, Oct. 7, 1991]
§ 327.2
Procedure for naturalization.
(a)
Application.
An applicant who is eligible for naturalization pursuant to section 327 of the Act and § 327.1 shall submit an Application for Naturalization, Form N-400, in accordance with § 316.4 of this chapter. Such application must be accompanied by a statement describing the applicant's eligibility under § 327.1 (a), (b), and (c) and any available documentation to establish those facts.
(b)
Oath of Allegiance.
Upon naturalization of the applicant, the district director shall transmit a copy of the oath of allegiance taken by the applicant to the Department of State.
[56 FR 50492, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 74 FR 26941, June 5, 2009]
Pt. 328

# PART 328—SPECIAL CLASSES OF PERSONS WHO MAY BE NATURALIZED: PERSONS WITH 1 YEAR OF SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES
Sec.
328.1
Definitions.
328.2
Eligibility.
328.3
[Reserved]
328.4
Application and evidence.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1439, 1443.

# Source:
56 FR 50492, Oct. 7, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 328.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Honorable service
means only that military service which is designated as honorable service by the executive department under which the applicant performed that military service. Any service that is designated to be other than honorable will not qualify under this section.
Service in the Armed Forces of the United States
means:
(1) Active or reserve service in the United States Army, United States Navy, United States Marines, United States Air Force, or United States Coast Guard; or
(2) Service in a National Guard unit during such time as the unit is Federally recognized as a reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States.
§ 328.2
Eligibility.
To be eligible for naturalization under section 328(a) of the Act, an applicant must establish that the applicant:
(a) Has served honorably in and, if separated, has been separated honorably from, the Armed Forces of the United States;
(b) Has served under paragraph (a) of this section for a period of 1 or more years, whether that service is continuous or discontinuous;
(c) Is a lawful permanent resident of the United States at the time of the examination on the application;
(d) Has been, during any period within five years preceding the filing of the application for naturalization, or the examination on the application if eligible for early filing under section 334(a) of the Act, and continues to be, of good moral character, attached to the principles of the Constitution of the United States, and favorably disposed toward the good order and happiness of the United States.
(1) An applicant is presumed to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph during periods of honorable service under paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) An applicant must establish that he or she satisfies the requirements of this paragraph from the date of discharge from military until the date of admission to citizenship.
(3) An applicant whose honorable service is discontinuous must also demonstrate that he or she satisfies the requirements of this paragraph for those periods of time when that applicant is not in honorable service.
(e) Has complied with all other requirements for naturalization as provided in part 316 of this chapter, except that:
(1) An applicant who files an application for naturalization while still in honorable service, or within six months after termination of such service, is generally not required to satisfy the residence requirements under § 316.2(a)(3) through (a)(6) of this chapter; however, if the applicant's military service is discontinuous, that applicant must establish, for periods between honorable service during the five years immediately preceding the date of filing the application, or the examination on the application if eligible for early filing under section 334(a) of the Act, that he or she resided in the United States and in the State or Service district in the United States in which the application is filed.
(2) An applicant who files an application for naturalization more than six months after terminating honorable service must satisfy the residence requirements under § 316.2(a)(3) through (a)(6) of this chapter. However, any honorable service by the applicant within the five years immediately preceding the date of filing of the application shall be considered as residence within the United States for purposes of § 316.2(a)(3) of this chapter.
[56 FR 50492, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 75 FR 2787, Jan. 19, 2010]
§ 328.3
[Reserved]
§ 328.4
Application and evidence.
(a)
Application.
An applicant for naturalization under section 328 of the Act must submit an application on the form prescribed by USCIS in accordance with the form instructions and as provided in 8 CFR 316.4.
(b)
Evidence.
The applicant's eligibility for naturalization under 8 CFR 328.2(a) or (b) will be established only by the certification of honorable service by the executive department under which the applicant served or is serving.
[76 FR 53800, Aug. 29, 2011]
Pt. 329

# PART 329—SPECIAL CLASSES OF PERSONS WHO MAY BE NATURALIZED: PERSONS WITH ACTIVE DUTY OR CERTAIN READY RESERVE SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES DURING SPECIFIED PERIODS OF HOSTILITIES
Sec.
329.1
Definitions.
329.2
Eligibility.
329.3
[Reserved]
329.4
Application and evidence.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1440, 1443; 8 CFR part 2.
§ 329.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Honorable service and separation
means service and separation from service which the executive department under which the applicant served determines to be honorable, including:
(1) That such applicant had not been separated from service on account of alienage;
(2) That such applicant was not a conscientious objector who performed no military, air or naval duty; and
(3) That such applicant did not refuse to wear a military uniform.
Service in an active duty status in the Armed Forces of the United States
means active service in the following organizations:
(1) United States Army, United States Navy, United States Marines, United States Air Force, United States Coast Guard; or
(2) A National Guard unit during such time as the unit is Federally recognized as a reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States and that unit is called for active duty.
World War I
means the period beginning on April 6, 1917, and ending on November 11, 1918.
[56 FR 50493, Oct. 7, 1991]
§ 329.2
Eligibility.
To be eligible for naturalization under section 329(a) of the Act, an applicant must establish that he or she:
(a) Has served honorably in the Armed Forces of the United States as a member of the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve or in an active duty status in the Armed Forces of the United States during:
(1) World War I;
(2) The period beginning on September 1, 1939 and ending on December 31, 1946;
(3) The period beginning on June 25, 1950 and ending on July 1, 1955;
(4) The period beginning on February 28, 1961 and ending on October 15, 1978; or
(5) Any other period as may be designated by the President in an Executive Order pursuant to section 329(a) of the Act;
(b) If separated, has been separated honorably from service in the Armed Forces of the United States under paragraph (a) of this section;
(c) Satisfies the permanent residence requirement in one of the following ways:
(1) Any time after enlistment or induction into the Armed Forces of the United States, the applicant was lawfully admitted to the United States as a permanent resident; or
(2) At the time of enlistment or induction, the applicant was physically present in the geographical territory of the United States, the Canal Zone, American Samoa, Midway Island (prior to August 21, 1959), or Swain's Island, or in the ports, harbors, bays, enclosed sea areas, or the three-mile territorial sea along the coasts of these land areas, whether or not the applicant has been lawfully admitted to the United States as a permanent resident;
(d) Has been, for at least one year prior to filing the application for naturalization, and continues to be, of good moral character, attached to the principles of the Constitution of the United States, and favorably disposed toward the good order and happiness of the United States; and
(e) Has complied with all other requirements for naturalization as provided in part 316 of this chapter, except that:
(1) The applicant may be of any age;
(2) The applicant is not required to satisfy the residence requirements under § 316.2 (a)(3) through (a)(6) of this chapter; and
(3) The applicant may be naturalized even if an outstanding notice to appear pursuant to 8 CFR part 239 (including a charging document issued to commence proceedings under sections 236 or 242 of the Act prior to April 1, 1997) exists.
[56 FR 50493, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 58 FR 49913, Sept. 24, 1993; 62 FR 10395, Mar. 6, 1997; 75 FR 2787, Jan. 19, 2010]
§ 329.3
[Reserved]
§ 329.4
Application and evidence.
(a)
Application.
An applicant for naturalization under section 329 of the Act
must submit an application on the form prescribed by USCIS in accordance with the form instructions and as provided in 8 CFR 316.4.
(b)
Evidence.
The applicant's eligibility for naturalization under 8 CFR 329.2(a), (b), or (c)(2) will be established only by a certification of honorable service by the executive department under which the applicant served or is serving.
[76 FR 53800, Aug. 29, 2011]
Pt. 330

# PART 330—SPECIAL CLASSES OF PERSONS WHO MAY BE NATURALIZED: SEAMEN
Sec.
330.1
Eligibility.
330.2
Application.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1443.
§ 330.1
Eligibility.
To be eligible for naturalization under section 330 of the Act, an applicant must establish that he or she:
(a) Has been lawfully admitted as a permanent resident of the United States;
(b) Has served honorably or with good conduct, during such periods of lawful residence, in a capacity other than as a member of the Armed Forces of the United States, on board:
(1) A vessel operated by the United States, or an agency thereof, the full legal and equitable title to which is in the United States; or
(2) A vessel, whose home port is the United States, and
(i) Which is registered under the laws of the United States; or
(ii) The full legal and equitable title to which is in a citizen of the United States, or a corporation organized under the laws of any of the several States of the United States;
(c) Served in the capacity specified in paragraph (b) of this section within five years immediately preceding the date on which the applicant filed the application for naturalization, or on which the alien is examined, if the application was filed early pursuant to section 334(a) of the Act.
(d) Has been, during the five years preceding the filing of the application for naturalization, or the examination on the application if the application was filed early under section 334(a) of the Act, and continues to be, of good moral character, attached to the principles of the Constitution of the United States, and favorably disposed toward the good order and happiness of the United States.
(1) An applicant is presumed to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph during periods of service in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, as reflected by the records and certificates submitted by the applicant under § 330.2(b).
(2) An applicant must demonstrate that he or she satisfies the requirements of this paragraph for those required periods when that applicant did not perform service in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section; and
(e) Has complied with all other requirements for naturalization as provided in part 316 of this chapter, except that, for purposes of the residence requirements under paragraphs § 316.2 (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this chapter, service satisfying the conditions of this section shall be considered as residence and physical presence within the United States.
[56 FR 50493, Oct. 7, 1991]
§ 330.2
Application.
(a) An applicant for naturalization under section 330 of the Act must submit an application on the form designated by USCIS.
(b) An applicant under this part must submit authenticated copies of the records and certificates of either:
(1) The Executive Department or Agencies having custody of records reflecting the applicant's service on a vessel in United States Government Service, if the applicant provided service under § 330.1(b)(1); or
(2) The masters of those vessels maintaining a home port in the United States, and either registered under the laws of the United States or owned by United States citizens or corporations, if the applicant provided service under § 330.1(b)(2).
[56 FR 50493, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 74 FR 26941, June 5, 2009; 76 FR 53800, Aug. 29, 2011]
Pt. 331

# PART 331—ALIEN ENEMIES; NATURALIZATION UNDER SPECIFIED CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES
Sec.
331.1
Definitions.
331.2
Eligibility.
331.3
Investigation.
331.4
Procedures.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1443.

# Source:
56 FR 50494, Oct. 7, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 331.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Alien enemy
means any person who is a native, citizen, subject or denizen of any country, state or sovereignty with which the United States is at war, for as long as the United States remains at war, as determined by proclamation of the President or resolution of Congress.
Denizen
includes, but is not limited to, any person who has been admitted to residence and is entitled to certain rights in a country other than the one of the person's nationality. A person holding a status in another country equivalent to that of a lawful permanent resident in the United States would be considered to be a denizen.
§ 331.2
Eligibility.
An alien enemy may be naturalized as a citizen of the United States under section 331 of the Act if:
(a) The alien's application for naturalization is pending at the beginning of the state of war, or the Service has granted the alien an exception from the classification as an alien enemy after conducting an investigation in accordance with § 331.3;
(b) The alien's loyalty to the United States is fully established upon investigation by the Service in accordance with § 331.3; and
(c) The alien is otherwise entitled to admission to citizenship.
§ 331.3
Investigation.
The Service shall conduct a full investigation of any alien enemy whose application for naturalization is pending upon declaration of war or at any time thereafter. This investigation may take place either prior to or after the examination on the application. This investigation shall encompass, but not be limited to, the applicant's loyalty to the United States and attachment to the country, state, or sovereignty with which the United States is at war.
§ 331.4
Procedures.
(a) Upon determining that an applicant for naturalization is an alien enemy, the Service shall notify the applicant in writing of its determination. Upon service of this notice to the applicant, the provisions of section 336(b) of the Act will no longer apply to such applicant, until that applicant is no longer classifiable as an alien enemy.
(b) Upon completion of the investigation described in § 331.3, if the Service concludes that the applicant's loyalty and attachment to the United States have been fully established, the application may be granted.
Pt. 332

# PART 332—NATURALIZATION ADMINISTRATION
Sec.
332.1
Designation of USCIS employees to administer oaths and conduct examinations and hearings.
332.2-332.4
[Reserved]
332.5
Official forms for use by clerks of court.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1443, 1447.
§ 332.1
Designation of USCIS employees to administer oaths and conduct examinations and hearings.
(a)
Examinations.
All USCIS officers are hereby designated to conduct the examination for naturalization required under section 335 of the Act, provided that each officer so designated has received appropriate training.
(b)
Hearings.
Section 336 of the Act authorizes USCIS officers who are designated under paragraph (a) of this section to conduct hearings under that section.
(c)
Depositions.
All USCIS officers who are designated under paragraph (a) of this section are hereby designated to take depositions in matters relating to the administration of naturalization and citizenship laws.
(d)
Oaths and affirmations.
All USCIS officers who are designated under paragraph (a) of this section are hereby designated to administer oaths or affirmations except for the oath of allegiance as provided in 8 CFR 337.2.
[76 FR 53800, Aug. 29, 2011]
§§ 332.2-332.4
[Reserved]
§ 332.5
Official forms for use by clerks of court.
(a)
Official forms essential to exercise of jurisdiction.
Before exercising jurisdiction in naturalization proceedings, the naturalization court shall direct the clerk of such court upon written application to obtain from the Service, in accordance with section 310(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, proper forms, records, booked, and supplies required in naturalization proceedings. Such jurisdiction may not be exercised until such official forms, records, and books have been supplied to such court. Only such forms as are supplied shall be used in naturalization proceedings. Where sessions of the court are held at different places, the judge of such court may require the clerk to obtain a separate supply of official forms, records and books for each such place.
(b)
Official forms prescribed for use of clerks of naturalization courts.
Clerks of courts shall use only the forms listed in § 499.1 of this chapter in the exercise of naturalization jurisdiction.
(c)
Initial application for official forms.
Whenever the initial application for forms, records, books and supplies is made by a State court of record, it shall be accompanied by a certificate of the Attorney General of the State, certifying that the said court is a court of record, having a seal, a clerk, and jurisdiction in actions at law or in equity, or at law and in equity, in which the amount in controversy is unlimited.
(d)
Subsequent application for use of official forms.
Included with the initial supply of official forms, records, and books furnished to the various courts by the Service shall be Form N-3 entitled “Requisition for Forms and Binders,” and thereafter such forms shall be used by clerks of courts in making requisition for forms, records, books, and supplies for use in naturalization proceedings in their respective courts.
[22 FR 9817, Dec. 6, 1957. Redesignated and amended at 56 FR 50495, Oct. 7, 1991]
Pt. 333

# PART 333—PHOTOGRAPHS
Sec.
333.1
Description of required photographs.
333.2
Attachment of photographs to documents.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1443.
§ 333.1
Description of required photographs.
(a) Every applicant who is required to provide photographs under section 333 of the Act must do so as prescribed by USCIS in its form instructions.
(b) The applicant, except in the case of a child or other person physically incapable of signing his or her name, shall sign each copy of the photograph on the front of the photograph with his or her full true name, in such manner as not to obscure the features. An applicant unable to write may make the signature by a mark. An applicant for naturalization must sign the photographs in the English language, unless the applicant is exempt from the English language requirement of part 312 of this chapter and is unable to sign in English, in which case the photographs may be signed in any language.
(c)(1) If a child is unable to sign his or her name, the photographs must be signed by a parent or guardian, the signature reading “(name of child) by (name of parent or guardian).”
(2) If an adult is physically unable to sign or make a mark, a guardian or the Service employee conducting the interview will sign the photographs as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(d) The photographs must be signed when submitted with an application if the instructions accompanying the application so require. If signature is not required by the instructions, the photographs are to be submitted without being signed and shall be signed at such later time during the processing of the application as may be appropriate.
[56 FR 50495, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 53801, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 333.2
Attachment of photographs to documents.
A photograph of the applicant must be securely and permanently attached to each certificate of naturalization or citizenship, or to any other document that requires a photograph, in a manner prescribed by USCIS.
[76 FR 53801, Aug. 29, 2011]
Pt. 334

# PART 334—APPLICATION FOR NATURALIZATION
Sec.
334.1
Filing of application for naturalization.
334.2
Application for naturalization.
334.3
[Reserved]
334.4
Investigation and report if applicant is sick or disabled.
334.5
Amendment of application for naturalization; reopening proceedings.
334.6-334.10
[Reserved]
334.11
Declaration of intention.
334.12-334.15
[Reserved]

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1443; 8 CFR part 2.
§ 334.1
Filing of application for naturalization.
Any person who is an applicant under sections 316, 319, 324, 325, 327, 328, 329, or 330 of the Act and the corresponding parts of this chapter, may apply for naturalization in accordance with the procedures prescribed in this chapter in accordance with the instructions on the form.
[56 FR 50496, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 66 FR 32147, June 13, 2001; 74 FR 26941, June 5, 2009]
§ 334.2
Application for naturalization.
(a) An applicant may file an application for naturalization with required initial evidence in accordance with the general form instructions for naturalization. The applicant must include the fee as required in 8 CFR 106.2.
(b) An application for naturalization may be filed up to 90 days prior to the completion of the required period of residence, which may include the three-month period of residence required to establish jurisdiction under section 316(a) or 319(a) of the Act.
[56 FR 50496, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 59 FR 48780, Sept. 20, 1993; 66 FR 32147, June 13, 2001; 76 FR 53801, Aug. 29, 2011; 85 FR 46929, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 334.3
[Reserved]
§ 334.4
Investigation and report if applicant is sick or disabled.
Whenever it appears that an applicant for naturalization may be unable, because of sickness or other disability, to appear for the initial examination on the application or for any subsequent interview, the district director shall cause an investigation to be conducted to determine the circumstances surrounding the sickness or disability. The district director shall determine, based on available medical evidence, whether the sickness or disability is of a nature which so incapacitates the applicant as to prevent the applicant's appearance at a Service office having jurisdiction over the applicant's place of residence. If so, the district director shall designate another place where the applicant may appear for the requisite naturalization proceedings.
[58 FR 49913, Sept. 24, 1993]
§ 334.5
Amendment of application for naturalization; reopening proceedings.
(a)
Clerical amendments
—(1)
By applicant.
An applicant may request that the application for naturalization be amended either prior to or subsequent to the administration of the oath of allegiance.
(2)
By Service.
The Service may amend, at any time, an application for naturalization when in receipt of information that clearly indicates that a clerical error has occurred.
(3)
Amendment procedure.
Any amendment will be limited to the correction of clerical errors arising from oversight or omission. If the amendment is approved, the amended application shall be filed with the original application for naturalization.
(b)
Substantive amendments.
Any substantive amendments which affect the jurisdiction or the decision on the merits of the application will not be authorized. When the Service is in receipt of any information that would indicate that an application for naturalization should not have been granted on the merits, the Service may institute proceedings to reopen the application before admission to citizenship, or to revoke the naturalization of a person
who has been admitted to citizenship, in accordance with section 340 of the Act and § 335.5 of this chapter.
[56 FR 50496, Oct. 7, 1991]
§§ 334.6-334.10
[Reserved]
§ 334.11
Declaration of intention.
(a)
Application.
Any person who is a lawful permanent resident over 18 years of age may file an application for a declaration of intention to become a citizen of the United States while present in the United States. Such application, with the requisite fee, shall be filed on the form specified by USCIS, in accordance with the form instructions.
(b)
Approval.
If approved, USCIS will retain the application in the file and advise the applicant of the action taken.
(c)
Denial.
If an application is denied, the applicant shall be notified in writing of the reasons for denial. No appeal shall lie from this decision.
[58 FR 49913, Sept. 24, 1993, as amended at 74 FR 26941, June 5, 2009; 76 FR 53801, Aug. 29, 2011]
§§ 334.12-334.15
[Reserved]
Pt. 335

# PART 335—EXAMINATION ON APPLICATION FOR NATURALIZATION
Sec.
335.1
Investigation of applicant.
335.2
Examination of applicant.
335.3
Determination on application; continuance of examination.
335.4
Use of record of examination.
335.5
Receipt of derogatory information after grant.
335.6
Failure to appear for examination.
335.7
Failure to prosecute application after initial examination.
335.8
[Reserved]
335.9
Transfer of application.
335.10
Withdrawal of application.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1443, 1447.
§ 335.1
Investigation of applicant.
Subsequent to the filing of an application for naturalization, the Service shall conduct an investigation of the applicant. The investigation shall consist, at a minimum, of a review of all pertinent records, police department checks, and a neighborhood investigation in the vicinities where the applicant has resided and has been employed, or engaged in business, for at least the five years immediately preceding the filing of the application. The district director may waive the neighborhood investigation of the applicant provided for in this paragraph.
[56 FR 50497, Oct. 7, 1991]
§ 335.2
Examination of applicant.
(a)
General.
Subsequent to the filing of an application for naturalization, each applicant shall appear in person before a USCIS officer designated to conduct examinations pursuant to 8 CFR 332.1. The examination shall be uniform throughout the United States and shall encompass all factors relating to the applicant's eligibility for naturalization. The applicant may request the presence of an attorney or representative who has filed an appearance in accordance with part 292 of this chapter.
(b)
Completion of criminal background checks before examination.
USCIS will notify applicants for naturalization to appear before a USCIS officer for initial examination on the naturalization application only after the USCIS has received a definitive response from the Federal Bureau of Investigation that a full criminal background check of an applicant has been completed. A definitive response that a full criminal background check on an applicant has been completed includes:
(1) Confirmation from the Federal Bureau of Investigation that an applicant does not have an administrative or a criminal record;
(2) Confirmation from the Federal Bureau of Investigation that an applicant has an administrative or a criminal record; or
(3) Confirmation from the Federal Bureau of Investigation that the fingerprint data submitted for the criminal background check has been rejected.
(c)
Procedure.
Prior to the beginning of the examination, USCIS shall make known to the applicant the official capacity in which the officer is conducting the examination. The applicant shall be questioned, under oath or affirmation, in a setting apart from the
public. Whenever necessary, the examining officer shall correct written answers in the application for naturalization to conform to the oral statements made under oath or affirmation. USCIS shall maintain, for the record, brief notations of the examination for naturalization. At a minimum, the notations shall include a record of the test administered to the applicant on English literacy and basic knowledge of the history and government of the United States. USCIS may have a stenographic, mechanical, electronic, or videotaped transcript made, or may prepare an affidavit covering the testimony of the applicant. The questions to the applicant shall be repeated in different form and elaborated, if necessary, until the officer conducting the examination is satisfied that the applicant either fully understands the questions or is unable to understand English. The applicant and USCIS shall have the right to present such oral or documentary evidence and to conduct such cross-examination as may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
(d)
Witnesses.
Witnesses, if called, shall be questioned under oath or affirmation to discover their own credibility and competency, as well as the extent of their personal knowledge of the applicant and his or her qualifications to become a naturalized citizen.
(1)
Issuance of subpoenas.
Subpoenas requiring the attendance of witnesses or the production of documentary evidence, or both, may be issued by the examining officer upon his or her own volition, or upon written request of the applicant or his or her attorney or representative. Such written request shall specify, as nearly as possible, the relevance, materiality, and scope of the testimony or documentary evidence sought and must show affirmatively that the testimony or documentary evidence cannot otherwise be produced. The examining officer shall document in the record his or her refusal to issue a subpoena at the request of the applicant.
(2)
Service of subpoenas.
Subpoenas will be issued on the form designated by USCIS and a record will be made of service. The subpoena may be served by any person over 18 years of age, not a party to the case, designated to make such service by USCIS.
(3)
Witness fees.
Mileage and fees for witnesses subpoenaed under this section shall be paid by the party at whose instance the subpoena is issued, at rates allowed and under conditions prescribed by the Service. Before issuing a subpoena, the officer may require the deposit of an amount adequate to cover the fees and mileage involved.
(4)
Failure to appear.
If the witness subpoenaed neglects or refuses to testify or to produce documentary evidence as directed by the subpoena, the district director shall request that the United States Attorney for the proper district report such neglect or refusal to any District Court of the United States, and file a motion in such court for an order directing the witness to appear and to testify and produce the documentary evidence described in the subpoena.
(5)
Extraterritorial testimony.
The testimony of a witness may be taken outside the United States. The witness's name and address shall be sent to the Service office abroad which has jurisdiction over the witness's residence. The officer taking the statement shall be given express instructions regarding any aspect of the case which may require special development or emphasis during the interrogation of the witness.
(e)
Record of examination.
At the conclusion of the examination, all corrections made on the application form and all supplemental material shall be consecutively numbered and listed in the space provided on the applicant's affidavit contained in the application form. The affidavit must then be subscribed and sworn to, or affirmed, by the applicant and signed by the USCIS officer. The affidavit shall be executed under the following oath (or affirmation): “I swear (affirm) and certify under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of America that I know that the contents of this application for naturalization subscribed by me, and the evidence submitted with it, are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.” Evidence received by the officer shall
be placed into the record for determination of the case. All documentary or written evidence shall be properly identified and introduced into the record as exhibits by number, unless read into the record. A deposition or statement taken by a USCIS officer during the initial examination or any subsequent examination shall be included as part of the record on the application.
(f)
Use of interpreter.
If the use of an interpreter is authorized pursuant to 8 CFR 312.4, the examining officer shall note on the application the use and identity of any interpreter. If the USCIS officer is proficient in the applicant's native language, the USCIS officer may conduct the examination in that language with the consent of the applicant.
[56 FR 50497, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 58 FR 49913, Sept. 24, 1993; 63 FR 12987, 12988, Mar. 17, 1998; 76 FR 53801, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 335.3
Determination on application; continuance of examination.
(a) USCIS shall grant the application if the applicant has complied with all requirements for naturalization under this chapter. A decision to grant or deny the application shall be made at the time of the initial examination or within 120-days after the date of the initial examination of the applicant for naturalization under § 335.2. The applicant shall be notified that the application has been granted or denied and, if the application has been granted, of the procedures to be followed for the administration of the oath of allegiance pursuant to part 337 of this chapter.
(b) Rather than make a determination on the application, USCIS may continue the initial examination on an application for one reexamination, to afford the applicant an opportunity to overcome deficiencies on the application that may arise during the examination. The officer must inform the applicant in writing of the grounds to be overcome or the evidence to be submitted. The applicant shall not be required to appear for a reexamination earlier than 60 days after the first examination. However, the reexamination on the continued case shall be scheduled within the 120-day period after the initial examination, except as otherwise provided under § 312.5(b) of this chapter. If the applicant is unable to overcome the deficiencies in the application, the application shall be denied pursuant to § 336.1 of this chapter.
[56 FR 50497, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 58 FR 49914, Sept. 24, 1993; 76 FR 53801, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 335.4
Use of record of examination.
In the event that an application is denied, the record of the examination on the application for naturalization, including the executed and corrected application form and supplements, affidavits, transcripts of testimony, documents, and other evidence, shall be submitted to the USCIS officer described in 8 CFR 332.1 of this chapter to conduct hearings on denials of applications for naturalization in accordance with part 336 of this chapter. The record of the examination shall be used for examining the petitioner and witnesses, if required to properly dispose of issues raised in the matter.
[56 FR 50498, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 53801, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 335.5
Receipt of derogatory information after grant.
In the event that USCIS receives derogatory information concerning an applicant whose application has already been granted as provided in § 335.3(a) of this chapter, but who has not yet taken the oath of allegiance as provided in part 337 of this chapter, USCIS shall remove the applicant's name from any list of granted applications or of applicants scheduled for administration of the oath of allegiance, until such time as the matter can be resolved. USCIS shall notify the applicant in writing of the receipt of the specific derogatory information, with a motion to reopen the previously adjudicated application, giving the applicant 15 days to respond. If the applicant overcomes the derogatory information, the application will be granted and the applicant will be scheduled for administration of the oath of allegiance. Otherwise the motion to reopen will be granted and the application will
be denied pursuant to § 336.1 of this chapter.
[56 FR 50498, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 58 FR 49914, Sept. 24, 1993; 76 FR 53801, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 335.6
Failure to appear for examination.
(a) An applicant for naturalization shall be deemed to have abandoned his or her application if he or she fails to appear for the examination pursuant to § 335.3 and fails to notify USCIS of the reason for non-appearance within 30 days of the scheduled examination. Such notification shall be in writing and contain a request for rescheduling of the examination. In the absence of a timely notification, USCIS may administratively close the application without making a decision on the merits.
(b) An applicant may reopen an administratively closed application by submitting a written request to USCIS within one (1) year from the date the application was closed. Such reopening shall be without additional fee. The date of the request for reopening shall be the date of filing of the application for purposes of determining eligibility for naturalization.
(c) If the applicant does not request reopening of an administratively closed application within one year from the date the application was closed, USCIS will consider that application to have been abandoned, and shall dismiss the application without further notice to the applicant.
[58 FR 49914, Sept. 24, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 6651, Feb. 3, 1995; 76 FR 53801, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 335.7
Failure to prosecute application after initial examination.
An applicant for naturalization who has appeared for the examination on his or her application as provided in 8 CFR 335.2 will be considered as failing to prosecute such application if he or she, without good cause being shown, either failed to excuse an absence from a subsequently required appearance, or fails to provide within a reasonable period of time such documents, information, or testimony deemed by USCIS to be necessary to establish his or her eligibility for naturalization. USCIS will deliver notice of requests for appearance or evidence as provided in 8 CFR 103.8. In the event that the applicant fails to respond within 30 days of the date of notification, USCIS will adjudicate the application on the merits pursuant to 8 CFR 336.1.
[76 FR 53801, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 335.8
[Reserved]
§ 335.9
Transfer of application.
(a)
Request for transfer of application.
An applicant who, after filing an application for naturalization, changes residence, or plans to change residence within three months, may request, in writing, that a pending application be transferred from the current USCIS office to the USCIS office having jurisdiction over the applicant's new place of residence. The request shall be submitted to the office where the application was originally filed. The request shall include the applicant's name, alien registration number, date of birth, complete current address including name of the county, complete address at the time of filing the application, reason for the request to transfer the application, and the date the applicant moved or intends to move to the new jurisdiction.
(b)
Discretion to authorize transfer.
The USCIS may authorize the transfer of an application for naturalization after such application has been filed. In the event that the USCIS does not consent to the transfer of the application, the application shall be adjudicated on its merits by USCIS office retaining jurisdiction. If upon such adjudication the application is denied, the written decision pursuant to § 336.1 of this chapter shall also address the reason(s) for USCIS's decision not to consent to the transfer request.
[56 FR 50498, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 58 FR 49914, Sept. 24, 1993; 76 FR 53801, Aug. 29, 2011; 76 FR 73477, Nov. 29, 2011]
§ 335.10
Withdrawal of application.
An applicant may request, in writing, that his or her application, filed with USCIS, be withdrawn. If USCIS consents to the withdrawal, the application will be denied without further notice to the applicant and without prejudice to any future application. The withdrawal by the applicant will constitute a waiver of any review pursuant
to part 336 of this chapter. If USCIS does not consent to the withdrawal, the application for naturalization shall be adjudicated on its merits.
[56 FR 50498, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 53801, Aug. 29, 2011]
Pt. 336

# PART 336—HEARINGS ON DENIALS OF APPLICATIONS FOR NATURALIZATION
Sec.
336.1
Denial after section 335 examination.
336.2
USCIS hearing.
336.3-336.8
[Reserved]
336.9
Judicial review of denial determinations on applications for naturalization.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1443, 1447, 1448.

# Source:
56 FR 50499, Oct. 7, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 336.1
Denial after section 335 examination.
(a) After completing all examination procedures contained in part 335 of this chapter and determining to deny an application for naturalization, USCIS will serve a written notice of denial upon an applicant for naturalization no later than 120 days after the date of the applicant's first examination on the application.
(b) A notice of denial shall be prepared in a written, narrative format, and shall recite, in clear concise language, the pertinent facts upon which the determination was based, the specific legal section or sections applicable to the finding of ineligibility, and the conclusions of law reached by the examining officer in rendering the decision. Such notice of denial shall also contain a specific statement of the applicant's right either to accept the determination of the examining officer, or request a hearing before an immigration officer.
(c) Service of the notice of denial must be by personal service as described in 8 CFR 103.8, or upon the attorney or representative of record as provided in part 292 of this chapter.
[56 FR 50499, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 53802, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 336.2
USCIS hearing.
(a) The applicant, or his or her authorized representative, may request a hearing on the denial of the applicant's application for naturalization by filing a request with USCIS within thirty days after the applicant receives the notice of denial.
(b) Upon receipt of a timely request for a hearing, USCIS will schedule a review hearing, within a reasonable period of time not to exceed 180 days from the date upon which the appeal is filed. The review will be with an officer other than the officer who conducted the original examination or who rendered determination upon which the hearing is based, and who is classified at a grade level equal to or higher than the grade of the examining officer. The reviewing officer will have the authority and discretion to review the application for naturalization, to examine the applicant, and either to affirm the findings and determination of the original examining officer or to re-determine the original decision in whole or in part. The reviewing officer will also have the discretion to review any administrative record which was created as part of the examination procedures as well USCIS files and reports. He or she may receive new evidence or take such additional testimony as may be deemed relevant to the applicant's eligibility for naturalization or which the applicant seeks to provide. Based upon the complexity of the issues to be reviewed or determined, and upon the necessity of conducting further examinations with respect to essential naturalization requirements, such as literacy or civics knowledge, the reviewing immigration officer may, in his or her discretion, conduct a full
de novo
hearing or may utilize a less formal review procedure, as he or she deems reasonable and in the interest of justice.
(c)
Improperly filed request for hearing
—(1)
Request for hearing filed by a person or entity not entitled to file
—(i)
Rejection without refund of filing fee.
A request for hearing filed by a person or entity who is not entitled to file such a request must be rejected as improperly filed. In such a case, any filing fee will not be refunded.
(ii)
Request for hearing by attorney or representative without proper Form G-28.
If a request for hearing is filed by an attorney or representative who has not
properly filed a notice of entry of appearance as attorney or representative entitling that person to file the request for hearing, the appeal will be considered as improperly filed. In such a case, any filing fee will not be refunded regardless of the action taken. The reviewing official will ask the attorney or representative to submit a proper notice of entry within 15 days of the request. If such notice is not submitted within the time allowed, the official may, on his or her own motion, under 8 CFR 103.5(a)(5)(i), make a new decision favorable to the affected party without notifying the attorney or representative. The request for hearing may be considered properly filed as of its original filing date if the attorney or representative submits a properly executed notice entitling that person to file the request for hearing.
(2)
Untimely request for hearing
—(i)
Rejection without refund of filing fee.
A request for hearing which is not filed within the time period allowed must be rejected as improperly filed. In such a case, any filing fee will not be refunded.
(ii)
Untimely request for hearing treated as motion.
If an untimely request for hearing meets the requirements of a motion to reopen as described in 8 CFR 103.5(a)(2) or a motion to reconsider as described in 8 CFR 103.5(a)(3), the request for hearing must be treated as a motion and a decision must be made on the merits of the case.
[76 FR 53802, Aug. 29, 2011]
§§ 336.3-336.8
[Reserved]
§ 336.9
Judicial review of denial determinations on applications for naturalization.
(a)
General.
The provisions in part 310 of this chapter shall provide the sole and exclusive procedures for requesting judicial review of final determinations on applications for naturalization made pursuant to section 336(a) of the Act and the provisions of this chapter by USCIS on or after October 1, 1991.
(b)
Filing a petition.
Under these procedures, an applicant must file a petition for review in the United States District Court having jurisdiction over his or her place of residence, in accordance with Chapter 7 of Title 5, United States Code, within a period of not more than 120 days after the USCIS final determination. The petition for review must be brought against USCIS, and service of the petition for review must be made upon DHS and upon the USCIS office where the hearing was held pursuant to 8 CFR 336.2.
(c)
Standard of review.
The review will be
de novo,
and the court will make its own findings of fact and conclusions of law. The court may also conduct, at the request of the petitioner, a hearing
de novo
on the application for naturalization.
(d)
Exhaustion of remedies.
A USCIS determination denying an application for naturalization under section 335(a) of the Act shall not be subject to judicial review until the applicant has exhausted those administrative remedies available to the applicant under section 336 of the Act. Every petition for judicial review shall state whether the validity of the final determination to deny an application for naturalization has been upheld in any prior administrative proceeding and, if so, the nature and date of such proceeding and the forum in which such proceeding took place.
[56 FR 50499, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 53802, Aug. 29, 2011]
Pt. 337

# PART 337—OATH OF ALLEGIANCE
Sec.
337.1
Oath of allegiance.
337.2
Oath administered by USCIS or EOIR.
337.3
Expedited administration of oath of allegiance.
337.4
When requests for change of name granted.
337.5-337.6
[Reserved]
337.7
Information and assignment of individuals under exclusive jurisdiction.
337.8
Oath administered by the courts.
337.9
Effective date of naturalization.
337.10
Failure to appear for oath administration ceremony.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1443, 1448; 8 CFR part 2.
§ 337.1
Oath of allegiance.
(a)
Form of oath.
Except as otherwise provided in the Act and after receiving notice from the district director that such applicant is eligible for naturalization pursuant to § 335.3 of this
chapter, an applicant for naturalization shall, before being admitted to citizenship, take in a public ceremony held within the United States the following oath of allegiance, to a copy of which the applicant shall affix his or her signature:
I hereby declare, on oath, that I absolutely and entirely renounce and abjure all allegiance and fidelity to any foreign prince, potentate, state, or sovereignty, of whom or which I have heretofore been a subject or citizen; that I will support and defend the Constitution and laws of the United States of America against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I will bear arms on behalf of the United States when required by the law; that I will perform noncombatant service in the Armed Forces of the United States when required by the law; that I will perform work of national importance under civilian direction when required by the law; and that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; so help me God.
(b)
Alteration of form of oath; affirmation in lieu of oath.
In those cases in which a petitioner or applicant for naturalization is exempt from taking the oath prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section in its entirety, the inapplicable clauses shall be deleted and the oath shall be taken in such altered form. When a petitioner or applicant for naturalization, by reason of religious training and belief (or individual interpretation thereof), or for other reasons of good conscience, cannot take the oath prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section with the words “on oath” and “so help me God” included, the words “and solemnly affirm” shall be substituted for the words “on oath,” the words “so help me God” shall be deleted, and the oath shall be taken in such modified form. Any reference to ‘oath of allegiance’ in this chapter is understood to mean equally ‘affirmation of allegiance’ as described in this paragraph.
(c)
Obligations of oath.
A petitioner or applicant for naturalization shall, before being naturalized, establish that it is his or her intention, in good faith, to assume and discharge the obligations of the oath of allegiance, and that his or her attitude toward the Constitution and laws of the United States renders him or her capable of fulfilling the obligations of such oath.
(d)
Renunciation of title or order of nobility.
A petitioner or applicant for naturalization who has borne any hereditary title or has been of any of the orders of nobility in any foreign state shall, in addition to taking the oath of allegiance prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section, make under oath or affirmation in public an express renunciation of such title or order of nobility, in the following form:
(1) I further renounce the title of (give title or titles) which I have heretofore held; or
(2) I further renounce the order of nobility (give the order of nobility) to which I have heretofore belonged.
[22 FR 9824, Dec. 6, 1957, as amended at 24 FR 2584, Apr. 3, 1959; 32 FR 13756, Oct. 3, 1967; 56 FR 50499, Oct. 7, 1991]
§ 337.2
Oath administered by USCIS or EOIR.
(a)
Public ceremony.
An applicant for naturalization who has elected to have his or her oath of allegiance administered by USCIS or an immigration judge and is not subject to the exclusive oath administration authority of an eligible court pursuant to section 310(b) of the Act must appear in person in a public ceremony, unless such appearance is specifically excused under the terms and conditions set forth in this part. Such ceremony will be held at a time and place designated by USCIS or EOIR within the United States (or abroad as permitted for certain applicants in accordance with 8 U.S.C. 1443a) and within the jurisdiction where the application for naturalization was filed, or into which the application for naturalization was transferred pursuant to 8 CFR 335.9. Naturalization ceremonies will be conducted at regular intervals as frequently as necessary to ensure timely naturalization, but in all events at least once monthly where it is required to minimize unreasonable delays. Naturalization ceremonies will be presented in such a manner as to preserve the dignity and significance of the occasion.
(b)
Authority to administer oath of allegiance.
The Secretary may delegate authority to administer the oath of allegiance prescribed in section 337 of the Act to such officials of DHS and to immigration judges or officials designated by the Attorney General as may be necessary for the efficient administration of the naturalization program.
(c)
Execution of questionnaire.
Immediately prior to being administered the oath of allegiance, each applicant must complete the questionnaire on the form designated by USCIS. USCIS will review each completed questionnaire and may further question the applicant regarding the responses provided. If derogatory information is revealed, USCIS will remove the applicant's name from the list of eligible persons as provided in 8 CFR 335.5 and he or she will not be administered the oath.
[76 FR 53802, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 337.3
Expedited administration of oath of allegiance.
(a) An applicant may be granted an expedited oath administration ceremony by either the court or USCIS upon demonstrating sufficient cause. In determining whether to grant an expedited oath administration ceremony, the court or USCIS shall consider special circumstances of a compelling or humanitarian nature. Special circumstances may include but are not limited to:
(1) The serious illness of the applicant or a member of the applicant's family;
(2) Permanent disability of the applicant sufficiently incapacitating as to prevent the applicant's personal appearance at a scheduled ceremony;
(3) The developmental disability or advanced age of the applicant which would make appearance at a scheduled ceremony inappropriate; or
(4) Urgent or compelling circumstances relating to travel or employment determined by the court or USCIS to be sufficiently meritorious to warrant special consideration.
(b) Courts exercising exclusive authority may either hold an expedited oath administration ceremony or refer the applicant to USCIS in order for either the Immigration Judge or USCIS to conduct an oath administration ceremony, if an expedited judicial oath administration ceremony is impractical. The court shall inform USCIS in writing of its decision to grant the applicant an expedited oath administration ceremony and that the court has relinquished exclusive jurisdiction as to that applicant.
(c) All requests for expedited administration of the oath of allegiance shall be made in writing to either the court or USCIS. Such requests shall contain sufficient information to substantiate the claim of special circumstances to permit either the court or USCIS to properly exercise the discretionary authority to grant the relief sought. The court or USCIS may seek verification of the validity of the information provided in the request. If the applicant submits a written request to USCIS, but is awaiting an oath administration ceremony by a court pursuant to § 337.8, USCIS promptly shall provide the court with a copy of the request without reaching a decision on whether to grant or deny the request.
[60 FR 37804, July 24, 1995, as amended at 76 FR 53803, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 337.4
When requests for change of name granted.
When the court has granted the petitioner's change of name request, the petitioner shall subscribe his or her new name to the written oath of allegiance.
[56 FR 50500, Oct. 7, 1991]
§§ 337.5-337.6
[Reserved]
§ 337.7
Information and assignment of individuals under exclusive jurisdiction.
(a) No later than at the time of the examination on the application pursuant to § 335.2 of this chapter, an employee of USCIS shall advise the applicant of his or her right to elect the site for the administration of the oath of allegiance, subject to the exclusive jurisdiction provision of § 310.3(d) of this chapter. In order to assist the applicant in making an informed decision, USCIS shall advise the applicant of the upcoming Immigration Judge or USCIS conducted and judicial ceremonies at
which the applicant may appear, if found eligible for naturalization.
(b) An applicant whose application has been approved by USCIS who is subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of a court pursuant to § 310.2(d) of this chapter, shall be advised of the next available court ceremony and provided with a written notice to appear at that ceremony. If the applicant is subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of more than one court exercising exclusive jurisdiction, the applicant will be informed of the upcoming ceremonies in each affected court. The applicant shall decide which court he or she wishes to administer the oath of allegiance.
[58 FR 49915, Sept. 24, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 37804, July 24, 1995; 76 FR 53803, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 337.8
Oath administered by the courts.
(a)
Notification of election.
An applicant for naturalization not subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of 8 CFR 310.2(d) must notify USCIS at the time of the filing of, or no later than at the examination on, the application of his or her election to have the oath of allegiance administered in an appropriate court having jurisdiction over the applicant's place of residence.
(b)
Certificate of eligibility
—(1)
Exclusive jurisdiction.
In those instances falling within the exclusive jurisdiction provision of section 310(b)(1)(B) of the Act, USCIS will notify the court of the applicant's eligibility for admission to United States citizenship by notifying the clerk of the court within 10 days of the approval of the application.
(2)
Non-exclusive jurisdiction.
In those instances in which the applicant has elected to have the oath administered in a court ceremony, USCIS will notify the clerk of the court in writing that the applicant has been determined by the USCIS to be eligible for admission to United States citizenship upon taking the requisite oath of allegiance and renunciation in a public ceremony. If a scheduled hearing date is not available at the time of notification, USCIS will notify the applicant in writing that the applicant has been approved but no ceremony date is yet available.
(c)
Preparation of lists.
(1) At or prior to the oath administration ceremony, the representative attending the ceremony will submit to the court, in duplicate, lists of persons to be administered the oath of allegiance and renunciation. After the ceremony, and after any required amendments and notations have been made to the lists, the clerk of the court will sign the lists.
(2) The originals of all court lists specified in this section will be filed permanently in the court, and the duplicates returned by the clerk of the court to USCIS. The same disposition will be made of any list presented to, but not approved by, the court.
(d)
Personal representation of the government at oath administration ceremonies.
An oath administration ceremony must be attended by a representative of USCIS who will review each completed questionnaire and may further question the applicant regarding the responses provided. If derogatory information is revealed, the USCIS representative will remove the applicant's name from the list of eligible persons as provided in 8 CFR 335.5 and the court will not administer the oath to such applicant.
(e)
Written report in lieu of personal representation.
If it is impractical for a USCIS representative to be present at a judicial oath administration ceremony, written notice of that fact will be given by the USCIS to the court. The list of persons to be administered the oath of allegiance and renunciation, forms, memoranda, and certificates will be transmitted to the clerk of the court, who will submit the appropriate lists to the court.
(f)
Withdrawal from court.
An applicant for naturalization not subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of 8 CFR 310.3(d) who has elected to have the oath administered in a court oath ceremony may, for good cause shown, request that his or her name be removed from the list of persons eligible to be administered the oath at a court oath ceremony and request that the oath be administered by an immigration judge or USCIS. Such request must be in writing to the USCIS office which granted the application and must cite the reasons for the request. USCIS will consider the good cause shown and the best interests of the applicant in making a decision. If it is determined that
the applicant will be permitted to withdraw his or her name from the court ceremony, USCIS will give written notice to the court of the applicant's withdrawal, and the applicant will be scheduled for the next available oath ceremony, conducted by an Immigration Judge or USCIS, as if he or she had never elected the court ceremony.
[76 FR 53803, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 337.9
Effective date of naturalization.
(a) An applicant for naturalization shall be deemed a citizen of the United States as of the date on which the applicant takes the prescribed oath of allegiance in an administrative ceremony or in a ceremony conducted by an appropriate court under § 337.8 of this chapter.
(b) [Reserved]
[56 FR 50500, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 37804, July 24, 1995; 66 FR 32147, June 13, 2001; 76 FR 53803, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 337.10
Failure to appear for oath administration ceremony.
An applicant who fails to appear without good cause for more than one oath administration ceremony for which he or she was duly notified shall be presumed to have abandoned his or her intent to be naturalized. Such presumption shall be regarded as the receipt of derogatory information, and the procedures contained in § 335.5 of this chapter shall be followed.
[58 FR 49916, Sept. 24, 1993]
Pt. 338

# PART 338—CERTIFICATE OF NATURALIZATION
Sec.
338.1
Execution and issuance of certificate.
338.2
Execution in case name is changed.
338.3
Delivery of certificates.
338.4
[Reserved]
338.5
Correction of certificates.
338.6-338.10
[Reserved]

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1443; 8 CFR part 2.
§ 338.1
Execution and issuance of certificate.
(a)
Issuance.
When an applicant for naturalization has taken and subscribed to the oath of allegiance in accordance with 8 CFR part 337, USCIS will issue a Certificate of Naturalization at the conclusion of the oath administration ceremony.
(b)
Contents of certificate.
The certificate must be issued to the applicant in accordance with section 338 of the Act in his or her true, full, and correct name as it exists at the time of the administration of the oath of allegiance. The certificate must show, under “country of former nationality,” the name of the applicant's last country of citizenship, as shown in the application and USCIS records, even though the applicant may be stateless at the time of admission to citizenship.
[76 FR 53803, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 338.2
Execution in case name is changed.
Whenever the name of an applicant has been changed by order of a court as a part of a naturalization, the clerk of court, or his or her authorized deputy, shall forward a copy of the order changing the applicant's name with the notifications required by part 339 of this chapter. The Certificate of Naturalization will be issued to the applicant in the name as changed.
[56 FR 50501, Oct. 7, 1991]
§ 338.3
Delivery of certificates.
No Certificate of Naturalization will be delivered in any case in which the naturalized person has not surrendered his or her Permanent Resident Card to USCIS. Upon a finding that the card is destroyed or otherwise unavailable, USCIS may waive the surrender of the card and the Certificate of Naturalization shall then be delivered to the naturalized person.
[56 FR 50501, Oct. 7, 1991, as amended at 63 FR 70316, Dec. 21, 1998; 76 FR 53803, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 338.4
[Reserved]
§ 338.5
Correction of certificates.
(a)
Application.
Whenever a Certificate of Naturalization has been delivered which does not conform to the facts shown on the application for naturalization, or a clerical error was made in preparing the certificate, an application for issuance of a corrected certificate may be filed, without fee, in accordance with the form instructions.
(b)
Court-issued certificates.
If the certificate was originally issued by a clerk of court under a prior statute and USCIS finds that a correction is justified and can be made without mutilating the certificate, USCIS will authorize the issuing court to make the necessary correction and to place a dated endorsement of the court on the reverse of the certificate explaining the correction. The authorization will be filed with the naturalization record of the court, the corrected certificate will be returned to the naturalized person, and the duplicate will be endorsed to show the date and nature of the correction and endorsement made, and then returned to USCIS. No fee will be charged the naturalized person for the correction.
(c)
USCIS-issued certificates.
If the certificate was originally issued by USCIS (or its predecessor agency), and USCIS finds that a correction was justified, the correction shall be made to the certificate and a dated endorsement made on the reverse of the certificate.
(d)
Administrative actions.
When a correction made pursuant to paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section would or does result in mutilation of a certificate, USCIS will issue a replacement Certificate of Naturalization and destroy the surrendered certificate.
(e)
Data change.
The correction will not be deemed to be justified where the naturalized person later alleges that the name or date of birth which the applicant stated to be his or her correct name or date of birth at the time of naturalization was not in fact his or her name or date of birth at the time of the naturalization.
[76 FR 53803, Aug. 29, 2011]
§§ 338.6-338.10
[Reserved]
Pt. 339

# PART 339—FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES OF CLERKS OF COURT REGARDING NATURALIZATION PROCEEDINGS
Sec.
339.1
Administration of oath of allegiance to applicants for naturalization.
339.2
Monthly reports.
339.3
Relinquishment of naturalization jurisdiction.
339.4
Binding of naturalization records.
339.5
Recordkeeping.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1443, 1448.
§ 339.1
Administration of oath of allegiance to applicants for naturalization.
It shall be the duty of a judge of a court that administers an oath of allegiance to ensure that such oath is administered to each applicant for naturalization who has chosen to appear before the court. The clerk of court shall issue to each person to whom such oath is administered the Certificate of Naturalization provided by USCIS in accordance with 8 CFR 338.1. The clerk of court shall provide to each person whose name was changed as part of the naturalization proceedings, pursuant to section 336(e) of the Act, certified evidence of such name change.
[58 FR 49916, Sept. 24, 1993, as amended at 76 FR 53804, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 339.2
Monthly reports.
(a)
Oath administration ceremonies.
Clerks of court will on the first day of each month or immediately following each oath ceremony submit to USCIS a report listing all oath administration ceremonies held and the total number of persons issued the oath at each ceremony, in accordance with USCIS instructions. The report will include a list of persons attending naturalization oath ceremonies during the month, and certified copies of any court orders granting changes of name.
(b)
Petitions filed for de novo hearings.
The clerk of court must submit to USCIS a monthly report of all persons who have filed
de novo
review petitions before the court. The report shall include each petitioner's name, alien registration number, date of filing of the petition for a
de novo
review, and, once an order has been entered, the disposition.
(c)
Other proceedings and orders.
The clerk of court must forward to USCIS copies of the records of such other proceedings and other orders instituted on or issued by the court affecting or relating to the naturalization of any person as may be required from time to time.
(d)
Use of reports for accounting purposes.
State and federal courts may use
the reports as a monthly billing document, submitted to USCIS for reimbursement in accordance with section 344(f)(1) of the Act. USCIS will use the information submitted to calculate costs incurred by courts in performing their naturalization functions. State and federal courts will be reimbursed pursuant to terms set forth in annual agreements entered into between DHS and the Administrative Office of United States Courts.
[76 FR 53804, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 339.3
Relinquishment of naturalization jurisdiction.
Whenever a court relinquishes naturalization jurisdiction, the clerk of court shall, within ten days following the date of relinquishment, furnish the district director having administrative jurisdiction over the place in which the court is located, a certified copy of the order of court relinquishing jurisdiction. A representative of the Service shall thereafter examine the naturalization records in the office of the clerk of court and shall bind and lock them. The clerk of court shall return all unused forms and blank certificates of naturalization to the district director with his monthly report on Form N-4.
[22 FR 9825, Dec. 6, 1957]
§ 339.4
Binding of naturalization records.
Whenever a volume of petitions for naturalization, applications to take the oath of allegiance, declarations of intention, orders of court, or other documents affecting or relating to the naturalization of persons is completed, it shall be bound and locked by the clerk of court.
[22 FR 9825, Dec. 6, 1957]
§ 339.5
Recordkeeping.
The maintenance of records and submission of reports under this chapter may be accomplished by either electronic or paper means.
[56 FR 50502, Oct. 7, 1991]
Pt. 340

# PART 340—REVOCATION OF NATURALIZATION
Sec.
340.1
[Reserved]
340.2
Revocation proceedings pursuant to section 340(a) of the Act.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1443.
§ 340.1
[Reserved]
§ 340.2
Revocation proceedings pursuant to section 340(a) of the Act.
(a)
Recommendations for institution of revocation proceedings.
Whenever it appears that any grant of naturalization may have been illegally procured or procured by concealment of a material fact or by willful misrepresentation, and a prima facie case exists for revocation pursuant to section 340(a) of the Act, USCIS will make a recommendation regarding revocation.
(b)
Recommendation for criminal prosecution.
If it appears to USCIS that a case described in paragraph (a) of this section is amenable to criminal penalties under 18 U.S.C. 1425 for unlawful procurement of citizenship or naturalization, the facts will be reported to the appropriate United States Attorney for possible criminal prosecution.
[76 FR 53804, Aug. 29, 2011]
Pt. 341

# PART 341—CERTIFICATES OF CITIZENSHIP
Sec.
341.1
Application.
341.2
Examination upon application.
341.3
Depositions.
341.4
Surrender of immigration documents.
341.5
Decision.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 82-414, 66 Stat. 173, 238, 254, 264, as amended; 8 U.S.C. 1103, 1409(c), 1443, 1444, 1448, 1452, 1455; 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
30 FR 5472, Apr. 16, 1965, unless otherwise noted.
§ 341.1
Application.
An application for a certificate of citizenship by or in behalf of a person who claims to have acquired United States citizenship under section 309(c) of the Act or to have acquired or derived United States citizenship as specified in section 341 of the Act must be submitted on the form designated by USCIS with the fee specified in 8 CFR
106.2 and in accordance with the instructions on the form.
[76 FR 53804, Aug. 29, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 46929, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 341.2
Examination upon application.
(a)
Personal appearance of applicant and parent or guardian
—(1)
When testimony may be omitted.
An application may be processed without interview if the USCIS officer adjudicating the case has in the administrative file(s) all the required documentation necessary to establish the applicant's eligibility for U.S. citizenship, or if the application is accompanied by one of the following:
(i) A Department of State Form FS-240 (Report of Birth Abroad of a Citizen of the United States);
(ii) An unexpired United States passport issued initially for a full five/ten-year period to the applicant as a citizen of the United States, or
(iii) The applicant's parent(s)' naturalization certificate(s).
(2)
Testimony required.
Each applicant, when notified to do so, shall appear in person before an officer for examination under oath or affirmation upon the application. A person under 18 years of age must have a parent or guardian apply, appear, and testify for the applicant, unless one is unavailable and the district director is satisfied that the applicant is old enough to provide reliable testimony. The same rule will apply for incompetent applicants. At the examination the applicant and the acting parent or guardian, if necessary, shall present testimony and evidence pertinent to the claim to citizenship and shall have the right to review and rebut any adverse evidence on file, and to cross-examine witnesses called by the Government.
(b)
Witness
—(1)
Personal appearance.
A witness shall be called to testify under oath or affirmation at the discretion of USCIS only if that person's testimony is needed to prove a particular point, and only if alternative proof is unavailable or more difficult to produce than is the witness.
(2)
Substitution and waiver.
When testimony is deemed necessary by the district director and the presentation of the person or persons through whom citizenship is claimed is precluded by reason of death, refusal to testify, unknown whereabouts, advanced age, mental or physical incapacity, or severe illness or infirmity, another witness or witnesses shall be produced. A substitute witness also may be produced in lieu of such person if such person is a member of the United States Armed Forces serving outside the United States in an area where his testimony could not be taken without imposing extreme hardship upon him, or without unduly delaying action on the application, and no issue is present which can be resolved only by this testimony.
(c)
Proof.
The burden of proof shall be upon the claimant, or his parent or guardian if one is acting in his behalf, to establish the claimed citizenship by a preponderance of the evidence.
(d)
Assignment and authority of officer.
USCIS will conduct the examination provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. The assigned officer shall have authority to administer oaths or affirmations; to present and receive evidence; to rule upon offers of proof; to take or cause to be taken depositions or interrogatories; to regulate the course of the examination; to examine and cross-examine all witnesses appearing in the proceedings; to grant or order continuances; to consider and rule upon objections to the introduction of evidence; to make a report and recommendation as to whether the application shall be granted or denied, and to take such other action as may be appropriate to the conduct of the examination and the disposition of the application.
(e)
Conduct of examination.
The assigned officer shall, at the commencement of the examination of the claimant or the acting parent or guardian, advise them of their rights as set forth in paragraphs (a) and (f) of this section, and shall interrogate them under oath or affirmation with regard to each assertion made in the application and any other matter pertinent to the claim to citizenship; in addition, when a witness is deemed necessary, he shall interrogate each witness with regard to pertinent matters within the personal knowledge of the witness, such as the relationship between the claimant and the citizen source or sources; the citizenship of the latter, and any possible
expatriatory acts performed by the claimant and the citizen source or sources. He may, in his discretion, have a transcript made of the testimony. At the conclusion of the examination of the claimant or the action parent or guardian, all corrections made on the applications form shall be consecutively numbered and recorded in the space provided therefor in the form. The affidavit shall then be signed and sworn to or affirmed by the claimant or the acting parent or guardian; and the remainder of the affidavit completed and signed by the assigned officer.
(f)
Representation during proceedings.
The claimant shall have the right to representation during the proceedings, as provided in part 292 of this chapter, and such representative shall have the right to examine and cross-examine witnesses appearing in the proceedings; to introduce evidence; to object to the introduction of evidence, which objections shall be stated succinctly and entered on the record, and to submit briefs. If the claimant is not represented by an attorney or representative, the assigned officer shall assist him in the introduction of all evidence available in his behalf.
[30 FR 5472, Apr. 16, 1965; 30 FR 5621, Apr. 21, 1965, as amended at 32 FR 6260, Apr. 21, 1967; 45 FR 84011, Dec. 22, 1980; 51 FR 35629, Oct. 7, 1986; 66 FR 32147, June 13, 2001; 76 FR 53804, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 341.3
Depositions.
If satisfied that a witness whose testimony is essential is not available for examination in the United States, the assigned officer may authorize the taking of a deposition abroad by written interrogatories before a DHS or Department of State official.
[30 FR 5472, Apr. 16, 1965, as amended at 76 FR 53804, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 341.4
Surrender of immigration documents.
Each claimant shall surrender any immigration identification and permanent resident cards in his or her possession.
[30 FR 5472, Apr. 16, 1965, as amended at 63 FR 70316, Dec. 21, 1998]
§ 341.5
Decision.
(a)
Adjudication.
USCIS may adjudicate the application only after the appropriate approving official has reviewed the report, findings, recommendation, and endorsement of the USCIS officer assigned to adjudicate the application.
(b)
Approval.
If the application is granted, USCIS will prepare a certificate of citizenship and, unless the claimant is unable by reason of mental incapacity or young age to understand the meaning of the oath, he or she must take and subscribe to the oath of renunciation and allegiance prescribed by 8 CFR 337 before USCIS within the United States. Except as provided in paragraph (c), delivery of the certificate in accordance with 8 CFR 103.2(b)(19) and 8 CFR 103.8 must be made in the United States to the claimant or the acting parent or guardian.
(c)
Approval pursuant to section 322(d) of the Act.
Persons eligible for naturalization pursuant to section 322(d) of the Act may subscribe to the oath of renunciation and allegiance and may be issued a certificate of citizenship outside of the United States, in accordance with 8 U.S.C. 1443a.
(d)
Denial.
If USCIS denies the application, the applicant will be furnished the reasons for denial and advised of the right to appeal in accordance with 8 CFR 103.3.
(e)
Subsequent application.
After an application for a certificate of citizenship has been denied and the time for appeal has expired, USCIS will reject a subsequent application submitted by the same individual and the applicant will be instructed to submit a motion to reopen or reconsider in accordance with 8 CFR 103.5. The motion must be accompanied by the rejected application and the fee specified in 8 CFR 106.2.
[76 FR 53804, Aug. 29, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 46929, Aug. 3, 2020]
Pt. 342

# PART 342—ADMINISTRATIVE CANCELLATION OF CERTIFICATES, DOCUMENTS, OR RECORDS
Sec.
342.1
Notice.
342.2
Service of notice.
342.3
Allegations admitted; no answer filed; no personal appearance requested.
342.4
Answer asserting defense; personal appearance requested.
342.5
Conduct of examination.
342.6
Depositions.
342.7
Report and recommendation.
342.8
Appeals.
342.9
Notice re 18 U.S.C. 1428.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1453.

# Source:
28 FR 209, Jan. 9, 1963, unless otherwise noted.
§ 342.1
Notice.
If it shall appear to a district director that a person has illegally or fraudulently obtained or caused to be created a certificate, document, or record described in section 342 of the Act, a notice shall be served upon the person of intention to cancel the certificate, document, or record. The notice shall contain allegations of the reasons for the proposed action and shall advise the person that he may submit, within 60 days of service of the notice, an answer in writing under oath or affirmation showing cause why the certificate, document, or record should not be canceled, that he may appear in person before a naturalization examiner in support of, or in lieu of his written answer, and that he may have present at that time, without expense to the Government, an attorney or representative qualified under part 292 of this chapter. In such proceedings the person shall be known as the respondent.
[29 FR 5511, Apr. 24, 1964, as amended at 37 FR 2767, Feb. 5, 1972]
§ 342.2
Service of notice.
The notice required by 8 CFR 342.1 must be by personal service as described in 8 CFR 103.8(a)(2).
[76 FR 53805, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 342.3
Allegations admitted; no answer filed; no personal appearance requested.
If the answer admits all material allegations in the notice, or if no answer is filed within the 60-day period or any extension thereof and no personal appearance is requested within such period or periods, it shall be deemed to authorize the district director, without further notice to respondent, to find the facts to be as alleged in the notice and to cancel the certificate, document, or record. No appeal shall lie from such decision. Written notice of the decision shall be served upon the respondent with demand for surrender of the certificate, document, or record forthwith.
§ 342.4
Answer asserting defense; personal appearance requested.
If the respondent files an answer within the prescribed period asserting a defense to the allegations in the notice, or requests a personal appearance, with or without an answer, the district director shall designate a naturalization examiner to consider the case. The respondent shall be notified that he may appear in person or through counsel with any witnesses and evidence in defense of the allegations, and shall be informed of the date, time, and place for such appearance.
§ 342.5
Conduct of examination.
(a)
Authority of naturalization examiner.
The naturalization examiner assigned to consider the case shall have authority to administer oaths or affirmations to respondent and witnesses, issue subpoenas, present and receive evidence, rule upon offers of proof, take or cause depositions or interrogatories to be taken, regulate the course of the examination, take testimony of respondent and witnesses, grant continuances, consider and rule upon objections to the introduction of evidence, make recommendations to the district director as to whether cancellation shall be ordered or the proceedings terminated, and to take any other action as may be appropriate to the conduct and disposition of the case.
(b)
Assignment of additional officer.
The district director may, in his discretion, assign an officer of the Service to examine and cross-examine the respondent and witnesses and to present evidence pertinent to the case. The naturalization examiner designated under § 342.4 may take such part in the proceedings as he may deem necessary.
(c)
Examination.
The naturalization examiner designated under § 342.4 shall, prior to commencement of the examination, make known to the respondent
his official capacity and that of any officer assigned pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the nature of the proceedings, his right to representation by counsel, to examine or object to evidence against him, to present evidence in his own behalf, to cross-examine witnesses presented by the Government, and shall read the allegations in the notice to respondent and, if necessary, explain them to him. The respondent shall be asked whether he admits or denies the material allegations in the notice, or any of them, and whether he concedes illegality or fraud. If respondent admits all the material allegations and that the certificate, document, or record was procured by fraud or illegality, and no issue of law or fact remains, the naturalization examiner may determine that fraud or illegality has been established on the basis of the respondent's admissions. The allegations in the notice shall be taken as admitted if respondent, without reasonable cause, fails or refuses to attend or remain in attendance at the examination. The examination shall be recorded verbatim except for statements made off the record with the permission of the naturalization examiner.
(d)
Prior statements.
The naturalization examiner assigned to consider the case may receive in evidence any oral or written statement which is material and relevant to any issue in the case previously made by the respondent or by any other person during any investigation, examination, hearing, trial, proceeding, or interrogation.
[28 FR 209, Jan. 9, 1963, as amended at 32 FR 3340, Feb. 28, 1967]
§ 342.6
Depositions.
Upon good cause shown, the testimony of any witness may be taken by depositions, either orally or upon written interrogatories before a person having authority to administer oaths (affirmations), as may be designated by the naturalization examiner.
[37 FR 2767, Feb. 5, 1972]
§ 342.7
Report and recommendation.
The naturalization examiner shall prepare a report summarizing the evidence, discussing the applicable law, and containing his findings and recommendations. The record, including the report and recommendation, shall be forwarded to the district director, who shall sign the report, either approving or disapproving the recommendation. If the decision of the district director is that the proceedings be terminated, the respondent shall be so informed.
§ 342.8
Appeals.
Should the district director find that the certificate, document, or record was fraudulently or illegally obtained, he shall enter an order that it be cancelled and the certificate or document surrendered to the Service forthwith. Written notification of such action shall be given the respondent, with a copy of the decision, findings and decision of the district director, and he shall be informed of his right of appeal in accordance with the provisions of part 103 of this chapter.
§ 342.9
Notice re 18 U.S.C. 1428.
The notice to surrender a cancelled certificate of citizenship or copy thereof, prescribed by section 1428 of Title 18 of the United States Code, shall be given by the district director in whose district the person who has possession or control of such document resides.
[28 FR 9282, Aug. 23, 1963]
Pt. 343

# PART 343—CERTIFICATE OF NATURALIZATION OR REPATRIATION; PERSONS WHO RESUMED CITIZENSHIP UNDER SECTION 323 OF THE NATIONALITY ACT OF 1940, AS AMENDED, OR SECTION 4 OF THE ACT OF JUNE 29, 1906

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1101, 1103, 1443, 1454, and 1455.
§ 343.1
Application.
A person who lost citizenship of the United States incidental to service in one of the allied armies during World War I or II, or by voting in a political election in a country not at war with the United States during World War II, and who was naturalized under the provisions of section 323 of the Nationality Act of 1940, as amended, or a person
who, before January 13, 1941, resumed United States citizenship under the twelfth subdivision of section 4 of the act of June 29, 1906, may obtain a certificate evidencing such citizenship by making application in accordance with USCIS instructions. The applicant shall be required to appear in person before an assigned officer for interrogation under oath or affirmation upon the application. When the application is approved, a certificate of naturalization or repatriation shall be issued and delivered in person, in the United States only, upon the applicant's signed receipt therefor. If the application is denied, the applicant shall be notified of the reasons therefor and his right to appeal in accordance with the provisions of part 103 of this chapter.
[23 FR 9125, Nov. 26, 1958, as amended at 32 FR 9635, July 4, 1967; 76 FR 53805, Aug. 29, 2011]
Pt. 343a

# PART 343a—NATURALIZATION AND CITIZENSHIP PAPERS LOST, MUTILATED, OR DESTROYED; NEW CERTIFICATE IN CHANGED NAME; CERTIFIED COPY OF REPATRIATION PROCEEDINGS
Sec.
343a.1
Application for replacement of or new papers relating to naturalization, citizenship, or repatriation.
343a.2
Return or replacement of surrendered certificate of naturalization or citizenship.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1101 note, 1103, 1435, 1443, 1454, and 1455.
§ 343a.1
Application for replacement of or new papers relating to naturalization, citizenship, or repatriation.
(a)
Lost, mutilated, or destroyed naturalization papers.
A person whose declaration of intention, certificate of naturalization, citizenship, or repatriation, or whose certified copy of proceedings under the act of June 25, 1936, as amended, or under section 317(b) of the Nationality Act of 1940, or under section 324(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, or under the provisions of any private law, has been lost, mutilated, or destroyed, must apply on the form designated by USCIS with the fee specified in 8 CFR part 106 and in accordance with the form instructions.
(b)
New certificate in changed name.
A naturalized citizen whose name has been changed after naturalization by order of court or by marriage must apply for a new certificate of naturalization, or of citizenship, in the changed name.
(c)
Adjudication and disposition
—(1)
Interview.
The applicant shall only be required to appear in person for interview under oath or affirmation in specific cases. Those cases which necessitate an interview enabling an officer to properly adjudicate the application at the office having jurisdiction will be determined by USCIS.
(2)
Approval.
If an application for a new certificate of naturalization, citizenship, or repatriation or a new declaration of intention is approved, the new certificate or declaration will be issued and delivered by personal service in accordance with 8 CFR 103.8(a)(2). If an application for a new certified copy of the proceedings under the Act of June 25, 1936, as amended, or under section 317(b) of the Nationality Act of 1940, or under section 324(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, or under the provisions of any private law is approved, a certified photocopy of the record of the proceedings will be issued. If, subsequent to naturalization or repatriation, the applicant's name was changed by marriage, the certification of the photocopy will show both the name in which the proceedings were conducted and the changed name. The new certified copy will be delivered to the applicant in accordance with 8 CFR 103.8(a)(2).
(3)
Denial.
If the application is denied, the applicant shall be notified of the reasons for the denial and of the right to appeal in accordance with 8 CFR 103.3.
[23 FR 9125, Nov. 26, 1958, as amended at 32 FR 9635, July 7, 1967; 51 FR 35629, Oct. 7, 1986; 76 FR 53805, Aug. 29, 2011; 85 FR 46929, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 343a.2
Return or replacement of surrendered certificate of naturalization or citizenship.
A certificate of naturalization or citizenship which is contained in a USCIS file, and which was surrendered
on a finding that loss of nationality occurred directly or through a parent as a result of the application of any of the following sections of law may, upon request, be returned to the person to whom it was originally issued, notwithstanding the fact that he or she has since been naturalized or repatriated in the United States or abroad:
(a) Section 404 (b) or (c) of the Nationality Act of 1940;
(b) Section 352 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, which was invalidated by
Schneider
v.
Rusk,
377 U.S. 163;
(c) Section 401(e) of the Nationality Act of 1940;
(d) Section 349(a)(5) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, which was invalidated by
Afroyim
v.
Rusk,
387 U.S. 253;
(e) Section 301(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act
(f) Section 301(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act relative to persons born after May 24, 1934, which was invalidated by amendment to section 301(b) on October 27, 1972, Public Law 92-584.
If, after having been surrendered to the Department of State or to USCIS, the certificate was lost, mutilated, or destroyed as a result of action by USCIS or that Department, a replacement certificate may be issued in the name shown in the surrendered certificate without fee and without requiring the submission of an application. A surrendered certificate shall not be regarded as mutilated and a replacement shall not be issued solely because of holes made in it to accommodate a fastener, unless the citizen declines to accept the return of the surrendered certificate in that condition and insists upon issuance of a replacement. When it is desired that the replacement certificate be furnished in a name other than the one shown in the surrendered certificate, the regular application procedure with payment of fee must be followed.
[51 FR 35629, Oct. 7, 1986, as amended at 76 FR 53805, Aug. 29, 2011]
Pt. 343b

# PART 343b—SPECIAL CERTIFICATE OF NATURALIZATION FOR RECOGNITION BY A FOREIGN STATE
Sec.
343b.1
Application.
343b.2
Number of applications required.
343b.3
Interview.
343b.4
Applicant outside of United States.
343b.5
Verification of naturalization.
343b.11
Disposition of application.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1443, 1454, 1455.
§ 343b.1
Application.
A naturalized citizen who desires to obtain recognition as a citizen of the United States by a foreign state shall submit an application on the form designated by USCIS with the fee specified in 8 CFR 106.2 and in accordance with the form instructions. He shall not be furnished with verification of his naturalization for such purpose in any other way. An applicant who is a claimant against a foreign government for property damage pursuant to the provisions of a peace treaty shall not be requested to furnish the name, official title, and address of a foreign official unless such information is available when the investigation of the applicant is conducted. The applicant shall be required to appear in person before an assigned officer for interrogation under oath or affirmation upon the application.
[32 FR 9636, July 4, 1967, as amended at 56 FR 50502, Oct. 7, 1991; 76 FR 53805, Aug. 29, 2011; 85 FR 46929, Aug. 3, 2020]
§ 343b.2
Number of applications required.
A special certificate of naturalization is delivered to one foreign government official only. An applicant who desires recognition as a U.S. citizen by more than one foreign official, whether in the same country or not, must file a separate application for each certificate required.
[32 FR 9636, July 4, 1967]
§ 343b.3
Interview.
When the application presents a prima facie case, USCIS may issue a certificate without first interviewing the applicant. In all other cases, the applicant must be interviewed. The
interviewing officer must provide a complete written report of the interview before forwarding the application for issuance of the certificate.
[76 FR 53805, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 343b.4
Applicant outside of United States.
If the application is received by a DHS office outside the United States, an officer will, when practicable, interview the applicant before the application is forwarded to USCIS for issuance of the certificate. When an interview is not practicable, or is not conducted because the application is submitted directly to USCIS in the United States, the certificate may nevertheless be issued and the recommendation conditioned upon satisfactory interview by the Department of State. When forwarding the certificate in such a case, USCIS will inform the Secretary of State that the applicant has not been interviewed, and request to have the applicant interviewed regarding identity and possible expatriation. If identity is not established or if expatriation has occurred, the Department of State will return the certificate to USCIS for disposition.
[76 FR 53805, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 343b.5
Verification of naturalization.
The application shall not be granted without first obtaining verification of the applicant's naturalization.
[32 FR 9636, July 4, 1967]
§ 343b.11
Disposition of application.
(a)
Approval.
If the application is granted, USCIS will prepare a special certificate of naturalization and forward it to the Secretary of State for transmission to the proper authority of the foreign state in accordance with procedures agreed to between DHS and the Department of State, retain the application and a record of the disposition in the DHS file, and notify the applicant of the actions taken.
(b)
Denial.
If the application is denied, the applicant will be notified of the reasons for denial and of the right to appeal in accordance with 8 CFR 103.3.
[76 FR 53806, Aug. 29, 2011]
Pt. 343c

# PART 343c—CERTIFICATIONS FROM RECORDS

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552; 8 U.S.C. 1103.
§ 343c.1
Application for certification of naturalization record of court or certificate of naturalization or citizenship.
An application for certification of a naturalization record of any court, or of any part thereof, or of any certificate of naturalization, repatriation, or citizenship, under section 343(e) of the Act for use in complying with any statute, Federal or State, or in any judicial proceeding, shall be made on the form designated by USCIS in accordance with the form instructions.
[40 FR 50703, Oct. 31, 1975, as amended at 76 FR 53806, Aug. 29, 2011]
Pt. 349

# PART 349—LOSS OF NATIONALITY

# Authority:
Sec. 103, 66 Stat. 173; 8 U.S.C. 1103. Interprets or applies 401(i), 54 Stat. 1169; 8 U.S.C. 801, 1946 ed.

# Source:
32 FR 9636, July 4, 1967, unless otherwise noted.
§ 349.1
Japanese renunciation of nationality.
A Japanese who renounced United States nationality pursuant to the provisions of section 401(i), Nationality Act of 1940, who claims that his renunciation is void, shall complete Form N-576, Supplemental Affidavit to be Submitted with Applications of Japanese Renunciants. The affidavit shall be submitted to the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division, Department of Justice, Washington, DC 20530, with a covering letter requesting a determination of the validity of the renunciation.
Pt. 392

# PART 392—SPECIAL CLASSES OF PERSONS WHO MAY BE NATURALIZED: PERSONS WHO DIE WHILE SERVING ON ACTIVE DUTY WITH THE UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES DURING CERTAIN PERIODS OF HOSTILITIES
Sec.
392.1
Definitions.
392.2
Eligibility for posthumous citizenship.
392.3
Application for posthumous citizenship.
392.4
Issuance of a certificate of citizenship.

# Authority:
8 U.S.C. 1103, 1440 and note, and 1440-1; 8 CFR part 2.

# Source:
56 FR 22822, May 17, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 392.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Active-duty status
means full-time duty in the active military service of the United States, and includes full-time training duty, which constitutes qualifying service under section 329(a) of the Act. Active service in the United States Coast Guard during one of the periods of hostilities specified herein shall constitute service in the military, air, or naval forces of the United States. Active-duty status also includes annual training duty and attendance, while in the active military service, at a service school designated by the military authorities under 10 U.S.C. 101(22). The order of a national guardsman into active duty for training under 10 U.S.C. 672 constitutes service in active-duty status in the military forces of the United States. Active duty in a noncombatant capacity is qualifying service.
Decedent
means the person on whose behalf an application for a certificate of posthumous citizenship is made.
Induction, enlistment,
and
reenlistment,
refer to the decedent's place of entry into active duty military service.
Korean Hostilities
relates to the period from June 25, 1950, to July 1, 1955, inclusive.
Lodge Act
means the Act of June 30, 1950, which qualified for naturalization nonresident aliens who served honorably for 5 years in the United States Army during specified periods, notwithstanding that they never formally became lawful permanent residents of the United States.
Next-of-kin
means the closest surviving blood or legal relative of the decedent in the following order of succession:
(1) The surviving spouse;
(2) The decedent's surviving son or daughter, if the decedent has no surviving spouse;
(3) The decedent's surviving parent, if the decedent has no surviving spouse or sons or daughters; or,
(4) The decedent's surviving brother or sister, if none of the persons described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition survive the decedent.
Other periods of military hostilities
means any period designated by the President under Executive Order as a period in which Armed Forces of the United States are or were engaged in military operations involving armed conflict with a hostile foreign force.
Representative
means:
(1) The duly appointed executor or administrator of the decedent's estate, including a special administrator appointed for the purpose of seeking the decedent's naturalization; or,
(2) The duly appointed guardian, conservator, or committee of the decedent's next-of-kin; or,
(3) A service organization listed in 38 U.S.C. 3402, or chartered by Congress, or State, or other service organization recognized by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Vietnam Hostilities
relates to the period from February 28, 1961, to October 15, 1978, inclusive.
World War I
relates to the period from April 6, 1917, to November 11, 1918, inclusive.
World War II
relates to the period from September 1, 1939, to December 31, 1946, inclusive.
§ 392.2
Eligibility for posthumous citizenship.
(a)
General.
Any alien or noncitizen national of the United States is eligible for posthumous United States citizenship who:
(1) Served honorably in an active-duty status with the military, air, or naval forces of the United States during World War I, World War II, the Korean Hostilities, the Vietnam Hostilities, or in other periods of military hostilities designated by the President under Executive Order; and,
(2) Died as a result of injury or disease incurred in or aggravated by service in the United States Armed Forces during a period of military hostilities listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Where the person died subsequent to separation from military service,
the death must have resulted from an injury or disease that was sustained, acquired, or exacerbated during active-duty service in a qualifying period of military hostilities as specified in this part.
(b)
Qualifying enlistment.
In conjunction with the qualifying service as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the decedent must have:
(1) Enlisted, reenlisted, or been inducted in the United States, the Canal Zone, American Samoa, or Swains Island;
(2) Been lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence, at any time; or,
(3) Enlisted or reenlisted in the United States Army pursuant to the provisions of the Lodge Act. In such case, the decedent shall be considered to have been lawfully admitted to the United States as a permanent resident for purposes of this section, provided he or she:
(i) Entered the United States, its outlying possessions, or the Canal Zone, at some time during the period of army service, pursuant to military orders; and
(ii) Was honorably discharged following completion of at least 5 full years of active duty service, even though the active-duty service may not have occurred during a qualifying period of hostilities specified in section 329(a) of the Act.
(c)
Character of military service.
Where the character of military service is not certified as honorable by the executive department under which the person served, or where the person was dishonorably discharged or discharged under conditions other than honorable, such service shall not satisfy the requirement of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(d)
Certification of eligibility.
(1) The executive department under which the decedent served shall determine whether:
(i) The decedent served honorably in an active-duty status;
(ii) The separation from such service was under honorable conditions; and,
(iii) The decedent died as a result of injury or disease incurred in, or aggravated by active duty service during a qualifying period of military hostilities.
(2) The certification required by section 329A(c)(2) of the Act to prove military service and service-connected death must be requested by the applicant on the form designated by USCIS in accordance with the form instructions. The form will also be used to verify the decedent's place of induction, enlistment, or reenlistment.
[56 FR 22822, May 17, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 53806, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 392.3
Application for posthumous citizenship.
(a)
Persons who may apply.
(1) Only one person who is either the next-of-kin or another representative of the decedent shall be permitted to apply for posthumous citizenship on the decedent's behalf. A person who is a next-of-kin who wishes to apply for posthumous citizenship on behalf of the decedent, shall, if there is a surviving next-of-kin in the line of succession above him or her, be required to obtain authorization to make the application from all surviving next-of-kin in the line of succession above him or her. The authorization shall be in the form of an affidavit stating that the affiant authorizes the requester to apply for posthumous citizenship on behalf of the decedent. The affidavit must include the name and address of the affiant, and the relationship of the affiant to the decedent.
(2) When there is a surviving next-of-kin, an application for posthumous citizenship shall only be accepted from a representative provided authorization has been obtained from all surviving next-of-kin. However, this requirement shall not apply to the executor or administrator of the decedent's estate. In the case of a service organization acting as a representative, authorization must also have been obtained from any appointed representative. A veterans service organization must submit evidence of recognition by the Department of Veterans Affairs. Once USCIS has granted posthumous citizenship to a person, no subsequent applications on his or her behalf shall be approved, nor shall any additional original certificates be issued, except in the case of an application for issuance of a replacement certificate for one lost, mutilated, or destroyed.
(b)
Application.
An application for posthumous citizenship must be submitted on the form designated by USCIS in accordance with the form instructions.
(c)
Application period.
An application for posthumous citizenship must be filed no later than two years after the date of the decedent's death.
(d)
Denial of application.
When the application is denied, the applicant shall be notified of the decision and the reason(s) for denial. There is no appeal from the denial of an application under this part.
[56 FR 22822, May 17, 1991, as amended at 74 FR 26941, June 5, 2009; 76 FR 53806, Aug. 29, 2011]
§ 392.4
Issuance of a certificate of citizenship.
(a)
Approval of application.
When an application for posthumous citizenship under this part has been approved, USCIS will issue a Certificate of Citizenship to the applicant in the name of the decedent.
(b)
Delivery of certificate.
Delivery of the Certificate of Citizenship shall be made by registered mail to the address designated by the applicant. If the applicant resides outside the United States, the certificate shall be sent by registered mail to the Service office abroad, if one is located where delivery is to be made; otherwise, it shall be forwarded to the nearest American Embassy or Consulate.
(c)
Effective date of citizenship.
Where the Service has approved an Application for Posthumous Citizenship (Form N-644), the decedent shall be considered a United States citizen as of the date of his or her death.
(d)
Ineligibility for immigration benefits.
The granting of posthumous citizenship under section 329A of the Immigration and Naturalization Act, as amended, and issuance of a certificate under paragraph (a) of this section, shall not entitle the surviving spouse, parent, son, daughter, or other relative of the decedent to any benefit under any provision of the Act. Nor shall such grant make applicable the provisions of section 319(d) of the Act to the surviving spouse.
(e)
Replacement certificate.
An application for a replacement Certificate of Citizenship must be submitted on the form designated by USCIS with the fee specified in 8 CFR 106.2 and in accordance with the form instructions.
[56 FR 22822, May 17, 1991, as amended at 76 FR 53806, Aug. 29, 2011; 85 FR 46929, Aug. 3, 2020]
PARTS 393-499 [RESERVED]
8 CFR Ch. V (1-1-25 Edition)
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Justice

# CHAPTER V—EXECUTIVE OFFICE FOR IMMIGRATION REVIEW, DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

# SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL PROVISIONS
Part
Page
1000
[Reserved]
1001
Definitions
935
1003
Executive Office for Immigration Review
937

# SUBCHAPTER B—IMMIGRATION REGULATIONS
1101
Presumption of lawful admission
1016
1103
Appeals, records, and fees
1020
1204
Immigrant petitions
1023
1205
Revocation of approval of petitions
1023
1207
Admission of refugees
1025
1208
Procedures for asylum and withholding of removal
1026
1209
Adjustment of status of refugees and aliens granted asylum
1069
1211
Documentary requirements: Immigrants; waivers
1071
1212
Documentary requirements: Nonimmigrants; waivers; admission of certain inadmissible aliens; parole
1072
1214
Review of nonimmigrant classes
1100
1215
Controls of aliens departing from the United States
1102
1216
Conditional basis of lawful permanent residence status
1107
1235
Inspection of persons applying for admission
1116
1236
Apprehension and detention of inadmissible and deportable aliens; removal of aliens ordered removed
1120
1238
Expedited removal of aggravated felons
1128
1239
Initiation of removal proceedings
1131
1240
Proceedings to determine removability of noncitizens in the United States
1131
1241
Apprehension and detention of aliens ordered removed
1173
1244
Temporary protected status for nationals of designated states
1180
1245
Adjustment of status to that of person admitted for permanent residence
1190
1246
Rescission of adjustment of status
1245
1249
Creation of records of lawful admission for permanent residence
1247
1270
Penalties for document fraud
1248
1274a
Control of employment of aliens
1250
1280
Imposition and collection of fines
1251
1287
Field officers; powers and duties
1252
1292
Representation and appearances
1254

# SUBCHAPTER C—NATIONALITY REGULATIONS
1299
Immigration review forms
1269
1337
Oath of allegiance
1269
1338-1399
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL PROVISIONS
PART 1000 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1001

# PART 1001—DEFINITIONS

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 8 U.S.C. 1101, 1103; Pub. L. 107-296, 116 Stat. 2135; Title VII of Pub. L. 110-229.
§ 1001.1
Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
(a) The terms defined in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (66 Stat. 163) shall have the meanings ascribed to them in that section and as supplemented, explained, and further defined in this chapter.
(b) The term
Act
means the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended.
(c) The term
Service
means the Immigration and Naturalization Service, as it existed prior to March 1, 2003. Unless otherwise specified, references to the Service on or after that date mean the offices of the Department of Homeland Security to which the functions of the former Service were transferred pursuant to the Homeland Security Act, Public Law 107-296 (Nov. 25, 2002), as provided in 8 CFR chapter I.
(d) The term
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service prior to March 1, 2003. Unless otherwise specified, references to the Commissioner on or after that date mean those officials of the Department of Homeland Security who have succeeded to the functions of the Commissioner of the former Service, as provided in 8 CFR chapter I.
(e) The term
Board
means the Board of Immigration Appeals.
(f) The term
attorney
means any person who is eligible to practice law in and is a member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any State, possession, territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or of the District of Columbia, and is not under any order suspending, enjoining, restraining, disbarring, or otherwise restricting him in the practice of law.
(g) Unless the context otherwise requires, the term
case
means any proceeding arising under any immigration or naturalization law, Executive order, or Presidential proclamation, or preparation for or incident to such proceeding, including preliminary steps by any private person or corporation preliminary to the filing of the application or petition by which any proceeding under the jurisdiction of the Service or the Board is initiated.
(h) The term
day
when computing the period of time for taking any action provided in this chapter including the taking of an appeal, shall include Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, except that when the last day of the period so computed falls on a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, the period shall run until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, nor a legal holiday.
(i) The term
practice
means exercising professional judgment to provide legal advice or legal services related to any matter before EOIR. Practice includes, but is not limited to, determining available forms of relief from removal or protection; providing advice regarding legal strategies; drafting or filing any document on behalf of another person appearing before EOIR based on an analysis of applicable facts and law; or appearing on behalf of another person in any matter before EOIR.
(j) The term
representative
refers to a person who is entitled to represent others as provided in §§ 1292.1(a) (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), and 1292.1(b) of this chapter.
(k) The term
preparation
means the act or acts consisting solely of filling in blank spaces on printed forms with information provided by the applicant or petitioner that are to be filed with or submitted to EOIR, where such acts do not include the exercise of professional judgment to provide legal advice or legal services. When this act is performed by someone other than a practitioner, the fee for filling in blank spaces on printed forms, if any, must be nominal, and the individual may not hold himself or herself out as qualified in legal matters or in immigration and naturalization procedure.
(l) The term
immigration judge
means an attorney whom the Attorney General appoints as an administrative
judge within the Executive Office for Immigration Review, qualified to conduct specified classes of proceedings, including a hearing under section 240 of the Act. An immigration judge shall be subject to such supervision and shall perform such duties as the Attorney General shall prescribe, but shall not be employed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
(m) The term
representation
before the Board and the Service includes practice and preparation as defined in paragraphs (i) and (k) of this section.
(n) The term
Executive Office
means Executive Office for Immigration Review.
(o) The term
Director
, unless otherwise specified, means the Director of the Executive Office for Immigration Review. For a definition of the term
Director
when used in the context of an official with the Department of Homeland Security,
see
8 CFR 1.1(o).
(p) The term
lawfully admitted for permanent residence
means the status of having been lawfully accorded the privilege of residing permanently in the United States as an immigrant in accordance with the immigration laws, such status not having changed. Such status terminates upon entry of a final administrative order of exclusion, deportation, removal, or rescission.
(q) The term
arriving alien
means an applicant for admission coming or attempting to come into the United States at a port-of-entry, or an alien seeking transit through the United States at a port-of-entry, or an alien interdicted in international or United States waters and brought into the United States by any means, whether or not to a designated port-of-entry, and regardless of the means of transport. An arriving alien remains an arriving alien even if paroled pursuant to section 212(d)(5) of the Act, and even after any such parole is terminated or revoked. However, an arriving alien who was paroled into the United States before April 1, 1997, or who was paroled into the United States on or after April 1, 1997, pursuant to a grant of advance parole which the alien applied for and obtained in the United States prior to the alien's departure from and return to the United States, will not be treated, solely by reason of that grant of parole, as an arriving alien under section 235(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act.
(r) The term
respondent
means a person named in a Notice to Appear issued in accordance with section 239(a) of the Act, or in an Order to Show Cause issued in accordance with § 242.1 of 8 CFR chapter I as it existed prior to April 1, 1997.
(s) The terms
government counsel
or
DHS counsel,
in the context of proceedings in which DHS has appeared, mean any officer assigned to represent DHS in any proceeding before an immigration judge or the Board of Immigration Appeals.
(t) The term
aggravated felony
means a crime (or a conspiracy or attempt to commit a crime) described in section 101(a)(43) of the Act. This definition is applicable to any proceeding, application, custody determination, or adjudication pending on or after September 30, 1996, but shall apply under section 276(b) of the Act only to violations of section 276(a) of the Act occurring on or after that date.
(u) The term
Department
, unless otherwise specified, means the Department of Justice.
(v) The term
Secretary,
unless otherwise specified, means the Secretary of Homeland Security.
(w) The term
DHS
means the Department of Homeland Security. These rules incorporate by reference the organizational definitions for components of DHS as provided in 8 CFR 1.1.
(x)-(aa) [Reserved]
(bb) The term
transition program effective date
as used with respect to extending the immigration laws to the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands means November 28, 2009.
(cc) The term
case eligible for electronic filing
means any case that DHS seeks to bring before an immigration court after EOIR has formally established an electronic filing system for that court, or any case before an immigration court or the Board of Immigration Appeals that has an electronic record of proceeding. Any reference to a record of proceeding in this chapter shall include an electronic record of proceeding.
(dd) The term
filing
means the actual receipt of a document by the appropriate immigration court or the Board
of Immigration Appeals. An electronic filing that is accepted by the Board or an immigration court will be deemed filed on the date it was submitted. A paper filing that is accepted by the Board or an immigration court will be deemed filed on the date it was received by the Board or the immigration court. A filing that is rejected by the Board or the immigration court as an improper filing will not be deemed filed on the date it was submitted or received.
(ee) The term
service
means physically presenting, mailing, or electronically providing a document to the appropriate party or parties; except that an Order to Show Cause or Notice of Deportation Hearing shall be served in person to the alien, or by certified mail to the alien or the alien's attorney, and a Notice to Appear shall be served to the alien in person, or if personal service is not practicable, shall be served by regular mail to the alien or the alien's attorney of record.
(ff) The term
practitioner
means an attorney as defined in paragraph (f) of this section who does not represent the Federal Government, or a representative as defined in paragraph (j) of this section.
(gg) The term
noncitizen
means “alien,” as defined in section 101(a)(3) of the Act.
(hh) The term
unaccompanied child
means “unaccompanied alien child,” as defined in 6 U.S.C. 279(g)(2).
[23 FR 9115, Nov. 26, 1958]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 1001.1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
Pt. 1003

# PART 1003—EXECUTIVE OFFICE FOR IMMIGRATION REVIEW
Sec.
1003.0
Executive Office for Immigration Review.

# Subpart A—Board of Immigration Appeals
1003.1
Organization, jurisdiction, and powers of the Board of Immigration Appeals.
1003.2
Reopening or reconsideration before the Board of Immigration Appeals.
1003.3
Notice of appeal.
1003.4
Withdrawal of appeal.
1003.5
Forwarding of record on appeal.
1003.6
Stay of execution of decision.
1003.7
Notice of certification.
1003.8
Fees before the Board.

# Subpart B—Office of the Chief Immigration Judge
1003.9
Chief Immigration Judge.
1003.10
Immigration Judges.
1003.11
Administrative control Immigration Courts.

# Subpart C—Immigration Court—Rules of Procedure
1003.12
Scope of rules.
1003.13
Definitions.
1003.14
Jurisdiction and commencement of proceedings.
1003.15
Contents of the order to show cause and notice to appear and notification of change of address.
1003.16
Representation.
1003.17
Appearances.
1003.18
Docket management.
1003.19
Custody/bond.
1003.20
Change of venue.
1003.21
Pre-hearing conferences and statement.
1003.22
Interpreters.
1003.23
Reopening or reconsideration before the immigration court.
1003.24
Fees pertaining to matters within the jurisdiction of an immigration judge.
1003.25
Form of the proceeding.
1003.26
In absentia hearings.
1003.27
Public access to hearings.
1003.28
Recording equipment.
1003.29
Continuances.
1003.30
Additional charges in deportation or removal hearings.
1003.31
Filing documents and applications.
1003.32
Service and size of documents.
1003.33
Translation of documents.
1003.34
Testimony.
1003.35
Depositions and subpoenas.
1003.36
Record of proceeding.
1003.37
Decisions.
1003.38
Appeals.
1003.39
Finality of decision.
1003.40
Local operating procedures.
1003.41
Evidence of criminal conviction.
1003.42
Review of credible fear determinations.
1003.43
Motion to reopen for suspension of deportation and cancellation of removal pursuant to section 203(c) of the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act (NACARA).
1003.44
Special motion to seek section 212(c) relief for aliens who pleaded guilty or
nolo contendere
to certain crimes before April 1, 1997.
1003.46
Protective orders, sealed submissions in Immigration Courts.
1003.47
Identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations relating to applications for immigration relief, protection, or restriction on removal.

# Subpart D—Special Provisions
1003.55
Treatment of post-conviction orders.

# Subpart E—List of Pro Bono Legal Service Providers
1003.61
General provisions.
1003.62
Eligibility.
1003.63
Applications.
1003.64
Approval and denial of applications.
1003.65
Removal of a provider from the List.
1003.66
Changes in information or status.
Subpart F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Professional Conduct for Practitioners—Rules and Procedures
1003.101
General provisions.
1003.102
Grounds.
1003.103
Immediate suspension and summary disciplinary proceedings; duty of practitioner to notify EOIR of conviction or discipline.
1003.104
Filing of complaints; preliminary inquiries; resolutions; referral of complaints.
1003.105
Notice of Intent to Discipline.
1003.106
Right to be heard and disposition.
1003.107
Reinstatement after disbarment or suspension.
1003.108
Confidentiality.
1003.109
Discipline of government attorneys.
1003.110
Sanction of recognized organizations.
1003.111
Interim suspension.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 6 U.S.C. 521; 8 U.S.C. 1101, 1103, 1154, 1155, 1158, 1182, 1226, 1229, 1229a, 1229b, 1229c, 1231, 1254a, 1255, 1324d, 1330, 1361, 1362; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510, 1746; sec. 2 Reorg. Plan No. 2 of 1950; 3 CFR, 1949-1953 Comp., p. 1002; section 203 of Pub. L. 105-100, 111 Stat. 2196-200; sections 1506 and 1510 of Pub. L. 106-386, 114 Stat. 1527-29, 1531-32; section 1505 of Pub. L. 106-554, 114 Stat. 2763A-326 to -328.

# Source:
Redesignated at 68 FR 9830, Feb. 28, 2003.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 1003 appear at 68 FR 9846, Feb. 28, 2003, and at 68 FR 10350, Mar. 5, 2003.
§ 1003.0
Executive Office for Immigration Review.
(a)
Organization.
Within the Department of Justice, there shall be an Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR), headed by a Director who is appointed by the Attorney General. The Director shall be assisted by a Deputy Director and the heads of EOIR's other components, who shall report to the Director and Deputy Director. EOIR shall include the Board of Immigration Appeals, the Office of the Chief Immigration Judge, the Office of the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer, the Office of Policy, the Office of the General Counsel, and such other components and staff as the Attorney General or the Director may provide.
(b)
Powers of the Director
—(1)
In general.
The Director shall manage EOIR and its employees and shall be responsible for the direction and supervision of each EOIR component in the execution of its respective duties pursuant to the Act and the provisions of this chapter. Unless otherwise provided by the Attorney General, the Director shall report to the Deputy Attorney General and the Attorney General. The Director shall have the authority to:
(i) Issue operational instructions and policy, including procedural instructions regarding the implementation of new statutory or regulatory authorities;
(ii) Direct the conduct of all EOIR employees to ensure the efficient disposition of all pending cases, including the power, in his discretion, to set priorities or time frames for the resolution of cases; to direct that the adjudication of certain cases be deferred; to regulate the assignment of adjudicators to cases; and otherwise to manage the docket of matters to be decided by the Board, the immigration judges, the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer, or the administrative law judges;
(iii) Provide for appropriate administrative coordination with the other components of the Department of Justice, with the Department of Homeland Security, with the Department of Health and Human Services, and with the Department of State;
(iv) Evaluate the performance of the Board of Immigration Appeals, the Office of the Chief Immigration Judge, the Office of the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer, and other EOIR activities, make appropriate reports and inspections, and take corrective action where needed;
(v) Provide for performance appraisals for immigration judges and Board members while fully respecting their roles as adjudicators, including a process for reporting adjudications that reflect temperament problems or poor decisional quality;
(vi) Administer an examination for newly-appointed immigration judges and Board members with respect to their familiarity with key principles of immigration law before they begin to adjudicate matters, and evaluate the temperament and skills of each new immigration judge or Board member within 2 years of appointment;
(vii) Provide for comprehensive, continuing training and support for Board members, immigration judges, and EOIR staff in order to promote the quality and consistency of adjudications;
(viii) Implement a process for receiving, evaluating, and responding to complaints of inappropriate conduct by EOIR adjudicators; and
(ix) Exercise such other authorities as the Attorney General may provide.
(2)
Delegations.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the Director may delegate the authority given to him by this part or otherwise by the Attorney General to the Deputy Director, the Chairman of the Board of Immigration Appeals, the Chief Immigration Judge, the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer, the Assistant Director for Policy, the General Counsel, or any other EOIR employee.
(ii) The Director may not delegate the authority assigned to the Director in § 1292.18 of this chapter and may not delegate any other authority to adjudicate cases arising under the Act or regulations of this chapter unless expressly authorized to do so.
(c)
Limit on the authority of the Director.
Except as provided by statute, regulation, or delegation of authority from the Attorney General, or when acting as a designee of the Attorney General, the Director shall have no authority to adjudicate cases arising under the Act or regulations or to direct the result of an adjudication assigned to the Board, an immigration judge, the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer, or an Administrative Law Judge. When acting under authority described in this paragraph (c), the Director shall exercise independent judgment and discretion in considering and determining the cases and may take any action consistent with the Director's authority as is appropriate and necessary for the disposition of the case. Nothing in this part, however, shall be construed to limit the authority of the Director under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
(d)
Deputy Director.
The Deputy Director shall advise and assist the Director in the supervision and management of EOIR and the formulation of policy and guidelines. Unless otherwise limited by law or by order of the Director, the Deputy Director shall exercise the full authority of the Director in the discharge of his or her duties.
(e)
Office of Policy.
Within EOIR, there shall be an Office of Policy consisting of an Assistant Director for Policy and other such staff as the Director deems necessary. Subject to the supervision of the Director, the Office of Policy shall provide assistance to the Director and heads of the other components within EOIR.
(1)
In general.
In coordination with the Director and subject to the Director's supervision, the Assistant Director for Policy shall supervise all policy activities of EOIR. Subject to the supervision of the Director and in coordination with other components as appropriate, the Assistant Director for Policy shall also oversee EOIR's regulatory development and implementation process, shall supervise and coordinate EOIR's internal development, dissemination, and implementation of policy guidance, shall supervise and administer EOIR's
pro bono
and legal orientation program activities, shall supervise the provision of legal and policy training to all components within EOIR on all relevant matters under its supervision, and shall perform other such duties or exercise other such authorities as the Director may provide.
(2)
Limit on the Authority of the Assistant Director for Policy.
The Assistant Director for Policy shall have no authority to adjudicate cases arising under the Act or regulations, except under paragraph (e)(3) of this section, and shall not direct the result of an adjudication assigned to the Board, an
immigration judge, the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer, or an Administrative Law Judge; provided, however, that nothing in this part shall be construed to limit the authority of the Assistant Director for Policy under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(3)
Recognition and accreditation.
The Assistant Director for Policy, in consultation with the Director, shall maintain a division within the Office of Policy to develop and administer a program to recognize organizations and accredit representatives to provide representation before the Immigration Courts, the Board, and DHS, or DHS alone. The Assistant Director for Policy shall determine whether an organization and its representatives meet the eligibility requirements for recognition and accreditation in accordance with this chapter. The Assistant Director for Policy shall also have the authority to administratively terminate the recognition of an organization and the accreditation of a representative and to maintain the roster of recognized organizations and their accredited representatives. The Assistant Director for Policy, in consultation with the Director, may also delegate authority established in 8 CFR 1292.6 and 8 CFR 1292.11 through 1292.20 within the Office of Policy.
(f)
General Counsel.
Subject to the supervision of the Director, the General Counsel shall serve as the chief legal counsel of EOIR on matters of ethics, records management, release of information pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, employee performance and discipline (except in matters related to the discipline of adjudicators for decisions made in the adjudication of cases under the Act), practitioner discipline, and other related areas not inconsistent with the law. Subject to the supervision of the Director, the General Counsel shall supervise all legal activities and provide legal advice and assistance to the Director, Deputy Director, and other component heads in accordance with this section. In consultation with other EOIR components as appropriate, the General Counsel may also advise the Director or Deputy Director on other legal matters, including matters related to immigration law or policy and related to adjudicator discipline, provided that the General Counsel shall have no authority, directly or indirectly, to direct or influence the adjudication of any cases under the Act.
(1)
Professional standards.
The General Counsel shall administer programs to protect the integrity of legal representation in immigration proceedings before EOIR, including administering the disciplinary program for practitioners and recognized organizations under subpart G of this part.
(2)
Fraud issues.
The General Counsel shall designate an anti-fraud officer who shall—
(i) Serve as a point of contact relating to concerns about possible fraud upon EOIR, particularly with respect to matters relating to fraudulent applications or documents affecting multiple removal proceedings, applications for relief from removal, appeals, or other proceedings before EOIR;
(ii) Coordinate with investigative authorities of the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Justice, and other appropriate agencies with respect to the identification of and response to such fraud; and
(iii) Notify the EOIR disciplinary counsel and other appropriate authorities with respect to instances of fraud, misrepresentation, or abuse pertaining to an attorney or accredited representative.
(g)
Citizenship Requirement for Employment.
(1) An application to work at EOIR, either as an employee or a volunteer, must include a signed affirmation from the applicant that he or she is a citizen of the United States of America. If requested, the applicant must document United States citizenship.
(2) The Director of EOIR may, by explicit written determination and to the extent permitted by law, authorize the appointment of an alien to an EOIR position when necessary to accomplish the work of EOIR.
[72 FR 53676, Sept. 20, 2007, as amended at 81 FR 92361, Dec. 19, 2016; 84 FR 44541, Aug. 26, 2019; 85 FR 69482, Nov. 3, 2020; 89 FR 46787, May 29, 2024]

# Subpart A—Board of Immigration Appeals
§ 1003.1
Organization, jurisdiction, and powers of the Board of Immigration Appeals.
(a)(1)
Organization.
There shall be in the Department of Justice a Board of Immigration Appeals, subject to the general supervision of the Director, Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR). The Board members shall be attorneys appointed by the Attorney General to act as the Attorney General's delegates in the cases that come before them. The Board shall consist of 28 members. A vacancy, or the absence or unavailability of a Board member, shall not impair the right of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the Board. The Board members shall also be known as Appellate Immigration Judges.
(2)
Chairman.
The Attorney General shall designate one of the Board members to serve as Chairman. The Attorney General may designate one or two Vice Chairmen to assist the Chairman in the performance of his duties and to exercise all of the powers and duties of the Chairman in the absence or unavailability of the Chairman. The Chairman of the Board of Immigration Appeals shall also be known as the Chief Appellate Immigration Judge, and a Vice Chairman of the Board of Immigration Appeals shall also be known as a Deputy Chief Appellate Immigration Judge.
(i) The Chairman, subject to the supervision of the Director, shall direct, supervise, and establish internal operating procedures and policies of the Board. The Chairman shall have authority to:
(A) Issue operational instructions and policy, including procedural instructions regarding the implementation of new statutory or regulatory authorities;
(B) Provide for appropriate training of Board members and staff on the conduct of their powers and duties;
(C) Direct the conduct of all employees assigned to the Board to ensure the efficient disposition of all pending cases, including the power, in his discretion, to set priorities or time frames for the resolution of cases; to direct that the adjudication of certain cases be deferred, to regulate the assignment of Board members to cases, and otherwise to manage the docket of matters to be decided by the Board;
(D) Evaluate the performance of the Board by making appropriate reports and inspections, and take corrective action where needed;
(E) Adjudicate cases as a Board member, including the authorities described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section; and
(F) Exercise such other authorities as the Director may provide.
(ii) The Chairman shall have no authority to direct the result of an adjudication assigned to another Board member or to a panel; provided, however, that nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the management authority of the Chairman under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.
(3)
Panels.
The Chairman shall divide the Board into three-member panels and designate a presiding member of each panel if the Chairman or Vice Chairman is not assigned to the panel. The Chairman may from time to time make changes in the composition of such panels and of presiding members. Each three-member panel shall be empowered to decide cases by majority vote, and a majority of the Board members assigned to the panel shall constitute a quorum for such panel. In addition, the Chairman shall assign any number of Board members, as needed, to serve on the screening panel to implement the case management process as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
(4)
Temporary Board members.
Upon the recommendation of the Director, the Attorney General may in his discretion appoint immigration judges, retired Board members, retired immigration judges, and administrative law judges employed within, or retired from, EOIR to serve as temporary Board members for renewable terms not to exceed six months. In addition, upon the recommendation of the Director and with the approval of the Deputy Attorney General, the Attorney General may in his discretion appoint one or more senior EOIR attorneys with at least ten years of experience in the field of immigration law to serve as
temporary Board members for renewable terms not to exceed six months. A temporary Board member shall have the authority of a Board member to adjudicate assigned cases, except that temporary Board members shall not have the authority to vote on any matter decided by the Board
en banc.
Temporary Board members shall also be known as temporary Appellate Immigration Judges.
(5)
En banc process.
A majority of the permanent Board members shall constitute a quorum for purposes of convening the Board
en banc.
The Board may on its own motion by a majority vote of the permanent Board members, or by direction of the Chairman, consider any case
en banc,
or reconsider as the Board
en banc
any case that has been considered or decided by a three-member panel. En banc proceedings are not favored, and shall ordinarily be ordered only where necessary to address an issue of particular importance or to secure or maintain consistency of the Board's decisions.
(6)
Board staff.
There shall also be attached to the Board such number of attorneys and other employees as the Deputy Attorney General, upon recommendation of the Director, shall from time to time direct.
(7) [Reserved]
(b)
Appellate jurisdiction.
Appeals may be filed with the Board of Immigration Appeals from the following:
(1) Decisions of Immigration Judges in exclusion cases, as provided in 8 CFR part 240, subpart D.
(2) Decisions of Immigration Judges in deportation cases, as provided in 8 CFR part 1240, subpart E, except that no appeal shall lie seeking review of a length of a period of voluntary departure granted by an Immigration Judge under section 244E of the Act as it existed prior to April 1, 1997.
(3) Decisions of Immigration Judges in removal proceedings, as provided in 8 CFR part 1240, except that no appeal shall lie seeking review of the length of a period of voluntary departure granted by an immigration judge under section 240B of the Act or part 240 of this chapter.
(4) Decisions involving administrative fines and penalties, including mitigation thereof, as provided in part 280 of this chapter.
(5) Decisions on petitions filed in accordance with section 204 of the act (except petitions to accord preference classifications under section 203(a)(3) or section 203(a)(6) of the act, or a petition on behalf of a child described in section 101(b)(1)(F) of the act), and decisions on requests for revalidation and decisions revoking the approval of such petitions, in accordance with section 205 of the act, as provided in parts 204 and 205, respectively, of 8 CFR chapter I or parts 1204 and 1205, respectively, of this chapter.
(6) Decisions on applications for the exercise of the discretionary authority contained in section 212(d)(3) of the act as provided in part 1212 of this chapter.
(7) Determinations relating to bond, parole, or detention of an alien as provided in 8 CFR part 1236, subpart A.
(8) Decisions of Immigration Judges in rescission of adjustment of status cases, as provided in part 1246 of this chapter.
(9) Decisions of Immigration Judges in asylum proceedings pursuant to § 1208.2(b) and (c) of this chapter.
(10) Decisions of Immigration Judges relating to Temporary Protected Status as provided in 8 CFR part 1244.
(11) [Reserved]
(12) Decisions of Immigration Judges on applications for adjustment of status referred on a Notice of Certification (Form I-290C) to the Immigration Court in accordance with §§ 1245.13(n)(2) and 1245.15(n)(3) of this chapter or remanded to the Immigration Court in accordance with §§ 1245.13(d)(2) and 1245.15(e)(2) of this chapter.
(13) Decisions of adjudicating officials in disciplinary proceedings involving practitioners or recognized organizations as provided in subpart G of this part.
(14) Decisions of immigration judges regarding custody of aliens subject to a final order of removal made pursuant to § 1241.14 of this chapter.
(c)
Jurisdiction by certification.
The Secretary, or any other duly authorized officer of DHS, an immigration judge, or the Board may in any case arising under paragraph (b) of this section certify such case to the Board for
adjudication. The Board, in its discretion, may review any such case by certification without regard to the provisions of § 1003.7 if it determines that the parties have already been given a fair opportunity to make representations before the Board regarding the case, including the opportunity to request oral argument and to submit a brief.
(d)
Powers of the Board
—(1)
Generally.
The Board shall function as an appellate body charged with the review of those administrative adjudications under the Act that the Attorney General may by regulation assign to it. The Board shall resolve the questions before it in a manner that is timely, impartial, and consistent with the Act and regulations. In addition, the Board, through precedent decisions, shall provide clear and uniform guidance to DHS, the immigration judges, and the general public on the proper interpretation and administration of the Act and its implementing regulations.
(i) The Board shall be governed by the provisions and limitations prescribed by applicable law, regulations, and procedures, and by decisions of the Attorney General (through review of a decision of the Board, by written order, or by determination and ruling pursuant to section 103 of the Act).
(ii) Subject to the governing standards set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, Board members shall exercise their independent judgment and discretion in considering and determining the cases coming before the Board, and a panel or Board member to whom a case is assigned may take any action consistent with their authorities under the Act and the regulations as necessary or appropriate for the disposition or alternative resolution of the case. Such actions include administrative closure, termination of proceedings, and dismissal of proceedings. The standards for the administrative closure, dismissal, and termination of cases are set forth in paragraph (l) of this section, 8 CFR 1239.2(c), and paragraph (m) of this section, respectively.
(2)
Summary dismissal of appeals
—(i)
Standards.
A single Board member or panel may summarily dismiss any appeal or portion of any appeal in any case in which:
(A) The party concerned fails to specify the reasons for the appeal on Form EOIR-26 or Form EOIR-29 (Notices of Appeal) or other document filed therewith;
(B) The only reason for the appeal specified by the party concerned involves a finding of fact or a conclusion of law that was conceded by that party at a prior proceeding;
(C) The appeal is from an order that granted the party concerned the relief that had been requested;
(D) The Board is satisfied, from a review of the record, that the appeal is filed for an improper purpose, such as to cause unnecessary delay, or that the appeal lacks an arguable basis in fact or in law unless the Board determines that it is supported by a good faith argument for extension, modification, or reversal of existing law;
(E) The party concerned indicates on Form EOIR-26 or Form EOIR-29 that he or she will file a brief or statement in support of the appeal and, thereafter, does not file such brief or statement, or reasonably explain his or her failure to do so, within the time set for filing;
(F) The appeal does not fall within the Board's jurisdiction, or lies with the Immigration Judge rather than the Board;
(G) The appeal is untimely, or barred by an affirmative waiver of the right of appeal that is clear on the record; or
(H) The appeal fails to meet essential statutory or regulatory requirements or is expressly excluded by statute or regulation.
(ii)
Action by the Board.
The Board's case management screening plan shall promptly identify cases that are subject to summary dismissal pursuant to this paragraph. An order dismissing any appeal pursuant to this paragraph (d)(2) shall constitute the final decision of the Board.
(iii)
Disciplinary consequences.
The filing by a practitioner, as defined in § 1003.101(b), of an appeal that is summarily dismissed under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, may constitute frivolous behavior under § 1003.102(j).Summary dismissal of an appeal under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section does not limit the other grounds and procedures for disciplinary
action against attorneys or representatives.
(3)
Scope of review.
(i) The Board will not engage in
de novo
review of findings of fact determined by an immigration judge. Facts determined by the immigration judge, including findings as to the credibility of testimony, shall be reviewed only to determine whether the findings of the immigration judge are clearly erroneous.
(ii) The Board may review questions of law, discretion, and judgment and all other issues in appeals from decisions of immigration judges
de novo.
(iii) The Board may review de novo all questions arising in appeals from decisions issued by DHS officers.
(iv) Except for taking administrative notice of commonly known facts such as current events or the contents of official documents, the Board will not engage in factfinding in the course of deciding cases. A party asserting that the Board cannot properly resolve an appeal without further factfinding must file a motion for remand. If new evidence is submitted on appeal, that submission may be deemed a motion to remand and considered accordingly. If further factfinding is needed in a particular case, the Board may remand the proceeding to the immigration judge or, as appropriate, to DHS.
(4)
Rules of practice.
The Board shall have authority, with the approval of the Director, EOIR, to prescribe procedures governing proceedings before it.
(5)
Discipline of practitioners and recognized organizations.
The Board shall have the authority pursuant to § 1003.101
et seq.
to impose sanctions upon practitioners who appear in a representative capacity before the Board, the Immigration Courts, or DHS, and upon recognized organizations. The Board shall also have the authority pursuant to § 1003.107 to reinstate disciplined practitioners to appear in a representative capacity before the Board and the Immigration Courts, or DHS, or all three authorities.
(6)
Identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations.
(i) The Board shall not issue a decision affirming or granting to an alien an immigration status, relief or protection from removal, or other immigration benefit, as provided in 8 CFR 1003.47(b), that requires completion of identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations if:
(A) Identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations have not been completed during the proceedings;
(B) DHS reports to the Board that the results of prior identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations are no longer current under the standards established by DHS and must be updated; or
(C) Identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations have uncovered new information bearing on the merits of the alien's application for relief.
(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(6)(iv) of this section, if identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations are necessary in order to adjudicate the appeal or motion, the Board will provide notice to both parties that the case is being placed on hold until such time as all identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations are completed or updated and the results have been reported to the Board. The Board's notice will notify the noncitizen that DHS will contact the noncitizen with instructions, consistent with § 1003.47(d), to take any additional steps necessary to complete or update the identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations only if DHS is unable to independently update the necessary identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations. The Board's notice will also advise the noncitizen of the consequences for failing to comply with the requirements of this section. DHS is responsible for obtaining biometrics and other biographical information to complete or update the identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations with respect to any noncitizen in detention.
(iii) In any case placed on hold under paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section, DHS shall report to the Board promptly when the identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations have been completed or updated. If DHS obtains relevant information as
a result of the identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations, or if the noncitizen fails to comply with the necessary procedures for collecting biometrics or other biographical information after receiving instructions from DHS under paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section, DHS may move the Board to remand the record to the immigration judge for consideration of whether, in view of the new information, or the noncitizen's failure to comply with the necessary procedures for collecting biometrics or other biographical information after receiving instructions from DHS under paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section, immigration relief or protection should be denied, either on grounds of ineligibility as a matter of law or as a matter of discretion. If DHS fails to report the results of timely completed or updated identity, law enforcement or security investigations or examinations within 180 days from the date of the Board's notice under paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section, the Board may continue to hold the case under paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section, as needed, or remand the case to the immigration judge for further proceedings under § 1003.47(h).
(iv) The Board is not required to hold a case pursuant to paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section if the Board decides to dismiss the respondent's appeal or deny the relief or protection sought.
(v) The immigration relief or protection described in § 1003.47(b) and granted by the Board shall take effect as provided in § 1003.47(i).
(7)
Finality of decision.
(i) The decision of the Board shall be final except in those cases reviewed by the Attorney General in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section. The Board may return a case to DHS or an immigration judge for such further action as may be appropriate without entering a final decision on the merits of the case.
(ii) In cases involving voluntary departure, the Board may issue an order of voluntary departure under section 240B of the Act, with an alternate order of removal, if the noncitizen requested voluntary departure before an immigration judge, the noncitizen's notice of appeal specified that the noncitizen is appealing the immigration judge's denial of voluntary departure and identified the specific factual and legal findings that the noncitizen is challenging, and the Board finds that the noncitizen is otherwise eligible for voluntary departure, as provided in 8 CFR 1240.26(k). In order to grant voluntary departure, the Board must find that all applicable statutory and regulatory criteria have been met, based on the record and within the scope of its review authority on appeal, and that the noncitizen merits voluntary departure as a matter of discretion. If the record does not contain sufficient factual findings regarding eligibility for voluntary departure, the Board may remand the decision to the immigration judge for further factfinding.
(e)
Case management system.
The Chairman shall establish a case management system to screen all cases and to manage the Board's caseload. Unless a case meets the standards for assignment to a three-member panel under paragraph (e)(6) of this section, all cases shall be assigned to a single Board member for disposition. The Chairman, under the supervision of the Director, shall be responsible for the success of the case management system. The Chairman shall designate, from time to time, a screening panel comprising a sufficient number of Board members who are authorized, acting alone, to adjudicate appeals as provided in this paragraph (e). The provisions of this paragraph (e) shall apply to all cases before the Board, regardless of whether they were initiated by filing a Notice of Appeal, filing a motion, or receipt of a remand from Federal court or the Attorney General.
(1)
Initial screening.
All cases shall be referred to the screening panel for review. Appeals subject to summary dismissal as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section should be promptly dismissed.
(2)
Miscellaneous dispositions.
A single Board member may grant an unopposed motion or a motion to withdraw an appeal pending before the Board. In addition, a single Board member may adjudicate a DHS motion to remand any appeal from the decision of a DHS officer where DHS requests that the matter be remanded to DHS for further
consideration of the appellant's arguments or evidence raised on appeal; a case where remand is required because of a defective or missing transcript; and other procedural or ministerial issues as provided by the case management plan.
(3)
Merits review.
In any case that has not been summarily dismissed, the case management system shall arrange for the prompt completion of the record of proceeding and transcript, and the issuance of a briefing schedule, as appropriate. A single Board member assigned under the case management system shall determine the appeal on the merits as provided in paragraph (e)(4) or (5) of this section, unless the Board member determines that the case is appropriate for review and decision by a three-member panel under the standards of paragraph (e)(6) of this section. The Board member may summarily dismiss an appeal after completion of the record of proceeding.
(4)
Affirmance without opinion.
(i) The Board member to whom a case is assigned shall affirm the decision of the DHS officer or the immigration judge without opinion if the Board member determines that the result reached in the decision under review was correct; that any errors in the decision under review were harmless or nonmaterial; and that
(A) The issues on appeal are squarely controlled by existing Board or federal court precedent and do not involve the application of precedent to a novel factual situation; or
(B) The factual and legal issues raised on appeal are not so substantial that the case warrants the issuance of a written opinion in the case.
(ii) If the Board member determines that the decision should be affirmed without opinion, the Board shall issue an order that reads as follows: “The Board affirms, without opinion, the result of the decision below. The decision below is, therefore, the final agency determination.
See
8 CFR 1003.1(e)(4).” An order affirming without opinion issued under authority of this provision shall not include further explanation or reasoning. Such an order approves the result reached in the decision below; it does not necessarily imply approval of all of the reasoning of that decision but does signify the Board's conclusion that any errors in the decision of the immigration judge or DHS were harmless or nonmaterial.
(5)
Other decisions on the merits by single Board member.
If the Board member to whom an appeal is assigned determines, upon consideration of the merits, that the decision is not appropriate for affirmance without opinion, the Board member shall issue a brief order affirming, modifying, or remanding the decision under review, unless the Board member designates the case for decision by a three-member panel under paragraph (e)(6) of this section under the standards of the case management plan. A single Board member may reverse the decision under review if such reversal is plainly consistent with and required by intervening Board or judicial precedent, by an intervening Act of Congress, or by an intervening final regulation. A motion to reconsider or to reopen a decision that was rendered by a single Board member may be adjudicated by that Board member unless the case is reassigned to a three-member panel as provided under the standards of the case management plan.
(6)
Panel decisions.
Cases may only be assigned for review by a three-member panel if the case presents one of these circumstances:
(i) The need to settle inconsistencies among the rulings of different immigration judges;
(ii) The need to establish a precedent construing the meaning of laws, regulations, or procedures;
(iii) The need to review a decision by an immigration judge or DHS that is not in conformity with the law or with applicable precedents;
(iv) The need to resolve a case or controversy of major national import;
(v) The need to review a clearly erroneous factual determination by an immigration judge;
(vi) The need to reverse the decision of an immigration judge or DHS, other than a reversal under § 1003.1(e)(5); or
(vii) The need to resolve a complex, novel, unusual, or recurring issue of law or fact.
(7)
Oral argument.
When an appeal has been taken, a request for oral argument if desired shall be included in the Notice of Appeal. A three-member
panel or the Board en banc may hear oral argument, as a matter of discretion, at such date and time as is established under the Board's case management plan. Oral argument shall be held at the offices of the Board unless the Deputy Attorney General or the Deputy Attorney General's designee authorizes oral argument to be held elsewhere. DHS may be represented before the Board by an officer or counsel of DHS designated by DHS. No oral argument will be allowed in a case that is assigned for disposition by a single Board member.
(8)
Timeliness.
As provided under the case management system, the Board shall promptly enter orders of summary dismissal, or other miscellaneous dispositions, in appropriate cases consistent with paragraph (e)(1) of this section. In all other cases, after completion of the record on appeal, including any briefs, motions, or other submissions on appeal, the Board member or panel to which the case is assigned shall issue a decision on the merits as soon as practicable, with a priority for cases or custody appeals involving detained noncitizens.
(i) Except in exigent circumstances as determined by the Chairman, or as provided in paragraph (d)(6) of this section, the Board shall dispose of all cases assigned to a single Board member within 90 days of completion of the record, or within 180 days after a case is assigned to a three-member panel (including any additional opinion by a member of the panel).
(ii) In exigent circumstances, the Chairman may grant an extension in particular cases of up to 60 days as a matter of discretion. Except as provided in paragraph (e)(8)(iii) or (iv) of this section, in those cases where the panel is unable to issue a decision within the established time limits, as extended, the Chairman shall either self-assign the case or assign the case to a Vice Chairman for final decision within 14 days or shall refer the case to the Attorney General for decision. If a dissenting or concurring panel member fails to complete the member's opinion by the end of the extension period, the decision of the majority will be issued without the separate opinion.
(iii) In rare circumstances, such as when an impending decision by the United States Supreme Court or a United States Court of Appeals, or impending Department regulatory amendments, or an impending en banc Board decision may substantially determine the outcome of a case or group of cases pending before the Board, the Chairman may hold the case or cases until such decision is rendered, temporarily suspending the time limits described in this paragraph (e)(8).
(iv) [Reserved]
(v) The Chairman shall notify the Director of EOIR and the Attorney General if a Board member consistently fails to meet the assigned deadlines for the disposition of appeals, or otherwise fails to adhere to the standards of the case management system. The Chairman shall also prepare a report assessing the timeliness of the disposition of cases by each Board member on an annual basis.
(vi) The provisions of this paragraph (e)(8) establishing time limits for the adjudication of appeals reflect an internal management directive in favor of timely dispositions, but do not affect the validity of any decision issued by the Board and do not, and shall not be interpreted to, create any substantive or procedural rights enforceable before any immigration judge or the Board, or in any court of law or equity.
(9) The provisions of paragraphs (e)(4)(i) and (e)(5) and (6) of this section are internal agency directives for the purpose of efficient management and disposition of cases pending before the Board and are not intended to create any substantive or procedural rights to a particular form of Board decision. A decision by the Board under paragraph (e)(4), (5), or (6) of this section carries the presumption that the Board properly and thoroughly considered all issues, arguments, and claims raised or presented by the parties on appeal or in a motion that were deemed appropriate to the disposition of the appeal or motion, whether or not specifically mentioned in the decision. A decision by the Board under paragraph (e)(4), (5), or (6) also carries the presumption that the Board did not need to consider any issue, argument, or claim not raised or presented by the parties on appeal or in
a motion to the Board. In any decision under paragraph (e)(5) or (6) of this section, the Board may rule, in the exercise of its discretion as provided under this part, on any issue, argument, or claim not raised by the parties, and the Board may solicit supplemental briefing from the parties on the issues to be considered before rendering a decision.
(f)
Service of Board decisions.
The decision of the Board shall be in writing. The Board shall transmit a copy to DHS and serve a copy upon the noncitizen or the noncitizen's representative, as provided in 8 CFR part 1292.
(g)
Decisions as precedents
—(1)
In general
. Except as Board decisions may be modified or overruled by the Board or the Attorney General, decisions of the Board and decisions of the Attorney General are binding on all officers and employees of DHS or immigration judges in the administration of the immigration laws of the United States.
(2)
Precedent decisions.
Selected decisions designated by the Board, decisions of the Attorney General, and decisions of the Secretary of Homeland Security as provided in paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section will be published and serve as precedents in all proceedings involving the same issue or issues.
(3)
Designation of precedents.
By majority vote of the permanent Board members, or as directed by the Attorney General or his designee, selected decisions of the Board issued by a three-member panel or by the Board
en banc
may be designated to be published and to serve as precedents in all proceedings involving the same issue or issues. In determining whether to publish a precedent decision, the Board may take into account relevant considerations, in the exercise of discretion, including among other matters:
(i) Whether the case involves a substantial issue of first impression;
(ii) Whether the case involves a legal, factual, procedural, or discretionary issue that can be expected to arise frequently in immigration cases;
(iii) Whether the issuance of a precedent decision is needed because the decision announces a new rule of law, or modifies, clarifies, or distinguishes a rule of law or prior precedent;
(iv) Whether the case involves a conflict in decisions by immigration judges, the Board, or the federal courts;
(v) Whether there is a need to achieve, maintain, or restore national uniformity of interpretation of issues under the immigration laws or regulations; and
(vi) Whether the case warrants publication in light of other factors that give it general public interest.
(h)
Referral of cases to the Attorney General.
(1) The Board shall refer to the Attorney General for review of its decision all cases that:
(i) The Attorney General directs the Board to refer to him.
(ii) The Chairman or a majority of the Board believes should be referred to the Attorney General for review.
(iii) The Secretary of Homeland Security, or specific officials of the Department of Homeland Security designated by the Secretary with the concurrence of the Attorney General, refers to the Attorney General for review.
(2) In any case the Attorney General decides, the Attorney General's decision shall be stated in writing and shall be transmitted to the Board or Secretary, as appropriate, for transmittal and service as provided in paragraph (f) of this section.
(i)
Publication of Secretary's precedent decisions.
The Secretary of Homeland Security, or specific officials of the Department of Homeland Security designated by the Secretary with the concurrence of the Attorney General, may file with the Attorney General decisions relating to the administration of the immigration laws of the United States for publication as precedent in future proceedings, and, upon approval of the Attorney General as to the lawfulness of such decision, the Director of the Executive Office for Immigration Review shall cause such decisions to be published in the same manner as decisions of the Board and the Attorney General.
(j)
Continuation of jurisdiction and procedure.
The jurisdiction of, and procedures before, the Board of Immigration Appeals in exclusion, deportation, removal, rescission, asylum-only, and any other proceedings, shall remain in
effect as in effect on February 28, 2003, until the regulations in this chapter are further modified by the Attorney General. Where a decision of an officer of the Immigration and Naturalization Service was, before March 1, 2003, appealable to the Board or to an immigration judge, or an application denied could be renewed in proceedings before an immigration judge, the same authority and procedures shall be followed until further modified by the Attorney General.
(k) [Reserved]
(l)
Administrative closure and recalendaring.
Administrative closure is the temporary suspension of a case. Administrative closure removes a case from the Board's docket until the case is recalendared. Recalendaring places a case back on the Board's docket.
(1)
Administrative closure before the Board.
Board Members may, in the exercise of discretion, administratively close a case upon the motion of a party, after applying the standard set forth at paragraph (l)(3) of this section. The administrative closure authority described in this section is not limited by the authority provided in any other provisions in this title that separately authorize or require administrative closure in certain circumstances, including 8 CFR 214.15(l), 245.15(p)(4), 1214.2(a), 1214.3, 1240.62(b), 1240.70(f) through (h), 1245.13, 1245.15(p)(4)(i), and 1245.21(c).
(2)
Recalendaring before the Board.
At any time after a case has been administratively closed under paragraph (l)(1) of this section, the Board may, in the exercise of discretion, recalendar the case pursuant to a party's motion to recalendar. In deciding whether to grant such a motion, the Board shall apply the standard set forth at paragraph (l)(3) of this section.
(3)
Standard for administrative closure and recalendaring.
The Board shall grant a motion to administratively close or recalendar filed jointly by both parties, or filed by one party where the other party has affirmatively indicated its non-opposition, unless the Board articulates unusual, clearly identified, and supported reasons for denying the motion. In all other cases, in deciding whether to administratively close or to recalendar a case, the Board shall consider the totality of the circumstances, including as many of the factors listed under paragraphs (l)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section as are relevant to the particular case. The Board may also consider other factors where appropriate. No single factor is dispositive. The Board, having considered the totality of the circumstances, may grant a motion to administratively close or to recalendar a particular case over the objection of a party. Although administrative closure may be appropriate where a petition, application, or other action is pending outside of proceedings before the Board, such a pending petition, application, or other action is not required for a case to be administratively closed.
(i) As the circumstances of the case warrant, the factors relevant to a decision to administratively close a case include:
(A) The reason administrative closure is sought;
(B) The basis for any opposition to administrative closure;
(C) Any requirement that a case be administratively closed in order for a petition, application, or other action to be filed with, or granted by, DHS;
(D) The likelihood the noncitizen will succeed on any petition, application, or other action that the noncitizen is pursuing, or that the noncitizen states in writing or on the record at a hearing that they plan to pursue, outside of proceedings before the Board;
(E) The anticipated duration of the administrative closure;
(F) The responsibility of either party, if any, in contributing to any current or anticipated delay;
(G) The ultimate anticipated outcome of the case pending before the Board; and
(H) The ICE detention status of the noncitizen.
(ii) As the circumstances of the case warrant, the factors relevant to a decision to recalendar a case include:
(A) The reason recalendaring is sought;
(B) The basis for any opposition to recalendaring;
(C) The length of time elapsed since the case was administratively closed;
(D) If the case was administratively closed to allow the noncitizen to file a
petition, application, or other action outside of proceedings before the Board, whether the noncitizen filed the petition, application, or other action and, if so, the length of time that elapsed between when the case was administratively closed and when the noncitizen filed the petition, application, or other action;
(E) If a petition, application, or other action that was pending outside of proceedings before the Board has been adjudicated, the result of that adjudication;
(F) If a petition, application, or other action remains pending outside of proceedings before the Board, the likelihood the noncitizen will succeed on that petition, application, or other action;
(G) The ultimate anticipated outcome if the case is recalendared; and
(H) The ICE detention status of the noncitizen.
(m)
Termination.
The Board shall have the authority to terminate cases before it as set forth in paragraphs (m)(1) and (2) of this section. A motion to dismiss a case in removal proceedings before the Board for a reason other than authorized by 8 CFR 1239.2(c) shall be deemed a motion to terminate under paragraph (m)(1) of this section.
(1)
Removal, deportation, and exclusion proceedings
—(i)
Mandatory termination.
In removal, deportation, and exclusion proceedings, the Board shall terminate the case where at least one of the requirements in paragraphs (m)(1)(i)(A) through (G) of this section is met.
(A) No charge of deportability, inadmissibility, or excludability can be sustained.
(B) Fundamentally fair proceedings are not possible because the noncitizen is mentally incompetent and adequate safeguards are unavailable.
(C) The noncitizen has, since the initiation of proceedings, obtained United States citizenship.
(D) The noncitizen has, since the initiation of proceedings, obtained at least one status listed in paragraphs (m)(1)(i)(D)(
1
) through (
4
) of this section, provided that the status has not been revoked or terminated, and the noncitizen would not have been deportable, inadmissible, or excludable as charged if the noncitizen had obtained such status before the initiation of proceedings.
(
1
) Lawful permanent resident status.
(
2
) Refugee status.
(
3
) Asylee status.
(
4
) Nonimmigrant status as defined in section 101(a)(15)(S), (T), or (U) of the Act.
(E) Termination is required under 8 CFR 1245.13(l).
(F) Termination is otherwise required by law.
(G) The parties jointly filed a motion to terminate, or one party filed a motion to terminate and the other party affirmatively indicated its non-opposition, unless the Board articulates unusual, clearly identified, and supported reasons for denying the motion.
(ii)
Discretionary termination.
In removal, deportation, or exclusion proceedings, the Board may, in the exercise of discretion, terminate the case upon the motion of a party where at least one of the requirements listed in paragraphs (m)(1)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section is met. The Board shall consider the reason termination is sought and the basis for any opposition to termination when adjudicating the motion to terminate.
(A) The noncitizen has filed an asylum application with USCIS pursuant to section 208(b)(3)(C) of the Act pertaining to unaccompanied children, as defined in 8 CFR 1001.1(hh).
(B) The noncitizen is prima facie eligible for naturalization, relief from removal, or a lawful status; USCIS has jurisdiction to adjudicate the associated petition, application, or other action if the noncitizen were not in proceedings; and the noncitizen has filed the petition, application, or other action with USCIS. However, no filing is required where the noncitizen is prima facie eligible for adjustment of status or naturalization. Where the basis of a noncitizen's motion for termination is that the noncitizen is prima facie eligible for naturalization, the Board shall not grant the motion if it is opposed by DHS. The Board shall not terminate a case for the noncitizen to pursue an asylum application before USCIS, except as provided for in paragraph (m)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.
(C) The noncitizen is a beneficiary of Temporary Protected Status, deferred action, or Deferred Enforced Departure.
(D) USCIS has granted the noncitizen's application for a provisional unlawful presence waiver pursuant to 8 CFR 212.7(e).
(E) Termination is authorized by 8 CFR 1216.4(a)(6) or 1238.1(e).
(F) Due to circumstances comparable to those described in paragraphs (m)(1)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section, termination is similarly necessary or appropriate for the disposition or alternative resolution of the case. However, the Board may not terminate a case for purely humanitarian reasons, unless DHS expressly consents to such termination, joins in a motion to terminate, or affirmatively indicates its non-opposition to a noncitizen's motion.
(2)
Other proceedings
—(i)
Mandatory termination.
In proceedings other than removal, deportation, or exclusion proceedings, the Board shall terminate the case where the parties have jointly filed a motion to terminate, or one party has filed a motion to terminate and the other party has affirmatively indicated its non-opposition, unless the Board articulates unusual, clearly identified, and supported reasons for denying the motion. In addition, the Board shall terminate such a case where required by law.
(ii)
Discretionary termination.
In proceedings other than removal, deportation, or exclusion proceedings, the Board may, in the exercise of discretion, terminate the case upon the motion of a party where terminating the case is necessary or appropriate for the disposition or alternative resolution of the case. However, the Board may not terminate a case for purely humanitarian reasons, unless DHS expressly consents to such termination, joins in a motion to terminate, or affirmatively indicates its non-opposition to a noncitizen's motion.
(iii)
Limitation on termination.
Nothing in paragraphs (m)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section authorizes the Board to terminate a case where prohibited by another regulatory provision. Further, nothing in paragraphs (m)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section authorizes the Board to terminate a case for the noncitizen to pursue an asylum application before USCIS, unless the noncitizen has filed an asylum application with USCIS pursuant to section 208(b)(3)(C) of the Act pertaining to unaccompanied children, as defined in 8 CFR 1001.1(hh).
[23 FR 9117, Nov. 26, 1958]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 1003.1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 1003.2
Reopening or reconsideration before the Board of Immigration Appeals.
(a)
General.
The Board may at any time reopen or reconsider on its own motion any case in which it has rendered a decision. A request by DHS or by the party affected by the decision to reopen or reconsider a case the Board has decided must be in the form of a written motion to the Board. The decision to grant or deny a motion to reopen or reconsider is within the discretion of the Board, subject to the restrictions of this section. The Board has discretion to deny a motion to reopen even if the moving party has made out a prima facie case for relief.
(b)
Motion to reconsider.
(1) A motion to reconsider shall state the reasons for the motion by specifying the errors of fact or law in the prior Board decision and shall be supported by pertinent authority. When a motion to reconsider the decision of an immigration judge or of a DHS officer is pending at the time an appeal is filed with the Board, or when such motion is filed subsequent to the filing with the Board of an appeal from the decision sought to be reconsidered, the motion may be deemed a motion to remand the decision for further proceedings before the immigration judge or the DHS officer from whose decision the appeal was taken. Such motion may be consolidated with and considered by the Board in connection with the appeal to the Board.
(2) A motion to reconsider a decision must be filed with the Board within 30 days after the mailing of the Board decision or on or before July 31, 1996, whichever is later. A party may file only one motion to reconsider any
given decision and may not seek reconsideration of a decision denying a previous motion to reconsider. In removal proceedings pursuant to section 240 of the Act, a noncitizen may file only one motion to reconsider a decision that the noncitizen is removable from the United States.
(3) A motion to reconsider based solely on an argument that the case should not have been affirmed without opinion by a single Board Member, or by a three-Member panel, is barred.
(c)
Motion to reopen.
(1) A motion to reopen proceedings shall state the new facts that will be proven at a hearing to be held if the motion is granted and shall be supported by affidavits or other evidentiary material. A motion to reopen proceedings for the purpose of submitting an application for relief must be accompanied by the appropriate application for relief and all supporting documentation. A motion to reopen proceedings shall not be granted unless it appears to the Board that evidence sought to be offered is material and was not available and could not have been discovered or presented at the former hearing; nor shall any motion to reopen for the purpose of affording the noncitizen an opportunity to apply for any form of discretionary relief be granted if it appears that the noncitizen's right to apply for such relief was fully explained to him or her and an opportunity to apply therefore was afforded at the former hearing, unless the relief is sought on the basis of circumstances that have arisen subsequent to the hearing. Subject to the other requirements and restrictions of this section, and notwithstanding the provisions in § 1001.1(p) of this chapter, a motion to reopen proceedings for consideration or further consideration of an application for relief under section 212(c) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(c)) may be granted if the noncitizen demonstrates that he or she was statutorily eligible for such relief prior to the entry of the administratively final order of deportation.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, a party may file only one motion to reopen deportation or exclusion proceedings (whether before the Board or the immigration judge) and that motion must be filed no later than 90 days after the date on which the final administrative decision was rendered in the proceeding sought to be reopened, or on or before September 30, 1996, whichever is later. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, a noncitizen may file only one motion to reopen removal proceedings (whether before the Board or the immigration judge) and that motion must be filed no later than 90 days after the date on which the final administrative decision was rendered in the proceeding sought to be reopened.
(3) In removal proceedings pursuant to section 240 of the Act, the time limitation set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall not apply to a motion to reopen filed pursuant to the provisions of § 1003.23(b)(4)(ii). The time and numerical limitations set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall not apply to a motion to reopen proceedings:
(i) Filed pursuant to the provisions of § 1003.23(b)(4)(iii)(A)(
1
) or § 1003.23(b)(4)(iii)(A)(
2
);
(ii) To apply or reapply for asylum or withholding of deportation based on changed circumstances arising in the country of nationality or in the country to which deportation has been ordered, if such evidence is material and was not available and could not have been discovered or presented at the previous hearing;
(iii) Agreed upon by all parties and jointly filed. Notwithstanding such agreement, the parties may contest the issues in a reopened proceeding; or
(iv) Filed by DHS in exclusion or deportation proceedings when the basis of the motion is fraud in the original proceeding or a crime that would support termination of asylum in accordance with 8 CFR 1208.24.
(4) A motion to reopen a decision rendered by an immigration judge or DHS officer that is pending when an appeal is filed, or that is filed while an appeal is pending before the Board, may be deemed a motion to remand for further proceedings before the immigration judge or the DHS officer from whose decision the appeal was taken. Such motion may be consolidated with, and considered by the Board in connection with, the appeal to the Board.
(d)
Departure, deportation, or removal.
A motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider shall not be made by or on behalf of a person who is the subject of exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings subsequent to his or her departure from the United States. Any departure from the United States, including the deportation or removal of a person who is the subject of exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings, occurring after the filing of a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider, shall constitute a withdrawal of such motion.
(e)
Judicial proceedings.
Motions to reopen or reconsider shall state whether the validity of the exclusion, deportation, or removal order has been or is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, if so, the nature and date thereof, the court in which such proceeding took place or is pending, and its result or status. In any case in which an exclusion, deportation, or removal order is in effect, any motion to reopen or reconsider such order shall include a statement by or on behalf of the moving party declaring whether the subject of the order is also the subject of any pending criminal proceeding under the Act, and, if so, the current status of that proceeding. If a motion to reopen or reconsider seeks discretionary relief, the motion shall include a statement by or on behalf of the moving party declaring whether the noncitizen for whose relief the motion is being filed is subject to any pending criminal prosecution and, if so, the nature and current status of that prosecution.
(f)
Stay of deportation.
Except where a motion is filed pursuant to the provisions of § 1003.23(b)(4)(ii) and (b)(4)(iii)(A), the filing of a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider shall not stay the execution of any decision made in the case. Execution of such decision shall proceed unless a stay of execution is specifically granted by the Board, the immigration judge, or an authorized DHS officer.
(g)
Filing procedures.
This paragraph applies to the filing of documents related to reopening and reconsideration before the Board.
(1)
English language, entry of appearance, and proof of service requirements.
A motion and any submission made in conjunction with a motion must be in English or accompanied by a certified English translation. If a party other than DHS is represented, any motion or related filing by that party must be accompanied by a Form EOIR-27, Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Representative Before the Board, pursuant to 8 CFR 1003.38(g)(1). If a party other than DHS is pro se and receives document assistance from a practitioner with a motion or related filing pursuant to 8 CFR 1003.38(g)(2), a Form EOIR-60 must be filed with the motion or related filing. In all cases, the motion must include proof of service on the opposing party of the motion and all attachments. If the moving party is not DHS, service of the motion must be made upon the DHS office in which the case was completed before the immigration judge.
(2)
Distribution of motion papers.
(i) A motion to reopen or motion to reconsider a decision of the Board pertaining to proceedings before an immigration judge shall be filed directly with the Board. Such motion must be accompanied by a payment in a manner authorized by EOIR or fee waiver request in satisfaction of the fee requirements of § 1003.8. The record of proceeding pertaining to such a motion shall be forwarded to the Board upon the request or order of the Board.
(ii) A motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider a decision of the Board pertaining to a matter initially adjudicated by an officer of DHS shall be filed with the officer of DHS having administrative control over the record of proceeding.
(iii) If the motion is made by DHS in proceedings in which DHS has administrative control over the record of proceedings, the record of proceedings in the case and the motion shall be filed directly with the Board. If such motion is filed directly with an office of DHS, the entire record of proceeding shall be forwarded to the Board by the DHS officer promptly upon receipt of the briefs of the parties, or upon expiration of the time allowed for the submission of such briefs.
(3)
Briefs and response.
The moving party may file a brief if it is included with the motion. If the motion is filed directly with the Board pursuant to
paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section, the opposing party shall have 21 days from the date of service of the motion to file a brief in opposition to the motion directly with the Board. If the motion is filed with a DHS office pursuant to paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section, the opposing party shall have 21 days from the date of filing of the motion to file a brief in opposition to the motion directly with DHS. In all cases, briefs and any other filings made in conjunction with a motion shall include proof of service on the opposing party. The Board, in its discretion, may extend the time within which such brief is to be submitted and may authorize the filing of a brief directly with the Board. A motion shall be deemed unopposed unless a timely response is made. The Board may, in its discretion, consider a brief filed out of time.
(4)
Filing parties.
DHS and all attorneys and accredited representatives of record for respondents, applicants, or petitioners are required to electronically file all documents with the Board through EOIR's electronic filing application in all cases eligible for electronic filing. Although not required, unrepresented respondents, applicants, or petitioners; reputable individuals and accredited officials who are the representatives of record; other authorized individuals; and practitioners filing an EOIR-60, may electronically file documents with the Board through EOIR's electronic filing application in cases eligible for electronic filing. An unrepresented respondent, applicant, or petitioner; reputable individual; accredited official; other authorized individual; or practitioner filing an EOIR-60, who elects to use EOIR's electronic filing application shall be required to register with EOIR as a condition of using that application. If a party not required to file electronically opts to use EOIR's electronic filing application for a case, the individual must electronically file all documents with the Board for that case unless the Board, only upon a motion filed by the individual with good cause shown, grants leave to opt out of using the electronic filing application. Such an individual who has been granted leave to opt out of using EOIR's electronic filing application for a case may not subsequently opt in again to use that application for the same case.
(5)
Filing requirements.
Parties must make the originals of all filed documents available upon request to the Board or the opposing party for review. If EOIR's electronic filing application is unavailable due to an unplanned system outage on the last day for filing in a specific case, then the filing deadline will be extended to the first day that the electronic filing application becomes accessible that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. For planned system outages, parties must electronically file documents during system availability within the applicable filing deadline or paper file documents within the applicable filing deadline. EOIR will issue public communications for planned system outages ahead of the scheduled outage. Any planned system outage announced five or fewer business days prior to the start of the outage will be treated as an unplanned outage. The Board retains discretion to accept paper filings in all cases.
(6)
Classified information.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, classified information is never allowed to be electronically filed.
(7)
Sealed medical documents.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, parties are not permitted to file electronically any sealed medical documents.
(8)
Signatures.
All documents filed with the Board that require a signature must have an original, handwritten ink signature, an encrypted digital signature, or an electronic signature. Electronic filings submitted through EOIR's electronic filing application that require the user's signature may have a conformed signature. This paragraph (g)(8) is subject to the requirements of the application or document being submitted.
(9)
Service.
The service of filings with the Board depends on whether the documents are filed through EOIR's electronic filing application or in paper.
(i)
Service of electronic filings.
If all parties are using EOIR's electronic filing application in a specific case, the
parties do not need to serve a document that is filed through EOIR's electronic filing application on the opposing party. EOIR's electronic filing application will effectuate service by providing a notification of all electronically filed documents on all parties by email. Upon successful upload by one of the parties, EOIR will email a notification to the email addresses provided in paragraph (g)(9)(ii) of this section. If one or more parties are not filing through EOIR's electronic filing application in a specific case, the parties must follow the service procedures in paragraph (g)(9)(iii) of this section.
(ii)
Valid email address.
Use of EOIR's electronic filing application requires a valid email address for electronic service. The Board will use the email address provided through eRegistry for electronic service on participating parties. Users must immediately update their eRegistry account if their email address changes. Representatives must additionally file a new Form EOIR-27 with the Board if their email address changes. EOIR will consider service completed when the electronic notification is delivered to the last email address on file provided by the user.
(iii)
Service of paper filings.
If electronic filing is not being used in a particular case, the party filing with the Board must serve a copy of the filing on the opposing party and include a certificate of service showing service on the opposing party with their filing. If the moving party is not DHS, service of the motion shall be made upon the ICE Office of the Principal Legal Advisor for the field location in which the case was completed before the immigration judge.
(h)
Oral argument.
A request for oral argument, if desired, shall be incorporated in the motion to reopen or reconsider. The Board, in its discretion, may grant or deny requests for oral argument.
(i)
Ruling on motion.
Rulings upon motions to reopen or motions to reconsider shall be by written order. Any motion for reconsideration or reopening of a decision issued by a single Board member will be referred to the screening panel for disposition by a single Board member, unless the screening panel member determines, in the exercise of judgment, that the motion for reconsideration or reopening should be assigned to a three-member panel under the standards of § 1003.1(e)(6). If the order directs a reopening and further proceedings are necessary, the record shall be returned to the immigration court or the DHS officer having administrative control over the place where the reopened proceedings are to be conducted. If the motion to reconsider is granted, the decision upon such reconsideration shall affirm, modify, or reverse the original decision made in the case.
[61 FR 18904, Apr. 29, 1996; 61 FR 32924, June 26, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 10330, Mar. 6, 1997; 64 FR 56142, Oct. 18, 1999; 67 FR 54904, Aug. 26, 2002; 85 FR 81654, Dec. 16, 2020; 86 FR 70719, Dec. 13, 2021; 87 FR 56257, Sept. 14, 2022; 89 FR 46790, May 29, 2024]
§ 1003.3
Notice of appeal.
(a)
Filing
—(1)
Appeal from decision of an immigration judge.
A party affected by a decision of an immigration judge which may be appealed to the Board under this chapter shall be given notice of the opportunity for filing an appeal. An appeal from a decision of an immigration judge shall be taken by filing a Notice of Appeal from a Decision of an Immigration Judge (Form EOIR-26) directly with the Board, within the time specified in § 1003.38. The appealing parties are only those parties who are covered by the decision of an immigration judge and who are specifically named on the Notice of Appeal. The appeal must reflect proof of service of a copy of the appeal and all attachments on the opposing party. An appeal is not properly filed unless it is received at the Board, along with all required documents, fees or fee waiver requests, and proof of service, within the time specified in the governing sections of this chapter. A Notice of Appeal may not be filed by any party who has waived appeal pursuant to § 1003.39.
(2)
Appeal from decision of a DHS officer.
A party affected by a decision of a DHS officer that may be appealed to the Board under this chapter shall be given notice of the opportunity to file an appeal. An appeal from a decision of a DHS officer shall be taken by filing a Notice of Appeal to the Board of Immigration Appeals from a Decision of a
DHS Officer (Form EOIR-29) directly with the DHS office having administrative control over the record of proceeding within 30 days of the service of the decision being appealed. An appeal is not properly filed until it is received at the appropriate DHS office, together with all required documents, and the fee provisions of § 1003.8 are satisfied.
(3)
General requirements for all appeals.
The appeal must be accompanied by a check, money order, or fee waiver request in satisfaction of the fee requirements of § 1003.8. If the respondent or applicant is represented, pursuant to 8 CFR 1003.38(g)(1), a Form EOIR-27, Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Representative Before the Board, must be filed with the Notice of Appeal. If the respondent or applicant receives document assistance from a practitioner with the appeal, pursuant to 8 CFR 1003.38(g)(2), a Form EOIR-60 must be filed with the Notice of Appeal. The appeal and all attachments must be in English or accompanied by a certified English translation.
(b)
Statement of the basis of appeal.
The party taking the appeal must identify the reasons for the appeal in the Notice of Appeal (Form EOIR-26 or Form EOIR-29) or in any attachments thereto, in order to avoid summary dismissal pursuant to § 1003.1(d)(2)(i). The statement must specifically identify the findings of fact, the conclusions of law, or both, that are being challenged. If a question of law is presented, supporting authority must be cited. If the dispute is over the findings of fact, the specific facts contested must be identified. Where the appeal concerns discretionary relief, the appellant must state whether the alleged error relates to statutory grounds of eligibility or to the exercise of discretion and must identify the specific factual and legal finding or findings that are being challenged. The appellant must also indicate in the Notice of Appeal (Form EOIR-26 or Form EOIR-29) whether he or she desires oral argument before the Board and whether he or she will be filing a separate written brief or statement in support of the appeal. An appellant who asserts that the appeal may warrant review by a three-member panel under the standards of § 1003.1(e)(6) may identify in the Notice of Appeal the specific factual or legal basis for that contention.
(c)
Briefs
—(1)
Appeal from decision of an immigration judge.
Briefs in support of or in opposition to an appeal from a decision of an immigration judge shall be filed directly with the Board. In those cases that are transcribed, the briefing schedule shall be set by the Board after the transcript is available. In cases involving noncitizens in custody, the parties shall be provided 21 days in which to file simultaneous briefs unless a shorter period is specified by the Board. Reply briefs shall be permitted only by leave of the Board and only if filed within 21 days of the deadline for the initial briefs. In cases involving noncitizens who are not in custody, the appellant shall be provided 21 days in which to file a brief, unless a shorter period is specified by the Board. The appellee shall have the same period of time in which to file a reply brief that was initially granted to the appellant to file their brief. The time to file a reply brief commences from the date upon which the appellant's brief was due, as originally set or extended by the Board. The Board, upon written motion, may extend the period for filing a brief or a reply brief for up to 90 days for good cause shown. In its discretion, the Board may consider a brief that has been filed out of time. In its discretion, the Board may request supplemental briefing from the parties after the expiration of the briefing deadline. All briefs, filings, and motions filed in conjunction with an appeal shall include proof of service on the opposing party.
(2)
Appeal from decision of a DHS officer.
Briefs in support of or in opposition to an appeal from a decision of a DHS officer shall be filed directly with DHS in accordance with the instructions in the decision of the DHS officer. The applicant or petitioner and DHS shall be provided 21 days in which to file a brief, unless a shorter period is specified by the DHS officer from whose decision the appeal is taken, and reply briefs shall be permitted only by leave of the Board. Upon written request of the noncitizen, the DHS officer from whose decision the appeal is taken or the Board may extend the period for filing a brief for good cause
shown. The Board may authorize the filing of briefs directly with the Board. In its discretion, the Board may consider a brief that has been filed out of time. All briefs and other documents filed in conjunction with an appeal, unless filed by a noncitizen directly with a DHS office, shall include proof of service on the opposing party.
(d)
Effect of certification.
The certification of a case, as provided in this part, shall not relieve the party affected from compliance with the provisions of this section in the event that he or she is entitled and desires to appeal from an initial decision, nor shall it serve to extend the time specified in the applicable parts of this chapter for the taking of an appeal.
(e)
Effect of departure from the United States.
Departure from the United States of a person who is the subject of deportation proceedings, prior to the taking of an appeal from a decision in his or her case, shall constitute a waiver of his or her right to appeal.
(f)
Application on effective date.
All cases and motions pending on September 25, 2002, shall be adjudicated according to the rules in effect on or after that date, except that § 1003.1(d)(3)(i) shall not apply to appeals filed before September 25, 2002. A party to an appeal or motion pending on August 26, 2002, may, until September 25, 2002, or the expiration of any briefing schedule set by the Board, whichever is later, submit a brief or statement limited to explaining why the appeal or motion does or does not meet the criteria for three-member review under § 1003.1(e)(6).
(g)
Filing.
This paragraph applies to the filing of documents related to appeals before the Board.
(1)
Filing parties.
DHS and all attorneys and accredited representatives of record for respondents, applicants, or petitioners are required to electronically file all documents with the Board through EOIR's electronic filing application in all cases eligible for electronic filing. Although not required, unrepresented respondents, applicants, or petitioners; reputable individuals and accredited officials, who are the representatives of record; other authorized individuals; and practitioners filing an EOIR-60, may electronically file documents with the Board through EOIR's electronic filing application in cases eligible for electronic filing. An unrepresented respondent, applicant, or petitioner; reputable individual; accredited official; other authorized individual; or practitioner filing an EOIR-60, who elects to use EOIR's electronic filing application shall be required to register with EOIR as a condition of using that application. If a party not required to file electronically opts to use EOIR's electronic filing application for a case, the individual must electronically file all documents with the Board for that case unless the Board, only upon a motion filed by the individual with good cause shown, grants leave to opt out of using the electronic filing application. Such an individual who has been granted leave to opt out of using EOIR's electronic filing application for a case may not subsequently opt in to use that application for the same case.
(2)
Filing requirements.
Parties must make the originals of all filed documents available upon request to the Board or to the opposing party for review. If EOIR's electronic filing application is unavailable due to an unplanned system outage on the last day for filing in a specific case, then the filing deadline will be extended to the first day that the electronic filing application becomes accessible that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. For planned system outages, parties must electronically file documents during system availability within the applicable filing deadline or paper file documents within the applicable filing deadline. EOIR will issue public communications for planned system outages ahead of the scheduled outage. Any planned system outage announced five or fewer business days prior to the start of the outage will be treated as an unplanned outage. The Board retains discretion to accept paper filings in all cases.
(3)
Classified information.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, classified information is never allowed to be electronically filed.
(4)
Sealed medical documents.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, parties are not permitted to
file electronically any sealed medical documents.
(5)
Signatures.
All documents filed with the Board that require a signature must have an original, handwritten ink signature, an encrypted digital signature, or an electronic signature. Electronic filings submitted through EOIR's electronic filing application that require the user's signature may have a conformed signature. This paragraph is subject to the requirements of the application or document being submitted.
(6)
Service.
The service of filings with the Board depends on whether the documents are filed through EOIR's electronic filing application or in paper.
(i)
Service of electronic filings.
If all parties are using EOIR's electronic filing application in a specific case, the parties do not need to serve a document that is filed through EOIR's electronic filing application on the opposing party. EOIR's electronic filing application will effectuate service by providing a notification of all electronically filed documents on all parties by email. Upon successful upload by one of the parties, EOIR will email a notification to the email addresses provided in paragraph (g)(6)(ii) of this section. If one or more parties are not filing through EOIR's electronic filing application in a specific case, the parties must follow the service procedures in paragraph (g)(6)(iii) of this section.
(ii)
Valid email address.
Use of EOIR's electronic filing application requires a valid email address for electronic service. The Board will use the email address provided through eRegistry for electronic service on participating parties. Users must immediately update their eRegistry account if their email address changes. Representatives must additionally file a new Form EOIR-27 with the Board if their email address changes. EOIR will consider service completed when the electronic notification is delivered to the last email address on file provided by the user.
(iii)
Service of paper filings.
If electronic filing is not being used in a particular case, the party filing with the Board must serve a copy of the filing on the opposing party and include a certificate of service showing service on the opposing party with their filing.
[61 FR 18906, Apr. 29, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 6445, Jan. 22, 2001; 67 FR 54904, Aug. 26, 2002; 85 FR 81654, Dec. 16, 2020; 86 FR 70720, Dec. 13, 2021; 87 FR 56258, Sept. 14, 2022; 89 FR 46791, May 29, 2024]
§ 1003.4
Withdrawal of appeal.
In any case in which an appeal has been taken, the party taking the appeal may file a written withdrawal thereof with the office at which the notice of appeal was filed. If the record in the case has not been forwarded to the Board on appeal in accordance with § 1003.5, the decision made in the case shall be final to the same extent as if no appeal had been taken. If the record has been forwarded on appeal, the withdrawal of the appeal shall be forwarded to the Board and, if no decision in the case has been made on the appeal, the record shall be returned and the initial decision shall be final to the same extent as if no appeal had been taken. If a decision on the appeal has been made by the Board in the case, further action shall be taken in accordance therewith. Departure from the United States of a person who is the subject of deportation proceedings subsequent to the taking of an appeal, but prior to a decision thereon, shall constitute a withdrawal of the appeal, and the initial decision in the case shall be final to the same extent as though no appeal had been taken. Departure from the United States of a person who is the subject of deportation or removal proceedings, except for arriving aliens as defined in § 1001.1(q) of this chapter, subsequent to the taking of an appeal, but prior to a decision thereon, shall constitute a withdrawal of the appeal, and the initial decision in the case shall be final to the same extent as though no appeal had been taken.
[61 FR 18907, Apr. 29, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 10331, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 1003.5
Forwarding of record on appeal.
(a)
Appeal from decision of an immigration judge.
If an appeal is taken from a decision of an immigration judge, the record of proceeding shall be promptly forwarded to the Board upon the request or the order of the Board. Where
transcription of an oral decision is required, the immigration judge shall review the transcript and approve the decision within 14 days of receipt, or within 7 days after the immigration judge returns to their duty station if the immigration judge was on leave or detailed to another location. The Chairman and the Chief Immigration Judge shall determine the most effective and expeditious way to transcribe proceedings before the immigration judges, and shall take such steps as necessary to reduce the time required to produce transcripts of those proceedings and to ensure their quality.
(b)
Appeal from decision of a DHS officer.
If an appeal is taken from a decision of a DHS officer, the record of proceeding shall be forwarded to the Board by the DHS officer promptly upon receipt of the briefs of the parties, or upon expiration of the time allowed for the submission of such briefs. A DHS officer need not forward such an appeal to the Board, but may reopen and reconsider any decision made by the officer if the new decision will grant the benefit that has been requested in the appeal. The new decision must be served on the appealing party within 45 days of receipt of any briefs or upon expiration of the time allowed for the submission of any briefs. If the new decision is not served within these time limits or the appealing party does not agree that the new decision disposes of the matter, the record of proceeding shall be immediately forwarded to the Board.
[89 FR 46791, May 29, 2024]
§ 1003.6
Stay of execution of decision.
(a) Except as provided under § 236.1 of this chapter, § 1003.19(i), and paragraph (b) of this section, the decision in any proceeding under this chapter from which an appeal to the Board may be taken shall not be executed during the time allowed for the filing of an appeal unless a waiver of the right to appeal is filed, nor shall such decision be executed while an appeal is pending or while a case is before the Board by way of certification.
(b) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to an order of an Immigration Judge under § 1003.23 or § 242.22 of 8 CFR chapter I denying a motion to reopen or reconsider or to stay deportation, except where such order expressly grants a stay or where the motion was filed pursuant to the provisions of § 1003.23(b)(4)(iii). The Board may, in its discretion, stay deportation while an appeal is pending from any such order if no stay has been granted by the Immigration Judge or a Service officer.
(c) The following procedures shall be applicable with respect to custody appeals in which DHS has invoked an automatic stay pursuant to 8 CFR 1003.19(i)(2).
(1) The stay shall lapse if DHS fails to file a notice of appeal with the Board within ten business days of the issuance of the order of the immigration judge. DHS should identify the appeal as an automatic stay case. To preserve the automatic stay, the attorney for DHS shall file with the notice of appeal a certification by a senior legal official that—
(i) The official has approved the filing of the notice of appeal according to review procedures established by DHS; and
(ii) The official is satisfied that the contentions justifying the continued detention of the alien have evidentiary support, and the legal arguments are warranted by existing law or by a non-frivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing precedent or the establishment of new precedent.
(2) The immigration judge shall prepare a written decision explaining the custody determination within five business days after the immigration judge is advised that DHS has filed a notice of appeal, or, with the approval of the Board in exigent circumstances, as soon as practicable thereafter (not to exceed five additional business days). The immigration court shall prepare and submit the record of proceedings without delay.
(3) The Board will track the progress of each custody appeal which is subject to an automatic stay in order to avoid unnecessary delays in completing the record for decision. Each order issued by the Board should identify the appeal as an automatic stay case. The Board shall notify the parties in a timely
manner of the date the automatic stay is scheduled to expire.
(4) If the Board has not acted on the custody appeal, the automatic stay shall lapse 90 days after the filing of the notice of appeal. However, if the Board grants a motion by the alien for an enlargement of the 21-day briefing schedule provided in § 1003.3(c), the Board's order shall also toll the 90-day period of the automatic stay for the same number of days.
(5) DHS may seek a discretionary stay pursuant to 8 CFR 1003.19(i)(1) to stay the immigration judge's order in the event the Board does not issue a decision on the custody appeal within the period of the automatic stay. DHS may submit a motion for discretionary stay at any time after the filing of its notice of appeal of the custody decision, and at a reasonable time before the expiration of the period of the automatic stay, and the motion may incorporate by reference the arguments presented in its brief in support of the need for continued detention of the alien during the pendency of the removal proceedings. If DHS has submitted such a motion and the Board is unable to resolve the custody appeal within the period of the automatic stay, the Board will issue an order granting or denying a motion for discretionary stay pending its decision on the custody appeal. The Board shall issue guidance to ensure prompt adjudication of motions for discretionary stays. If the Board fails to adjudicate a previously-filed stay motion by the end of the 90-day period, the stay will remain in effect (but not more than 30 days) during the time it takes for the Board to decide whether or not to grant a discretionary stay.
(d) If the Board authorizes an alien's release (on bond or otherwise), denies a motion for discretionary stay, or fails to act on such a motion before the automatic stay period expires, the alien's release shall be automatically stayed for five business days. If, within that five-day period, the Secretary of Homeland Security or other designated official refers the custody case to the Attorney General pursuant to 8 CFR 1003.1(h)(1), the alien's release shall continue to be stayed pending the Attorney General's consideration of the case. The automatic stay will expire 15 business days after the case is referred to the Attorney General. DHS may submit a motion and proposed order for a discretionary stay in connection with referring the case to the Attorney General. For purposes of this paragraph and 8 CFR 1003.1(h)(1), decisions of the Board shall include those cases where the Board fails to act on a motion for discretionary stay. The Attorney General may order a discretionary stay pending the disposition of any custody case by the Attorney General or by the Board.
[61 FR 18907, Apr. 29, 1996; 61 FR 21065, May 9, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 27448, May 19, 1998; 71 FR 57884, Oct. 2, 2006]
§ 1003.7
Notice of certification.
Whenever, in accordance with the provisions of § 1003.1(c), a case is certified to the Board, the noncitizen or other party affected shall be given notice of certification. An immigration judge or DHS officer may certify a case only after an initial decision has been made and before an appeal has been taken. If it is known at the time the initial decision is rendered that the case will be certified, the notice of certification shall be included in such decision and no further notice of certification shall be required. If it is not known until after the initial decision is rendered that the case will be certified, the office of DHS or the Immigration Court having administrative control over the record of proceeding shall cause a Notice of Certification to be served upon the parties. In either case, the notice shall inform the parties that the case is required to be certified to the Board and that they have the right to make representations before the Board, including the making of a request for oral argument and the submission of a brief. If either party desires to submit a brief, it shall be submitted to the office of DHS or the Immigration Court having administrative control over the record of proceeding for transmittal to the Board within the time prescribed in § 1003.3(c). The case shall be certified and forwarded to the Board by the office of DHS or Immigration Court having administrative jurisdiction over the case upon receipt of the brief, or upon the expiration of the
time within which the brief may be submitted, or upon receipt of a written waiver of the right to submit a brief. The Board in its discretion may elect to accept for review or not accept for review any such certified case. If the Board declines to accept a certified case for review, the underlying decision shall become final on the date the Board declined to accept the case.
[61 FR 18907, Apr. 29, 1996, as amended at 85 FR 81655, Dec. 16, 2020; 89 FR 46791, May 29, 2024]
§ 1003.8
Fees before the Board.
(a)
Appeals and motions before the Board
—(1)
When a fee is required.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and 8 CFR 1208.4(d)(3), a filing fee prescribed in 8 CFR 1103.7, or a fee waiver request pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section, is required in connection with the filing of an appeal, a motion to reopen, or a motion to reconsider before the Board.
(2)
When a fee is not required.
A filing fee is not required in the following instances:
(i) A custody bond appeal filed pursuant to § 1003.1(b)(7);
(ii) A motion to reopen that is based exclusively on an application for relief that does not require a fee;
(iii) A motion to reconsider that is based exclusively on a prior application for relief that did not require a fee;
(iv) A motion filed while an appeal, a motion to reopen, or a motion to reconsider is already pending before the Board;
(v) A motion requesting only a stay of removal, deportation, or exclusion;
(vi) Any appeal or motion filed by the Department of Homeland Security;
(vii) A motion that is agreed upon by all parties and is jointly filed; or
(viii) An appeal or motion filed under a law, regulation, or directive that specifically does not require a filing fee.
(3)
When a fee may be waived.
The Board has the discretion to waive a fee for an appeal, motion to reconsider, or motion to reopen upon a showing that the filing party is unable to pay the fee. Fee waivers shall be requested through the filing of a Fee Waiver Request (Form EOIR-26A), including the declaration to be signed under penalty of perjury substantiating the filing party's inability to pay the fee. The fee waiver request shall be filed along with the Notice of Appeal or the motion. If the fee waiver request does not establish the inability to pay the required fee, the appeal or motion will not be deemed properly filed, provided the Board grants 15 days to re-file the rejected document with the filing fee or new fee waiver request and tolls any applicable filing deadline during the 15-day cure period.
(4)
Method of payment.
When a fee is required for an appeal or motion, the fee shall accompany the appeal or motion.
(i)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, the fee for filing an appeal or motion with the Board shall be paid by check, money order, or electronic payment in a manner and form authorized by the Executive Office for Immigration Review. When paid by check or money order, the fee shall be payable to the “United States Department of Justice,” drawn on a bank or other institution that is located within the United States, and payable in United States currency. The check or money order shall bear the full name and alien registration number of the alien. A payment that is uncollectible does not satisfy a fee requirement.
(ii)
Appeals from Department of Homeland Security decisions.
The fee for filing an appeal, within the jurisdiction of the Board, from the decision of a Department of Homeland Security officer shall be paid to the Department of Homeland Security in accordance with § 1103.7(b).
(b)
Applications for relief.
Fees for applications for relief are not collected by the Board, but instead are paid to the Department of Homeland Security in accordance with 8 CFR 103.7. When a motion before the Board is based upon an application for relief, only the fee for the motion to reopen shall be paid to the Board, and payment of the fee for the application for relief shall not accompany the motion. If the motion is granted and proceedings are remanded to the immigration judge, the
application fee shall be paid in the manner specified in 8 CFR 1003.24(c)(1).
[69 FR 44906, July 28, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 81750, Dec. 16, 2020; 85 FR 82793, Dec. 18, 2020; 86 FR 70721, Dec. 13, 2021]

# Subpart B—Office of the Chief Immigration Judge

# Source:
62 FR 10331, Mar. 6, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1003.9
Office of the Chief Immigration Judge.
(a)
Organization.
Within the Executive Office for Immigration Review, there shall be an Office of the Chief Immigration Judge (OCIJ), consisting of the Chief Immigration Judge, the immigration judges, and such other staff as the Director deems necessary. The Attorney General shall appoint the Chief Immigration Judge. The Director may designate immigration judges to serve as Deputy and Assistant Chief Immigration Judges as may be necessary to assist the Chief Immigration Judge in the management of the OCIJ.
(b)
Powers of the Chief Immigration Judge.
Subject to the supervision of the Director, the Chief Immigration Judge shall be responsible for the supervision, direction, and scheduling of the immigration judges in the conduct of the hearings and duties assigned to them. The Chief Immigration Judge shall have the authority to:
(1) Issue operational instructions and policy, including procedural instructions regarding the implementation of new statutory or regulatory authorities;
(2) Provide for appropriate training of the immigration judges and other OCIJ staff on the conduct of their powers and duties;
(3) Direct the conduct of all employees assigned to OCIJ to ensure the efficient disposition of all pending cases, including the power, in his discretion, to set priorities or time frames for the resolution of cases, to direct that the adjudication of certain cases be deferred, to regulate the assignment of immigration judges to cases, and otherwise to manage the docket of matters to be decided by the immigration judges;
(4) Evaluate the performance of the Immigration Courts and other OCIJ activities by making appropriate reports and inspections, and take corrective action where needed;
(5) Adjudicate cases as an immigration judge, including the authorities described in § 1003.10(b); and
(6) Exercise such other authorities as the Director may provide.
(c)
Limit on the Authority of the Chief Immigration Judge.
The Chief Immigration Judge shall have no authority to direct the result of an adjudication assigned to another immigration judge, provided, however, that nothing in this part shall be construed to limit the authority of the Chief Immigration Judge in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Immigration Court.
The term Immigration Court shall refer to the local sites of the OCIJ where proceedings are held before immigration judges and where the records of those proceedings are created and maintained.
[72 FR 53677, Sept. 20, 2007, as amended at 89 FR 46792, May 29, 2024]
§ 1003.10
Immigration judges.
(a)
Appointment.
The immigration judges are attorneys whom the Attorney General appoints as administrative judges within the Office of the Chief Immigration Judge to conduct specified classes of proceedings, including hearings under section 240 of the Act. Immigration judges shall act as the Attorney General's delegates in the cases that come before them.
(b)
Powers and duties.
In conducting hearings under section 240 of the Act and such other proceedings the Attorney General may assign to them, immigration judges shall exercise the powers and duties delegated to them by the Act and by the Attorney General through regulation. In deciding the individual cases before them, and subject to the applicable governing standards set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, immigration judges shall exercise their independent judgment and discretion and may take any action consistent with their authorities under the Act and regulations that is necessary or appropriate for the disposition or alternative resolution of such cases. Such actions include administrative closure, termination of proceedings,
and dismissal of proceedings. The standards for the administrative closure, dismissal, and termination of cases are set forth in § 1003.18(c), 8 CFR 1239.2(c), and § 1003.18(d), respectively. Immigration judges shall administer oaths, receive evidence, and interrogate, examine, and cross-examine noncitizens and any witnesses. Subject to §§ 1003.35 and 1287.4 of this chapter, they may issue administrative subpoenas for the attendance of witnesses and the presentation of evidence. In all cases, immigration judges shall seek to resolve the questions before them in a timely and impartial manner consistent with the Act and regulations. In the absence of exceptional circumstances, an immigration judge shall complete administrative adjudication of an asylum application within 180 days after the date an application is filed. For purposes of this paragraph (b) and of §§ 1003.29 and 1240.6 of this chapter, the term
exceptional circumstances
refers to exceptional circumstances (such as battery or extreme cruelty to the alien or any child or parent of the alien, serious illness of the party or immigration judge, or serious illness or death of the spouse, child, or parent of the alien, but not including less compelling circumstances) beyond the control of the parties or the immigration court. A finding of good cause does not necessarily mean that an exceptional circumstance has also been established.
(c)
Review.
Decisions of immigration judges are subject to review by the Board of Immigration Appeals in any case in which the Board has jurisdiction as provided in 8 CFR 1003.1.
(d)
Governing standards.
Immigration judges shall be governed by the provisions and limitations prescribed by the Act and this chapter, by the decisions of the Board, and by the Attorney General (through review of a decision of the Board, by written order, or by determination and ruling pursuant to section 103 of the Act).
(e)
Temporary immigration judges
—(1)
Designation.
The Director is authorized to designate or select temporary immigration judges as provided in this paragraph (e).
(i) The Director may designate or select, with the approval of the Attorney General, former Board members, former immigration judges, administrative law judges employed within or retired from EOIR, and administrative law judges from other Executive Branch agencies to serve as temporary immigration judges for renewable terms not to exceed six months. Administrative law judges from other Executive Branch agencies must have the consent of their agencies to be designated as temporary immigration judges.
(ii) In addition, the Director may designate, with the approval of the Attorney General, Department of Justice attorneys with at least 10 years of legal experience in the field of immigration law to serve as temporary immigration judges for renewable terms not to exceed six months.
(2)
Authority.
A temporary immigration judge shall have the authority of an immigration judge to adjudicate assigned cases and administer immigration court matters, as provided in the immigration laws and regulations, subject to paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(3)
Assignment of temporary immigration judges.
The Chief Immigration Judge is responsible for the overall oversight and management of the utilization of temporary immigration judges and for evaluating the results of the process. The Chief Immigration Judge shall ensure that each temporary immigration judge has received a suitable level of training to enable the temporary immigration judge to carry out the duties assigned.
[72 FR 53677, Sept. 20, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 39956, July 11, 2014; 85 FR 81655, 81750, Dec. 16, 2020; 89 FR 46792, May 29, 2024]
§ 1003.11
Administrative control Immigration Courts.
An administrative control Immigration Court is one that creates and maintains Records of Proceedings for Immigration Courts within an assigned geographical area. All documents and correspondence pertaining to a Record of Proceeding shall be filed with the Immigration Court having administrative control over that Record of Proceeding and shall not be filed with any other Immigration Court. A list of the administrative control Immigration
Courts with their assigned geographical areas will be made available to the public at any Immigration Court.

# Subpart C—Immigration Court—Rules of Procedure
§ 1003.12
Scope of rules.
These rules are promulgated to assist in the expeditious, fair, and proper resolution of matters coming before Immigration Judges. Except where specifically stated, the rules in this subpart apply to matters before Immigration Judges, including, but not limited to, deportation, exclusion, removal, bond, rescission, departure control, asylum proceedings, and disciplinary proceedings under this part 3. The sole procedures for review of credible fear determinations by Immigration Judges are provided for in § 1003.42.
[57 FR 11571, Apr. 6, 1992, as amended at 62 FR 10331, Mar. 6, 1997; 65 FR 39526, June 27, 2000]
§ 1003.13
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Administrative control
means custodial responsibility for the Record of Proceeding as specified in § 1003.11.
Charging document
means the written instrument which initiates a proceeding before an Immigration Judge. For proceedings initiated prior to April 1, 1997, these documents include an Order to Show Cause, a Notice to Applicant for Admission Detained for Hearing before Immigration Judge, and a Notice of Intention to Rescind and Request for Hearing by Alien. For proceedings initiated after April 1, 1997, these documents include a Notice to Appear, a Notice of Referral to Immigration Judge, and a Notice of Intention to Rescind and Request for Hearing by Alien.
[62 FR 10332, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 86 FR 70722, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1003.14
Jurisdiction and commencement of proceedings.
(a) Jurisdiction vests, and proceedings before an Immigration Judge commence, when a charging document is filed with the Immigration Court by the Service. The charging document must include a certificate showing service on the opposing party pursuant to § 1003.32 which indicates the Immigration Court in which the charging document is filed. However, no charging document is required to be filed with the Immigration Court to commence bond proceedings pursuant to §§ 1003.19, 1236.1(d) and 1240.2(b) of this chapter.
(b) When an Immigration Judge has jurisdiction over an underlying proceeding, sole jurisdiction over applications for asylum shall lie with the Immigration Judge.
(c) Immigration Judges have jurisdiction to administer the oath of allegiance in administrative naturalization ceremonies conducted by the Service in accordance with § 1337.2(b) of this chapter.
(d) The jurisdiction of, and procedures before, immigration judges in exclusion, deportation and removal, rescission, asylum-only, and any other proceedings shall remain in effect as it was in effect on February 28, 2003, until the regulations in this chapter are further modified by the Attorney General. Where a decision of an officer of the Immigration and Naturalization Service was, before March 1, 2003, appealable to the Board or an immigration judge, or an application denied could be renewed in proceedings before an immigration judge, the same authority and procedures shall be followed until further modified by the Attorney General.
[57 FR 11571, Apr. 6, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 34089, June 30, 1995; 62 FR 10332, Mar. 6, 1997. Redesignated and amended at 68 FR 9830, 9832, Feb. 28, 2003]
§ 1003.15
Contents of the order to show cause and notice to appear and notification of change of address.
(a) In the Order to Show Cause, the Service shall provide the following administrative information to the Executive Office for Immigration Review. Omission of any of these items shall not provide the alien with any substantive or procedural rights:
(1) The alien's names and any known aliases;
(2) The alien's address;
(3) The alien's registration number, with any lead alien registration number with which the alien is associated;
(4) The alien's alleged nationality and citizenship;
(5) The language that the alien understands;
(b) The Order to Show Cause and Notice to Appear must also include the following information:
(1) The nature of the proceedings against the alien;
(2) The legal authority under which the proceedings are conducted;
(3) The acts or conduct alleged to be in violation of law;
(4) The charges against the alien and the statutory provisions alleged to have been violated;
(5) Notice that the alien may be represented, at no cost to the government, by counsel or other representative authorized to appear pursuant to 8 CFR 1292.1;
(6) The address of the Immigration Court where the Service will file the Order to Show Cause and Notice to Appear; and
(7) A statement that the alien must advise the Immigration Court having administrative control over the Record of Proceeding of his or her current address and telephone number and a statement that failure to provide such information may result in an
in absentia
hearing in accordance with § 1003.26.
(c)
Contents of the Notice to Appear for removal proceedings.
In the Notice to Appear for removal proceedings, the Service shall provide the following administrative information to the Immigration Court. Failure to provide any of these items shall not be construed as affording the alien any substantive or procedural rights.
(1) The alien's names and any known aliases;
(2) The alien's address;
(3) The alien's registration number, with any lead alien registration number with which the alien is associated;
(4) The alien's alleged nationality and citizenship; and
(5) The language that the alien understands.
(d)
Address and telephone number.
(1) If the alien's address is not provided on the Order to Show Cause or Notice to Appear, or if the address on the Order to Show Cause or Notice to Appear is incorrect, the alien must provide to the Immigration Court where the charging document has been filed, within five days of service of that document, a written notice of an address and telephone number at which the alien can be contacted. The alien may satisfy this requirement by completing and filing Form EOIR-33.
(2) Within five days of any change of address, the alien must provide written notice of the change of address on Form EOIR-33 to the Immigration Court where the charging document has been filed, or if venue has been changed, to the Immigration Court to which venue has been changed.
[57 FR 11571, Apr. 6, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 34089, June 30, 1995; 62 FR 10332, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 1003.16
Representation.
(a) The government may be represented in proceedings before an Immigration Judge.
(b) The alien may be represented in proceedings before an Immigration Judge by an attorney or other representative of his or her choice in accordance with 8 CFR part 1292, at no expense to the government.
[52 FR 2936, Jan. 29, 1987. Redesignated at 57 FR 11571, Apr. 6, 1992, as amended at 62 FR 10332, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 1003.17
Entry of appearance.
(a)
Entering an appearance using Form EOIR-28.
A practitioner must enter an appearance in proceedings before an immigration court using Form EOIR-28 to perform the functions of and become the practitioner of record. The practitioner of record is authorized and required to appear in immigration court on behalf of the respondent, file all documents on behalf of the respondent, and accept service of process of all documents filed in the proceedings. The practitioner may enter an appearance to be the practitioner of record for all proceedings before the immigration court, or for custody and bond proceedings only, or for all proceedings other than custody and bond proceedings. A practitioner's entry of appearance in only a custody or bond proceeding shall be separate and apart
from an entry of appearance in any proceeding other than custody or bond before the immigration court. The Form EOIR-28 must indicate whether the practitioner's entry of appearance is for all proceedings, for custody and bond proceedings only, or for all proceedings other than custody and bond proceedings.
(1)
Filing Form EOIR-28.
The practitioner must file a copy of the Form EOIR-28 with the immigration court and serve a copy on DHS as required by 8 CFR 1003.32. The practitioner must file and serve a Form EOIR-28 even if the practitioner has previously filed a separate Notice of Entry of Appearance with DHS for appearances before DHS or previously entered a limited appearance using Form EOIR-61 in connection with document assistance under paragraph (b) of this section.
(2)
Effect of Filing Form EOIR-28.
A practitioner who enters an appearance using Form EOIR-28 is the practitioner of record and must appear in immigration court on behalf of the respondent, file all documents on behalf of the respondent, and accept service of process of all documents filed in the proceedings, consistent with 8 CFR 1292.5. Filing a Form EOIR-28 provides the practitioner with access to the record of proceedings during the course of proceedings. A respondent shall be considered represented for the proceedings in which an EOIR-28 has been filed.
(3)
Withdrawal or substitution.
A practitioner who enters an appearance on behalf of a respondent before the immigration court by filing a Form EOIR-28 remains the practitioner of record unless an immigration judge permits withdrawal or substitution during proceedings upon oral or written motion submitted without fee.
(b)
Entering a limited appearance for document assistance using Form EOIR-61.
A practitioner who provides assistance to a pro se respondent with the drafting, completion, or filling in of blank spaces of a specific motion, brief, form, or other document or set of documents intended to be filed with the immigration court, regardless of whether such assistance is considered “practice” or “preparation” as defined in 8 CFR 1001.1, must disclose such limited assistance to the immigration court using Form EOIR-61, unless pursuant to paragraph (a) the practitioner has filed a Form EOIR-28 to become the practitioner of record.
(1)
Filing Form EOIR-61.
A Form EOIR-61 must not be filed as a standalone document. The single Form EOIR-61 must be filed with the immigration court at the same time as the document or set of documents with which the practitioner assisted. Any subsequent filing of a document or set of documents with which a practitioner assisted must be accompanied by a new Form EOIR-61.
(2)
Effect of Filing Form EOIR-61.
A practitioner who enters a limited appearance using Form EOIR-61 is not the practitioner of record, is not required to appear on behalf of respondent before the immigration court, and is not required to submit a motion to withdraw or substitute. The submission of a Form EOIR-61 does not create additional ongoing obligations between the practitioner, the respondent, and EOIR. An appearance through Form EOIR-61 does not provide the practitioner with access to the record of proceedings. A respondent who received assistance pursuant to this paragraph is not represented, remains pro se, and is subject to service of process of all documents filed in the proceedings, consistent with 8 CFR 1292.5.
(c)
Completing an appearance form, proof of qualification, disclosure requirements, and identification.
The practitioner must properly complete and sign any Form EOIR-28 or Form EOIR-61, as required by the form instructions. A practitioner's personal appearance or signature on the Form EOIR-28 or Form EOIR-61 constitutes an attestation that the person is authorized and qualified to appear as a practitioner in accordance with § 1292.1. Further proof that the practitioner meets the qualifications of a practitioner as defined in § 1292.1 may be required. The completion of a Form EOIR-28 or Form EOIR-61 in connection with an application or form that requires disclosure of the preparer does not relieve a practitioner from complying with the particular disclosure requirements of the application or form. Notwithstanding the completion of a Form EOIR-28 or Form
EOIR-61, the practitioner must identify themselves by name, accompanied by their signature, on any document filed or intended to be filed with the immigration court pursuant to an appearance under paragraph (a) or (b).
[87 FR 56258, Sept. 14, 2022]
§ 1003.18
Docket management.
(a)
Scheduling.
The Immigration Court shall be responsible for scheduling cases and providing notice to the government and the alien of the time, place, and date of hearings.
(b)
Notice.
In removal proceedings pursuant to section 240 of the Act, the Service shall provide in the Notice to Appear, the time, place and date of the initial removal hearing, where practicable. If that information is not contained in the Notice to Appear, the Immigration Court shall be responsible for scheduling the initial removal hearing and providing notice to the government and the alien of the time, place, and date of hearing. In the case of any change or postponement in the time and place of such proceeding, the Immigration Court shall provide written notice to the alien specifying the new time and place of the proceeding and the consequences under section 240(b)(5) of the Act of failing, except under exceptional circumstances as defined in section 240(e)(1) of the Act, to attend such proceeding. No such notice shall be required for an alien not in detention if the alien has failed to provide the address required in section 239(a)(1)(F) of the Act.
(c)
Administrative closure and recalendaring.
Administrative closure is the temporary suspension of a case. Administrative closure removes a case from the immigration court's active calendar until the case is recalendared. Recalendaring places a case back on the immigration court's active calendar.
(1)
Administrative closure before immigration judges.
An immigration judge may, in the exercise of discretion, administratively close a case upon the motion of a party, after applying the standard set forth at paragraph (c)(3) of this section. The administrative closure authority described in this section is not limited by the authority provided in any other provisions in this title that separately authorize or require administrative closure in certain circumstances, including 8 CFR 214.15(l), 245.15(p)(4), 1214.2(a), 1214.3, 1240.62(b), 1240.70(f) through (h), 1245.13, 1245.15(p)(4)(i), and 1245.21(c).
(2)
Recalendaring before immigration judges.
At any time after a case has been administratively closed under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, an immigration judge may, in the exercise of discretion, recalendar the case pursuant to a party's motion to recalendar. In deciding whether to grant such a motion, the immigration judge shall apply the standard set forth at paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(3)
Standard for administrative closure and recalendaring.
An immigration judge shall grant a motion to administratively close or recalendar filed jointly by both parties, or filed by one party where the other party has affirmatively indicated its non-opposition, unless the immigration judge articulates unusual, clearly identified, and supported reasons for denying the motion. In all other cases, in deciding whether to administratively close or to recalendar a case, an immigration judge shall consider the totality of the circumstances, including as many of the factors listed under paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section as are relevant to the particular case. The immigration judge may also consider other factors where appropriate. No single factor is dispositive. The immigration judge, having considered the totality of the circumstances, may grant a motion to administratively close or to recalendar a particular case over the objection of a party. Although administrative closure may be appropriate where a petition, application, or other action is pending outside of proceedings before the immigration judge, such a pending petition, application, or other action is not required for a case to be administratively closed.
(i) As the circumstances of the case warrant, the factors relevant to a decision to administratively close a case include:
(A) The reason administrative closure is sought;
(B) The basis for any opposition to administrative closure;
(C) Any requirement that a case be administratively closed in order for a petition, application, or other action to be filed with, or granted by, DHS;
(D) The likelihood the noncitizen will succeed on any petition, application, or other action that the noncitizen is pursuing, or that the noncitizen states in writing or on the record at a hearing that they plan to pursue, outside of proceedings before the immigration judge;
(E) The anticipated duration of the administrative closure;
(F) The responsibility of either party, if any, in contributing to any current or anticipated delay;
(G) The ultimate anticipated outcome of the case pending before the immigration judge; and
(H) The ICE detention status of the noncitizen.
(ii) As the circumstances of the case warrant, the factors relevant to a decision to recalendar a case include:
(A) The reason recalendaring is sought;
(B) The basis for any opposition to recalendaring;
(C) The length of time elapsed since the case was administratively closed;
(D) If the case was administratively closed to allow the noncitizen to file a petition, application, or other action outside of proceedings before the immigration judge, whether the noncitizen filed the petition, application, or other action and, if so, the length of time that elapsed between when the case was administratively closed and when the noncitizen filed the petition, application, or other action;
(E) If a petition, application, or other action that was pending outside of proceedings before the immigration judge has been adjudicated, the result of that adjudication;
(F) If a petition, application, or other action remains pending outside of proceedings before the immigration judge, the likelihood the noncitizen will succeed on that petition, application, or other action;
(G) The ultimate anticipated outcome if the case is recalendared; and
(H) The ICE detention status of the noncitizen.
(d)
Termination.
Immigration judges shall have the authority to terminate cases before them as set forth in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section. A motion to dismiss a case in removal proceedings before an immigration judge for a reason other than authorized by 8 CFR 1239.2(c) shall be deemed a motion to terminate under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(1)
Removal, deportation, and exclusion proceedings
—(i)
Mandatory termination.
In removal, deportation, and exclusion proceedings, immigration judges shall terminate the case where at least one of the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1)(i)(A) through (G) of this section is met.
(A) No charge of deportability, inadmissibility, or excludability can be sustained.
(B) Fundamentally fair proceedings are not possible because the noncitizen is mentally incompetent and adequate safeguards are unavailable.
(C) The noncitizen has, since the initiation of proceedings, obtained United States citizenship.
(D) The noncitizen has, since the initiation of proceedings, obtained at least one status listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(i)(D)(
1
) through (
4
) of this section, provided that the status has not been revoked or terminated, and the noncitizen would not have been deportable, inadmissible, or excludable as charged if the noncitizen had obtained such status before the initiation of proceedings.
(
1
) Lawful permanent resident status.
(
2
) Refugee status.
(
3
) Asylee status.
(
4
) Nonimmigrant status as defined in section 101(a)(15)(S), (T), or (U) of the Act.
(E) Termination is required under 8 CFR 1245.13(l).
(F) Termination is otherwise required by law.
(G) The parties jointly filed a motion to terminate, or one party filed a motion to terminate and the other party affirmatively indicated its non-opposition, unless the immigration judge articulates unusual, clearly identified, and supported reasons for denying the motion.
(ii)
Discretionary termination.
In removal, deportation, or exclusion proceedings, immigration judges may, in the exercise of discretion, terminate
the case upon the motion of a party where at least one of the requirements listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section is met. The immigration judge shall consider the reason termination is sought and the basis for any opposition to termination when adjudicating the motion to terminate.
(A) The noncitizen has filed an asylum application with USCIS pursuant to section 208(b)(3)(C) of the Act pertaining to unaccompanied children, as defined in 8 CFR 1001.1(hh).
(B) The noncitizen is prima facie eligible for naturalization, relief from removal, or lawful status; USCIS has jurisdiction to adjudicate the associated petition, application, or other action if the noncitizen were not in proceedings; and the noncitizen has filed the petition, application, or other action with USCIS. However, no filing is required where the noncitizen is prima facie eligible for adjustment of status or naturalization. Where the basis of a noncitizen's motion for termination is that the noncitizen is prima facie eligible for naturalization, the immigration judge shall not grant the motion if it is opposed by DHS. Immigration judges shall not terminate a case for the noncitizen to pursue an asylum application before USCIS, except as provided for in paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.
(C) The noncitizen is a beneficiary of Temporary Protected Status, deferred action, or Deferred Enforced Departure.
(D) USCIS has granted the noncitizen's application for a provisional unlawful presence waiver pursuant to 8 CFR 212.7(e).
(E) Termination is authorized by 8 CFR 1216.4(a)(6) or 1238.1(e).
(F) Due to circumstances comparable to those described in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section, termination is similarly necessary or appropriate for the disposition or alternative resolution of the case. However, immigration judges may not terminate a case for purely humanitarian reasons, unless DHS expressly consents to such termination, joins in a motion to terminate, or affirmatively indicates its non-opposition to a noncitizen's motion.
(2)
Other proceedings
—(i)
Mandatory termination.
In proceedings other than removal, deportation, or exclusion proceedings, immigration judges shall terminate the case where the parties have jointly filed a motion to terminate, or one party has filed a motion to terminate and the other party has affirmatively indicated its non-opposition, unless the immigration judge articulates unusual, clearly identified, and supported reasons for denying the motion. In addition, immigration judges shall terminate such a case where required by law.
(ii)
Discretionary termination.
In proceedings other than removal, deportation, or exclusion proceedings, immigration judges may, in the exercise of discretion, terminate the case upon the motion of a party where terminating the case is necessary or appropriate for the disposition or alternative resolution of the case. However, immigration judges may not terminate a case for purely humanitarian reasons, unless DHS expressly consents to such termination, joins in a motion to terminate, or affirmatively indicates its non-opposition to a noncitizen's motion.
(iii)
Limitation on termination.
Nothing in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section authorizes immigration judges to terminate a case where prohibited by another regulatory provision. Further, nothing in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section authorizes the immigration judge to terminate a case for the noncitizen to pursue an asylum application before USCIS, unless the noncitizen has filed an asylum application with USCIS pursuant to section 208(b)(3)(C) of the Act pertaining to unaccompanied children, as defined in 8 CFR 1001.1(hh).
[62 FR 10332, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 89 FR 46792, May 29, 2024]
§ 1003.19
Custody/bond.
(a) Custody and bond determinations made by the service pursuant to 8 CFR part 1236 may be reviewed by an Immigration Judge pursuant to 8 CFR part 1236.
(b) Application for an initial bond redetermination by a respondent, or his or her attorney or representative, may be made orally, in writing, or, at the
discretion of the Immigration Judge, by telephone.
(c) Applications for the exercise of authority to review bond determinations shall be made to one of the following offices, in the designated order:
(1) If the respondent is detained, to the Immigration Court having jurisdiction over the place of detention;
(2) To the Immigration Court having administrative control over the case; or
(3) To the Office of the Chief Immigration Judge for designation of an appropriate Immigration Court.
(d) Consideration by the Immigration Judge of an application or request of a respondent regarding custody or bond under this section shall be separate and apart from, and shall form no part of, any deportation or removal hearing or proceeding. The determination of the Immigration Judge as to custody status or bond may be based upon any information that is available to the Immigration Judge or that is presented to him or her by the alien or the Service.
(e) After an initial bond redetermination, an alien's request for a subsequent bond redetermination shall be made in writing and shall be considered only upon a showing that the alien's circumstances have changed materially since the prior bond redetermination.
(f) The determination of an Immigration Judge with respect to custody status or bond redetermination shall be entered on the appropriate form at the time such decision is made and the parties shall be informed orally or in writing of the reasons for the decision. An appeal from the determination by an Immigration Judge may be taken to the Board of Immigration Appeals pursuant to § 1003.38.
(g) While any proceeding is pending before the Executive Office for Immigration Review, the Service shall immediately advise the Immigration Court having administrative control over the Record of Proceeding of a change in the respondent/applicant's custody location or of release from Service custody, or subsequent taking into Service custody, of a respondent/applicant. This notification shall be in writing and shall state the effective date of the change in custody location or status, and the respondent/applicant's current fixed street address, including zip code.
(h)(1)(i) While the Transition Period Custody Rules (TPCR) set forth in section 303(b)(3) of Div. C of Pub. L. 104-208 remain in effect, an immigration judge may not redetermine conditions of custody imposed by the Service with respect to the following classes of aliens:
(A) Aliens in exclusion proceedings;
(B) Arriving aliens in removal proceedings, including persons paroled after arrival pursuant to section 212(d)(5) of the Act;
(C) Aliens described in section 237(a)(4) of the Act;
(D) Aliens subject to section 303(b)(3)(A) of Pub. L. 104-208 who are not “lawfully admitted” (as defined in § 1236.1(c)(2) of this chapter); or
(E) Aliens designated in § 1236.1(c) of this chapter as ineligible to be considered for release.
(ii) Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as prohibiting an alien from seeking a redetermination of custody conditions by the Service in accordance with part 1235 or 1236 of this chapter. In addition, with respect to paragraphs (h)(1)(i)(C), (D), and (E) of this section, nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as prohibiting an alien from seeking a determination by an immigration judge that the alien is not properly included within any of those paragraphs.
(2)(i) Upon expiration of the Transition Period Custody Rules set forth in section 303(b)(3) of Div. C. of Pub. L. 104-208, an immigration judge may not redetermine conditions of custody imposed by the Service with respect to the following classes of aliens:
(A) Aliens in exclusion proceedings;
(B) Arriving aliens in removal proceedings, including aliens paroled after arrival pursuant to section 212(d)(5) of the Act;
(C) Aliens described in section 237(a)(4) of the Act;
(D) Aliens in removal proceedings subject to section 236(c)(1) of the Act (as in effect after expiration of the Transition Period Custody Rules); and
(E) Aliens in deportation proceedings subject to section 242(a)(2) of the Act (as in effect prior to April 1, 1997, and
as amended by section 440(c) of Pub. L. 104-132).
(ii) Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as prohibiting an alien from seeking a redetermination of custody conditions by the Service in accordance with part 1235 or 1236 of this chapter. In addition, with respect to paragraphs (h)(2)(i)(C), (D), and (E) of this section, nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as prohibiting an alien from seeking a determination by an immigration judge that the alien is not properly included within any of those paragraphs.
(3) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, an alien subject to section 303(b)(3)(A) of Div. C of Pub. L. 104-208 may apply to the Immigration Court, in a manner consistent with paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section, for a redetermination of custody conditions set by the Service. Such an alien must first demonstrate, by clear and convincing evidence, that release would not pose a danger to other persons or to property. If an alien meets this burden, the alien must further demonstrate, by clear and convincing evidence, that the alien is likely to appear for any scheduled proceeding or interview.
(4)
Unremovable aliens.
A determination of a district director (or other official designated by the Commissioner) regarding the exercise of authority under section 303(b)(3)(B)(ii) of Div. C. of Pub. L. 104-208 (concerning release of aliens who cannot be removed because the designated country of removal will not accept their return) is final, and shall not be subject to redetermination by an immigration judge.
(i)
Stay of custody order pending appeal by the government
—(1)
General discretionary stay authority.
The Board of Immigration Appeals (Board) has the authority to stay the order of an immigration judge redetermining the conditions of custody of an alien when the Department of Homeland Security appeals the custody decision or on its own motion. DHS is entitled to seek a discretionary stay (whether or not on an emergency basis) from the Board in connection with such an appeal at any time.
(2)
Automatic stay in certain cases.
In any case in which DHS has determined that an alien should not be released or has set a bond of $10,000 or more, any order of the immigration judge authorizing release (on bond or otherwise) shall be stayed upon DHS's filing of a notice of intent to appeal the custody redetermination (Form EOIR-43) with the immigration court within one business day of the order, and, except as otherwise provided in 8 CFR 1003.6(c), shall remain in abeyance pending decision of the appeal by the Board. The decision whether or not to file Form EOIR-43 is subject to the discretion of the Secretary.
[57 FR 11571, Apr. 6, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 34089, June 30, 1995; 62 FR 10332, Mar. 6, 1997; 63 FR 27448, May 19, 1998; 66 FR 54911, Oct. 31, 2001; 70 FR 4753, Jan. 31, 2005; 71 FR 57884, Oct. 2, 2006]
§ 1003.20
Change of venue.
(a) Venue shall lie at the Immigration Court where jurisdiction vests pursuant to § 1003.14.
(b) The Immigration Judge, for good cause, may change venue only upon motion by one of the parties, after the charging document has been filed with the Immigration Court. The Immigration Judge may grant a change of venue only after the other party has been given notice and an opportunity to respond to the motion to change venue.
(c) No change of venue shall be granted without identification of a fixed street address, including city, state and ZIP code, where the respondent/applicant may be reached for further hearing notification.
[57 FR 11572, Apr. 6, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 34089, June 30, 1995; 62 FR 10332, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 1003.21
Pre-hearing conferences and statement.
(a) Pre-hearing conferences may be scheduled at the discretion of the Immigration Judge. The conference may be held to narrow issues, to obtain stipulations between the parties, to exchange information voluntarily, and otherwise to simplify and organize the proceeding.
(b) The Immigration Judge may order any party to file a pre-hearing
statement of position that may include, but is not limited to: A statement of facts to which both parties have stipulated, together with a statement that the parties have communicated in good faith to stipulate to the fullest extent possible; a list of proposed witnesses and what they will establish; a list of exhibits, copies of exhibits to be introduced, and a statement of the reason for their introduction; the estimated time required to present the case; and, a statement of unresolved issues involved in the proceedings.
(c) If submission of a pre-hearing statement is ordered under paragraph (b) of this section, an Immigration Judge also may require both parties, in writing prior to the hearing, to make any evidentiary objections regarding matters contained in the pre-hearing statement. If objections in writing are required but not received by the date for receipt set by the Immigration Judge, admission of all evidence described in the pre-hearing statement shall be deemed unopposed.
[57 FR 11572, Apr. 6, 1992]
§ 1003.22
Interpreters.
Any person acting as an interpreter in a hearing shall swear or affirm to interpret and translate accurately, unless the interpreter is an employee of the United States Government, in which event no such oath or affirmation shall be required.
[52 FR 2936, Jan. 29, 1987. Redesignated at 57 FR 11571, Apr. 6, 1992]
§ 1003.23
Reopening or reconsideration before the immigration court.
(a)
Pre-decision motions.
Unless otherwise permitted by the immigration judge, motions submitted prior to the final order of an immigration judge shall be in writing and shall state, with particularity the grounds therefor, the relief sought, and the jurisdiction. The immigration judge may set and extend time limits for the making and replying to of motions and replies thereto. A motion shall be deemed unopposed unless timely response is made.
(b)
Before the Immigration Court
—(1)
In general.
An immigration judge may upon the immigration judge's own motion at any time, or upon motion of DHS or the noncitizen, reopen or reconsider any case in which the judge has rendered a decision, unless jurisdiction is vested with the Board of Immigration Appeals. Subject to the exceptions in this paragraph (b)(1) and paragraph (b)(4), a party may file only one motion to reconsider and one motion to reopen proceedings. A motion to reconsider must be filed within 30 days of the date of entry of a final administrative order of removal, deportation, or exclusion, or on or before July 31, 1996, whichever is later. A motion to reopen must be filed within 90 days of the date of entry of a final administrative order of removal, deportation, or exclusion, or on or before September 30, 1996, whichever is later. A motion to reopen or to reconsider shall not be made by or on behalf of a person who is the subject of removal, deportation, or exclusion proceedings subsequent to his or her departure from the United States. Any departure from the United States, including the deportation or removal of a person who is the subject of exclusion, deportation, or removal proceedings, occurring after the filing of a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider shall constitute a withdrawal of such motion. The time and numerical limitations set forth in this paragraph (b)(1) do not apply to motions by DHS in removal proceedings pursuant to section 240 of the Act. Nor shall such limitations apply to motions by DHS in exclusion or deportation proceedings, when the basis of the motion is fraud in the original proceeding or a crime that would support termination of asylum in accordance with § 1208.22(e) of this chapter.
(i)
Form and contents of the motion.
The motion shall be in writing and signed by the affected party or the attorney or representative of record, if any. The motion and any submission made in conjunction with it must be in English or accompanied by a certified English translation. Motions to reopen or reconsider shall state whether the validity of the exclusion, deportation, or removal order has been or is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, if so, the nature and date thereof, the court in which such proceeding took place or is pending, and its result or
status. In any case in which an exclusion, deportation, or removal order is in effect, any motion to reopen or reconsider such order shall include a statement by or on behalf of the moving party declaring whether the subject of the order is also the subject of any pending criminal proceeding under the Act, and, if so, the current status of that proceeding.
(ii)
Filing.
Motions to reopen or reconsider a decision of an immigration judge must be filed with the immigration court having administrative control over the Record of Proceeding. If necessary under § 1003.32, a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider shall include a certificate showing service on the opposing party of the motion and all attachments. If the moving party is not DHS, service of the motion shall be made upon the ICE Office of the Principal Legal Advisor for the field location in which the case was completed. If the moving party, other than DHS, is represented, a Form EOIR-28, Notice of Appearance as Attorney or Representative Before an Immigration Judge must be filed with the motion. For any motion requiring a fee, that motion must be accompanied by a fee receipt, an alternate proof of payment consistent with § 1103.7(a)(3), or a fee waiver request pursuant to § 1103.7(c). If filed in paper, the motion must be filed in duplicate with the immigration court.
(iii)
Assignment to an immigration judge.
If the immigration judge is unavailable or unable to adjudicate the motion to reopen or reconsider, the Chief Immigration Judge or a delegate of the Chief Immigration Judge shall reassign such motion to another immigration judge.
(iv)
Replies to motions; decision.
The immigration judge may set and extend time limits for replies to motions to reopen or reconsider. A motion shall be deemed unopposed unless timely response is made. The decision to grant or deny a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider is within the discretion of the immigration judge.
(v)
Stays.
Except in cases involving in absentia orders, the filing of a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider shall not stay the execution of any decision made in the case. Execution of such decision shall proceed unless a stay of execution is specifically granted by the immigration judge, the Board, or an authorized DHS officer.
(2)
Motion to reconsider.
A motion to reconsider shall state the reasons for the motion by specifying the errors of fact or law in the immigration judge's prior decision and shall be supported by pertinent authority. Such motion may not seek reconsideration of a decision denying a previous motion to reconsider.
(3)
Motion to reopen.
A motion to reopen proceedings shall state the new facts that will be proven at a hearing to be held if the motion is granted and shall be supported by affidavits and other evidentiary material. Any motion to reopen for the purpose of acting on an application for relief must be accompanied by the appropriate application for relief and all supporting documents. A motion to reopen will not be granted unless the immigration judge is satisfied that evidence sought to be offered is material and was not available and could not have been discovered or presented at the former hearing. A motion to reopen for the purpose of providing the noncitizen an opportunity to apply for any form of discretionary relief will not be granted if it appears that the noncitizen's right to apply for such relief was fully explained to them by the immigration judge and an opportunity to apply therefor was afforded at the hearing, unless the relief is sought on the basis of circumstances that have arisen subsequent to the hearing. Pursuant to section 240A(d)(1) of the Act, a motion to reopen proceedings for consideration or further consideration of an application for relief under section 240A(a) of the Act (cancellation of removal for certain permanent residents) or 240A(b) of the Act (cancellation of removal and adjustment of status for certain nonpermanent residents) may be granted only upon demonstration that the noncitizen was statutorily eligible for such relief prior to the service of a Notice to Appear, or prior to the commission of an offense referred to in section 212(a)(2) of the Act that renders the noncitizen inadmissible or removable under sections 237(a)(2) or (a)(4) of the Act, whichever is earliest. The immigration judge has discretion to deny a
motion to reopen even if the moving party has established a prima facie case for relief.
(4)
Exceptions to filing deadlines
—(i)
Asylum and withholding of removal.
The time and numerical limitations set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall not apply if the basis of the motion is to apply for asylum under section 208 of the Act or withholding of removal under section 241(b)(3) of the Act or withholding of removal under the Convention Against Torture, and is based on changed country conditions arising in the country of nationality or the country to which removal has been ordered, if such evidence is material and was not available and could not have been discovered or presented at the previous proceeding. The filing of a motion to reopen under this section shall not automatically stay the removal of the noncitizen. However, the noncitizen may request a stay and, if granted by the immigration judge, the noncitizen shall not be removed pending disposition of the motion by the immigration judge. If the original asylum application was denied based upon a finding that it was frivolous, then the noncitizen is ineligible to file either a motion to reopen or reconsider, or for a stay of removal.
(ii)
Order entered in absentia or in removal proceedings.
An order of removal entered in absentia or in removal proceedings pursuant to section 240(b)(5) of the Act may be rescinded only upon a motion to reopen filed within 180 days after the date of the order of removal, if the noncitizen demonstrates that the failure to appear was because of exceptional circumstances as defined in section 240(e)(1) of the Act. An order entered in absentia pursuant to section 240(b)(5) may be rescinded upon a motion to reopen filed at any time upon the noncitizen's demonstration of lack of notice in accordance with section 239(a)(1) or (2) of the Act, or upon the noncitizen's demonstration of the noncitizen's Federal or State custody and the failure to appear was through no fault of the noncitizen. However, in accordance with section 240(b)(5)(B) of the Act, no written notice of a change in time or place of proceeding shall be required if the noncitizen has failed to provide the address required under section 239(a)(1)(F) of the Act. The filing of a motion under this paragraph (b)(4)(ii) shall stay the removal of the noncitizen pending disposition of the motion by the immigration judge. A noncitizen may file only one motion pursuant to this paragraph (b)(4)(ii).
(iii)
Order entered in absentia in deportation or exclusion proceedings.
(A) An order entered in absentia in deportation proceedings may be rescinded only upon a motion to reopen filed:
(
1
) Within 180 days after the date of the order of deportation if the alien demonstrates that the failure to appear was because of exceptional circumstances beyond the control of the alien (e.g., serious illness of the alien or serious illness or death of an immediate relative of the alien, but not including less compelling circumstances); or
(
2
) At any time if the alien demonstrates that he or she did not receive notice or if the alien demonstrates that he or she was in federal or state custody and the failure to appear was through no fault of the alien.
(B) A motion to reopen exclusion hearings on the basis that the immigration judge improperly entered an order of exclusion in absentia must be supported by evidence that the noncitizen had reasonable cause for his failure to appear.
(C) The filing of a motion to reopen under paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(A) of this section shall stay the deportation of the alien pending decision on the motion and the adjudication of any properly filed administrative appeal.
(D) The time and numerical limitations set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall not apply to a motion to reopen filed pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(A) of this section.
(iv)
Jointly filed motions.
The time and numerical limitations set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall
not apply to a motion to reopen agreed upon by all parties and jointly filed.
[52 FR 2936, Jan. 29, 1987, as amended at 55 FR 30680, July 27, 1990. Redesignated at 57 FR 11571, Apr. 6, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 34089, June 30, 1995; 61 FR 18908, Apr. 29, 1996; 61 FR 19976, May 3, 1996; 61 FR 21228, May 9, 1996; 62 FR 10332, Mar. 6, 1997; 62 FR 15362, Apr. 1, 1997; 62 FR 17048, Apr. 9, 1997; 64 FR 8487, Feb. 19, 1999; 85 FR 81655, Dec. 16, 2020; 86 FR 70722, Dec. 13, 2021; 89 FR 46793, May 29, 2024]
§ 1003.24
Fees pertaining to matters within the jurisdiction of an immigration judge.
(a)
Generally.
All fees for the filing of motions and applications in connection with proceedings before the immigration judges are paid to the Department of Homeland Security in accordance with 8 CFR 103.7 and 8 CFR part 106, including fees for applications published by the Executive Office for Immigration Review. The immigration court does not collect fees.
(b)
Motions to reopen or reconsider
—(1)
When a fee is required.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a filing fee prescribed in 8 CFR 1103.7, or a fee waiver request pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, is required in connection with the filing of a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider.
(2)
When a fee is not required.
A filing fee is not required in the following instances:
(i) A motion to reopen that is based exclusively on an application for relief that does not require a fee;
(ii) A motion to reconsider that is based exclusively on a prior application for relief that did not require a fee;
(iii) A motion filed while proceedings are already pending before the immigration court;
(iv) A motion requesting only a stay of removal, deportation, or exclusion;
(v) A motion to reopen a deportation or removal order entered in absentia if the motion is filed pursuant to section 242B(c)(3)(B) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1252b(c)(3)(B)), as it existed prior to April 1, 1997, or section 240(b)(5)(C)(ii) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1229a(b)(5)(C)(ii)), as amended;
(vi) Any motion filed by the Department of Homeland Security;
(vii) A motion that is agreed upon by all parties and is jointly filed; or
(viii) A motion filed under a law, regulation, or directive that specifically does not require a filing fee.
(c)
Applications for relief
—(1)
When filed during proceedings.
When an application for relief is filed during the course of proceedings, the fee for that application must be paid in advance to the Department of Homeland Security in accordance with 8 CFR 103.7 and 8 CFR part 106. The fee receipt must accompany the application when it is filed with the immigration court except as provided by 8 CFR 1208.4(d)(3).
(2)
When submitted with a motion to reopen.
When a motion to reopen is based upon an application for relief, the fee for the motion to reopen shall be paid to the Department of Homeland Security and the fee receipt shall accompany the motion. Payment of the fee for the application for relief must be paid to the Department of Homeland Security within the time specified by the immigration judge.
(d)
Fee waivers.
The immigration judge has the discretion to waive a fee for a motion or application for relief upon a showing that the filing party is unable to pay the fee. The request for a fee waiver must be accompanied by a properly executed affidavit or unsworn declaration made pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1746 substantiating the filing party's inability to pay the fee. If the request for a fee waiver is denied, the application or motion will not be deemed properly filed, provided the immigration judge grants 15 days to re-file the rejected document with the filing fee or new fee waiver request and tolls any applicable filing deadline during the 15-day cure period.
[69 FR 44906, July 28, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 81750, Dec. 16, 2020; 85 FR 82793, Dec. 18, 2020; 86 FR 70722, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1003.25
Form of the proceeding.
(a)
Waiver of presence of the parties.
The Immigration Judge may, for good cause, and consistent with section 240(b) of the Act, waive the presence of the alien at a hearing when the alien is represented or when the alien is a minor child at least one of whose parents or whose legal guardian is present. When it is impracticable by reason of
an alien's mental incompetency for the alien to be present, the presence of the alien may be waived provided that the alien is represented at the hearing by an attorney or legal representative, a near relative, legal guardian, or friend.
(b)
Stipulated request for order; waiver of hearing.
An Immigration Judge may enter an order of deportation, exclusion or removal stipulated to by the alien (or the alien's representative) and the Service. The Immigration Judge may enter such an order without a hearing and in the absence of the parties based on a review of the charging document, the written stipulation, and supporting documents, if any. If the alien is unrepresented, the Immigration Judge must determine that the alien's waiver is voluntary, knowing, and intelligent. The stipulated request and required waivers shall be signed on behalf of the government and by the alien and his or her attorney or representative, if any. The attorney or representative shall file a Notice of Appearance in accordance with § 1003.16(b). A stipulated order shall constitute a conclusive determination of the alien's deportability or removability from the United States. The stipulation shall include:
(1) An admission that all factual allegations contained in the charging document are true and correct as written;
(2) A concession of deportability or inadmissibility as charged;
(3) A statement that the alien makes no application for relief under the Act;
(4) A designation of a country for deportation or removal under section 241(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Act;
(5) A concession to the introduction of the written stipulation of the alien as an exhibit to the Record of Proceeding;
(6) A statement that the alien understands the consequences of the stipulated request and that the alien enters the request voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently;
(7) A statement that the alien will accept a written order for his or her deportation, exclusion or removal as a final disposition of the proceedings; and
(8) A waiver of appeal of the written order of deportation or removal.
(c)
Telephonic or video hearings.
An Immigration Judge may conduct hearings through video conference to the same extent as he or she may conduct hearings in person. An Immigration Judge may also conduct a hearing through a telephone conference, but an evidentiary hearing on the merits may only be conducted through a telephone conference with the consent of the alien involved after the alien has been advised of the right to proceed in person or, where available, through a video conference, except that credible fear determinations may be reviewed by the Immigration Judge through a telephone conference without the consent of the alien.
[62 FR 10334, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 1003.26
In absentia hearings.
(a) In any exclusion proceeding before an Immigration Judge in which the applicant fails to appear, the Immigration Judge shall conduct an
in absentia
hearing if the Immigration Judge is satisfied that notice of the time and place of the proceeding was provided to the applicant on the record at a prior hearing or by written notice to the applicant or to the applicant's counsel of record on the charging document or at the most recent address in the Record of Proceeding.
(b) In any deportation proceeding before an Immigration Judge in which the respondent fails to appear, the Immigration Judge shall order the respondent deported
in absentia
if: (1) The Service establishes by clear, unequivocal and convincing evidence that the respondent is deportable; and (2) the Immigration Judge is satisfied that written notice of the time and place of the proceedings and written notice of the consequences of failure to appear, as set forth in section 242B(c) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1252b(c)), were provided to the respondent in person or were provided to the respondent or the respondent's counsel of record, if any, by certified mail.
(c) In any removal proceeding before an Immigration Judge in which the alien fails to appear, the Immigration Judge shall order the alien removed
in absentia
if:
(1) The Service establishes by clear, unequivocal, and convincing evidence that the alien is removable; and
(2) The Service establishes by clear, unequivocal, and convincing evidence that written notice of the time and place of proceedings and written notice of the consequences of failure to appear were provided to the alien or the alien's counsel of record.
(d) Written notice to the alien shall be considered sufficient for purposes of this section if it was provided at the most recent address provided by the alien. If the respondent fails to provide his or her address as required under § 1003.15(d), no written notice shall be required for an Immigration Judge to proceed with an
in absentia
hearing. This paragraph shall not apply in the event that the Immigration Judge waives the appearance of an alien under § 1003.25.
[59 FR 1899, Jan. 13, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 10334, Mar. 6, 1997; 62 FR 15362, Apr. 1, 1997]
§ 1003.27
Public access to hearings.
All hearings, other than exclusion hearings, shall be open to the public except that:
(a) Depending upon physical facilities, the Immigration Judge may place reasonable limitations upon the number in attendance at any one time with priority being given to the press over the general public;
(b) For the purpose of protecting witnesses, parties, or the public interest, the Immigration Judge may limit attendance or hold a closed hearing.
(c) In any proceeding before an Immigration Judge concerning an abused alien spouse, the hearing and the Record of Proceeding shall be closed to the public unless the abused spouse agrees that the hearing and the Record of Proceeding shall be open to the public. In any proceeding before an Immigration Judge concerning an abused alien child, the hearing and the Record of Proceeding shall be closed to the public.
(d) Proceedings before an Immigration Judge shall be closed to the public if information subject to a protective order under § 1003.46, which has been filed under seal pursuant to § 1003.31(d), may be considered.
[52 FR 2936, Jan. 29, 1987. Redesignated and amended at 57 FR 11571, 11572, Apr. 6, 1992; 62 FR 10334, Mar. 6, 1997; 67 FR 36802, May 28, 2002]
§ 1003.28
Recording equipment.
The only recording equipment permitted in the proceeding will be the equipment used by the Immigration Judge to create the official record. No other photographic, video, electronic, or similar recording device will be permitted to record any part of the proceeding.
[52 FR 2936, Jan. 29, 1987. Redesignated at 57 FR 11571, Apr. 6, 1992]
§ 1003.29
Continuances.
The immigration judge may grant a motion for continuance for good cause shown, provided that nothing in this section shall authorize a continuance that causes the adjudication of an asylum application to exceed 180 days in the absence of exceptional circumstances, consistent with section 208(d)(5)(A)(iii) of the Act and § 1003.10(b).
[85 FR 81750, Dec. 16, 2020]
§ 1003.30
Additional charges in deportation or removal hearings.
At any time during deportation or removal proceedings, additional or substituted charges of deportability and/or factual allegations may be lodged by the Service in writing. The alien shall be served with a copy of these additional charges and/or allegations and the Immigration Judge shall read them to the alien. The Immigration Judge shall advise the alien, if he or she is not represented by counsel, that the alien may be so represented. The alien may be given a reasonable continuance to respond to the additional factual allegations and charges. Thereafter, the provision of § 1240.10(b) of this chapter relating to pleading shall apply to the additional factual allegations and charges.
[62 FR 10335, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 1003.31
Filing documents and applications.
This section applies to the filing of all documents, including motions and applications, before the immigration courts.
(a)
Filing parties.
DHS and all attorneys and accredited representatives of record for persons appearing before the immigration courts are required to electronically file all documents, including charging documents, with the immigration courts through EOIR's electronic filing application in all cases eligible for electronic filing. Although not required, unrepresented respondents or applicants; reputable individuals and accredited officials who are representatives of record; other authorized individuals; and practitioners filing an EOIR-61, may electronically file documents with the immigration courts through EOIR's electronic filing application in cases eligible for electronic filing. An unrepresented respondent or applicant; reputable individual; accredited official; other authorized individual; or practitioner filing an EOIR-61, who elects to use EOIR's electronic filing application shall be required to register with EOIR as a condition of using that application. If a party not required to file electronically opts to use EOIR's electronic filing application for a case, the individual must electronically file all documents with the immigration courts for that case unless an immigration judge, only upon a motion filed by the individual with good cause shown, grants leave to opt out of using the electronic filing application. Such an individual who has been granted leave to opt out of using EOIR's electronic filing application for a case may not subsequently opt in to use that application for the same case.
(b)
Filing requirements.
If EOIR's electronic filing application is unavailable due to an unplanned system outage on the last day for filing in a specific case, then the filing deadline will be extended to the first day that the electronic filing application becomes accessible that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. For planned system outages, parties must electronically file documents during system availability within the applicable filing deadline or paper file documents within the applicable filing deadline. EOIR will issue public communications for planned system outages ahead of the scheduled outage. Any planned system outage announced five or fewer business days prior to the start of the outage will be treated as an unplanned outage. In all other situations in cases eligible for electronic filing, an immigration judge retains the discretion to accept paper filings in all cases.
(c)
Originals.
Parties must make the originals of all filed documents available upon request to the immigration court or the opposing party for review.
(d)
Classified information.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, classified information is never allowed to be electronically filed.
(e)
Sealed medical documents.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, parties are not permitted to file electronically any sealed medical documents.
(f)
Where to file.
All documents that are to be considered in a proceeding before an immigration judge must be filed with the immigration court having administrative control over the Record of Proceeding.
(g)
Fees.
Except as provided in § 1240.11(f) of this chapter, all documents or applications filed with the immigration courts requiring the payment of a fee must be accompanied by a fee receipt from DHS, alternate proof of payment consistent with § 1103.7(a)(3) of this chapter, or a fee waiver request pursuant to § 1103.7(c). Except as provided in § 1003.8, any fee relating to immigration judge proceedings shall be paid to, and accepted by, any DHS office authorized to accept fees for other purposes pursuant to § 1103.7(a).
(h)
Filing deadlines.
The immigration judge may set and extend time limits for the filing of applications and related documents and responses thereto, if any. If an application or document is not filed within the time set by the immigration judge, the opportunity to file that application or document shall be deemed waived.
(i)
Filing under seal.
DHS may file documents under seal by including a cover sheet identifying the contents of
the submission as containing information which is being filed under seal. Documents filed under seal shall only be examined by persons with authorized access to the administrative record.
(j)
Signatures.
All documents filed with the immigration courts that require a signature must have an original, handwritten ink signature, an encrypted digital signature, or an electronic signature. Electronic filings submitted through EOIR's electronic filing application that require the user's signature may have a conformed signature. This paragraph is subject to the requirements of the application or document being submitted.
[86 FR 70722, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1003.32
Service and size of documents.
The service of filings with the immigration courts depends on whether the documents are filed through EOIR's electronic filing application or in paper.
(a)
Service of electronic filings.
If all parties are using EOIR's electronic filing application in a specific case, the parties do not need to serve a document that is filed through EOIR's electronic filing application on the opposing party. If all parties are using EOIR's electronic filing application in a specific case, EOIR's electronic filing application will effectuate service by providing a notification of all electronically filed documents on all parties. Upon successful upload by one of the parties, EOIR will email a notification to the email addresses provided in paragraph (b) of this section. If one or more parties are not filing through EOIR's electronic filing application in a specific case, the parties must follow the service procedures in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Valid email address.
Use of EOIR's electronic filing application requires a valid email address for electronic service. The immigration courts will use the email address provided through eRegistry for electronic service on participating parties. Users must immediately update their eRegistry account if their email address changes. Representatives must additionally file a new Form EOIR-28 with the immigration court if their email address changes. EOIR will consider service completed when the electronic notification is delivered to the last email address on file provided by the user.
(c)
Service of paper filings.
If electronic filing is not being used in a particular case, the party filing with the immigration court must serve a copy of the filing on the opposing party and include a certificate of service showing service on the opposing party with their filing. The immigration judge will not consider any documents or applications that do not contain a certificate of service unless service is made on the record during a hearing.
(d)
Size and format of documents.
Unless otherwise permitted by the immigration judge, all written material presented to immigration judges including offers of evidence, correspondence, briefs, memoranda, or other documents must be submitted on 8
1/2
″ x 11″ size pages, whether filed electronically or in paper. The immigration judge may require that exhibits and other written material presented be indexed, paginated, and that a table of contents be provided.
[86 FR 70723, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1003.33
Translation of documents.
Any foreign language document offered by a party in a proceeding shall be accompanied by an English language translation and a certification signed by the translator that must be printed legibly or typed. Such certification must include a statement that the translator is competent to translate the document, and that the translation is true and accurate to the best of the translator's abilities.
[59 FR 1900, Jan. 13, 1994]
§ 1003.34
Testimony.
Testimony of witnesses appearing at the hearing shall be under oath or affirmation.
[52 FR 2936, Jan. 29, 1987. Redesignated at 57 FR 11571, Apr. 6, 1992]
§ 1003.35
Depositions and subpoenas.
(a)
Depositions.
If an Immigration Judge is satisfied that a witness is not reasonably available at the place of
hearing and that said witness' testimony or other evidence is essential, the Immigration Judge may order the taking of deposition either at his or her own instance or upon application of a party. Such order shall designate the official by whom the deposition shall be taken, may prescribe and limit the content, scope, or manner of taking the deposition, and may direct the production of documentary evidence.
(b)
Subpoenas issued subsequent to commencement of proceedings
—(1)
General.
In any proceeding before an Immigration Judge, other than under 8 CFR part 335, the Immigration Judge shall have exclusive jurisdiction to issue subpoenas requiring the attendance of witnesses or for the production of books, papers and other documentary evidence, or both. An Immigration Judge may issue a subpoena upon his or her own volition or upon application of the Service or the alien.
(2)
Application for subpoena.
A party applying for a subpoena shall be required, as a condition precedent to its issuance, to state in writing or at the proceeding, what he or she expects to prove by such witnesses or documentary evidence, and to show affirmatively that he or she has made diligent effort, without success, to produce the same.
(3)
Issuance of subpoena.
Upon being satisfied that a witness will not appear and testify or produce documentary evidence and that the witness' evidence is essential, the Immigration Judge shall issue a subpoena. The subpoena shall state the title of the proceeding and shall command the person to whom it is directed to attend and to give testimony at a time and place specified. The subpoena may also command the person to whom it is directed to produce the books, papers, or documents specified in the subpoena.
(4)
Appearance of witness.
If the witness is at a distance of more than 100 miles from the place of the proceeding, the subpoena shall provide for the witness' appearance at the Immigration Court nearest to the witness to respond to oral or written interrogatories, unless there is no objection by any party to the witness' appearance at the proceeding.
(5)
Service.
A subpoena issued under this section may be served by any person over 18 years of age not a party to the case.
(6)
Invoking aid of court.
If a witness neglects or refuses to appear and testify as directed by the subpoena served upon him or her in accordance with the provisions of this section, the Immigration Judge issuing the subpoena shall request the United States Attorney for the district in which the subpoena was issued to report such neglect or refusal to the United States District Court and to request such court to issue an order requiring the witness to appear and testify and to produce the books, papers or documents designated in the subpoena.
[62 FR 10335, Mar. 6, 1997]
§ 1003.36
Record of proceeding.
The Immigration Court shall create and control the Record of Proceeding.
[52 FR 2936, Jan. 29, 1987. Redesignated at 57 FR 11571, Apr. 6, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 34089, June 30, 1995]
§ 1003.37
Decisions.
(a) A decision of the immigration judge may be rendered orally or in writing. If the decision is oral, it shall be stated by the immigration judge in the presence of the parties and a memorandum summarizing the oral decision shall be served on the parties. If the decision is in writing, it shall be served on the parties by personal service, mail, or electronic notification.
(b) A written copy of the decision will not be sent to an alien who has failed to provide a written record of an address.
[57 FR 11573, Apr. 6, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 1900, Jan. 13, 1994; 86 FR 70723, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1003.38
Appeals.
(a) Decisions of Immigration Judges may be appealed to the Board of Immigration Appeals as authorized by 8 CFR 3.1(b).
(b) The Notice of Appeal from a Decision of an Immigration Judge (Form EOIR-26) shall be filed directly with the Board of Immigration Appeals
within 30 calendar days after the stating of an immigration judge's oral decision or the mailing or electronic notification of an immigration judge's written decision. If the final date for filing falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, this appeal time shall be extended to the next business day. A Notice of Appeal (Form EOIR-26) may not be filed by any party who has waived appeal.
(c) The date of filing of the Notice of Appeal (Form EOIR-26) shall be the date the Notice is received by the Board.
(d) A Notice of Appeal (Form EOIR-26) must be accompanied by the appropriate fee or by an Appeal Fee Waiver Request (Form EOIR-26A). If the fee is not paid or the Appeal Fee Waiver Request (Form EOIR-26A) is not filed within the specified time period indicated in paragraph (b) of this section, the appeal will not be deemed properly filed and the decision of the Immigration Judge shall be final to the same extent as though no appeal had been taken.
(e) Within five working days of any change of address, an alien must provide written notice of the change of address on Form EOIR-33 to the Board. Where a party is represented, the representative should also provide to the Board written notice of any change in the representative's business mailing address.
(f) Briefs may be filed by both parties pursuant to 8 CFR 3.3(c).
(g) In proceedings before the Board on behalf of a respondent, a practitioner must enter an appearance using Form EOIR-27 or Form EOIR-60.
(1)
Entering an appearance using Form EOIR-27.
In proceedings before the Board, in order to become the practitioner of record, which authorizes and requires the practitioner to appear before the Board on behalf of the respondent, file all documents on behalf of the respondent, and accept service of process of all documents filed in the proceedings, a practitioner must enter an appearance using Form EOIR-27.
(i)
Filing Form EOIR-27.
The practitioner must file a copy of the Form EOIR-27 with the Board and serve a copy on DHS as required by 8 CFR 1003.32. The practitioner must file and serve a Form EOIR-27 even if the practitioner has previously filed a separate Notice of Entry of Appearance with DHS for appearances before DHS or a Form EOIR-28 with the immigration court, or has previously entered a limited appearance using a Form EOIR-60 in connection with document assistance under paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
(ii)
Effect of filing Form EOIR-27.
A practitioner who enters an appearance using Form EOIR-27 is the practitioner of record and must appear before the Board on behalf of the respondent, file all documents on behalf of the respondent, and accept service of process of all documents filed in the proceedings, consistent with 8 CFR 1292.5. Filing a Form EOIR-27 provides the practitioner with access to the record of proceedings during the course of proceedings. A respondent shall be considered represented for the proceedings in which a Form EOIR-27 has been filed.
(iii)
Withdrawal or substitution.
A practitioner who enters an appearance on behalf of a respondent before the Board by filing a Form EOIR-27 remains the practitioner of record unless the Board permits withdrawal or substitution during proceedings only upon written motion submitted without fee.
(2)
Entering a limited appearance for document assistance using Form EOIR-60.
A practitioner who provides assistance to a pro se respondent with the drafting, completion, or filling in of blank spaces of a motion, brief, form, or other specific document or set of documents intended to be filed with the Board, regardless of whether such assistance is considered “practice” or “preparation” as defined in § 1001.1, must disclose such limited assistance to the Board using Form EOIR-60, unless pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) the practitioner has filed a Form EOIR-27 to become the practitioner of record.
(i)
Filing Form EOIR-60.
A Form EOIR-60 must not be filed as a standalone document. The single Form EOIR-60 must be filed with the Board at the same time as the document or set of documents with which the practitioner assisted. Any subsequent filing of a document or set of documents with which a practitioner assisted must be accompanied by a new Form EOIR-60.
(ii)
Effect of Filing Form EOIR-60.
A practitioner who enters a limited appearance using Form EOIR-60 is not the practitioner of record, is not required to appear before the Board, and is not required to submit a motion to withdraw or substitute. The submission of a Form EOIR-60 does not create additional ongoing obligations between the practitioner, the respondent, and EOIR. An appearance through Form EOIR-60 does not provide the practitioner with access to the record of proceedings. A respondent who received assistance pursuant to this paragraph is not represented, remains pro se, and is subject to service of process of all documents filed in the proceedings, consistent with 8 CFR 1292.5.
(3)
Completing an appearance form, proof of qualification, disclosure requirements, and identification.
The practitioner must properly complete and sign any Form EOIR-27 or Form EOIR-60, as required by the form instructions. A practitioner's personal appearance or signature on the Form EOIR-27 or Form EOIR-60 constitutes a representation that the person is authorized and qualified to appear as a practitioner in accordance with 8 CFR 1292.1. Further proof that the practitioner meets the qualifications of a practitioner as defined in 8 CFR 1292.1 may be required. The completion of a Form EOIR-27 or Form EOIR-60 in connection with an application or form that requires disclosure of the preparer does not relieve a practitioner from complying with the particular disclosure requirements of the application or form. Notwithstanding the filing of a Form EOIR-27 or Form EOIR-60, the practitioner must identify themselves by name, accompanied by their signature, on any document filed or intended to be filed with the Board pursuant to an appearance under paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section.
[52 FR 2936, Jan. 29, 1987. Redesignated at 57 FR 11571, Apr. 6, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 34089, June 30, 1995; 61 FR 18908, Apr. 29, 1996; 86 FR 70723, Dec. 13, 2021; 87 FR 56258, Sept. 14, 2022]
§ 1003.39
Finality of decision.
Except when certified to the Board, the decision of the Immigration Judge becomes final upon waiver of appeal or upon expiration of the time to appeal if no appeal is taken whichever occurs first.
[52 FR 2936, Jan. 29, 1987. Redesignated and amended at 57 FR 11571, 11573, Apr. 6, 1992]
§ 1003.40
Local operating procedures.
An Immigration Court having administrative control over Records of Proceedings may establish local operating procedures, provided that:
(a) Such operating procedure(s) shall not be inconsistent with any provision of this chapter;
(b) A majority of the judges of the local Immigration Court shall concur in writing therein; and
(c) The Chief Immigration Judge has approved the proposed operating procedure(s) in writing.
[52 FR 2936, Jan. 29, 1987. Redesignated at 57 FR 11571, Apr. 6, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 34090, June 30, 1995]
§ 1003.41
Evidence of criminal conviction.
In any proceeding before an Immigration Judge,
(a) Any of the following documents or records shall be admissible as evidence in proving a criminal conviction:
(1) A record of judgment and conviction;
(2) A record of plea, verdict and sentence;
(3) A docket entry from court records that indicates the existence of a conviction;
(4) Minutes of a court proceeding or a transcript of a hearing that indicates the existence of a conviction;
(5) An abstract of a record of conviction prepared by the court in which the conviction was entered, or by a state official associated with the state's repository of criminal justice records, that indicates the following: The charge or section of law violated, the disposition of the case, the existence and date of conviction, and the sentence;
(6) Any document or record prepared by, or under the direction of, the court in which the conviction was entered that indicates the existence of a conviction.
(b) Any document or record of the types specified in paragraph (a) of this section may be submitted if it complies
with the requirement of § 287.6(a) of this chapter, or a copy of any such document or record may be submitted if it is attested in writing by an immigration officer to be a true and correct copy of the original.
(c) Any record of conviction or abstract that has been submitted by electronic means to the Service from a state or court shall be admissible as evidence to prove a criminal conviction if it:
(1) Is certified by a state official associated with the state's repository of criminal justice records as an official record from its repository or by a court official from the court in which conviction was entered as an official record from its repository. Such certification may be by means of a computer-generated signature and statement of authenticity; and,
(2) Is certified in writing by a Service official as having been received electronically from the state's record repository or the court's record repository.
(d) Any other evidence that reasonably indicates the existence of a criminal conviction may be admissible as evidence thereof.
[58 FR 38953, July 21, 1993]
§ 1003.42
Review of credible fear determinations.
(a)
Referral.
Jurisdiction for an immigration judge to review a negative credible fear determination by an asylum officer pursuant to section 235(b)(1)(B) of the Act shall commence with the filing by DHS of Form I-863, Notice of Referral to Immigration Judge, and a complete copy of the record of determination as defined in section 235(b)(1)(B)(iii)(II) of the Act with the immigration court.
(b)
Record of proceeding.
The immigration court shall create a Record of Proceeding for a review of a negative fear determination. This record shall not be merged with any later proceeding involving the same noncitizen.
(c)
Procedures and evidence.
The immigration judge may receive into evidence any oral or written statement which is material and relevant to any issue in the review. The testimony of the noncitizen shall be under oath or affirmation administered by the immigration judge. If an interpreter is necessary, one will be provided by the immigration court. The immigration judge shall determine whether the review shall be in person, or through telephonic or video connection (where available). The noncitizen may consult with a person or persons of the noncitizen's choosing prior to the review.
(d)
Standard of review.
The immigration judge shall make a de novo determination as to whether there is a significant possibility, taking into account the credibility of the statements made by the noncitizen in support of the noncitizen's claim, and such other facts as are known to the immigration judge, that the noncitizen could establish eligibility for asylum under section 208 of the Act, or could establish eligibility for withholding of removal under section 241(b)(3)(B) of the Act, or withholding or deferral of removal under the Convention Against Torture with respect to the country or countries of removal identified pursuant to section 241(b) of the Act. This determination shall, where relevant, include review of the asylum officer's application of any bars to asylum and withholding of removal pursuant to 8 CFR 208.30(e)(5).
(e)
Timing.
The immigration judge shall conclude the review to the maximum extent practicable within 24 hours, but in no case later than 7 days after the date the supervisory asylum officer has concurred with the asylum officer's negative credible fear determination issued on the Form I-869, Record of Negative Credible Fear Finding and Request for Review.
(f)
Decision.
(1) The decision of the immigration judge shall be rendered in accordance with the provisions of 8 CFR 1208.30(g)(2). In reviewing the negative fear determination by DHS, the immigration judge shall apply relevant precedent issued by the Board of Immigration Appeals, the Attorney General, the Federal circuit court of appeals having jurisdiction over the immigration court where the Request for Review is filed, and the Supreme Court.
(2) No appeal shall lie from a review of a negative fear determination made by an immigration judge, but the Attorney General, in the Attorney General's sole and unreviewable discretion,
may direct that the immigration judge refer a case for the Attorney General's review following the Immigration Judge's review of a negative fear determination.
(3) In any case the Attorney General decides, the Attorney General's decision shall be stated in writing and shall be transmitted to the Board for transmittal and service as provided in 8 CFR 1003.1(f). Such decision by the Attorney General may be designated as precedent as provided in 8 CFR 1003.1(g).
(g)
Custody.
An immigration judge shall have no authority to review a noncitizen's custody status in the course of a review of a negative fear determination made by DHS.
(h)
Asylum cooperative agreement
—(1)
Applicants for admission, 2002 U.S.-Canada Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022.
An immigration judge has no jurisdiction to review a determination by an asylum officer that an applicant for admission is not eligible to apply for asylum pursuant to the 2002 U.S.-Canada Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022, formed under section 208(a)(2)(A) of the Act and should be returned to Canada to pursue their claims for asylum or other protection under the laws of Canada. See 8 CFR 208.30(e)(6). However, in any case where an asylum officer has found that an applicant for admission qualifies for an exception to that Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022, or that the Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022, does not apply, an immigration judge does have jurisdiction to review a negative credible fear finding made thereafter by the asylum officer as provided in this section.
(2)
Noncitizens in transit.
An immigration judge has no jurisdiction to review any determination by DHS that a noncitizen being removed from Canada in transit through the United States should be returned to Canada to pursue asylum claims under Canadian law, under the terms of the 2002 U.S.-Canada Agreement, which includes the Additional Protocol of 2022.
(3)
Applicants for admission.
An immigration judge has no jurisdiction to review a determination by an asylum officer that a noncitizen is not eligible to apply for asylum pursuant to a bilateral or multilateral agreement with a third country under section 208(a)(2)(A) of the Act and should be removed to the third country to pursue his or her claims for asylum or other protection under the laws of that country.
See
8 CFR 208.30(e)(7). However, if the asylum officer has determined that the noncitizen may not or should not be removed to a third country under section 208(a)(2)(A) of the Act and subsequently makes a negative fear determination, an immigration judge has jurisdiction to review the negative fear finding as provided in this section.
(4)
Noncitizens in transit through the United States from countries other than Canada.
An immigration judge has no jurisdiction to review any determination by DHS that a noncitizen being removed from a receiving country in transit through the United States should be returned to pursue asylum claims under the receiving country's law, under the terms of the applicable cooperative agreement.
See
8 CFR 208.30(e)(7).
(i)
Severability.
The provisions of part 1003 are separate and severable from one another. In the event that any provision in part 1003 is stayed, enjoined, not implemented, or otherwise held invalid, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be implemented as an independent rule and continue in effect.
[62 FR 10335, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 8487, Feb. 19, 1999; 69 FR 69496, Nov. 29, 2004; 83 FR 55952, Nov. 9, 2018; 84 FR 33844, July 16, 2019; 84 FR 64009, Nov. 19, 2019; 85 FR 80393, Dec. 11, 2020; 87 FR 18220, Mar. 29, 2022; 88 FR 18240, Mar. 28, 2023; 88 FR 31451, May 16, 2023; 89 FR 105401, Dec. 27, 2024]
§ 1003.42, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 85 FR 84196, Dec. 23, 2020, § 1003.42 was amended by revising paragraph (d)(1), effective Jan. 22, 2021. The amendment to § 1003.42 was delayed until Mar. 22, 2021, at 86 FR 6847, Jan. 25, 2021, further delayed until Dec. 31, 2021, at 86 FR 15069, Mar. 22, 2021, further delayed until Dec. 31, 2022, at 86 FR 73615, Dec. 28, 2021, further delayed until Dec. 31, 2024, at 87 FR 79789, Dec. 28, 2022, and further delayed until Dec. 31, 2025, at 89 FR 105386, Dec. 27, 2024. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 1003.42
Review of credible fear determination.
(d) * * *
(1) The immigration judge shall make a de novo determination as to whether there is a significant possibility, taking into account the credibility of the statements made by the alien in support of the alien's claim, whether the alien is subject to any mandatory bars to applying for asylum or being eligible for asylum under section 208(a)(2)(B)-(D) and (b)(2) of the Act, including any bars established by regulation under section 208(b)(2)(C) of the Act, and such other facts as are known to the immigration judge, that the alien could establish his or her ability to apply for or be granted asylum under section 208 of the Act. The immigration judge shall make a de novo determination as to whether there is a reasonable possibility, taking into account the credibility of the statements made by the alien in support of the alien's claim, whether the alien is subject to any mandatory bars to eligibility for withholding of removal under section 241(b)(3)(B) of the Act, and such other facts as are known to the immigration judge, that the alien would be persecuted on account of his or her race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion in the country of removal, consistent with the criteria in 8 CFR 1208.16(b). The immigration judge shall also make de novo determinations as to whether there is a reasonable possibility that the alien would be tortured in the country of removal and whether it is more likely than not that the alien would be tortured in the country of removal, in both instances taking into account the credibility of the statements made by the alien in support of the alien's claim and such other facts as are known to the immigration judge, consistent with the criteria in 8 CFR 1208.16(c), 8 CFR 1208.17, and 8 CFR 1208.18.
§ 1003.43
Motions to reopen for suspension of deportation and cancellation of removal pursuant to section 203(c) of NACARA and section 1505(c) of the LIFE Act Amendments.
(a)
Standard for Adjudication.
Except as provided in this section, a motion to reopen proceedings under section 309(g) or (h) of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act (Pub. L. 104-208) (IIRIRA), as amended by section 203(c) of the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act (Pub. L. 105-100) (NACARA) and by section 1505(c) of the Legal Immigration Family Equity Act Amendments (Pub. L. 106-554) (LIFE Act Amendments), respectively, will be adjudicated under applicable statutes and regulations governing motions to reopen.
(b)
Aliens eligible to reopen proceedings under section 203 of NACARA.
A motion to reopen proceedings to apply for suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal under the special rules of section 309(g) of IIRIRA, as amended by section 203(c) of NACARA, must establish that the alien:
(1) Is prima facie eligible for suspension of deportation pursuant to former section 244(a) of the Act (as in effect prior to April 1, 1997) or the special rule for cancellation of removal pursuant to section 309(f) of IIRIRA, as amended by section 203(b) of NACARA;
(2) Was or would be ineligible:
(i) For suspension of deportation by operation of section 309(c)(5) of IIRIRA (as in effect prior to November 19, 1997); or
(ii) For cancellation of removal pursuant to section 240A of the Act, but for operation of section 309(f) of IIRIRA, as amended by section 203(b) of NACARA;
(3) Has not been convicted at any time of an aggravated felony; and
(4) Is within one of the six classes of aliens described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(6) of this section.
(c)
Aliens eligible to reopen proceedings under section 1505(c) of the LIFE Act Amendments.
A motion to reopen proceedings to apply for suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal under the special rules of section 309(h) of IIRIRA, as amended by section 1505(c) of the LIFE Act Amendments, must establish that the alien:
(1) Is prima facie eligible for suspension of deportation pursuant to former section 244(a) of the Act (as in effect prior to April 1, 1997) or cancellation of removal pursuant to section 240A(b) of the Act and section 309(f) of IIRIRA, as amended by section 203(b) of NACARA;
(2) Was or would be ineligible, by operation of section 241(a)(5) of the Act, for suspension of deportation pursuant to former section 244(a) of the Act (as
in effect prior to April 1, 1997) or cancellation of removal pursuant to section 240A(b) of the Act and section 309(f) of IIRIRA, as amended by section 203(b) of NACARA, but for enactment of section 1505(c) of the LIFE Act Amendments;
(3) Has not been convicted at any time of an aggravated felony; and
(4) Is within one of the eight classes of aliens described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(d)
Classes of Eligible Aliens
—(1)
Class 1.
A national of El Salvador who:
(i) First entered the United States on or before September 19, 1990;
(ii) Registered for benefits pursuant to the settlement agreement in
American Baptist Churches, et al.
v.
Thornburgh,
760 F. Supp. 796 (N.D. Cal. 1991) (ABC) on or before October 31, 1991, or applied for Temporary Protected Status (TPS) on or before October 31, 1991; and
(iii) Was not apprehended after December 19, 1990, at time of entry.
(2)
Class 2.
A national of Guatemala who:
(i) First entered the United States on or before October 1, 1990;
(ii) Registered for ABC benefits on or before December 31, 1991; and
(iii) Was not apprehended after December 19, 1990, at time of entry.
(3)
Class 3.
A national of Guatemala or El Salvador who applied for asylum with the Service on or before April 1, 1990.
(4)
Class 4.
An alien who:
(i) Entered the United States on or before December 31, 1990;
(ii) Applied for asylum on or before December 31, 1991; and
(iii) At the time of filing such application for asylum was a national of the Soviet Union, Russia, any republic of the former Soviet Union, Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Hungary, Bulgaria, Albania, East Germany, Yugoslavia, or any state of the former Yugoslavia.
(5)
Class 5.
The spouse or child of a person who is described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(4) of this section and such person is prima facie eligible for and has applied for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal under section 203 of NACARA.
(6)
Class 6.
An unmarried son or daughter of a person who is described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(4) of this section and such person is prima facie eligible for and has applied for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal under section 203 of NACARA. If the son or daughter is 21 years of age or older, the son or daughter must have entered the United States on or before October 1, 1990.
(7)
Class 7.
An alien who was issued an Order to Show Cause or was in deportation proceedings before April 1, 1997, and who applied for suspension of deportation as a battered alien under former section 244(a)(3) of the Act (as in effect before September 30, 1996).
(8)
Class 8.
An alien:
(i) Who is or was the spouse or child of a person described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(4) of this section:
(A) At the time a decision is rendered to suspend deportation or cancel removal of that person;
(B) At the time that person filed an application for suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal; or
(C) At the time that person registered for ABC benefits, applied for TPS, or applied for asylum; and
(ii) Who has been battered or subjected to extreme cruelty (or the spouse described in paragraph (d)(8)(i) of this section has a child who has been battered or subjected to extreme cruelty) by the person described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(4) of this section.
(e)
Motion to reopen under section 203 of NACARA.
(1) An alien filing a motion to reopen proceedings pursuant to section 309(g) of IIRIRA, as amended by section 203(c) of NACARA, may initially file a motion to reopen without an application for suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal and supporting documents, but the motion must be filed no later than September 11, 1998. An alien may file only one motion to reopen pursuant to section 309(g) of IIRIRA. In such motion to reopen, the alien must address each of the four requirements for eligibility described in paragraph (b) of this section and establish that the alien satisfies each requirement.
(2) A motion to reopen filed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be considered complete at the time of submission of an application for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal and accompanying documents. Such application must be submitted no later than November 18, 1999. Aliens described in paragraphs (d)(5) or (d)(6) of this section must include, as part of their submission, proof that their parent or spouse is prima facie eligible and has applied for relief under section 203 of NACARA.
(3) The Service shall have 45 days from the date the alien serves the Immigration Court with either the Form EOIR-40 or the Form I-881 application for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal to respond to that completed motion. If the alien fails to submit the required application on or before November 18, 1999, the motion will be denied as abandoned.
(f)
Motion to reopen under section 1505(c) of the LIFE Act Amendments.
(1) An alien filing a motion to reopen proceedings pursuant to section 309(h) of IIRIRA, as amended by section 1505(c) of the LIFE Act Amendments, must file a motion to reopen with an application for suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal and supporting documents, on or before October 16, 2001. An alien may file only one motion to reopen proceedings pursuant to section 309(h) of IIRIRA. In such motion to reopen, the alien must address each of the four requirements for eligibility described in paragraph (c) of this section and establish that the alien satisfies each requirement.
(2) A motion to reopen and the accompanying application and supporting documents filed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section must be submitted on or before October 16, 2001. Aliens described in paragraphs (d)(5) and (d)(6) of this section must include, as part of their submission, proof that their parent or spouse is prima facie eligible and has applied for relief under section 203 of NACARA.
(3) The Service shall have 45 days from the date the alien serves the Immigration Court to respond to that motion to reopen.
(g)
Fee for motion to reopen waived.
No filing fee is required for a motion to reopen to apply for suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal under the special rules of section 309(g) or (h) of IIRIRA, as amended by section 203(c) of NACARA and by section 1505(c) of the LIFE Act Amendments, respectively.
(h)
Jurisdiction over motions to reopen under section 203 of NACARA and remand of appeals.
(1) Notwithstanding any other provisions, any motion to reopen filed pursuant to the special rules of section 309(g) of IIRIRA, as amended by section 203(c) of NACARA, shall be filed with the Immigration Court, even if the Board of Immigration Appeals (Board) issued an order in the case. The Immigration Court that last had jurisdiction over the proceedings will adjudicate the motion.
(2) The Board will remand to the Immigration Court any presently pending appeal in which the alien appears eligible to apply for suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal under the special rules of section 309(g) of IIRIRA, as amended by section 203 of NACARA, and appears prima facie eligible for that relief. The alien will then have the opportunity to apply for suspension or cancellation under the special rules of NACARA before the Immigration Court.
(i)
Jurisdiction over motions to reopen under section 1505(c) of the LIFE Act Amendments and remand of appeals.
(1) Notwithstanding any other provisions, any motion to reopen filed pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section to apply for suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal under section 1505(c) of the LIFE Act Amendments shall be filed with the Immigration Court or the Board, whichever last held jurisdiction over the case. Only an alien with a reinstated final order, or an alien with a newly issued final order that was issued based on the alien having reentered the United States illegally after having been removed or having departed voluntarily under a prior order of removal that was subject to reinstatement under section 241(a)(5) of the Act, may file a motion to reopen with the Immigration Court or the Board pursuant to this section. An alien whose final order has not been reinstated and as to whom a newly issued final order, as described in this section,
has not been issued may apply for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal before the Service pursuant to section 309(h)(1) of IIRIRA, as amended by section 1505(c) of the LIFE Act Amendments, according to the jurisdictional provisions for applications before the Service set forth in 8 CFR 240.62(a) or before the Immigration Court as set forth in 8 CFR 240.62(b).
(2) If the Immigration Court has jurisdiction and grants only the motion to reopen filed pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section, the scope of the reopened proceeding shall be limited to a determination of the alien's eligibility for suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal pursuant to section 309(h)(1) of IIRIRA, as amended by section 1505(c) of the LIFE Act Amendments.
(3) If the Board has jurisdiction and grants only the motion to reopen filed pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section, it shall remand the case to the Immigration Court solely for adjudication of the application for suspension of deportation or cancellation of removal pursuant to section 309(h)(1) of IIRIRA, as amended by section 1505(c) of the LIFE Act Amendments.
(4) Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to preclude or restrict the applicability of any other exceptions regarding motions to reopen that are provided for in 8 CFR 3.2(c)(3) and 3.23(b).
[66 FR 37123, July 17, 2001]
§ 1003.44
Special motion to seek section 212(c) relief for aliens who pleaded guilty or
nolo contendere
to certain crimes before April 1, 1997.
(a)
Standard for adjudication.
This section applies to certain aliens who formerly were lawful permanent residents, who are subject to an administratively final order of deportation or removal, and who are eligible to apply for relief under former section 212(c) of the Act and 8 CFR 1212.3 with respect to convictions obtained by plea agreements reached prior to a verdict at trial prior to April 1, 1997. A special motion to seek relief under section 212(c) of the Act will be adjudicated under the standards of this section and 8 CFR 1212.3. This section is not applicable with respect to any conviction entered after trial.
(b)
General eligibility.
The alien has the burden of establishing eligibility for relief, including the date on which the alien and the prosecution agreed on the plea of guilt or
nolo contendere.
Generally, a special motion under this section to seek section 212(c) relief must establish that the alien:
(1) Was a lawful permanent resident and is now subject to a final order of deportation or removal;
(2) Agreed to plead guilty or
nolo contendere
to an offense rendering the alien deportable or removable, pursuant to a plea agreement made before April 1, 1997;
(3) Had seven consecutive years of lawful unrelinquished domicile in the United States prior to the date of the final administrative order of deportation or removal; and
(4) Is otherwise eligible to apply for section 212(c) relief under the standards that were in effect at the time the alien's plea was made, regardless of when the plea was entered by the court.
(c)
Aggravated felony definition.
For purposes of eligibility to apply for section 212(c) relief under this section and 8 CFR 1212.3, the definition of aggravated felony in section 101(a)(43) of the Act is that in effect at the time the special motion or the application for section 212(c) relief is adjudicated under this section. An alien shall be deemed to be ineligible for section 212(c) relief if he or she has been charged and found deportable or removable on the basis of a crime that is an aggravated felony, except as provided in 8 CFR 1212.3(f)(4).
(d)
Effect of prior denial of section 212(c) relief.
A motion under this section will not be granted with respect to any conviction where an alien has previously been denied section 212(c) relief by an immigration judge or by the Board on discretionary grounds.
(e)
Scope of proceedings.
Proceedings shall be reopened under this section solely for the purpose of adjudicating the application for section 212(c) relief, but if the immigration judge or the Board grants a motion by the alien to reopen the proceedings on other applicable grounds under 8 CFR 1003.2 or
1003.23 of this chapter, all issues encompassed within the reopened proceedings may be considered together, as appropriate.
(f)
Procedure for filing a special motion to seek section 212(c) relief.
An eligible alien shall file a special motion to seek section 212(c) relief with the immigration judge or the Board, whichever last held jurisdiction over the case. An eligible alien must submit a copy of the Form I-191 application, and supporting documents, with the special motion. The motion must contain the notation “special motion to seek section 212(c) relief.” The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) shall have 45 days from the date of filing of the special motion to respond. In the event the DHS does not respond to the motion, the DHS retains the right in the proceedings to contest any and all issues raised.
(g)
Relationship to motions to reopen or reconsider on other grounds
—(1)
Other pending motions to reopen or reconsider.
An alien who has previously filed a motion to reopen or reconsider that is still pending before an immigration judge or the Board, other than a motion for section 212(c) relief, must file a separate special motion to seek section 212(c) relief pursuant to this section. The new motion shall specify any other motions currently pending before an immigration judge or the Board. An alien who has previously filed a motion to reopen under 8 CFR 1003.2 or 1003.23 based on
INS
v.
St. Cyr
is not required to file a new special motion under this section, but he or she may supplement the previous motion if it is still pending. Any motion for section 212(c) relief described in this section pending before the Board or an immigration judge on the effective date of this rule that would be barred by the time or number limitations on motions shall be deemed to be a motion filed pursuant to this section, and shall not count against the number restrictions for other motions to reopen.
(2)
Motions previously filed pursuant to prior provision.
If an alien previously filed a motion to apply for section 212(c) relief with an immigration judge or the Board pursuant to the prior provisions of this section, as in effect before October 28, 2004, and the motion is still pending, the motion will be adjudicated pursuant to the standards of this section, both as revised and as previously in effect, and the alien does not need to file a new special motion pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section. However, if a motion filed under the prior provisions of this section was denied because the alien did not satisfy the requirements contained therein, the alien must file a new special motion pursuant to this section, if eligible, in order to apply for section 212(c) relief based on the requirements established in this section.
(3)
Effect of a prior denial of a motion to reopen or motion to reconsider filed after the St. Cyr decision.
A motion under this section will not be granted where an alien has previously submitted a motion to reopen or motion to reconsider based on the
St. Cyr
decision and that motion was denied by an immigration judge or the Board (except on account of time or number limitations for such motions).
(4)
Limitations for motions.
The filing of a special motion under this section has no effect on the time and number limitations for motions to reopen or reconsider that may be filed on grounds unrelated to section 212(c).
(h)
Deadline to file a special motion to seek section 212(c) relief under this section.
An alien subject to a final administrative order of deportation or removal must file a special motion to seek section 212(c) relief on or before April 26, 2005. An eligible alien may file one special motion to seek section 212(c) relief under this section.
(i)
Fees.
No filing fee is required at the time the alien files a special motion to seek section 212(c) relief under this section. However, if the special motion is granted, and the alien has not previously filed an application for section 212(c) relief, the alien will be required to submit the appropriate fee receipt at the time the alien files the Form I-191 with the immigration court.
(j)
Remands of appeals.
If the Board has jurisdiction and grants the motion to apply for section 212(c) relief pursuant to this section, it shall remand the case to the immigration judge solely for adjudication of the section 212(c) application.
(k)
Limitations on eligibility under this section.
This section does not apply to:
(1) Aliens who have departed the United States and are currently outside the United States;
(2) Aliens issued a final order of deportation or removal who then illegally returned to the United States; or
(3) Aliens who have not been admitted or paroled.
[69 FR 57833, Sept. 28, 2004]
§ 1003.46
Protective orders, sealed submissions in Immigration Courts.
(a)
Authority.
In any immigration or bond proceeding, Immigration Judges may, upon a showing by the Service of a substantial likelihood that specific information submitted under seal or to be submitted under seal will, if disclosed, harm the national security (as defined in section 219(c)(2) of the Act) or law enforcement interests of the United States, issue a protective order barring disclosure of such information.
(b)
Motion by the service.
The Service may at any time after filing a Notice to Appear, or other charging document, file with the Immigration Judge, and serve upon the respondent, a motion for an order to protect specific information it intends to submit or is submitting under seal. The motion shall describe, to the extent practical, the information that the Service seeks to protect from disclosure. The motion shall specify the relief requested in the protective order. The respondent may file a response to the motion within ten days after the motion is served.
(c)
Sealed annex to motion.
In the Service's discretion, the Service may file the specific information as a sealed annex to the motion, which shall not be served upon the respondent. If the Service files a sealed annex, or the Immigration Judge, in his or her discretion, instructs that the information be filed as a sealed annex in order to determine whether to grant or deny the motion, the Immigration Judge shall consider the information only for the purpose of determining whether to grant or deny the motion.
(d)
Due deference.
The Immigration Judge shall give appropriate deference to the expertise of senior officials in law enforcement and national security agencies in any averments in any submitted affidavit in determining whether the disclosure of information will harm the national security or law enforcement interests of the United States.
(e)
Denied motions.
If the motion is denied, any sealed annex shall be returned to the Service, and the Immigration Judge shall give no weight to such information. The Service may immediately appeal denial of the motion to the Board, which shall have jurisdiction to hear the appeal, by filing a Notice of Appeal and the sealed annex with the Board. The Immigration Judge shall hold any further proceedings in abeyance pending resolution of the appeal by the Board.
(f)
Granted motions.
If the motion is granted, the Immigration Judge shall issue an appropriate protective order.
(1) The Immigration Judge shall ensure that the protective order encompasses such witnesses as the respondent demonstrates are reasonably necessary to the presentation of his case. If necessary, the Immigration Judge may impose the requirements of the protective order on any witness before the Immigration Judge to whom such information may be disclosed.
(2) The protective order may require that the respondent, and his or her attorney or accredited representative, if any:
(i) Not divulge any of the information submitted under the protective order, or any information derived therefrom, to any person or entity, other than authorized personnel of the Executive Office for Immigration Review, the Service, or such other persons approved by the Service or the Immigration Judge;
(ii) When transmitting any information under a protective order, or any information derived therefrom, to the Executive Office for Immigration Review or the Service, include a cover sheet identifying the contents of the submission as containing information subject to a protective order under this section;
(iii) Store any information under a protective order, or any information derived therefrom, in a reasonably secure manner, and return all copies of such information to the Service upon
completion of proceedings, including judicial review; and
(iv) Such other requirements as the Immigration Judge finds necessary to protect the information from disclosure.
(3) Upon issuance of such protective order, the Service shall serve the respondent with the protective order and the sealed information. A protective order issued under this section shall remain in effect until vacated by the Immigration Judge.
(4) Further review of the protective order before the Board shall only be had pursuant to review of an order of the Immigration Judge resolving all issues of removability and any applications for relief pending in the matter pursuant to 8 CFR 3.1(b). Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Immigration Judge shall retain jurisdiction to modify or vacate a protective order upon motion of the Service or the respondent. An Immigration Judge may not grant a motion by the respondent to modify or vacate a protective order until either: the Service files a response to such motion or 10 days after service of such motion on the Service.
(g)
Admissibility as evidence.
The issuance of a protective order shall not prejudice the respondent's right to challenge the admissibility of the information subject to a protective order. The Immigration Judge may not find the information inadmissible solely because it is subject to a protective order.
(h)
Seal.
Any submission to the Immigration Judge, including any briefs, referring to information subject to a protective order shall be filed under seal. Any information submitted subject to a protective order under this paragraph shall remain under seal as part of the administrative record.
(i)
Administrative enforcement.
If the Service establishes that a respondent, or the respondent's attorney or accredited representative, has disclosed information subject to a protective order, the Immigration Judge shall deny all forms of discretionary relief, except bond, unless the respondent fully cooperates with the Service or other law enforcement agencies in any investigation relating to the noncompliance with the protective order and disclosure of the information; and establishes by clear and convincing evidence either that extraordinary and extremely unusual circumstances exist or that failure to comply with the protective order was beyond the control of the respondent and his or her attorney or accredited representative. Failure to comply with a protective order may also result in the suspension of an attorney's or an accredited representative's privilege of appearing before the Executive Office for Immigration Review or before the Service pursuant to 8 CFR part 3, subpart G.
[67 FR 36802, May 28, 2002]
§ 1003.47
Identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations relating to applications for immigration relief, protection, or restriction on removal.
(a)
In general.
The procedures of this section are applicable to any application for immigration relief, protection, or restriction on removal that is subject to the conduct of identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations as described in paragraph (b) of this section, in order to ensure that DHS has completed the appropriate identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations before the adjudication of the application.
(b)
Covered applications.
The requirements of this section apply to the granting of any form of immigration relief in immigration proceedings which permits the alien to reside in the United States, including but not limited to the following forms of relief, protection, or restriction on removal to the extent they are within the authority of an immigration judge or the Board to grant:
(1) Asylum under section 208 of the Act.
(2) Adjustment of status to that of a lawful permanent resident under sections 209 or 245 of the Act, or any other provision of law.
(3) Waiver of inadmissibility or deportability under sections 209(c), 212, or 237 of the Act, or any provision of law.
(4) Permanent resident status on a conditional basis or removal of the
conditional basis of permanent resident status under sections 216 or 216A of the Act, or any other provision of law.
(5) Cancellation of removal or suspension of deportation under section 240A or former section 244 of the Act, or any other provision of law.
(6) Relief from removal under former section 212(c) of the Act.
(7) Withholding of removal under section 241(b)(3) of the Act or under the Convention Against Torture.
(8) Registry under section 249 of the Act.
(9) Conditional grants relating to the above, such as for applications seeking asylum pursuant to section 207(a)(5) of the Act or cancellation of removal in light of section 240A(e) of the Act.
(c)
Completion of applications for immigration relief, protection, or restriction on removal.
Failure to file necessary documentation and comply with the requirements to provide biometrics and other biographical information in conformity with the applicable regulations, the instructions to the applications, the biometrics notice, and instructions provided by DHS, within the time allowed by the immigration judge's order, constitutes abandonment of the application and the immigration judge may enter an appropriate order dismissing the application unless the applicant demonstrates that such failure was the result of good cause. Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the provisions in 8 CFR 1208.4 regarding the timely filing of asylum applications or the determination of a respondent's compliance with any other deadline for initial filing of an application, including the consequences of filing under the Child Status Protection Act.
(d)
Biometrics and other biographical information.
At any hearing at which a respondent expresses an intention to file or files an application for relief for which identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations are required under this section, unless DHS advises the immigration judge that such information is unnecessary in the particular case, DHS shall notify the respondent of the need to provide biometrics and other biographical information and shall provide a biometrics notice and instructions to the respondent for such procedures. The immigration judge shall specify for the record when the respondent receives the biometrics notice and instructions and the consequences for failing to comply with the requirements of this section. Whenever required by DHS, the applicant shall make arrangements with an office of DHS to provide biometrics and other biographical information (including for any other person covered by the same application who is required to provide biometrics and other biographical information) before or as soon as practicable after the filing of the application for relief in the immigration proceedings. Failure to provide biometrics or other biographical information of the applicant or any other covered individual within the time allowed will constitute abandonment of the application or of the other covered individual's participation unless the applicant demonstrates that such failure was the result of good cause. DHS is responsible for obtaining biometrics and other biographical information with respect to any alien in detention.
(e)
Conduct of investigations or examinations.
DHS shall endeavor to initiate all relevant identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations concerning the alien or beneficiaries promptly, to complete those investigations or examinations as promptly as is practicable (considering, among other things, increased demands placed upon such investigations), and to advise the immigration judge of the results in a timely manner, on or before the date of a scheduled hearing on any application for immigration relief filed in the proceedings. The immigration judges, in scheduling hearings, shall allow a period of time for DHS to undertake the necessary identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations prior to the date that an application is scheduled for hearing and disposition, with a view to minimizing the number of cases in which hearings must be continued.
(f)
Continuance for completion of investigations or examinations.
If DHS has not reported on the completion and results
of all relevant identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations for an applicant and his or her beneficiaries by the date that the application is scheduled for hearing and disposition, after the time allowed by the immigration judge pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, the immigration judge may continue proceedings for the purpose of completing the investigations or examinations, or hear the case on the merits. DHS shall attempt to give reasonable notice to the immigration judge of the fact that all relevant identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations have not been completed and the amount of time DHS anticipates is required to complete those investigations or examinations.
(g)
Adjudication after completion of investigations or examinations.
In no case shall an immigration judge grant an application for immigration relief that is subject to the conduct of identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations under this section until after DHS has reported to the immigration judge that the appropriate investigations or examinations have been completed and are current as provided in this section and DHS has reported any relevant information from the investigations or examinations to the immigration judge.
(h)
Adjudication upon remand from the Board.
In any case remanded pursuant to 8 CFR 1003.1(d)(6), the immigration judge shall consider the results of the identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations subject to the provisions of this section. If new information is presented, the immigration judge may hold a further hearing if necessary to consider any legal or factual issues, including issues relating to credibility, if relevant. The immigration judge shall then enter an order granting or denying the immigration relief sought.
(i)
Procedures when immigration relief granted.
At the time that the immigration judge or the Board grants any relief under this section that would entitle the respondent to a new document evidencing such relief, the decision granting such relief shall include advice that the respondent will need to contact an appropriate office of DHS. Information concerning DHS locations and local procedures for document preparation shall be routinely provided to EOIR and updated by DHS. Upon respondent's presentation of a final order from the immigration judge or the Board granting such relief and submission of any biometric and other information necessary, DHS shall prepare such documents in keeping with section 264 of the Act and regulations thereunder and other relevant law.
(j)
Voluntary departure.
The procedures of this section do not apply to the granting of voluntary departure prior to the conclusion of proceedings pursuant to 8 CFR 1240.26(b) or at the conclusion of proceedings pursuant to 8 CFR 1240.26(c). If DHS seeks a continuance in order to complete pending identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations, the immigration judge may grant additional time in the exercise of discretion, and the 30-day period for the immigration judge to grant voluntary departure, as provided in § 1240.26(b)(1)(ii), shall be extended accordingly.
(k)
Custody hearings.
The foregoing provisions of this section do not apply to proceedings seeking the redetermination of conditions of custody of an alien during the pendency of immigration proceedings under section 236 of the Act. In scheduling an initial custody redetermination hearing, the immigration judge shall, to the extent practicable consistent with the expedited nature of such cases, take account of the brief initial period of time needed for DHS to conduct the automated portions of its identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations with respect to aliens detained in connection with immigration proceedings. If at the time of the custody hearing DHS seeks a brief continuance in an appropriate case based on unresolved identity, law enforcement, or security investigations or examinations, the immigration judge in the exercise of discretion may grant one or more continuances for a limited period of time which is reasonable under the circumstances.
[70 FR 4753, Jan. 31, 2005]

# Subpart D—Special Provisions

# Source:
89 FR 46794, May 29, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1003.55
Treatment of post-conviction orders.
(a)
Applicability of Matter of Thomas
Thompson, 27 I
N Dec. 674 (A.G. 2019).
(1)
Matter of Thomas
Thompson
shall not apply to a criminal sentence:
(i) Where a court at any time granted a request to modify, clarify, vacate, or otherwise alter the sentence and the request was filed on or before October 25, 2019; or
(ii) Where the noncitizen demonstrates that the noncitizen reasonably and detrimentally relied on the availability of an order modifying, clarifying, vacating, or otherwise altering the sentence entered in connection with a guilty plea, conviction, or sentence on or before October 25, 2019.
(2) Where paragraph (a)(1) of this section applies, the adjudicator shall assess the relevant order under
Matter of Cota-Vargas,
23 I
N Dec. 849 (BIA 2005),
Matter of Song,
23 I
N Dec. 173 (BIA 2001), and
Matter of Estrada,
26 I
N Dec. 749 (BIA 2016), as applicable.
(b)
Post-conviction orders correcting errors.
Adjudicators shall give effect to an order that corrects a genuine ambiguity, mistake, or typographical error on the face of the original conviction or sentencing order and that was entered to give effect to the intent of the original order.

# Subpart E—List of Pro Bono Legal Service Providers

# Source:
62 FR 9073, Feb. 28, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1003.61
General provisions.
(a)
Definitions
—(1)
Director.
Director means the Director of the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR), pursuant to 8 CFR 1001.1(o), and shall also include any office or official within EOIR to whom the Director delegates authority with respect to subpart E of this part.
(2)
Pro bono legal services.
Pro bono legal services are those uncompensated legal services performed for indigent individuals or the public good without any expectation of either direct or indirect remuneration, including referral fees (other than filing fees or photocopying and mailing expenses), although a representative may be regularly compensated by the firm, organization, or pro bono referral service with which he or she is associated.
(3)
Organization.
A non-profit religious, charitable, social service, or similar group established in the United States.
(4)
Pro bono referral service.
A referral service, offered by a non-profit group, association, or similar organization established in the United States that assists persons in locating pro bono representation by making case referrals to attorneys or organizations that are available to provide pro bono representation.
(5)
Provider.
Any organization, pro bono referral service, or attorney whose name is included on the List of Pro Bono Legal Service Providers.
(b)
Authority.
The Director shall maintain a list, known as the List of Pro Bono Legal Service Providers (List), of organizations, pro bono referral services, and attorneys qualified under this subpart to provide pro bono legal services in immigration proceedings. The List, which shall be updated not less than quarterly, shall be provided to individuals in removal and other proceedings before an immigration court.
(c)
Qualification.
An organization, pro bono referral service, or attorney qualifies to be included on the List if the eligibility requirements under § 1003.62 and the application procedures under § 1003.63 are met.
(d)
Organizations.
Approval of an organization's application to be included on the List under this subpart is not equivalent to recognition under part 1292 of this chapter. Recognition under part 1292 of this chapter does not constitute a successful application for purposes of the List.
[80 FR 59510, Oct. 1, 2015]
§ 1003.62
Eligibility.
(a)
Organizations recognized under part 1292.
An organization that is recognized under part 1292 of this chapter is eligible to apply to have its name included
on the List if the organization meets the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The organization will provide a minimum of 50 hours per year of pro bono legal services to individuals at each immigration court location where the organization intends to be included on the List, in cases where an attorney or representative of the organization, or an attorney or representative to whom the organization has referred the case for pro bono representation, files a Form EOIR-28 Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Representative before the Immigration Court (EOIR-28 Notice of Entry of Appearance). When an attorney or representative of the organization represents the individual pro bono before the immigration court location, the organization may count, toward the 50-hour requirement, the attorney's or representative's out-of-court preparation time and in-court time. When the organization refers the case for pro bono legal services outside the organization, the organization may count, toward the 50-hour requirement, time the organization's attorneys and representatives spent providing pro bono legal services, for example conducting an intake interview or mentoring the attorney or representative to whom the case is referred. However, the organization is not permitted to count the time of the attorney or representative to whom the case was referred.
(2) The organization has on its staff at least one attorney, as defined in § 1292.1(a)(1) of this chapter, or at least one representative accredited under part 1292 of this chapter, to practice before the immigration courts and the Board of Immigration Appeals.
(3) No attorney or representative who will provide pro bono legal services on the organization's behalf in cases pending before EOIR is the subject of an order of disbarment under § 1003.101(a)(1) or suspension under § 1003.101(a)(2).
(b)
Organizations not recognized under part 1292.
An organization that is not recognized under part 1292 of this chapter is eligible to apply to have its name included on the List if the organization meets the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The organization will provide a minimum of 50 hours per year of pro bono legal services to individuals at each immigration court location where the organization intends to be included on the List, in cases where an attorney or representative of the organization, or an attorney or representative to whom the organization has referred the case for pro bono representation, files a Form EOIR-28 Notice of Entry of Appearance. When an attorney or representative of the organization represents the individual pro bono before the immigration court location, the organization may count, toward the 50-hour requirement, the attorney's or representative's out-of-court preparation time and in-court time. When the organization refers the case for pro bono legal services outside the organization, the organization may count, toward the 50-hour requirement, time the organization's attorneys or representatives spent providing pro bono legal services, for example conducting an intake interview or mentoring the attorney or representative to whom the case is referred. However, the organization is not permitted to count the time of the attorney or representative to whom the case was referred.
(2) The organization has on its staff at least one attorney, as defined in § 1292.1(a)(1) of this chapter.
(3) No attorney or representative who will provide pro bono legal services on the organization's behalf in cases pending before EOIR is the subject of an order of disbarment under § 1003.101(a)(1) or suspension under § 1003.101(a)(2).
(c)
Pro bono referral services.
A referral service is eligible to apply to have its name included on the List at each immigration court location where the referral service either refers or plans to refer cases to attorneys or organizations that will provide pro bono legal services to individuals in proceedings before an immigration judge.
(d)
Attorneys.
An attorney, as defined in § 1292.1(a)(1) of this chapter, is eligible to apply to have his or her name included on the List if the attorney meets the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The attorney is not the subject of an order of disbarment under
§ 1003.101(a)(1) or suspension under § 1003.101(a)(2);
(2) The attorney will provide a minimum of 50 hours per year of pro bono legal services to individuals at each immigration court location where the attorney intends to be included on the List, in cases where he or she files a Form EOIR-28 Notice of Entry of Appearance. The attorney may count, toward the requirement, both out-of-court preparation time and in-court time.
(3) The attorney cannot provide pro bono legal services through or in association with an organization or pro bono referral service described in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section because:
(i) Such an organization or referral service is unavailable; or
(ii) The range of services provided by an available organization(s) or referral service(s) is insufficient to address the needs of the community.
[80 FR 59510, Oct. 1, 2015]
§ 1003.63
Applications.
(a)
Generally.
To be included on the List, any organization, pro bono referral service, or attorney that is eligible under § 1003.62 to apply to be included on the List must file an application with the Director. Applications must be received by the Director at least 60 days in advance of the quarterly update in order to be considered. The application must:
(1) Establish by clear and convincing evidence that the applicant qualifies to be on the List pursuant to § 1003.61(c);
(2) Specify how the organization, pro bono referral service, or attorney wants its name and contact information to be set forth on the List; and
(3) Identify each immigration court location where the organization, pro bono referral service, or attorney provides, or plans to provide, pro bono legal services.
(b)
Organizations.
An organization, whether recognized or not under part 1292, must submit with its application a declaration signed by an authorized officer of the organization that states under penalty of perjury:
(1) That it will provide annually at least 50 hours of pro bono legal services to individuals in removal or other proceedings before each immigration court location identified in its application;
(2) That every attorney and accredited representative who will represent clients pro bono before EOIR on behalf of the organization is registered to practice before EOIR under § 1292.1(f);
(3) That no attorney or representative who will provide pro bono legal services on behalf of the organization in cases pending before EOIR:
(i) Is under any order suspending, enjoining, restraining, disbarring, or otherwise restricting him or her in the practice of law; or
(ii) Is the subject of an order of disbarment under § 1003.101(a)(1) or suspension under § 1003.101(a)(2); and
(4) Any specific limitations it has in providing pro bono legal services (e.g., not available to assist detained individuals or those with criminal convictions, or available for asylum cases only).
(c)
Pro bono referral services.
A pro bono referral service must submit with its application a declaration signed by an authorized officer of the referral service that states under penalty of perjury:
(1) That it will offer its referral services to individuals in removal or other proceedings before each immigration court location identified in its application; and
(2) Any specific limitations it has in providing its pro bono referral services (e.g., not available to assist detained individuals or those with criminal convictions, or available only for asylum cases).
(d)
Attorneys.
An attorney must submit with his or her application a declaration that states under penalty of perjury:
(1) That he or she will provide annually at least 50 hours of pro bono legal services to individuals in removal or other proceedings before each immigration court location identified in his or her application;
(2) Any specific limitations the attorney has in providing pro bono legal services (e.g., not available to assist detained individuals or those with criminal convictions, or available for asylum cases only);
(3) A description of the good-faith efforts he or she made to provide pro bono legal services through an organization or pro bono referral service described in § 1003.62(a), (b), or (c) to individuals appearing before each immigration court location listed in the application;
(4) An explanation that any such organization or referral service is unavailable or that the range of services provided by available organization(s) or referral service(s) is insufficient to address the needs of the community;
(5) His or her EOIR registration number;
(6) That he or she is not under any order suspending, enjoining, restraining, disbarring, or otherwise restricting him or her in the practice of law; and
(7) That he or she is not the subject of an order of disbarment under § 1003.101(a)(1) or suspension under § 1003.101(a)(2).
(e)
Applications approved before
November 30, 2015. Providers whose applications to be included on the List were approved before November 30, 2015 must file an application under this section as follows: Organizations and pro bono referral services, within one year of November 30, 2015; attorneys, within six months of November 30, 2015. The names of providers who do not file an application as required by this paragraph shall be removed from the List following expiration of the application time period, the removal of which will be reflected no later than in the next quarterly update.
(f)
Notice and comments
—(1)
Public notice and comment.
The names of the applicants, whether organizations, pro bono referral services, or individuals, meeting the regulatory requirements to be included on the List shall be publicly posted for 15 days after review of the applications by the Director, and upon request a copy of each application shall be made available for public review. Any individual may forward to the Director comments or a recommendation for approval or disapproval of an application within 30 days from the first date the name of the applicant is publicly posted. The commenting party shall include his or her name and address. A comment or recommendation may be sent to the Director electronically, in which case the Director shall transmit the comment or recommendation to the applicant. A comment or recommendation not sent to the Director electronically must include proof of service on the applicant.
(2)
Response.
The applicant has 15 days to respond from the date the applicant was served with, or notified by the Director of, the comment. All responses must be filed with the Director and include proof of service of a copy of such response on the commenting party.
[80 FR 59511, Oct. 1, 2015, as amended at 86 FR 70723, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1003.64
Approval and denial of applications.
(a)
Authority.
The Director in his discretion shall have the authority to approve or deny an application to be included on the List of Pro Bono Legal Service Providers. The Director may request additional information from the applicant to determine whether the applicant qualifies to be included on the List.
(b)
Decision.
The applicant shall be notified of the decision in writing. The written notice shall be served at the address provided on the application unless the applicant subsequently provides a change of address pursuant to § 1003.66, or shall be transmitted to the applicant electronically.
(1)
Denials.
If the application is denied, the applicant shall be given a written explanation of the grounds for such denial, and the decision shall be final. Such denial shall be without prejudice to file another application at any time after the next quarterly publication of the List.
(2)
Approval and continuing qualification.
If the application is approved, the applicant's name will be included on the List at the next quarterly update. Every three years from the date of approval, a provider must file with the Director a declaration, under penalty of perjury, stating that the provider remains qualified to be included on the List under § 1003.62(a), (b), (c), or (d). For organizations and attorneys, the declaration must include alien registration numbers of clients in whose
cases the provider rendered pro bono legal services under § 1003.62(a)(1), (b)(1), or (d)(2), representing at least 50 hours of pro bono legal services each year since the provider's most recent such declaration, or since the provider was included on the List, whichever was more recent. Organizations must provide, for each case listed, the name of the organization's attorneys or representatives who provided representation or other pro bono legal services, or the name of the attorney, representative, or organization the case was referred to for pro bono legal services. If a provider fails to timely file the declaration or declares that it is no longer qualified to be included on the List, the provider's name will be removed from the List at the next quarterly update. Failure to file a declaration within the applicable time period does not prohibit the filing of a new application to be included on the List.
[80 FR 59512, Oct. 1, 2015, as amended at 86 FR 70723, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1003.65
Removal of a provider from the List.
(a)
Automatic removal.
If the Director determines that an attorney on the List is the subject of a final order of disbarment under § 1003.101(a)(1), or an order of suspension under § 1003.101(a)(2), then the Director shall:
(1) Remove the name of the attorney from the List no later than at the next quarterly update; and
(2) Notify the attorney of such removal in writing, at the last known address given by the provider or electronically.
(b)
Requests for removal.
(1) Any provider may, at any time, submit a written request to have the provider's name removed from the List. The written request may include an explanation for the voluntary removal. Upon such written request, the name of the provider shall be removed from the List, and such removal will be reflected no later than in the next quarterly update.
(2) Any provider removed from the List at the provider's request may seek reinstatement to the List upon written notice to the Director. Any request for reinstatement must include a new declaration of eligibility, as set forth under § 1003.63(b), (c), or (d). Reinstatement to the List is at the sole discretion of the Director. Upon the Director's approval of reinstatement, the provider's name shall be included on the List no later than in the next quarterly update. Reinstatement to the List does not affect the requirement under § 1003.64(b)(2) that a provider submit a new declaration of eligibility every three years from the date of the approval of the original application to be included on the List.
(c)
EOIR inquiry in response to complaints.
If EOIR receives complaints that a particular provider on the List may no longer be accepting new pro bono clients, the Director may send a written inquiry to the provider noting that EOIR has received complaints with regard to the provider's acceptance of pro bono clients and allowing an opportunity for the provider to state whether the provider is continuing to comply with the regulations in this subpart or, if appropriate, whether the provider wishes to request voluntary removal from the List as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. The Director may remove a provider from the List for failure to respond to a written inquiry issued under this paragraph within 30 days or such additional time period stated by the Director in the written inquiry.
(d)
Procedures for removing providers from the List.
The following provisions apply in cases not covered by paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this section.
(1)
Grounds.
A provider shall be removed from the List if it, he, or she:
(i) Fails to comply with § 1003.66;
(ii) Has filed a false declaration in connection with an application filed pursuant to § 1003.63;
(iii) Improperly uses the List primarily to advertise or solicit clients for compensated legal services; or
(iv) Fails to comply with any and all other requirements of this subpart.
(2)
Notice.
If the Director determines that a provider falls within one or more of the enumerated grounds under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the Director shall promptly notify the provider in writing, at the address last
provided to the Director by the provider or electronically, of the Director's intention to remove the name of the provider from the List.
(3)
Response.
The provider may submit a written answer within 30 days from the date the notice is served or is sent to the provider electronically. The provider must establish by clear and convincing evidence that the provider continues to meet the qualifications for inclusion on the List, by declaration under penalty of perjury as to the provider's continued compliance with eligibility requirements under this subchapter, which must include alien registration numbers of clients in whose cases the provider rendered pro bono legal services under § 1003.62(a)(1), (b)(2), or (d)(2), representing at least 50 hours of pro bono legal services each year since the provider's most recent declaration under § 1003.64(b)(2), or since the provider was included on the List, whichever was more recent.
(4)
Decision.
If, after consideration of any response submitted by the provider, the Director determines that the provider is no longer qualified to remain on the List, the Director shall:
(i) Remove the name of the provider from the List no later than in the next quarterly update; and
(ii) Notify the provider of such removal in writing, at the address last provided to the Director by the provider or electronically.
(5)
Disciplinary Action.
Removal from the List pursuant to § 1003.65(a), (b), (c), or (d) shall be without prejudice to the authority to discipline a practitioner under EOIR's rules and procedures for professional conduct for practitioners listed in 8 CFR part 1003, subpart G.
[80 FR 59512, Oct. 1, 2015, as amended at 86 FR 70723, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1003.66
Changes in information or status.
All providers with a pending application or currently on the List must notify the Director in writing within ten business days if:
(a) The provider's contact information has changed;
(b) Any specific limitations in providing pro bono legal services under § 1003.63(b)(4), (c)(2), or (d)(2) have changed; or
(c) The provider is no longer eligible under § 1003.62.
[80 FR 59513, Oct. 1, 2015]
Subpart F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—Professional Conduct for Practitioners—Rules and Procedures

# Source:
65 FR 39526, June 27, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1003.101
General provisions.
(a)
Authority to sanction.
An adjudicating official or the Board of Immigration Appeals (the Board) may impose disciplinary sanctions against any practitioner if it finds it to be in the public interest to do so. It will be in the public interest to impose disciplinary sanctions against a practitioner who is authorized to practice before the Board and the Immigration Courts when such person has engaged in criminal, unethical, or unprofessional conduct, or in frivolous behavior, as set forth in § 1003.102. In accordance with the disciplinary proceedings set forth in this subpart and outlined below, an adjudicating official or the Board may impose any of the following disciplinary sanctions:
(1) Disbarment, which is permanent, from practice before the Board and the Immigration Courts or the DHS, or before all three authorities;
(2) Suspension, including immediate suspension, from practice before the Board and the Immigration Courts or the DHS, or before all three authorities;
(3) Public or private censure; or
(4) Such other disciplinary sanctions as the adjudicating official or the Board deems appropriate.
(b)
Persons subject to sanctions.
Persons subject to sanctions include any practitioner. Attorneys employed by the Department of Justice shall be subject to discipline pursuant to § 1003.109. Nothing in this regulation shall be construed as authorizing persons who do not meet the definition of practitioner to represent individuals before the Board and the immigration courts or the DHS.
(c) The administrative termination of a representative's accreditation under 8 CFR 1292.17 after the issuance of a Notice of Intent to Discipline pursuant to § 1003.105(a)(1) shall not preclude the continuation of disciplinary proceedings and the imposition of sanctions, unless counsel for the government moves to withdraw the Notice of Intent to Discipline and the adjudicating official or the Board grants the motion.
[65 FR 39526, June 27, 2000, as amended at 73 FR 76923, Dec. 18, 2008; 77 FR 2014, Jan. 13, 2012; 81 FR 92362, Dec. 19, 2016; 87 FR 56259, Sept. 14, 2022]
§ 1003.102
Grounds.
It is deemed to be in the public interest for an adjudicating official or the Board to impose disciplinary sanctions against any practitioner who falls within one or more of the categories enumerated in this section, but these categories do not constitute the exclusive grounds for which disciplinary sanctions may be imposed in the public interest. Nothing in this regulation should be read to denigrate the practitioner's duty to represent zealously his or her client within the bounds of the law. A practitioner who falls within one of the following categories shall be subject to disciplinary sanctions in the public interest if he or she:
(a) Charges or receives, either directly or indirectly:
(1) In the case of an attorney, any fee or compensation for specific services rendered for any person that shall be deemed to be grossly excessive. The factors to be considered in determining whether a fee or compensation is grossly excessive include the following: The time and labor required, the novelty and difficulty of the questions involved, and the skill requisite to perform the legal service properly; the likelihood, if apparent to the client, that the acceptance of the particular employment will preclude other employment by the attorney; the fee customarily charged in the locality for similar legal services; the amount involved and the results obtained; the time limitations imposed by the client or by the circumstances; the nature and length of the professional relationship with the client; and the experience, reputation, and ability of the attorney or attorneys performing the services,
(2) In the case of an accredited representative as defined in § 1292.1(a)(4) of this chapter, any fee or compensation for specific services rendered for any person, except that an accredited representative may be regularly compensated by the organization of which he or she is an accredited representative, or
(3) In the case of a law student or law graduate as defined in § 1292.1(a)(2) of this chapter, any fee or compensation for specific services rendered for any person, except that a law student or law graduate may be regularly compensated by the organization or firm with which he or she is associated as long as he or she is appearing without direct or indirect remuneration from the client he or she represents;
(b) Bribes, attempts to bribe, coerces, or attempts to coerce, by any means whatsoever, any person (including a party to a case or an officer or employee of the Department of Justice) to commit any act or to refrain from performing any act in connection with any case;
(c) Knowingly or with reckless disregard makes a false statement of material fact or law, or willfully misleads, misinforms, threatens, or deceives any person (including a party to a case or an officer or employee of the Department of Justice), concerning any material and relevant matter relating to a case, including knowingly or with reckless disregard offering false evidence. If a practitioner has offered material evidence and comes to know of its falsity, the practitioner shall take appropriate remedial measures;
(d) Solicits professional employment, through in-person or live telephone contact or through the use of runners, from a prospective client with whom the practitioner has no family or prior professional relationship, when a significant motive for the practitioner's doing so is the practitioner's pecuniary gain. If the practitioner has no family or prior professional relationship with the prospective client known to be in need of legal services in a particular matter, the practitioner must include the words “Advertising Material” on
the outside of the envelope of any written communication and at the beginning and ending of any recorded communication. Such advertising material or similar solicitation documents may not be distributed by any person in or around the premises of any building in which an immigration court is located;
(e) Is subject to a final order of disbarment or suspension, or has resigned while a disciplinary investigation or proceeding is pending;
(f) Knowingly or with reckless disregard makes a false or misleading communication about his or her qualifications or services. A communication is false or misleading if it:
(1) Contains a material misrepresentation of fact or law, or omits a fact necessary to make the statement considered as a whole not materially misleading, or,
(2) Contains an assertion about the practitioner or the practitioner's qualifications or services that cannot be substantiated. A practitioner shall not state or imply that the practitioner has been recognized or certified as a specialist in immigration or nationality law unless such certification is granted by the appropriate State regulatory authority or by an organization that has been approved by the appropriate State regulatory authority to grant such certification. An accredited representative shall not state or imply that the accredited representative:
(i) Is approved to practice before the immigration courts or the Board, if the representative is only approved as an accredited representative before DHS;
(ii) Is an accredited representative for an organization other than a recognized organization through which the representative acquired accreditation; or
(iii) Is an attorney.
(g) Engages in contumelious or otherwise obnoxious conduct, with regard to a case in which he or she acts in a representative capacity, which would constitute contempt of court in a judicial proceeding;
(h) Has been found guilty of, or pleaded guilty or
nolo contendere
to, a serious crime, in any court of the United States, or of any state, possession, territory, commonwealth, or the District of Columbia. A serious crime includes any felony and also includes any lesser crime, a necessary element of which, as determined by the statutory or common law definition of such crime in the jurisdiction where the judgment was entered, involves interference with the administration of justice, false swearing, misrepresentation, fraud, willful failure to file income tax returns, deceit, dishonesty, bribery, extortion, misappropriation, theft, or an attempt, or a conspiracy or solicitation of another, to commit a serious crime. A plea or verdict of guilty or a conviction after a plea of
nolo contendere
is deemed to be a conviction within the meaning of this section;
(i) Knowingly or with reckless disregard falsely certifies a copy of a document as being a true and complete copy of an original;
(j) Engages in frivolous behavior in a proceeding before an immigration court, the Board, or any other administrative appellate body under title II of the Immigration and Nationality Act, provided:
(1) A practitioner engages in frivolous behavior when he or she knows or reasonably should have known that his or her actions lack an arguable basis in law or in fact, or are taken for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay. Actions that, if taken improperly, may be subject to disciplinary sanctions include, but are not limited to, the making of an argument on any factual or legal question, the submission of an application for discretionary relief, the filing of a motion, or the filing of an appeal. The signature of a practitioner on any filing, application, motion, appeal, brief, or other document constitutes certification by the signer that the signer has read the filing, application, motion, appeal, brief, or other document and that, to the best of the signer's knowledge, information, and belief, formed after inquiry reasonable under the circumstances, the document is well-grounded in fact and is warranted by existing law or by a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the establishment of new law, and is not interposed for any improper purpose.
(2) The imposition of disciplinary sanctions for frivolous behavior under
this section in no way limits the authority of the Board to dismiss an appeal summarily pursuant to § 1003.1(d);
(k) Engages in conduct that constitutes ineffective assistance of counsel, as previously determined in a finding by the Board, an immigration judge in an immigration proceeding, or a Federal court judge or panel, and a disciplinary complaint is filed within one year of the finding;
(l) Repeatedly fails to appear for pre-hearing conferences, scheduled hearings, or case-related meetings in a timely manner without good cause;
(m) Assists any person, other than a practitioner as defined in § 1003.101(b), in the performance of activity that constitutes the unauthorized practice of law. The practice of law before EOIR means engaging in
practice
or
preparation
as those terms are defined in §§ 1001.1(i) and (k);
(n) Engages in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration of justice or undermines the integrity of the adjudicative process. Conduct that will generally be subject to sanctions under this ground includes any action or inaction that seriously impairs or interferes with the adjudicative process when the practitioner should have reasonably known to avoid such conduct;
(o) Fails to provide competent representation to a client. Competent representation requires the legal knowledge, skill, thoroughness, and preparation reasonably necessary for the representation. Competent handling of a particular matter includes inquiry into and analysis of the factual and legal elements of the problem, and use of methods and procedures meeting the standards of competent practitioners;
(p) Fails to abide by a client's decisions concerning the objectives of representation and fails to consult with the client as to the means by which they are to be pursued, in accordance with paragraph (r) of this section. A practitioner may take such action on behalf of the client as is impliedly authorized to carry out the representation;
(q) Fails to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in representing a client.
(1) A practitioner's workload must be controlled and managed so that each matter can be handled competently.
(2) A practitioner has the duty to act with reasonable promptness. This duty includes, but shall not be limited to, complying with all time and filing limitations. This duty, however, does not preclude the practitioner from agreeing to a reasonable request for a postponement that will not prejudice the practitioner's client.
(3) A practitioner should carry through to conclusion all matters undertaken for a client, consistent with the scope of representation as previously determined by the client and practitioner, unless the client terminates the relationship or the practitioner obtains permission to withdraw in compliance with applicable rules and regulations. If a practitioner has handled a proceeding that produced a result adverse to the client and the practitioner and the client have not agreed that the practitioner will handle the matter on appeal, the practitioner must consult with the client about the client's appeal rights and the terms and conditions of possible representation on appeal;
(r) Fails to maintain communication with the client throughout the duration of the client-practitioner relationship. It is the obligation of the practitioner to take reasonable steps to communicate with the client in a language that the client understands. A practitioner is only under the obligation to attempt to communicate with his or her client using addresses or phone numbers known to the practitioner. In order to properly maintain communication, the practitioner should:
(1) Promptly inform and consult with the client concerning any decision or circumstance with respect to which the client's informed consent is reasonably required;
(2) Reasonably consult with the client about the means by which the client's objectives are to be accomplished. Reasonable consultation with the client includes the duty to meet with the client sufficiently in advance of a hearing or other matter to ensure adequate preparation of the client's case and compliance with applicable deadlines;
(3) Keep the client reasonably informed about the status of the matter, such as significant developments affecting the timing or the substance of the representation; and
(4) Promptly comply with reasonable requests for information, except that when a prompt
response
is not feasible, the practitioner, or a member of the practitioner's staff, should acknowledge receipt of the request and advise the client when a
response
may be expected;
(s) Fails to disclose to the adjudicator legal authority in the controlling jurisdiction known to the practitioner to be directly adverse to the position of the client and not disclosed by opposing counsel;
(t) Repeatedly fails to submit a signed and completed entry of appearance using the appropriate form in compliance with applicable rules and regulations, including 8 CFR 292.4(a), 1003.17, and 1003.38;
(u) Repeatedly drafts notices, motions, briefs, or claims that are filed with DHS or EOIR that reflect little or no attention to the specific factual or legal issues applicable to a client's case, but rather rely on boilerplate language indicative of a substantial failure to competently and diligently represent the client;
(v) Acts outside the scope of the representative's approved authority as an accredited representative.
(w) Repeatedly fails to sign any pleading, application, motion, petition, brief, or other document prepared, drafted, or filed with DHS or EOIR. The practitioner's signature must be in the practitioner's individual name and must be handwritten or electronically in conformity with the rules and instructions of the applicable system.
[65 FR 39526, June 27, 2000, as amended at 73 FR 76923, Dec. 18, 2008, 81 FR 92362, Dec. 19, 2016; 87 FR 56259, Sept. 14, 2022]
§ 1003.103
Immediate suspension and summary disciplinary proceedings; duty of practitioner to notify EOIR of conviction or discipline.
(a)
Immediate Suspension
—(1)
Petition.
The EOIR disciplinary counsel shall file a petition with the Board to suspend immediately from practice before the Board and the Immigration Courts any practitioner who has been found guilty of, or pleaded guilty or nolo contendere to, a serious crime, as defined in § 1003.102(h), or any practitioner who has been suspended or disbarred by, or while a disciplinary investigation or proceeding is pending has resigned from, the highest court of any State, possession, territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia, or any Federal court, or who has been placed on an interim suspension pending a final resolution of the underlying disciplinary matter.
(2) DHS petition. DHS may file a petition with the Board to suspend immediately from practice before DHS any practitioner described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. See 8 CFR 292.3(c).
(3) Copy of petition. A copy of a petition filed by the EOIR disciplinary counsel shall be forwarded to DHS, which may submit a written request to the Board that entry of any order immediately suspending a practitioner before the Board or the Immigration Courts also apply to the practitioner's authority to practice before DHS. A copy of a petition filed by DHS shall be forwarded to the EOIR disciplinary counsel, who may submit a written request to the Board that entry of any order immediately suspending a practitioner before DHS also apply to the practitioner's authority to practice before the Board and Immigration Courts. Proof of service on the practitioner of any request to broaden the scope of an immediate suspension or proposed discipline must be filed with the Board or the adjudicating official.
(4)
Immediate suspension.
Upon the filing of a petition for immediate suspension pursuant to §§ 1003.103(a)(1) or 1003.103(a)(2), together with a certified copy of a court record finding that a practitioner has been found guilty of, or pleaded guilty or nolo contendere to, a serious crime, or has been disciplined or has resigned, as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Board shall forthwith enter an order immediately suspending the practitioner
from practice before the Board, the Immigration Courts, and/or DHS, notwithstanding the pendency of an appeal, if any, of the underlying disciplinary proceeding, pending final disposition of a summary disciplinary proceeding as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. Such immediate suspension will continue until imposition of a final administrative decision. If an immediate suspension is imposed upon a practitioner, the Board may require that notice of such suspension be posted at the Board, the Immigration Courts, or DHS. Upon good cause shown, the Board may set aside such order of immediate suspension when it appears in the interest of justice to do so. If a final administrative decision includes the imposition of a period of suspension, time spent by the practitioner under immediate suspension pursuant to this paragraph may be credited toward the period of suspension imposed under the final administrative decision.
(b)
Summary disciplinary proceedings.
The EOIR disciplinary counsel (or DHS pursuant to 8 CFR 292.3(c)(3)) shall promptly initiate summary disciplinary proceedings against any practitioner described in paragraph (a) of this section by the issuance of a Notice of Intent to Discipline, upon receipt of a certified copy of the order, judgment, or record evidencing the underlying criminal conviction, discipline, or resignation, and accompanied by a certified copy of such document. However, delays in initiation of summary disciplinary proceedings under this section will not impact an immediate suspension imposed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. Summary proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions set forth in §§ 1003.105 and 1003.106. Any such summary proceeding shall not be concluded until all direct appeals from an underlying criminal conviction shall have been completed.
(1) In matters concerning criminal convictions, a certified copy of the court record, docket entry, or plea shall be conclusive evidence of the commission of the crime in any summary disciplinary proceeding based thereon.
(2) In the case of a summary proceeding based upon a final order of disbarment or suspension, or a resignation while a disciplinary investigation or proceeding is pending (
i.e.
, reciprocal discipline), a certified copy of a judgment or order of discipline shall establish a rebuttable presumption of the professional misconduct. Disciplinary sanctions shall follow in such a proceeding unless the attorney can rebut the presumption by demonstrating clear and convincing evidence that:
(i) The underlying disciplinary proceeding was so lacking in notice or opportunity to be heard as to constitute a deprivation of due process;
(ii) There was such an infirmity of proof establishing the attorney's professional misconduct as to give rise to the clear conviction that the adjudicating official could not, consistent with his or her duty, accept as final the conclusion on that subject; or
(iii) The imposition of discipline by the adjudicating official would result in grave injustice.
(c)
Duty of practitioner and recognized organizations to notify EOIR of conviction or discipline.
A practitioner and if applicable, the authorized officer of each recognized organization with which a practitioner is affiliated must notify the EOIR disciplinary counsel within 30 days of the issuance of the initial order, even if an appeal of the conviction or discipline is pending, when the practitioner has been found guilty of, or pleaded guilty or nolo contendere to, a serious crime, as defined in § 1003.102(h), or has been disbarred or suspended by, or while a disciplinary investigation or proceeding is pending has resigned from, the highest court of any State, possession, territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia, or any Federal court. A practitioner's failure to do so may result in an immediate suspension as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section and other final discipline. An organization's failure to do so may result in the administrative termination of its recognition for violating the reporting requirement under 8 CFR 1292.14. This duty to notify applies only to convictions for serious
crimes and to orders imposing discipline for professional misconduct entered on or after August 28, 2000.
[65 FR 39526, June 27, 2000, as amended at 73 FR 76923, Dec. 18, 2008; 77 FR 2014, Jan. 13, 2012; 81 FR 92362, Dec. 19, 2016]
§ 1003.104
Filing of complaints; preliminary inquiries; resolutions; referral of complaints.
(a)
Filing complaints
—(1)
Practitioners authorized to practice before the Board and the Immigration Courts.
Complaints of criminal, unethical, or unprofessional conduct, or of frivolous behavior by a practitioner who is authorized to practice before the Board and the Immigration Courts shall be filed with the EOIR disciplinary counsel. Disciplinary complaints must be submitted in writing and must state in detail the information that supports the basis for the complaint, including, but not limited to, the names and addresses of the complainant and the practitioner, the date(s) of the conduct or behavior, the nature of the conduct or behavior, the individuals involved, the harm or damages sustained by the complainant, and any other relevant information. Any individual may file a complaint with the EOIR disciplinary counsel using the Form EOIR-44. The EOIR disciplinary counsel shall notify DHS of any disciplinary complaint that pertains, in whole or part, to a matter before DHS.
(2)
Practitioners authorized to practice before DHS.
Complaints of criminal, unethical, or unprofessional conduct, or frivolous behavior by a practitioner who is authorized to practice before DHS shall be filed with DHS pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 292.3(d) of this chapter.
(b)
Preliminary inquiry.
Upon receipt of a disciplinary complaint or on its own initiative, the EOIR disciplinary counsel will initiate a preliminary inquiry. If a complaint is filed by a client or former client, the complainant thereby waives the attorney-client privilege and any other privilege relating to the representation to the extent necessary to conduct a preliminary inquiry and any subsequent proceedings based thereon. If the EOIR disciplinary counsel determines that a complaint is without merit, no further action will be taken. The EOIR disciplinary counsel may, in the disciplinary counsel's discretion, close a preliminary inquiry if the complainant fails to comply with reasonable requests for assistance, information, or documentation. The complainant and the practitioner shall be notified of any such determination in writing.
(c)
Resolution reached prior to the issuance of a Notice of Intent to Discipline.
The EOIR disciplinary counsel, in its discretion, may issue warning letters and admonitions, and may enter into agreements in lieu of discipline, prior to the issuance of a Notice of Intent to Discipline.
(d)
Referral of complaints of criminal conduct.
If the EOIR disciplinary counsel receives credible information or allegations that a practitioner has engaged in criminal conduct, the EOIR disciplinary counsel shall refer the matter to DHS or the appropriate United States Attorney and, if appropriate, to the Inspector General, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or other law enforcement agency. In such cases, in making the decision to pursue disciplinary sanctions, the EOIR disciplinary counsel shall coordinate in advance with the appropriate investigative and prosecutorial authorities within the Department to ensure that neither the disciplinary process nor criminal prosecutions are jeopardized.
[65 FR 39526, June 27, 2000, as amended at 73 FR 76924, Dec. 18, 2008; 81 FR 92362, Dec. 19, 2016]
§ 1003.105
Notice of Intent to Discipline.
(a)
Issuance of Notice.
(1) If, upon completion of the preliminary inquiry, the EOIR disciplinary counsel determines that sufficient prima facie evidence exists to warrant charging a practitioner with professional misconduct as set forth in § 1003.102 or a recognized organization with misconduct as set forth in § 1003.110, the EOIR disciplinary counsel will file with the Board and issue to the practitioner or organization that was the subject of the preliminary inquiry a Notice of Intent to Discipline. In cases involving practitioners, service of the notice will be made upon the practitioner either by certified mail to the practitioner's last
known address, as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, or by personal delivery. In cases involving recognized organizations, service of the notice will be made upon the authorized officer of the organization either by certified mail at the address of the organization or by personal delivery. The notice shall contain a statement of the charge(s), a copy of the preliminary inquiry report, the proposed disciplinary sanctions to be imposed, the procedure for filing an answer or requesting a hearing, and the mailing address and telephone number of the Board. In summary disciplinary proceedings brought pursuant to § 1003.103(b), a preliminary inquiry report is not required to be filed with the Notice of Intent to Discipline. If a Notice of Intent to Discipline is filed against an accredited representative, the EOIR disciplinary counsel shall send a copy of the notice to the authorized officer of the recognized organization through which the representative is accredited at the address of the organization.
(2) For the purposes of this section, the last known address of a practitioner is the practitioner's address as it appears in EOIR's case management system if the practitioner is actively representing a party before EOIR on the date that the EOIR disciplinary counsel issues the Notice of Intent to Discipline. If the practitioner does not have a matter pending before EOIR on the date of the issuance of a Notice of Intent to Discipline, then the last known address for a practitioner will be as follows:
(i) Attorneys in the United States: the attorney's address that is on record with a state jurisdiction that licensed the attorney to practice law.
(ii) Accredited representatives: the address of a recognized organization with which the accredited representative is affiliated.
(iii) Accredited officials: the address of the embassy of the foreign government that employs the accredited official.
(iv) All other practitioners: the address for the practitioner that appears in EOIR's case management system for the most recent matter on which the practitioner represented a party.
(3)
DHS Issuance of Notice to practitioner.
DHS may file a Notice of Intent to Discipline with the Board in accordance with 8 CFR 292.3(e).
(b)
Copy of notice; reciprocity of discipline.
A copy of the Notice of Intent to Discipline filed by the EOIR disciplinary counsel shall be forwarded to DHS, which may submit a written request to the Board or the adjudicating official requesting that any discipline imposed upon a practitioner which restricts his or her authority to practice before the Board and the Immigration Courts also apply to the practitioner's authority to practice before DHS. A copy of the Notice of Intent to Discipline filed by DHS shall be forwarded to the EOIR disciplinary counsel, who may submit a written request to the Board or the adjudicating official requesting that any discipline imposed upon a practitioner that restricts his or her authority to practice before DHS also apply to the practitioner's authority to practice before the Board and the Immigration Courts. Proof of service on the practitioner of any request to broaden the scope of the proposed discipline must be filed with the adjudicating official.
(c)
Answer
—(1)
Filing.
The practitioner or, in cases involving a recognized organization, the organization, shall file a written answer to the Notice of Intent to Discipline with the Board within 30 days of the date of service of the Notice of Intent to Discipline unless, on motion to the Board, an extension of time to answer is granted for good cause. A motion for an extension of time to answer must be received by the Board no later than three (3) working days before the time to answer has expired. A copy of the answer and any such motion shall be served by the practitioner on the counsel for the government.
(2)
Contents.
The answer shall contain a statement of facts which constitute the grounds of defense and shall specifically admit or deny each allegation set forth in the Notice of Intent to Discipline. Every allegation in the Notice of Intent to Discipline which is not denied in the answer shall be deemed to be admitted and may be considered as
proved, and no further evidence in respect of such allegation need be adduced. The practitioner or, in cases involving a recognized organization, the organization, may also state affirmatively special matters of defense and may submit supporting documents, including affidavits or statements, along with the answer.
(3)
Request for hearing.
The practitioner or, in cases involving a recognized organization, the organization, shall also state in the answer whether a hearing on the matter is requested. If no such request is made, the opportunity for a hearing will be deemed waived.
(d)
Failure to file an answer.
(1) Failure to file an answer within the time period prescribed in the Notice of Intent to Discipline, except where the time to answer is extended by the Board, shall constitute an admission of the allegations in the Notice of Intent to Discipline and no further evidence with respect to such allegations need be adduced.
(2) Upon such a default by the practitioner or, in cases involving a recognized organization, the organization, the counsel for the government shall submit to the Board proof of service of the Notice of Intent to Discipline. The practitioner or the organization shall be precluded thereafter from requesting a hearing on the matter. The Board shall issue a final order adopting the proposed disciplinary sanctions in the Notice of Intent to Discipline unless to do so would foster a tendency toward inconsistent dispositions for comparable conduct or would otherwise be unwarranted or not in the interests of justice. With the exception of cases in which the Board has already imposed an immediate suspension pursuant to § 1003.103 or that otherwise involve an accredited representative or recognized organization, any final order imposing discipline shall not become effective sooner than 15 days from the date of the order to provide the practitioner opportunity to comply with the terms of such order, including, but not limited to, withdrawing from any pending immigration matters and notifying immigration clients of the imposition of any sanction. Any final order imposing discipline against an accredited representative or recognized organization shall become effective immediately. A practitioner or a recognized organization may file a motion to set aside a final order of discipline issued pursuant to this paragraph, with service of such motion on counsel for the government, provided:
(i) Such a motion is filed within 15 days of the date of service of the final order; and
(ii) The practitioner's or the recognized organization's failure to file an answer was due to exceptional circumstances (such as serious illness of the practitioner or death of an immediate relative of the practitioner, but not including less compelling circumstances) beyond the control of the practitioner or the recognized organization.
[65 FR 39526, June 27, 2000, as amended at 73 FR 76925, Dec. 18, 2008; 77 FR 2014, Jan. 13, 2012; 81 FR 92362, Dec. 19, 2016]
§ 1003.106
Right to be heard and disposition.
(a)
Right to be heard
—(1)
Summary disciplinary proceedings.
A practitioner who is subject to summary disciplinary proceedings pursuant to § 1003.103(b) must make a prima facie showing to the Board in his or her answer that there is a material issue of fact in dispute with regard to the basis for summary disciplinary proceedings, or with one or more of the exceptions set forth in § 1003.103(b)(2)(i) through (iii). If the practitioner files a timely answer and the Board determines that there is a material issue of fact in dispute with regard to the basis for summary disciplinary proceedings, or with one or more of the exceptions set forth in § 1003.103(b)(2)(i) through (iii), then the Board shall refer the case to the Chief Immigration Judge for the appointment of an adjudicating official. If the practitioner fails to make such a prima facie showing, the Board shall retain jurisdiction over the case and issue a final order. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board shall refer any case to the Chief Immigration Judge for the appointment of an adjudicating official in which the practitioner has filed a timely answer and the case involves a
charge or charges that cannot be adjudicated under the summary disciplinary proceedings provisions in § 1003.103(b). The Board shall refer such a case regardless of whether the practitioner has requested a hearing.
(2)
Procedure.
The procedures set forth in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section apply to cases in which the practitioner or recognized organization files a timely answer to the Notice of Intent to Discipline, with the exception of cases in which the Board issues a final order pursuant to § 1003.105(d)(2) or § 1003.106(a)(1).
(i) The Chief Immigration Judge shall, upon the filing of an answer, appoint an Immigration Judge as an adjudicating official. At the request of the Chief Immigration Judge, the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer may appoint an Administrative Law Judge as an adjudicating official. The Director may appoint either an Immigration Judge or Administrative Law Judge as an adjudicating official if the Chief Immigration Judge or the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer does not appoint an adjudicating official or if the Director determines it is in the interest of efficiency to do so. An Immigration Judge or Administrative Law Judge shall not serve as the adjudicating official in any case in which the Judge is the complainant, in any case involving a practitioner who regularly appears before the Judge, or in any case involving a recognized organization whose representatives regularly appear before the Judge.
(ii) Upon the practitioner's or, in cases involving a recognized organization, the organization's, request for a hearing, the adjudicating official may designate the time and place of the hearing with due regard to the location of the practitioner's practice or residence or of the recognized organization, the convenience of witnesses, and any other relevant factors. When designating the time and place of a hearing, the adjudicating official shall provide for the service of a notice of hearing on the practitioner or the authorized officer of the recognized organization and the counsel for the government. The practitioner or the recognized organization shall be afforded adequate time to prepare a case in advance of the hearing. Pre-hearing conferences may be scheduled at the discretion of the adjudicating official in order to narrow issues, to obtain stipulations between the parties, to exchange information voluntarily, and otherwise to simplify and organize the proceeding. Settlement agreements reached after the issuance of a Notice of Intent to Discipline are subject to final approval by the adjudicating official or, if the practitioner or organization has not filed an answer, subject to final approval by the Board.
(iii) The practitioner or, in cases involving a recognized organization, the organization, may be represented by counsel at no expense to the government. Counsel for the practitioner or the organization shall file the appropriate Notice of Entry of Appearance (Form EOIR-27 or EOIR-28) in accordance with the procedures set forth in this part. Each party shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine and object to evidence presented by the other party, to present evidence, and to cross-examine witnesses presented by the other party. If the practitioner or the recognized organization files an answer but does not request a hearing, then the adjudicating official shall provide the parties an opportunity to submit briefs and evidence to support or refute any of the charges or affirmative defenses.
(iv) In rendering a decision, the adjudicating official shall consider the following: The complaint, the preliminary inquiry report, the Notice of Intent to Discipline, the answer, any supporting documents, and any other evidence, including pleadings, briefs, and other materials. Counsel for the government shall bear the burden of proving the grounds for disciplinary sanctions enumerated in the Notice of Intent to Discipline by clear and convincing evidence.
(v) The record of proceedings, regardless of whether an immigration judge or an administrative law judge is the adjudicating official, shall conform to the requirements of 8 CFR part 1003, subpart C and 8 CFR 1240.9. Disciplinary hearings shall be conducted in the same manner as Immigration Court proceedings as is appropriate, and shall be open to the public, except that:
(A) Depending upon physical facilities, the adjudicating official may place reasonable limitations upon the number of individuals in attendance at any one time, with priority being given to the press over the general public, and
(B) For the purposes of protecting witnesses, parties, or the public interest, the adjudicating official may limit attendance or hold a closed hearing.
(3)
Failure to appear in proceedings.
If the practitioner or, in cases involving a recognized organization, the organization, requests a hearing as provided in § 1003.105(c)(3) but fails to appear, the adjudicating official shall then proceed and decide the case in the absence of the practitioner or the recognized organization in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, based on the available record, including any additional evidence or arguments presented by the counsel for the government at the hearing. In such a proceeding the counsel for the government shall submit to the adjudicating official proof of service of the Notice of Intent to Discipline as well as the Notice of the Hearing. The practitioner or the recognized organization shall be precluded thereafter from participating further in the proceedings. A final order imposing discipline issued pursuant to this paragraph shall not be subject to further review, except that the practitioner or the recognized organization may file a motion to set aside the order, with service of such motion on counsel for the government, provided:
(i) Such a motion is filed within 15 days of the date of issuance of the final order; and
(ii) The practitioner's or the recognized organization's failure to appear was due to exceptional circumstances (such as serious illness of the practitioner or death of an immediate relative of the practitioner, but not including less compelling circumstances) beyond the control of the practitioner or the recognized organization.
(b)
Decision.
The adjudicating official shall consider the entire record and, as soon as practicable, render a decision. If the adjudicating official finds that one or more grounds for disciplinary sanctions enumerated in the Notice of Intent to Discipline have been established by clear and convincing evidence, the official shall rule that the disciplinary sanctions set forth in the Notice of Intent to Discipline be adopted, modified, or otherwise amended. If the adjudicating official determines that the practitioner should be suspended, the time period for such suspension shall be specified. If the adjudicating official determines that the organization's recognition should be revoked, the official may also identify the persons affiliated with the organization who were directly involved in the conduct that constituted the grounds for revocation. If the adjudicating official determines that the organization's recognition should be terminated, the official shall specify the time restriction, if any, before the organization may submit a new request for recognition. Any grounds for disciplinary sanctions enumerated in the Notice of Intent to Discipline that have not been established by clear and convincing evidence shall be dismissed. The adjudicating official shall provide for service of a written decision or memorandum summarizing an oral decision on the practitioner or, in cases involving a recognized organization, on the authorized officer of the organization and on the counsel for the government. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the adjudicating official's decision becomes final only upon waiver of appeal or expiration of the time for appeal to the Board, whichever comes first, and does not take effect during the pendency of an appeal to the Board as provided in § 1003.6. A final order imposing discipline against an accredited representative or recognized organization shall take effect immediately.
(c)
Appeal.
Upon issuance of a decision by the adjudicating official, either party or both parties may appeal to the Board to conduct a review pursuant to § 1003.1(d)(3). Parties must comply with all pertinent provisions for appeals to the Board, including provisions relating to forms and fees, as set forth in Part 1003, and must use Form EOIR-45. The decision of the Board is the final administrative order as provided in § 1003.1(d)(7), and shall be served upon the practitioner or, in cases involving a
recognized organization, the organization, as provided in § 1003.1(f). With the exception of cases in which the Board has already imposed an immediate suspension pursuant to § 1003.103 or cases involving accredited representatives or recognized organizations, any final order imposing discipline shall not become effective sooner than 15 days from the date of the order to provide the practitioner opportunity to comply with the terms of such order, including, but not limited to, withdrawing from any pending immigration matters and notifying immigration clients of the imposition of any sanction. A final order imposing discipline against an accredited representative or recognized organization shall take effect immediately. A copy of the final administrative order of the Board shall be served upon the counsel for the government. If disciplinary sanctions are imposed against a practitioner or a recognized organization (other than a private censure), the Board may require that notice of such sanctions be posted at the Board, the Immigration Courts, or DHS for the period of time during which the sanctions are in effect, or for any other period of time as determined by the Board.
(d)
Referral.
In addition to, or in lieu of, initiating disciplinary proceedings against a practitioner, the EOIR disciplinary counsel may notify an appropriate Federal or state disciplinary or regulatory authority of any complaint filed against a practitioner. Any final administrative decision imposing sanctions against a practitioner (other than a private censure) shall be reported to any such disciplinary or regulatory authority in every jurisdiction where the disciplined practitioner is admitted or otherwise authorized to practice. In addition, the EOIR disciplinary counsel shall transmit notice of all public discipline imposed under this rule to the National Lawyer Regulatory Data Bank maintained by the American Bar Association.
[65 FR 39526, June 27, 2000, as amended at 73 FR 76925, Dec. 18, 2008; 77 FR 2015, Jan. 13, 2012; 81 FR 92363, Dec. 19, 2016; 86 FR 70723, Dec. 13, 2021]
§ 1003.107
Reinstatement after disbarment or suspension.
(a)
Reinstatement upon expiration of suspension.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, after the period of suspension has expired, a practitioner who has been suspended and wishes to be reinstated must file a motion to the Board requesting reinstatement to practice before the Board and the Immigration Courts, or DHS, or before all three authorities. The practitioner must demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that notwithstanding the suspension, the practitioner otherwise meets the definition of attorney or representative as set forth in § 1001.1(f) and (j), respectively, of this chapter. The practitioner must serve a copy of such motion on the EOIR disciplinary counsel. In matters in which the practitioner was ordered suspended from practice before DHS, the practitioner must serve a copy of such motion on the DHS disciplinary counsel.
(2) The EOIR disciplinary counsel and, in matters in which the practitioner was ordered suspended from practice before DHS, the DHS disciplinary counsel, may reply within 13 days of service of the motion in the form of a written response objecting to the reinstatement on the ground that the practitioner failed to comply with the terms of the suspension. The response must include supporting documentation or evidence of the petitioner's failure to comply with the terms of the suspension. The Board, in its discretion, may afford the parties additional time to file briefs or hold a hearing to determine if the practitioner meets all the requirements for reinstatement.
(3) If a practitioner does not meet the definition of attorney or representative, the Board shall deny the motion for reinstatement without further consideration. If the practitioner failed to comply with the terms of the suspension, the Board shall deny the motion and indicate the circumstances under which the practitioner may apply for reinstatement. If the practitioner meets the definition of attorney or representative and the practitioner otherwise has complied with the terms of the suspension, the Board shall grant
the motion and reinstate the practitioner.
(b)
Early reinstatement.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a practitioner who has been disbarred or who has been suspended for one year or more may file a petition for reinstatement directly with the Board after one-half of the suspension period has expired or one year has passed, whichever is greater, provided that notwithstanding the suspension, the practitioner otherwise meets the definition of attorney or representative as set forth in § 1001.1(f) and (j), respectively, of this chapter. A copy of such a petition shall be served on the EOIR disciplinary counsel. In matters in which the practitioner was ordered disbarred or suspended from practice before DHS, a copy of such petition shall be served on the DHS disciplinary counsel.
(2) A practitioner seeking early reinstatement must demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that the practitioner possesses the moral and professional qualifications required to appear before the Board, the Immigration Courts, or DHS, and that the practitioner's reinstatement will not be detrimental to the administration of justice. The EOIR disciplinary counsel and, in matters in which the practitioner was ordered disbarred or suspended from practice before DHS, the DHS disciplinary counsel, may reply within 30 days of service of the petition in the form of a written response to the Board, which may include, but is not limited to, documentation or evidence of the practitioner's failure to comply with the terms of the disbarment or suspension or of any complaints filed against the disbarred or suspended practitioner subsequent to the practitioner's disbarment or suspension.
(3) If a practitioner cannot meet the definition of attorney or representative, the Board shall deny the petition for reinstatement without further consideration. If the petition for reinstatement is found to be otherwise inappropriate or unwarranted, the petition shall be denied. Any subsequent petitions for reinstatement may not be filed before the end of one year from the date of the Board's previous denial of reinstatement, unless the practitioner is otherwise eligible for reinstatement under paragraph (a). If the petition for reinstatement is determined to be timely, the practitioner meets the definition of attorney or representative, and the petitioner has otherwise established by the requisite standard of proof that the practitioner possesses the qualifications set forth herein, and that reinstatement will not be detrimental to the administration of justice, the Board shall grant the petition and reinstate the practitioner. The Board, in its discretion, may hold a hearing to determine if the practitioner meets all of the requirements for reinstatement.
(c)
Accredited representatives.
(1) An accredited representative who has been suspended for a period of time greater than the remaining period of validity of the representative's accreditation at the time of the suspension is not eligible to be reinstated under § 1003.107(a) or (b). In such circumstances, after the period of suspension has expired, an organization may submit a new request for accreditation pursuant to 8 CFR 1292.13 on behalf of such an individual.
(2)
Disbarment.
An accredited representative who has been disbarred is permanently barred from appearing before the Board, the Immigration Courts, or DHS as an accredited representative and cannot seek reinstatement.
(d)
Appearance after reinstatement.
A practitioner who has been reinstated to practice by the Board must file a new Notice of Entry of Appearance of Attorney or Representative in each case on the form required by applicable rules and regulations, even if the reinstated practitioner previously filed such a form in a proceeding before the practitioner was disciplined.
[65 FR 39526, June 27, 2000, as amended at 73 FR 76926, Dec. 18, 2008; 77 FR 2015, Jan. 13, 2012; 81 FR 92364, Dec. 19, 2016]
§ 1003.108
Confidentiality.
(a)
Complaints and preliminary inquiries.
Except as otherwise provided by law or regulation, information concerning complaints or preliminary inquiries is confidential. A practitioner or recognized organization whose conduct is the subject of a complaint or preliminary inquiry, however, may
waive confidentiality, except that the EOIR disciplinary counsel may decline to permit a waiver of confidentiality if it is determined that an ongoing preliminary inquiry may be substantially prejudiced by public disclosure before the filing of a Notice of Intent to Discipline.
(1)
Disclosure of information for the purpose of protecting the public.
The EOIR disciplinary counsel may disclose information concerning a complaint or preliminary inquiry for the protection of the public when the necessity for disclosing information outweighs the necessity for preserving confidentiality in circumstances including, but not limited to, the following:
(i) A practitioner or recognized organization has caused, or is likely to cause, harm to client(s), the public, or the administration of justice, such that the public or specific individuals should be advised of the nature of the allegations. If disclosure of information is made pursuant to this paragraph, the EOIR disciplinary counsel may define the scope of information disseminated and may limit the disclosure of information to specified individuals and entities;
(ii) A practitioner or recognized organization has committed criminal acts or is under investigation by law enforcement authorities;
(iii) A practitioner or recognized organization is under investigation by a disciplinary or regulatory authority, or has committed acts or made omissions that may reasonably result in investigation by such authorities;
(iv) A practitioner or recognized organization is the subject of multiple disciplinary complaints and the EOIR disciplinary counsel has determined not to pursue all of the complaints. The EOIR disciplinary counsel may inform complainants whose allegations have not been pursued of the status of any other preliminary inquiries or the manner in which any other complaint(s) against the practitioner or recognized organization have been resolved.
(2)
Disclosure of information for the purpose of conducting a preliminary inquiry.
