(b) The compensation and expenses of members and alternates of the Colorado Potato Committee shall be paid by the respective area committee they represent.
(c) Such other expenses as may be incurred by the Colorado Potato Committee pursuant to a budget of expenses approved by the Secretary shall be allotted to, and paid by, one or more of the area committees, as may be specified in an order issued by the Secretary pursuant to the provisions of this subpart.
§ 948.61
Procedure.
(a) A majority of all members of a committee shall be necessary to constitute a quorum or to pass and motion or approve any committee action.
(b) Each committee may provide for the members thereof, including the alternate members when acting as members, to vote by mail, telegraph, telephone, or other means of communication, provided that any such vote cast orally shall be confirmed promptly in writing. If any assembled meeting is held all votes shall be cast in person.
§ 948.62
Powers.
Each committee shall have the following powers:
(a) To administer the provisions of this subpart as specified herein;
(b) To make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of this subpart;
(c) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violation of the provisions of this part; and
(d) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this part.
§ 948.63
Duties.
(a) Each committee shall:
(1) Meet and organize as soon as practical after the beginning of each term of office, select a chairperson and such other officers as may be necessary, select subcommittees and adopt such rules and procedures for the conduct of its business as it may deem advisable;
(2) Act as intermediary between the Secretary and any producer or handler;
(3) Appoint such employees, agents and representatives as it may deem necessary and determine the salaries and define the duties of each;
(4) Keep minutes, books, and records which clearly reflect all its acts and transactions. Such minutes, books and records shall be subject to examination at any time by the Secretary;
(5) Furnish promptly notices of meetings, copies of the minutes of each committee meeting, and such other reports or information as may be requested by the Secretary, including annual reports of each area committee's operations for the preceding marketing season or fiscal period;
(6) Make available to producers, and to other area committees and the Colorado Potato Committee the committee's voting record on recommended regulations and other matters of policy;
(7) Meet jointly with other area committees when requested to do so by the Colorado Potato Committee;
(8) Consult, cooperate, and exchange information with other area committees, with other marketing agreement committees and other agencies or individuals in connection with proper committee activities and objectives;
(9) Take any proper action necessary to carry out the provisions of this subpart; and
(10) Cause the books of the committee to be audited by a competent accountant at least once each fiscal period.
(b) The Colorado Potato Committee shall also:
(1) Supervise the regulation of shipments pursuant to the provisions of the general cull regulation in the absence of more restrictive regulations, and shall cooperate with any area committee in administering any regulation issued pursuant to this subpart;
(2) Make recommendations to the Secretary with respect to suspending or modifying the provisions of the general cull regulation;
(3) Make available to area committees its voting record on recommendations for modification of the cull regulation and other matters of policy;
(4) Submit to each area committee such available information as may be requested; and
(5) Call joint meetings of area committees on matters requiring consideration of statewide marketing policies when requested to do so by an area committee.
[25 FR 7092, July 27, 1960. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 88 FR 82234, Nov. 24, 2023]

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 948.75
Expenses.
Each area committee is authorized to incur such expenses as the Secretary may find are reasonable and likely to be incurred during each fiscal period for its maintenance and functioning, and for purposes determined to be appropriate for administration of this part. Handlers shall share expenses upon the basis of a fiscal period. Each handler's share of such expenses shall be proportionate to the ratio between the total quantity of potatoes handled by him as the first handler thereof during a fiscal period and the total quantity of potatoes handled by all handlers as first handlers thereof during such fiscal period.
§ 948.76
Budget.
As soon as practicable after the beginning of each fiscal period and as may be necessary thereafter, each area committee shall prepare an estimated budget of income and expenditures necessary for its administration of this part. Each area committee may recommend a rate of assessment calculated to provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures. Each area committee shall present such budget to the Secretary with an accompanying report showing the basis for its calculations.
§ 948.77
Assessments.
(a) The funds to cover each area committee's expenses shall be acquired by the levying of assessments upon handlers as provided in this subpart. Each handler who first handles potatoes under this part, shall pay assessments to his respective area committee upon demand, which assessments shall be in payment of such handler's pro rata share of the area committee's expenses.
(b) Assessments shall be levied upon handlers at rates established by the Secretary. Such rates may be established upon the basis of each area committee's budget, recommendations, and other available information. Such rates may be applied to specified containers used in the production area.
(c) At any time during, or subsequent to, a given fiscal period each area committee may recommend the approval of an amended budget and an increase in the rate of assessment. Upon the basis of such recommendations, or other available information, the Secretary may approve an amended budget and increase the rate of assessment. Such increase shall be applicable to all potatoes grown within the particular area where an area committee recommends such increase and which were handled by the first handler thereof during such fiscal period.
(d) The payment of assessments for the maintenance and functioning of each area committee may be required under this part throughout the period it is in effect irrespective to whether particular provisions thereof are suspended or become inoperative.
(e) In order to provide funds to enable each area committee to perform its functions under this part, handlers may make advance payment of assessments.
§ 948.78
Accounting.
(a) If, at the end of a fiscal period, the assessments collected are in excess of expenses incurred, such excess shall be accounted for in accordance with one of the following:
(1) If such excess is not retained in a reserve, as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, it shall be refunded proportionately to the persons from whom it was collected.
(2) An area committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may carry over such excess into subsequent fiscal periods as a reserve:
Provided,
That funds already in the reserve are less than approximately two fiscal period's expenses. Such reserve funds may be used (i) to defray expenses, during any fiscal period, prior to the time assessment income is sufficient to cover such expenses; (ii) to cover deficits incurred during any fiscal period when assessment income is less than expenses; (iii) to defray expenses incurred during any
period when any or all provisions of this subpart are suspended or are inoperative; (iv) to cover necessary expenses of liquidation in the event of termination of this subpart. Upon such termination, any funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be disposed of in such manner as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate. To the extent practical, such funds shall be returned pro rata to the persons from whom such funds were collected.
(b) All funds received by an area committee pursuant to the provisions of this part shall be used solely for the purposes specified herein. The Secretary may at any time require an area committee and its members to account for all receipts and disbursements.
(c) Upon the removal or expiration of the term of office of any member of an area committee, such member shall account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property and funds in his possession to such committee, and shall execute such assignments and other instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to vest in such committee full title to all of the property funds and claims vested in such member pursuant to this part.
(d) Each area committee may make recommendations to the Secretary for one or more of the members thereof, or any other person, to act as a trustee for holding records, funds, or any other committee property during periods of suspension of this subpart, or during any period or periods when regulations are not in effect and if the Secretary determines such action appropriate, he may direct that such person or persons shall act as trustee or trustees for such committee.

# Reports
§ 948.80
Reports.
Upon request of an area committee or of the Colorado Potato Committee through an area committee, each handler within the respective area of such area committee shall furnish to the area committee in such manner and at such time as it may prescribe, reports and other information as may be necessary for the committee to perform its duties under this part.
(a) Such reports may include, but are not necessarily limited to the following examples:
(1) The quantities of potatoes received by a handler during any or all periods of a season;
(2) The quantities disposed of by him, segregated as to quantities subject to regulation, and where necessary segregated as to types of outlets and special or modified regulations applicable to alternative outlets, and including quantities not subject to grade, inspection, assessment, or other similar regulations;
(3) The date of each such disposition and the identification of the carrier transporting such potatoes;
(4) Information essential to identification of any or all specific quantities, lots, and disposition of potatoes handled under §§ 948.23 to 948.30, inclusive, which may include identification of inspection certificates, exemption certificates, certificates of privilege, or other appropriate identification, including the destination of each special shipment, where necessary.
(b) All such reports shall be held under appropriate protective classification and custody by the committee, or duly appointed employees thereof, so that the information contained therein which may adversely affect the competitive position of any handler in relation to other handlers will not be disclosed. Compilations of general reports from data submitted by handlers is authorized, subject to prohibition of disclosure of individual handlers' identities or operations.
(c) Each handler shall maintain for at least two succeeding years such records of the potatoes received and disposed of by such handler as may be necessary to verify the reports he submits to the committee pursuant to this section.

# Compliance
§ 948.81
Compliance.
Except as provided in this subpart, no handler shall handle potatoes, the handling of which has been prohibited by the Secretary in accordance with provisions of this subpart, and no handler shall handle potatoes except in
conformity to the provisions of this subpart.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 948.82
Right of the Secretary.
The members of each area committee (including successors and alternates) and any agent or employee appointed or employed by any committee shall be subject to removal or suspension by the Secretary at any time. Each and every order, regulation, decision, determination or other act of each committee shall be subject to the continuing right of the Secretary to disapprove of the same at any time. Upon such disapproval, the disapproved action of the said committee shall be deemed null and void, except as to acts done in reliance thereon or in compliance therewith prior to such disapproval by the Secretary.
§ 948.83
Effective time.
The provisions of this subpart or any amendments thereto shall become effective at such time as the Secretary may declare and shall continue in force until terminated in one of the ways specified in this subpart.
[25 FR 7092, July 27, 1960, as amended at 26 FR 11483, Dec. 5, 1961. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961]
§ 948.84
Termination.
(a) The Secretary may at any time terminate any or all provisions of this subpart by giving at least one day's notice by means of a press release or in any other manner which he may determine.
(b) The Secretary may at any time terminate or suspend the operations of any or all of the provisions of this subpart whenever he finds that such provisions do not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act.
(c) The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this subpart at the end of any fiscal period whenever he finds that such termination is favored by a majority of producers, who during a representative period, as determined by the Secretary have been engaged in the production of potatoes for market:
Provided,
That such majority has, during such representative period, produced for market more than fifty percent of the volume of such potatoes produced for market.
(d) The provisions of this subpart shall in any event terminate whenever the provisions of the Act authorizing them cease to be in effect.
[25 FR 7092, July 27, 1960, as amended at 26 FR 11483, Dec. 5, 1961. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961]
§ 948.85
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of the provisions of this subpart the then functioning members of each area committee shall continue as joint trustees for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of their respective area committee of all funds and property then in the possession of or under control of the committee, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered at the time of such termination. Action by said trusteeship shall require the concurrence of a majority of the said trustees.
(b) The said trustees shall continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary; shall from time to time account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of said committees and of the trustees, to such person as the Secretary may direct; and shall upon the request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such person full title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims vested in said committee or the trustees pursuant to this subpart.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered by an area committee or its members pursuant to this section shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the members of such committees and upon the said trustees.
§ 948.86
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any regulation issued pursuant to this subpart or the issuance of any amendments to either thereof, shall not (a) effect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any
provision of this subpart or any regulation issued under this subpart; or (b) release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or of any regulations issued under this subpart; or (c) affect or impair any rights or remedies of the Secretary or of any other person with respect to any such violations.
§ 948.87
Duration of immunities.
The benefits, privileges and immunities conferred upon any person by virtue of this subpart shall cease upon the termination of this subpart, except with respect to acts done under and during the existence of this subpart.
§ 948.88
Agents.
The Secretary may, by designation in writing, name any person, including any officer or employee of the United States or name any agency in the United States Department of Agriculture, to act as his agent or representative in connection with any of the provisions of this subpart.
§ 948.89
Derogation.
Nothing contained in this subpart is, or shall be construed to be, in derogation or in modification of the rights of the Secretary or of the United States to exercise any powers granted by the Act or otherwise, or in accordance with such powers, to act in the premises whenever such action is deemed advisable.
§ 948.90
Personal liability.
No member or alternate of any committee or any employee or agent thereof, shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any handler or to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member, alternate, agent, or employee, except for acts of dishonesty, willful misconduct or gross negligence.
§ 948.91
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid or the applicability thereof to any person, circumstance or thing is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart, or the applicability thereof to any other person, circumstance or thing shall not be affected thereby.
§ 948.92
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed from time to time by a committee or by the Secretary.

# Subpart B—Administrative Requirements

# General

# Source:
26 FR 5219, June 10, 1961, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961.
§ 948.100
Order.
Order
means §§ 948.1 to 948.92 (Order No. 948 as amended) regulating the handling of Irish potatoes grown in the State of Colorado.
§ 948.101
Terms.
The terms used in this subpart shall have the same meaning as when used in §§ 948.1 to 948.92.
§ 948.102
Communications.
Unless otherwise provided in §§ 948.1 to 948.92, or by specific direction of an area committee, all reports, applications, submittals, requests and communications in connection with the order shall be addressed to the office of the committee for the area in which the potatoes involved are grown.
§ 948.103
Fiscal period.
Pursuant to § 948.10, the fiscal periods for each area shall be as follows:
(a) Area No. 1 and Area No. 3 shall begin July 1 and end June 30, of the following year, both dates inclusive;
(b) Area No. 2 shall begin September 1 and end August 31, of the following year, both dates inclusive. The 1986-87 fiscal period which began July 1, 1986, will be extended two months to August 31, 1987.
[52 FR 12515, Apr. 17, 1987]

# Effective Date Note:
At 57 FR 61774, Dec. 29, 1992, in § 948.103, in paragraph (a), the words “Area No. 1 and” were suspended indefinitely.
§ 948.104
Term of office.
(a) Pursuant to § 948.55, the two-year term of office for area committee members and alternates shall be as follows:
(1) Area No. 1 and Area No. 2 shall begin June 1 and end May 31 of the second year following;
(2) Area No. 3 shall begin May 1 and end April 30 of the second year following.
(b) The one-year term of office of Colorado Potato Committee members shall begin as of June 1 of each year.
[52 FR 12515, Apr. 17, 1987]

# Effective Date Note:
At 57 FR 61774, Dec. 29, 1992, in § 948.104, in paragraph (a)(1), the words “Area No. 1 and” were suspended indefinitely.

# Safeguards

# Source:
Sections 948.120 through 948.126 appear at 26 FR 10792, Nov. 18, 1961, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961.
§ 948.120
General.
Whenever shipments of potatoes for special purposes under § 948.23 are relieved in whole or in part from grade and size regulations issued under § 948.22 the committee shall require information and evidence as to the manner, methods, and timing of such shipments as safeguards against the entry of any such potatoes into trade channels other than those for which intended. Such information and evidence shall include the requirements set forth below with respect to Certificates of Privilege.
§ 948.121
Qualification.
Before handling potatoes for special purposes which do not meet regulations issued under § 948.22 a handler must qualify with the committee to handle shipments for special purposes. To qualify he must (a) apply for and receive a Certificate of Privilege indicating his intent to so handle potatoes; (b) agree to comply with reporting and other requirements set forth in §§ 948.121 to 948.125, inclusive, with respect to such shipments; and (c) receive approval of the committee to so handle potatoes. Such approval will be based upon evidence furnished in his application for a Certificate of Privilege, and other information available to the committee.
§ 948.122
Application.
(a) Application for Certificate of Privilege shall be made in person, by telephone, or on forms furnished by the committee. Each application may contain, but need not be limited to, the name and address of the handler; the quantity by grade, size, quality and variety of the potatoes to be shipped; the mode of transportation; the consignee; the destination; the purpose for which the potatoes are to be used; a certification to the United States Department of Agriculture and to the committee as to the truthfulness of the information shown thereon; and any other appropriate information or documents deemed necessary by the committee for the purposes stated in § 948.120.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 948.123
Approval.
The committee or its duly authorized agents shall give prompt consideration to each application for a Certificate of Privilege. Approval of an application based upon a determination as to whether the information contained therein and other information available to the committee supports approval, shall be evidenced by the issuance of a Certificate of Privilege to the applicant. Each certificate shall cover a specified period, and specified qualities and quantities of potatoes to be sold or transported to the designated consignee for the purposes declared.
§ 948.124
Reports.
Each handler of potatoes shipping under Certificates of Privilege shall supply the committee with reports as requested by the committee or its duly authorized agents showing the name and address of the shipper; the car or truck identification; the loading point; destination; consignee; the inspection certificate number when inspection is required; and any other information deemed necessary by the committee.
§ 948.125
Disqualification.
The committee from time to time may conduct surveys of handling of potatoes for special purposes requiring Certificates of Privilege to determine whether handlers are complying with the requirements and regulations applicable to such certificates. Whenever the committee finds that a handler or consignee is failing to comply with requirements and regulations applicable to handling of potatoes in special outlets, and requiring such certificates, a Certificate or Certificates of Privilege issued such handler may be rescinded and further certificates denied. Such disqualification shall apply to, and not exceed, a reasonable period of time as determined by the committee but in no event shall it extend beyond the end of the succeeding fiscal period. Any handler who has a certificate rescinded or denied may appeal to the committee in writing for reconsideration of his disqualification.
§ 948.126
General cull regulation.
(a) No handler shall handle potatoes grown in the State of Colorado which do not meet the requirements of U.S. No. 2 or better grade, or are less than
3/4
-inch in diameter.
(b) This General Cull Regulation shall remain in effect until suspended or modified pursuant to § 948.20(a)(2).
(c) The term U.S. No. 2 grade has the same meaning as when used in the U.S. Standards for Potatoes (§§ 51.1540 to 51.1556 of this title), or amendments thereto or modifications thereof.
(d) Applicability to imports: Pursuant to section 608e-1 of the act and § 980.1
Import Regulations; Irish potatoes
(part 980 of this chapter), in the absence of more restrictive regulations in effect for potatoes grown in Areas Nos. 2 and 3 in Colorado, this cull regulation shall be used in a basis for import regulations for the red skinned, round type and for other round type potatoes, during the periods specified and as designated in said § 980.1 of this chapter.
[35 FR 11988, July 25, 1970, as amended at 78 FR 35745, June 14, 2013]

# Exemptions

# Source:
Sections 948.130 through 948.132 appear at 26 FR 10793, Nov. 18, 1961, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961.
§ 948.130
Application for exemption certificates.
Any producer applying for exemption from any grade and size regulation issued under § 948.22 shall make application to the respective area committee for the area in which the applicant's potatoes were grown or are stored, on forms to be furnished by the area committee. The application shall include:
(a) The name and address of the applicant;
(b) The location, or locations, of the potatoes with respect to which exemption is requested;
(c) The total estimated quantity of potatoes (excluding culls) produced by the applicant during the current season, stated in hundredweights, by varieties, grades, and sizes;
(d) The estimated percentage of the applicant's potato crop (excluding culls) which cannot be shipped because of grade and size regulations then in effect and the acts beyond his control or reasonable expectation adversely affecting his potatoes;
(e) The quantity of potatoes of each variety (excluding culls) which has already been sold or otherwise shipped during the current season;
(f) The signature of the applicant and certification that the statements given in the application are true and correct; and
(g) Such additional information as the area committee may find necessary in making a determination regarding the granting of an exemption certificate.
§ 948.131
Federal-State inspection reports.
Each application for exemption shall be accompanied by a written report of a Federal-State Inspector, which shall contain the following:
(a) A statement by the inspector that he personally inspected the potatoes with respect to which exemption is requested, and that he took a representative sample of such potatoes;
(b) A statement of the percentage of the potatoes (excluding culls) which fail to meet the requirements of the
grade and size regulations then in effect;
(c) A statement of the defects or damage causing the potatoes to fail to meet grade and size requirements then in effect.
In the event that more than one variety of potatoes is being regulated the above percentage shall be determined separately for each variety of the applicant's potatoes. The cost of Federal-State inspection and report shall be borne by the applicant for exemption.
§ 948.132
Issuance of exemption certificates.
(a) The respective area committee receiving an application for exemption shall give prompt consideration thereto and determine on the basis of the statements and facts therein contained and the factors set forth in § 948.30 whether the application may be approved. The determination, if favorable, shall be evidenced by the issuance of a certificate of exemption pursuant to §§ 948.28 through 948.32. If the applicant's request for exemption is denied, he shall be so notified in writing.
(b) Each certificate of exemption issued as provided in this subpart, shall contain the name and address of the applicant, the location of his farm or ranch, the location, or locations, of all potatoes remaining to be shipped, the total quantity of potatoes which may be shipped under the certificate of exemption, and such other information as the area committee may deem desirable.
(c) The committee may furnish each applicant receiving a certificate of exemption with appropriate subcertificates of exemption to identify each lot of exempted potatoes and a subcertificate shall be transferable with the lot of potatoes to which it applies. Each applicant receiving a certificate of exemption shall report each shipment of potatoes made under such certificate to the respective area committee issuing the certificate. The report shall state the name and address of the person to whom the potatoes were sold, the quantity sold, the date of transfer, and such other information as the committee may request.

# Modification of Inspection Requirements
§ 948.140
Application.
Any handler whose packing facilities are located in an area where inspection is not readily available or the actual cost for inspection would otherwise exceed 1
1/3
times the current per hundredweight inspection fee, may apply to the respective area committee for a waiver from the reinspection requirements. Applications shall be made on forms furnished by the respective area committee and shall contain such information as the respective area committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may find necessary in making a determination regarding the issuance of such waiver.
[55 FR 41181, Oct. 10, 1990]
§ 948.141
Issuance.
Each respective area committee shall give prompt consideration to each application for a waiver from reinspection. In granting a waiver, the handler shall agree to comply with all marketing order requirements. Approval of an application shall be evidenced by the issuance of an applicable waiver by the respective area committee to the handler.
[55 FR 41181, Oct. 10, 1990]
§ 948.142
Reports.
Each handler shipping potatoes pursuant to a waiver from reinspection shall report periodically as specified by the respective area committee on forms furnished by the respective committee the following information on each shipment: quantity of potatoes, variety or varieties, grade, size, type of container(s), date of shipment, carrier, destination, and name and address of receiver.
[55 FR 41181, Oct. 10, 1990, as amended at 88 FR 82234, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 948.143
Cancellation.
Whenever the respective area committee finds that shipments of potatoes pursuant to a reinspection waiver are not in accordance with the established
application and safeguard provisions, such waiver may be cancelled.
[55 FR 41181, Oct. 10, 1990]
§ 948.150
Reestablishment of committee membership.
Pursuant to § 948.53, membership on each area committee shall be reestablished as follows:
(a) Area No. 2 (San Luis Valley): Nine producers and five handlers selected as follows:
(1) Two (2) producers from Rio Grande County;
(2) Two (2) producers from either Saguache County or Chaffee County;
(3) One (1) producer from either Conejos or Costilla County.
(4) Two (2) producers from Alamosa County;
(5) One (1) producer from all other counties in Area No. 2;
(6) One (1) producer representing certified seed producers in Area No. 2;
(7) Two (2) handlers representing bulk handlers in Area No. 2;
(8) Three (3) handlers representing handlers in Area No. 2 other than bulk handlers.
(b)
Area No. 3:
Three producers and two handlers selected as follows: Three (3) producers and two (2) handlers from any county in Area No. 3.
[52 FR 12515, Apr. 17, 1987, as amended at 58 FR 8541, Feb. 16, 1993; 60 FR 16566, Mar. 31, 1995; 67 FR 68021, Nov. 8, 2002; 68 FR 40119, July 7, 2003; 78 FR 30745, May 23, 2013]
§ 948.151
Colorado Potato Committee membership.
The Colorado Potato Committee shall be comprised of six members and alternates selected by the Secretary. Three members and three alternates shall be selected from nominations of Area 2 committee members or alternates, and three members and three alternates shall be selected from nominations of Area 3 committee members or alternates.
[57 FR 61774, Dec. 29, 1992]
§ 948.153
Reestablishment of area.
Pursuant to § 948.53, Area No. 2 is reestablished as follows:
Area No. 2 (San Luis Valley) includes and consists of the counties of Chaffee, Saguache, Huerfano, Las Animas, Mineral, Archuleta, Rio Grande, Conejos, Costilla, and Alamosa, in the State of Colorado.
[60 FR 16566, Mar. 31, 1995]

# Subpart C—Accounting and Collections
§ 948.200
Accounting and collections.
(a) Each handler's assessment account with Area No. 2 (San Luis Valley) Committee shall become due and payable upon presentation of a statement thereof to such handler.
(b) If settlement of such an assessment account is not completed on or before the 20th day following presentation of a statement of such account, each handler failing to so complete settlement of his account may be declared delinquent by said area committee.
(c) The name of each person who is declared delinquent may be forwarded to the Secretary and, in addition, the names of persons declared delinquent pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section may be publicized by said area committee.
(d) Terms used in this section shall have the same meaning as when used in Marketing Agreement No. 97 and Order No. 948 (§§ 948.1 to 948.92).
[19 FR 8647, Dec. 17, 1954. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961]
§ 948.215
Assessment rate.
On or after July 1, 2005, an assessment rate of $0.02 per hundredweight is established for Colorado Area No. 3 potatoes.
[70 FR 36816, June 27, 2005]
§ 948.216
Assessment rate.
On and after September 1, 2018, an assessment rate of $0.006 per hundredweight is established for Colorado Area No. 2 potatoes.
[83 FR 43503, Aug. 27, 2018]

# Subpart D—Handling Requirements
§ 948.386
Handling regulation.
No person shall handle any lot of potatoes grown in Area No. 2 unless such potatoes meet the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, or unless such potatoes are handled in accordance with paragraphs (d) and (e), or (f) of this section.
(a)
Minimum grade and size requirements
—(1)
All varieties.
U.S. No. 2 or
better grade, 2 inches minimum diameter or 4 ounces minimum weight.
(2)
1
1/2
-inch minimum to 2
1/4
-inch maximum diameter (Size B).
U.S. Commercial grade or better, except that red varieties may be U.S. No. 2 grade or better.
(3)
3/4
-inch minimum to 1
7/8
-inch maximum diameter.
U.S. Commercial grade or better.
(4) None of the above categories of potatoes identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section may be commingled in the same bag or other container.
(b)
Maturity (skinning) requirements.
From August 1 through October 31 shall be:
(1)
For U.S. No. 2 grade.
Not more than “moderately skinned.”
(2)
All other grades.
Not more than “slightly skinned.”
(c)
Inspection.
(1) No handler shall handle any potatoes for which inspection is required unless an appropriate inspection certificate has been issued with respect thereto and the certificate is valid at the time of shipment. For purposes of operation under this part it is hereby determined pursuant to § 948.40(d) that each inspection certificate shall be valid for a period not to exceed five days following the date of inspection as shown on the inspection certificate.
(2) No handler may transport or cause the transportation by motor vehicle of any shipment of potatoes for which an inspection certificate is required unless each shipment is accompanied by a copy of the inspection certificate applicable thereto and the copy is made available for examination at any time upon request.
(3) Each handler who handles potatoes after such potatoes are regraded, resorted, or repacked shall have such potatoes reinspected, unless such handler has received a waiver from reinspection pursuant to rules established by the Secretary upon the recommendation of the committee.
(d)
Special purpose shipments.
(1) The grade, size, maturity, and inspection requirements of paragraphs (a), and (b), and (c) of this section and the assessment requirements of this part shall not be applicable to shipments of potatoes for:
(i) Livestock feed;
(ii) Relief or charity; or
(iii) Canning, freezing, and “other processing” as hereinafter defined.
(2) The grade, size, maturity and inspection requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section shall not be applicable to shipments of potatoes for experimentation, the manufacture or conversion into specified products, or for seed pursuant to section 948.6, but such shipments shall be subject to assessments.
(e)
Safeguards.
Each handler of potatoes which do not meet the grade, size, and maturity requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and which are handled pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section for any of the special purposes set forth therein shall:
(1) Prior to handling, apply for and obtain a Certificate of Privilege from the committee.
(2) Furnish the committee such reports and documents as requested, including certification by the buyer or receiver as to the use of such potatoes; and
(3) Bill each shipment directly to the applicable processor or receiver.
(f)
Minimum quantity.
For purposes of regulation under this part, each person may handle up to but not to exceed 2,000 pounds of potatoes without regard to the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, but this exception shall not apply to any shipment which exceeds 2,000 pounds of potatoes.
(g)
Definitions.
The terms
U.S. No. 1, U.S. Commercial, U.S. No. 2, Size B, slightly skinned,
and
moderately skinned
shall have the same meaning as when used in the U.S. Standards for Potatoes (7 CFR 2851.1540-2851.1566), including the tolerances set forth therein. The term
other processing
has the same meaning as the term appearing in the act and includes, but is not restricted to, potatoes for dehydration, chips, shoestrings, starch, and flour. It includes only that preparation of potatoes for market which involves the application of heat or cold to such an extent that the natural form or stability of the commodity undergoes a substantial change. The act of peeling, cooling, slicing, dicing, or applying material to prevent oxidation does not constitute
“other processing.” The term
manufacture or conversion into specified products
means the preparation of potatoes for market into products by peeling, slicing, dicing, applying material to prevent oxidation, or other means approved by the committee, but not including other processing. Other terms used in this section shall have the same meaning as when used in Marketing Agreement No. 97, as amended, and this part.
(Secs. 1-19, 48 Stat. 31, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 601-674)
[46 FR 52324, Oct. 27, 1981]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 948.386, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 948.387
Handling regulation.
On and after August 1, 1982, no person shall handle any lot of potatoes grown in Area No. 3 unless such potatoes meet the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, or unless such potatoes are handled in accordance with paragraphs (d) and (e), or (f) of this section.
(a)
Minimum grade and size requirements—All varieties.
(1) U.S. No. 2 or better grade, 1
7/8
inches minimum diameter or 4 ounces minimum weight.
(2) U.S. No. 1 grade, Size B (1
1/2
inches minimum to 2
1/4
inches maximum diameter).
(3) U.S. No. 1 grade,
3/4
inch minimum to 1
7/8
inches maximum diameter.
(b)
Maturity (skinning) requirements—All Varieties.
During the period beginning July 1 and ending December 31 each season for U.S. No. 2 grade, not more than “moderately skinned,” and for all other grades, not more than “slightly skinned”; thereafter no maturity requirements.
(c)
Inspection.
(1) No handler shall handle any potatoes for which inspection is required unless an appropriate inspection certificate has been issued with respect thereto and the certificate is valid at the time of shipment. For purpose of operation under this part it is hereby determined pursuant to paragraph (d) of § 948.40, that each inspection certificate shall be valid for a period not to exceed five days following the date of inspection as shown on the inspection certificate.
(2) No handler may transport or cause the transportation by motor vehicle of any shipment of potatoes for which an inspection certificate is required unless each shipment is accompanied by a copy of the inspection certificate applicable thereto and the copy is made available for examination at any time upon request.
(3) Each handler who handles potatoes after such potatoes are regraded, resorted, or repacked shall have such potatoes reinspected, unless such handler has received a waiver from reinspection pursuant to rules established by the Secretary upon the recommendation of the committee.
(d)
Special purpose shipments.
(1) The grade, size, maturity and inspection requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section and the assessment requirements of this part shall not be applicable to shipments of potatoes for:
(i) Livestock feed;
(ii) Charity;
(iii) Canning, freezing, and “other processing” as hereinafter defined; and
(iv) Certified seed potatoes (§ 948.6).
(v) Experimentation and the manufacture or conversion into specified products.
(2) The maturity requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section shall not be applicable to shipments of potatoes for prepeeling.
(e)
Safeguards.
Each handler making shipments of potatoes pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section shall:
(1) Prior to shipment, apply for and obtain a Certificate of Privilege from the committee;
(2) Furnish the committee such reports and documents as required, including certification by the buyer or receiver on the use of such potatoes; and
(3) Bill each shipment directly to the applicable buyer or receiver.
(f)
Minimum quantity.
For purpose of regulation under this part, each person may handle up to but not to exceed 2,000 pounds of potatoes per shipment without regard to the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, but this exception shall not apply to any shipment of over 2,000 pounds of potatoes.
(g)
Definitions.
The terms
U.S. No. 1, U.S. No. 2, Size B, moderately skinned
and
slightly skinned
shall have the same meaning as when used in the United States Standards for Grades of Potatoes (7 CFR 51.1540-51.1566) including the tolerances set forth therein. The term
prepeeling
means the commercial preparation in a prepeeling plant of clean, sound, fresh potatoes by washing, peeling or otherwise removing the outer skin, trimming, sorting, and properly treating to prevent discoloration preparatory to sale in one or more of the styles of peeled potatoes described in § 52.2422 United States Standards for Grades of Peeled Potatoes (7 CFR 52.2421-52.2433). The term
other processing
has the same meaning as the term appearing in the act and includes, but is not restricted to, potatoes for dehydration, chips, shoestrings, starch, and flour. It includes only that preparation of potatoes for market which involves the application of heat or cold to such an extent that the natural form or stability of the commodity undergoes a substantial change. The act of peeling, cooling, slicing, dicing, or applying material to prevent oxidation does not constitute “other processing.” The term
manufacture or conversion into specified products
means the preparation of potatoes for market into products by peeling, slicing, dicing, applying material to prevent oxidation, or other means approved by the committee, but not including other processing. All other terms used in this section shall have the same meaning as when used in Marketing Agreement No. 97, as amended, and this part.
(Secs. 1-19, 48 Stat. 31, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 601-674)
[47 FR 32911, July 30, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 7269, Mar. 10, 1987; 55 FR 41181, Oct. 10, 1990; 66 FR 49513, Sept. 28, 2001; 74 FR 65393, Dec. 10, 2009; 75 FR 17036, Apr. 5, 2010; 76 FR 80214, Dec. 23, 2011; 80 FR 3142, Jan. 22, 2015]
Pt. 955

# PART 955—VIDALIA ONIONS GROWN IN GEORGIA

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling
Sec.
955.1
Secretary.
955.2
Act.
955.3
Person.
955.4
Production area.
955.5
Vidalia onion.
955.6
Handler.
955.7
Handle.
955.9
Producer.
955.10
Producer-handler.
955.12
Committee.
955.13
Fiscal period.

# Committee
955.20
Establishment and membership.
955.21
Term of office.
955.22
Nominations.
955.23
Selection.
955.24
Acceptance.
955.25
Alternates.
955.26
Vacancies.
955.27
Failure to nominate.
955.28
Procedure.
955.29
Expenses.
955.30
Powers.
955.31
Duties.

# Expenses and Assessments
955.40
Expenses.
955.41
Budget.
955.42
Assessments.
955.43
Accounting.
955.44
Excess funds.
955.45
Contributions.

# Research and Development
955.50
Research and development.

# Reports and Recordkeeping
955.60
Reports and recordkeeping.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
955.71
Termination or suspension.
955.72
Proceedings after termination.
955.73
Effect of termination or amendment.
955.80
Compliance.
955.81
Right of the Secretary.
955.82
Duration of immunities.
955.83
Agents.
955.84
Derogation.
955.85
Personal liability.
955.86
Separability.
955.87
Amendments.

# Marketing Agreement
955.90
Counterparts.
955.91
Additional parties.
955.92
Order with marketing agreement.

# Subpart B—Administrative Requirements
955.101
Vidalia Onion Handler Report.
955.113
Fiscal period.
955.121
Change in term of office.
955.122
Change in nomination deadlines.
955.142
Delinquent assessments.

# Assessment Rates
955.209
Assessment rate.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 601-674.

# Source:
55 FR 717, Jan. 9, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Definitions
§ 955.1
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture who has been delegated, or who may hereafter be delegated, the authority to act for the Secretary.
§ 955.2
Act.
Act
means Public Act No. 10, 73d Congress (May 12, 1933), as amended and as reenacted and amended by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (Sec. 1-19, 48 Stat. 31, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
).
§ 955.3
Person.
Person
means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other business unit.
§ 955.4
Production area.
Production area
means that part of the State of Georgia enclosed by the following boundaries:
Beginning at a point in Laurens County where U.S. Highway 441 intersects Highway 16; thence continue southerly along U.S. Highway 441 to a point where it intersects the southern boundary of Laurens County; thence southwesterly along the border of Laurens County to a point where it intersects the county road known as Jay Bird Springs Road; thence southeasterly along Jay Bird Springs Road to a point where it intersects U.S. Highway 23; thence easterly to a point where U.S. Highway 23 intersects the western border of Telfair County; thence southwesterly following the western and southern border of Telfair County to a point where it intersects with Jeff Davis County; thence following the southern border of Jeff Davis County to a point where it intersects with the western border of Bacon County; thence southerly and easterly along the border of Bacon County to a point where it intersects Georgia State Road 32; thence easterly along Georgia State Road 32 to Seaboard Coastline Railroad; thence northeasterly along the tracks of Seaboard Coastline Railroad to a point where they intersect Long County and Liberty County; thence northwesterly and northerly along the southwestern border of Liberty County to a point where the border of Liberty County intersects the southern border of Evans County; thence northeasterly along the eastern border of Evans County to the intersection of the Bulloch County border; thence northeasterly along the Bulloch County border to a point where it intersects with the Ogeechee River; thence northerly along the main channel of the Ogeechee River to a point where it intersects with the southeastern border of Screven County; thence northeasterly along the southeasterly border of Screven County to the main channel of the Savannah River; thence northerly along the main channel of the Savannah River to a point where the northwestern boundary of Hampton County, South Carolina intersects the Savannah River; thence due west to a point where State Road 24 intersects Brannen Bridge Road; thence westerly along Brannen Bridge Road to a point where it intersects with State Road 21; thence westerly along State Road 21 to the intersection of State Road 17; thence westerly along State Road 17 to the intersection of State Road 56 and southerly to the northern border of Emanuel County; thence westerly and southerly along the border of Emanuel County to a point where it intersects the Treutlen County border; thence southerly to a point where the Treutlen County border intersects Interstate Highway 16; thence westerly to the point of beginning in Laurens County.
[55 FR 717, Jan. 9, 1990, as amended at 88 FR 82234, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 955.5
Vidalia onion.
Vidalia onion
means all varieties of
Allium cepa
of the hybrid yellow granex, granex parentage or any other similar variety recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary, that are grown in the production area.
§ 955.6
Handler.
Handler
is synonymous with
shipper
and means any person (except a common or contract carrier of Vidalia onions owned by another person) who handles Vidalia onions, or causes Vidalia onions to be handled.
§ 955.7
Handle.
Handle
or
ship
means to package, load, sell, transport, or in any other way to place Vidalia onions, or cause Vidalia onions to be placed, in the current of commerce within the production area or between the production area and any point outside thereof.
Such term shall not include the transportation, sale, or delivery of field-run Vidalia onions to a person within the production area for the purpose of having such Vidalia onions prepared for market.
§ 955.9
Producer.
Producer
is synonymous with
grower
and means any person engaged in a proprietary capacity in the production of Vidalia onions for market.
§ 955.10
Producer-handler.
Producer-Handler
means a producer who handles Vidalia onions.
§ 955.12
Committee.
Committee
means the Vidalia Onion Committee, established pursuant to § 955.20.
§ 955.13
Fiscal period.
Fiscal period
means the 12-month period beginning on September 16 and ending on September 15 of the next year or such other period that may be recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.

# Committee
§ 955.20
Establishment and membership.
(a) There is hereby established a Vidalia Onion Committee, consisting of nine members, to administer the terms and provisions of this part. Eight members shall be producers, and one shall be a public member. At least four of the producer members shall be producer-handlers. Each member shall have an alternate who shall have the same qualifications as the member.
(b) Each member, other than the public member, shall be an individual who is, prior to selection and during such member's term of office, a resident of the production area and a grower or an officer or employee of a grower.
(c) The public member shall be a resident of the production area and shall have no direct financial interest in the commercial production, financing, buying, packing or marketing of Vidalia onions, except as a consumer, nor shall such person be a director, officer or employee of any firm so engaged.
§ 955.21
Term of office.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the term of office of committee members and their respective alternates shall be for two years and shall begin as of September 16 or for such other period as the committee may recommend and the Secretary approve. The terms shall be determined so that approximately one-half of the total committee membership shall terminate each year. Members and alternates shall serve in such capacity during the term of office or portion thereof for which they are selected and until their respective successors are selected.
(b) The term of office of the initial members and alternates shall begin as soon as possible after effective date of this part. As determined by lot drawn at the initial nomination meeting, one-fourth of the initial grower members and alternates shall serve for a one-year term, one-fourth shall serve for a two-year term, one-fourth shall serve for a three-year term, and one-fourth shall serve for a four-year term. The term of office for the initial public member and alternate shall be for two years.
(c) The consecutive terms of office of members shall be limited to three 2-year terms.
§ 955.22
Nominations.
(a)
Initial members.
For nominations to the initial committee, a meeting of producers shall be held by the Secretary.
(b)
Successor members.
(1) The committee shall hold or cause to be held not later than August 1 of each year, or such other date as may be specified by the Secretary, a meeting or meetings of growers for the purpose of designating one nominee for each position as member and for each position as alternate member of the committee which is vacant, or which is about to become vacant.
(2) Nominations for members and alternates shall be supplied to the Secretary in such manner and form as the Secretary may prescribe, not later than August 15 of each year, or by such other date as may be specified by the Secretary.
(3) The Secretary may, upon recommendation of the committee, divide the production area into districts for the purpose of nominating committee members and their alternates.
(c) Only producers may participate in designating nominees to serve as committee members. Each producer is entitled to cast only one vote on behalf of such producer and such producer's agents, subsidiaries, affiliates, and representatives in designating nominees for committee members and alternates. An eligible voter's privilege of casting only one vote shall be construed to permit a voter to cast one vote for each position to be filled.
(d) The producer members shall nominate the public member and alternate member at the first meeting following the selection of members for a new term of office. Nominations for the public member and alternate member shall be supplied to the Secretary in such manner and form as the Secretary may prescribe, not later than November 1, or such other date as may be specified by the Secretary.
§ 955.23
Selection.
From the nominations made pursuant to § 955.22 or from other qualified persons, the Secretary shall select members and alternate members of the committee.
§ 955.24
Acceptance.
Any person nominated to serve as a member or alternate member of the committee shall, prior to selection by the Secretary, qualify by filing a written acceptance indicating such person's willingness to serve in the position for which nominated.
§ 955.25
Alternates.
An alternate member of the committee shall act in the place and stead of the member for whom such person is an alternate during such member's absence or when designated to do so by such member. In the event both a member of the committee and that member's alternate are unable to attend a committee meeting, the member, the alternate, or the committee, in that order, may designate another alternate from the same district (if applicable) and the same group (producer or producer-handler) to serve in such member's stead. Only the public member's alternate is authorized to serve in the place and stead of the public member. In the event of the death, removal, resignation or disqualification of a member, that member's alternate shall serve until a successor to such member is selected.
§ 955.26
Vacancies.
To fill any vacancy occasioned by the failure of any person nominated as a member or as an alternate to qualify, or in the event of the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of a member or alternate, a successor for the unexpired term may be selected by the Secretary from nominations made pursuant to § 955.22, or from other eligible persons.
§ 955.27
Failure to nominate.
If nominations are not made within the time and manner prescribed in § 955.22, the Secretary may, without regard to nominations, select members and alternates on the basis of the representation provided for in § 955.20.
§ 955.28
Procedure.
(a) Five members of the committee shall constitute a quorum, and five concurring votes shall be required to pass any motion or approve any committee action.
(b) The committee may provide for meetings by telephone, telegraph, or other means of communication, and any vote cast orally at such meetings shall be confirmed promptly in writing:
Provided,
That if an assembled meeting is held, all votes shall be cast in person.
§ 955.29
Expenses.
Members and alternates shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for such expenses authorized by the committee and necessarily incurred by them in attending committee meetings and in the performance of their duties under this part.
§ 955.30
Powers.
The committee shall have the following powers:
(a) To administer the provisions of this part in accordance with its terms;
(b) To make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of this part;
(c) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violation of the provisions of this part; and
(d) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this part.
§ 955.31
Duties.
The committee shall have, among others, the following duties:
(a) As soon as practicable after the beginning of each term of office, to meet and organize, to select a chairman and such other officers as may be necessary, to select subcommittees of committee members or alternates, and to adopt such rules and regulations for the conduct of its business as it deems necessary;
(b) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any producer or handler;
(c) To furnish to the Secretary such available information as may be requested;
(d) To appoint such employees, agents, and representatives as it may deem necessary, to determine the compensation and define the duties of each such person, and to protect the handling of committee funds;
(e) To investigate from time to time and to assemble data on the growing, harvesting, shipping, and marketing conditions with respect to Vidalia onions;
(f) To keep minutes, books, and records which clearly reflect all of the acts and transactions of the committee. Such minutes, books, and records shall be subject to examination at any time by the Secretary or the Secretary's authorized agent or representative. Minutes of each committee meeting shall be furnished promptly to the Secretary;
(g) Prior to the beginning of each fiscal period, to prepare and submit to the Secretary a budget of its projected income and expenses for such fiscal period, together with a report thereon and a recommendation as to the rate of assessment for such period;
(h) To cause its books to be audited by a Certified Public Accountant at least once each fiscal period, and at such other time as the committee may deem necessary or as the Secretary may request. The report of such audit shall show the receipt and expenditure of funds collected pursuant to this part. A copy of each report shall be furnished to the Secretary. A copy shall also be made available at the principal office of the committee for inspection by producers and handlers provided that confidential information shall be removed;
(i) To give the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the committee and its subcommittees as is given to its members.

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 955.40
Expenses.
The committee is authorized to incur such expenses as the Secretary may find are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the committee for its maintenance and functioning, and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this part. The funds to cover such expenses shall be acquired in the manner prescribed in §§ 955.42 and 955.45.
§ 955.41
Budget.
At least 60 days prior to each fiscal period, or such other date as may be specified by the Secretary, and as may be necessary thereafter, the committee shall prepare an estimated budget of income and expenditures necessary for the administration of this part. The committee may recommend a rate of assessment calculated to provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures. The committee shall present such budget to the Secretary with an accompanying report showing the basis for its calculations.
§ 955.42
Assessments.
(a) The funds to cover the committee's expenses shall be acquired by the levying of assessments upon handlers as provided in this subpart. Each person who first handles Vidalia onions shall pay assessments to the committee upon demand, which assessments shall be in payment of such handler's pro rata share of the committee's expenses.
(b) Assessments shall be levied upon handlers at rates established by the Secretary. Such rates may be established upon the basis of the committee's recommendations or other available information.
(c) At any time during, or subsequent to, a given fiscal period the committee may recommend the approval of an amended budget and an increase in the rate of assessment. Upon the basis of such recommendations, or other available information, the Secretary may approve an amended budget and increase the assessment rate. Such increase shall be applicable to all Vidalia onions which were handled during such fiscal period.
(d) The payment of assessments for the maintenance and functioning of the committee may be required under this part throughout the period it is in effect irrespective of whether particular provisions of this part are suspended or become inoperative.
(e) To provide funds for the administration of the provisions of this part during the initial fiscal period or the first part of a fiscal period when neither sufficient operating reserve funds nor sufficient revenue from assessments on the current season's shipments are available, the committee may accept payment of assessments in advance or may borrow money for such purposes.
(f) The committee may impose a late payment charge or an interest charge or both, on any handler who fails to pay any assessment in a timely manner. Such time and the rates shall be recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.
[55 FR 717, Jan. 9, 1990, as amended at 88 FR 82234, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 955.43
Accounting.
(a) All funds received by the committee pursuant to the provisions of this part shall be used solely for the purposes specified in this part.
(b) The Secretary may at any time require the committee, its members and alternates, employees, agents and all other persons to account for all receipts and disbursements, funds, property, or records for which they are responsible. Whenever any person ceases to be a member or alternate of the committee, such person shall account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property and funds in such member's possession to the committee, pertaining to the committee's activities for which such person was responsible, and shall execute such assignments and other instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to vest in the committee full title to all of the property, funds, and claims vested in such person.
(c) The committee may make recommendations to the Secretary for one or more of the members thereof, or any other person, to act as a trustee for holding records, funds, or any other committee property during periods of suspension of this part, or during any period or periods when regulations are not in effect and, upon determining such action is appropriate, the Secretary may direct that such person or persons shall act as trustee or trustees for the committee.
§ 955.44
Excess funds.
If, at the end of a fiscal period, the assessments collected are in excess of expenses incurred, such excess shall be accounted for as follows:
(a) The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish an operating reserve and may carry over to subsequent fiscal periods excess funds in a reserve so established, except funds in the reserve shall not exceed the equivalent of approximately three fiscal periods' budgeted expenses. Such reserve funds may be used:
(1) To defray any expenses authorized under this part;
(2) To defray expenses during any fiscal period prior to the time assessment income is sufficient to cover such expenses;
(3) To cover deficits incurred during any fiscal period when assessment income is less than expenses;
(4) To defray expenses incurred during any period when any or all provisions of this part are suspended or are inoperative; and
(5) To cover necessary expenses of liquidation in the event of termination of this part.
Upon termination of this part, any funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be
disposed of in such manner as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate except that to the extent practicable, such funds shall be returned pro rata to the persons from whom such funds were collected.
(b) If such excess is not retained in a reserve as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, each handler entitled to a proportionate refund of the excess assessments collected shall be credited at the end of a fiscal period with such refund against the operations of the following fiscal period unless such handler demands payment thereof, in which event such proportionate refund shall be paid.
§ 955.45
Contributions.
The committee may accept voluntary contributions but these shall only be used to pay expenses incurred pursuant to § 955.50. Such contributions shall be free from any encumbrances by the donor, and the committee shall retain complete control of their use.

# Research and Development
§ 955.50
Research and development.
(a) The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish or provide for the establishment of production research, marketing research and development and marketing promotion projects, including paid advertising, designed to assist, improve, or promote the marketing, distribution, consumption, or efficient production of Vidalia onions. Any such project for the promotion and advertising of Vidalia onions may utilize an identifying mark which shall be made available for use by all handlers in accordance with such terms and conditions as the committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may prescribe. The expense of such projects shall be paid from funds collected pursuant to § 955.42 or § 955.45.
(b) In recommending projects pursuant to this section, the committee shall give consideration to the following:
(1) The expected supply of Vidalia onions in relation to market requirements;
(2) The supply situation among competing areas and commodities;
(3) The anticipated benefits from such projects in relation to their costs;
(4) The need for marketing research with respect to any market development activity; and
(5) Other relevant factors.
(c) If the committee should conclude that a program of research and development should be undertaken, or continued, in any fiscal period, it shall submit the following for the approval of the Secretary;
(1) Its recommendations as to the funds to be obtained pursuant to § 955.42 or § 955.45;
(2) Its recommendation as to any research projects; and
(3) Its recommendations as to promotion activity and paid advertising.
(d) Upon conclusion of each activity, but at least annually, the committee shall summarize and report the results of such activity to the Secretary.
(e) All marketing promotion activity engaged in by the committee, including paid advertising, shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
(1) No marketing promotion, including paid advertising, shall refer to any private brand, private trademark or private trade name;
(2) No promotion or advertising shall disparage the quality, use, value or sale of like or any other agricultural commodity or product, and no false or unwarranted claims shall be made in connection with the product; and
(3) No promotion or advertising shall be undertaken without reason to believe that returns to producers will be improved by such activity.

# Reports and Recordkeeping
§ 955.60
Reports and recordkeeping.
Upon request of the committee, made with the approval of the Secretary, each handler shall furnish to the committee, in such manner and at such time as it may prescribe, such reports and other information as may be necessary for the committee to perform its duties under this part.
(a) Such reports may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) The quantities of Vidalia onions received by a handler;
(2) The quantities disposed of by the handler;
(3) The date of each such disposition; and
(4) The identification of the carrier transporting such Vidalia onions.
(b) All such reports shall be held under appropriate protective classification and custody by duly appointed employees of the committee, so that the information contained therein which may adversely affect the competitive position of any handler in relation to other handlers will not be disclosed. Compilations of general reports from data submitted by handlers is authorized, subject to the prohibition of disclosure of an individual handler's identity or operations.
(c) Each handler shall maintain for at least two succeeding years such records of the Vidalia onions received and disposed of by such handler as may be necessary to verify reports submitted to the committee pursuant to this section.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 955.71
Termination or suspension.
(a) The Secretary may at any time terminate the provisions of this part by giving at least one day's notice by means of a press release or in any other manner which the Secretary may determine.
(b) The Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operations of any or all of the provisions of this part whenever it is found that such provisions do not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act.
(c) The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this part at the end of any fiscal period whenever it is found that such termination is favored by a majority of producers who, during a representative period, have been engaged in the production of Vidalia onions:
Provided,
That such majority has, during such representative period, produced for market more than fifty percent of the volume of such Vidalia onions produced for market, but such termination shall be effective only if announced on or before June 15 of the then current fiscal period.
(d) Within six years of the effective date of this part, the Secretary shall conduct a continuance referendum to ascertain whether continuance of this part is favored by producers. Subsequent referenda to ascertain continuance shall be conducted every six years thereafter.
(e) The provisions of this part shall, in any event, terminate whenever the provisions of the Act authorizing them cease to be in effect.
§ 955.72
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of the provisions of this subpart, the then functioning members of the committee shall continue as joint trustees, for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the committee, of all funds and property then in the possession, or under control, of the committee, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered at the time of such termination. Action by said trusteeship shall require the concurrence of a majority of the said trustees.
(b) The said trustees shall continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary; shall, from time to time, account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of said committee and of the trustees, to such person as the Secretary may direct; and shall upon the request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such person full title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims vested in said committee or the trustees pursuant to this subpart.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered by the committee or its members pursuant to this section shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the members of the committee and upon the said trustees.
§ 955.73
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any regulation issued pursuant to this subpart, or the issuance of any amendments to either thereof, shall not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter
arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or any regulation issued under this subpart;
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or of any regulations issued under this subpart; or
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the Secretary or of any other person with respect to any such violations.
§ 955.80
Compliance.
No handler shall handle Vidalia onions except in conformity with the provisions of this part.
§ 955.81
Right of the Secretary.
The members of the committee (including successors and alternates) and any agent or employee appointed or employed by the committee shall be subject to removal or suspension by the Secretary at any time. Each and every order, regulation, decision, determination, or other act of the committee shall be subject to the continuing right of the Secretary to disapprove of the same at any time. Upon such disapproval, the disapproved action of the committee shall be deemed null and void except as to acts done in reliance thereon or in compliance therewith prior to such disapproval by the Secretary.
§ 955.82
Duration of immunities.
The benefits, privileges, and immunities conferred upon any person by virtue of this part shall cease upon the termination of this part, except with respect to acts done under and during the existence of this part.
§ 955.83
Agents.
The Secretary may, by designation in writing, name any person, including any officer or employee of the Government, or name any agency in the United States Department of Agriculture, to act as the Secretary's agent or representative in connection with any of the provisions of this part.
§ 955.84
Derogation.
Nothing contained in this part is, or shall be construed to be, in derogation or in modification of the rights of the Secretary or of the United States to exercise any powers granted by the Act or otherwise, or, in accordance with such powers, to act in the premises whenever such action is deemed advisable.
§ 955.85
Personal liability.
No member or alternate of the committee or any employee or agent thereof, shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any handler or to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member, alternate, employee, or agent, except for acts of dishonesty, willful misconduct, or gross negligence.
§ 955.86
Separability.
If any provision of this part is declared invalid, or the applicability thereof to any person, circumstance, or thing is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this part, or the applicability thereof to any other person, circumstance, or thing shall not be affected thereby.
§ 955.87
Amendments.
Amendments to this part may be proposed, from time to time, by the committee or by the Secretary.

# Marketing Agreement
§ 955.90
Counterparts.
This agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts and when one counterpart is signed by the Secretary, all such counterparts shall constitute, when taken together, one and the same instrument as if all signatures were contained in one original.
§ 955.91
Additional parties.
After the effective date thereof, any handler may become a party to this agreement if a counterpart is executed by such handler and delivered to the Secretary. This agreement shall take effect as to such new contracting part at the time such counterpart is delivered to the Secretary, and the benefits, privileges, and immunities conferred by this agreement shall then be effective as to such new contracting party.
§ 955.92
Order with marketing agreement.
Each signatory hereby requests the Secretary to issue, pursuant to the Act, an order providing for regulating the handling of Vidalia onions in the same manner as is provided for in this agreement.

# Subpart B—Administrative Requirements
§ 955.101
Vidalia Onion Handler Report.
(a) Each handler shall furnish shipping reports with the Vidalia Onion Committee on a monthly basis. Such reports shall be made on forms provided by the Committee and shall include:
(1) The name and address of the handler;
(2) Monthly period covered by the report;
(3) Total quantity of Vidalia onions received;
(4) Total fresh market shipments of Vidalia onions;
(5) Shipment volume coming from acreage owned by the handler;
(6) Total assessments owed;
(7) Volume of onions packed under contract for another handler and those handler names;
(8) Onions sold to another handler; and
(9) Information on onions placed in Controlled Atmosphere storage.
(b) Handlers shall file reports each fiscal period beginning the first month they make shipments and shall continue filing reports until they submit a final report for the season. Each such report shall be filed with the Committee not later than 5 p.m. on the tenth day of each month following the month in which any shipments were made. Should the tenth day of the month fall on a weekend or holiday, reports are due by the first business day following the tenth day of the month.
[67 FR 41816, June 20, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 34509, June 15, 2006; 78 FR 28120, May 14, 2013]
§ 955.113
Fiscal period.
Pursuant to § 955.13,
fiscal period
shall mean the period beginning January 1 and ending December 31 of each year, except that the fiscal period that began on September 16, 1998, shall end on December 31, 1999.
[64 FR 48245, Sept. 3, 1999]
§ 955.121
Change in term of office.
Pursuant to § 955.21, the term of office for the Committee shall be for two years beginning January 1 and ending December 31, except that, the term of office for members and alternates whose terms expired on September 15, 1999, shall end on December 31, 1999, or until qualified successors are selected.
[64 FR 72269, Dec. 27, 1999]
§ 955.122
Change in nomination deadlines.
Pursuant to § 955.22, the Committee shall hold or cause to be held not later than October 1 of each year a meeting or meetings of growers for the purpose of designating one nominee for each position as member and for each position as alternate of the Committee which is vacant, or about to become vacant. Such nominations shall be supplied to the Secretary in such manner and form as the Secretary may prescribe, not later than October 15 of each year. The grower members shall nominate the public member and alternate public member at the first meeting following the selection of members for a new term of office. Nominations for the public member and alternate public member shall be supplied to the Secretary in such manner and form as the Secretary may prescribe, not later than February 15.
[64 FR 72269, Dec. 27, 1999]
§ 955.142
Delinquent assessments.
(a) Each handler shall submit assessments to the Vidalia Onion Committee on a monthly basis for each month during the fiscal period in which they made shipments. Each such assessment shall be paid to the Committee not later than 5 p.m. on the tenth day of each month following the month in which any shipments were made. Should the tenth day of the month fall on a weekend or holiday, assessments are due by the first business day following the tenth day of the month.
(b) Each handler shall pay interest of 1.5 percent per month on any assessments levied pursuant to § 955.42 and on any accrued unpaid interest beginning the day immediately after the date the monthly assessments were due, until the delinquent handler's assessments, plus applicable interest, have been paid in full. In addition to the interest charge, the Committee shall impose a late payment charge on any handler whose assessment payment has not been received within 10 days of the due date. The late payment charge shall be 10 percent of the late assessments.
[71 FR 34509, June 15, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 37620, June 28, 2011; 78 FR 28120, May 14, 2013]

# Assessment Rates
§ 955.209
Assessment rate.
On and after January 1, 2008, an assessment rate of $0.13 per 40-pound carton or equivalent is established for Vidalia onions.
[73 FR 31607, June 3, 2008]
Pt. 956

# PART 956—SWEET ONIONS GROWN IN THE WALLA WALLA VALLEY OF SOUTHEAST WASHINGTON AND NORTHEAST OREGON

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Definitions
Sec.
956.1
Secretary.
956.2
Act.
956.3
Person.
956.4
Production area.
956.5
Walla Walla Sweet Onions.
956.6
Handler.
956.7
Registered handler.
956.8
Handle.
956.9
Container.
956.10
Producer.
956.11
Varieties.
956.12
Committee.
956.13
Fiscal period.
956.14
[Reserved]
956.15
Grade and size.
956.16
Pack.

# Administrative Committee
956.20
Establishment and membership.
956.21
Term of office.
956.22
Nominations.
956.23
Selection.
956.24
Qualification and acceptance.
956.25
Alternates.
956.26
Vacancies.
956.27
Failure to nominate.
956.28
Procedure.
956.29
Expenses.
956.30
Powers.
956.31
Duties.

# Expenses and Assessments
956.40
Expenses.
956.41
Budget.
956.42
Assessments.
956.43
Accounting.
956.44
Excess funds.
956.45
Contributions.

# Research and Development
956.50
Research and development.

# Regulation
956.60
Marketing policy.
956.61
Recommendation for regulations.
956.62
Issuance of regulations.
956.63
Handling for specified purposes.
956.64
Minimum quantities.
956.65
Notification of regulations.
956.66
Safeguards.

# Inspection
956.70
Inspection and certification.

# Reports
956.80
Reports and recordkeeping.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
956.85
Termination or suspension.
956.87
Proceedings after termination.
956.88
Effect of termination or amendment.
956.89
Compliance.
956.90
Right of the Secretary.
956.91
Duration of immunities.
956.92
Agents.
956.93
Derogation.
956.94
Personal liability.
956.95
Separability.
956.96
Amendments.

# Subpart B—Administrative Requirements
956.113
Fiscal period.
956.142
Interest charges.
956.162
Container markings.
956.163
Handling for specified purposes.
956.180
Reports.
956.202
Assessment rate.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 601-674.

# Source:
60 FR 27626, May 24, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Definitions
§ 956.1
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or any officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture who has been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, the authority to act for the Secretary.
§ 956.2
Act.
Act
means Public Act No. 10, 73d Congress (May 12, 1933), as amended and as reenacted and amended by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (Sec. 1-19, 48 Stat. 31, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
).
§ 956.3
Person.
Person
means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other business unit.
§ 956.4
Production area.
Production area
means a tract of land in Umatilla County, Oregon, and Walla Walla County, Washington, based on surveyors' maps, enclosed by the following boundaries:
Commencing at the Southeast corner of Section 13, Township (Twp.) 5 North, Range (Rge.) 36 East, W.M.; thence Westerly along the South line of Sections 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, and 18 in Twp. 5 North, Rge. 36 East, Sections 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, and 18 in Twp. 5 North, Rge. 35 East, Sections 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, and 18 in Twp. 5 North, Rge. 34 East, Sections 13, 14, and 15 in Twp. 5 North, Rge. 33 East, W.M. to the East right of way line of the Northern Pacific Railway, as it runs Northwesterly through Vansyckle Canyon; thence Northwesterly along said Easterly right of way line to a point in the Northwest
1/4
of Section 20, Twp. 7 North, Rge. 32 East, W.M. where said line intersects the South right of way of the Union Pacific Railway, said intersection being commonly known as Zangar Junction; thence Easterly along said South right of way line of the Union Pacific Railway to a point in the Southwest
1/4
of Section 23, Twp. 7 North, Rge. 32 East where said line intersects the South right of way line of Washington State Highway No. 12; thence Easterly along said South right of way line to the intersection with the West line of Section 34, Twp. 7 North, Rge. 33 East, W.M.; thence North, along the West line of Sections 34, 27, 22, 15, 10, and 3 in Twp. 7 North, Rge. 33 East, W.M., and the West line of Sections 34, 27, and 22 in Twp. 8 North, Rge. 33 East, W.M. to the Northwest corner of said Section 22; thence East along the North line of said Section 22 to the Northeast corner thereof; thence North along the West line of Sections 14, 11, and 2 in Twp. 8 North, Rge. 33 East, W.M. to the Northwest corner of said Section 2; thence East along North lines of Sections 2 and 1 in Twp. 8 North, Rge. 33 East, W.M. and the North line of Section 6, Twp. 8 North, Rge. 34 East, W.M. to the centerline of the Touchet River; thence northerly and Easterly along said centerline of the Touchet River as it runs through Twp. 9 North, Rge. 34 East, Twp. 9 North, Rge. 35 East, Twp. 10 North, Rge. 35 East, Twp. 10 North, Rge. 36 East, Twp. 9 North, Rge. 36 East, and Twp. 9 North, Rge. 37 East to a point on the East line of Section 11 in Twp. 9 North, Rge. 37 East, W.M., thence South along the East line of Sections 11, 14, 23, 26, and 35 in Twp. 9 North, Rge. 37 East, W.M., the East lines of Sections 2, 11, 14, 23, 26, and 35 in Twp. 8 North, Rge. 37 East, W.M., the East lines of Sections 2, 11, 14, 23, 26, and 35 in Twp. 7 North, Rge. 37 East, W.M., and the East lines of Sections 2, 11, and fractional Section 14 in Twp. 6 North, Rge. 37 East, W.M., to a point on the Washington-Oregon State line; thence West along said State Line to the closing corner on the West side of Section 18 in Twp. 6 North, Rge. 37 East, W.M.; thence South along the West line of Sections 18, 19, 30, and 31 in Twp. 6 North, Rge. 37 East, W.M. and the West line of Sections 6, 7, and 18 in Twp. 5 North, Rge. 37 East to the corner common to Sections 18 and 19 in Twp. 5 North, Rge. 37 East, W.M. and 13 and 24 in Twp. 5 North, Rge. 36 East, W.M., Being the True Point of Beginning of this Legal Description.
§ 956.5
Walla Walla Sweet Onions.
Walla Walla Sweet Onions
means all varieties of
Allium cepa
grown within the production area, except Spanish hybrid varieties. The committee may, with the approval of the Secretary, exempt individual varieties from any or all regulations issued under this part.
§ 956.6
Handler.
Handler
is synonymous with
shipper
and means any person (except a common or contract carrier of Walla Walla Sweet Onions owned by another person) who handles Walla Walla Sweet Onions or causes Walla Walla Sweet Onions to be handled.
§ 956.7
Registered handler.
Registered handler
means any person with adequate facilities for preparing Walla Walla Sweet Onions for commercial market, who has requested such registration and is so recorded by the committee, or any person who has access to such facilities and has recorded with the committee the ability and willingness to assume customary obligations of preparing Walla Walla Sweet Onions for commercial market. The committee may recommend, for approval of the Secretary, procedures with respect to handler registration.
§ 956.8
Handle.
Handle
is synonymous with
ship
and means to package, load, sell, transport, or in any way place Walla Walla Sweet Onions or cause Walla Walla Sweet Onions to be placed in the current of commerce within the production area or between the production area and any point outside thereof. Such term shall not include the transportation, sale, or delivery of harvested Walla Walla Sweet Onions to a handler within the production area for the purpose of having such Walla Walla Sweet Onions prepared for market.
§ 956.9
Container.
Container
means a box, bag, crate, hamper, basket, package, or any other receptacle used in the packaging, transporting, sale, shipment, or other handling of Walla Walla Sweet Onions.
§ 956.10
Producer.
Producer
is synonymous with
grower
and means any person engaged in a proprietary capacity in the production of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for market.
§ 956.11
Varieties.
Varieties
means and includes all classifications, subdivisions, or types of Walla Walla Sweet Onions according to those definitive characteristics now or hereafter recognized by the United States Department of Agriculture or recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.
§ 956.12
Committee.
Committee
means the Walla Walla Sweet Onion Committee established pursuant to § 956.20.
§ 956.13
Fiscal period.
Fiscal period
means the period beginning on June 1 and ending on May 31 of each year, or other such period as may be recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.
§ 956.14
[Reserved]
§ 956.15
Grade and size.
Grade
means any of the officially established grades of onions, including maturity requirements and
size
means any of the officially established sizes of onions as set forth in the United States standards for grades of onions or amendments thereto, or modifications thereof, or variations based thereon, or States of Washington or Oregon standards of onions or amendments thereto or modifications thereof or variations based thereon, recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.
[64 FR 4933, Feb. 1, 1999]
§ 956.16
Pack.
Pack
means a quantity of Walla Walla Sweet Onions specified by grade, size, weight, or count, or by type or condition of container, or any combination of these recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.
[64 FR 4933, Feb. 1, 1999]

# Administrative Committee
§ 956.20
Establishment and membership.
(a) The Walla Walla Sweet Onion Marketing Committee, consisting of seven members, is hereby established. The Committee shall consist of four producer members, two handler members, and one public member. Each member shall have an alternate who shall have the same qualifications as the member.
(b) A producer shall have three years of experience in producing onions in order to qualify for committee membership. At the time of selection, no
more than two producer members may be affiliated with the same handler.
[60 FR 27626, May 24, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 4933, Feb. 1, 1999; 84 FR 13515, May 6, 2019]
§ 956.21
Term of office.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the term of office of grower and handler Committee members and their respective alternates shall be two fiscal periods beginning on June 1 or such other date as recommended by the Committee and approved by the Secretary. The terms shall be determined so that one-half of the grower membership and one-half of the handler membership shall terminate each year. Members and alternates shall serve during the term of office for which they are selected and have been qualified, or during that portion thereof beginning on the date on which they qualify during such term of office and continuing until the end thereof, or until their successors are selected and have qualified.
(b) The term of office of the initial members and alternates shall begin as soon as possible after May 6, 2019. One-half of the initial industry grower and handler members and alternates shall serve for a one-year term and one-half shall serve for a two-year term. The initial as well as all successive terms of office of the public member and alternate member shall be for three years.
(c) The consecutive terms of office for all members shall be limited to two two-year terms. There shall be no such limitation for alternate members.
[84 FR 13515, May 6, 2019]
§ 956.22
Nominations.
Nominations from which the Secretary may select the members of the committee and their respective alternates may be made in the following manner:
(a) The committee shall hold or cause to be held, within the production area and prior to April 1 of each year or by such other date as may be specified by the Secretary, one or more meetings of producers and handlers for the purpose of designating one nominee for each of the member and alternate member positions which are vacant or will be vacant at the end of the fiscal period;
(b) In arranging for such meetings the committee may, if it deems such desirable, cooperate with existing organizations and agencies;
(c) Nominations for committee members and alternate members shall be provided to the Secretary, in such manner and form as the Secretary may prescribe, not later than 30 days prior to the end of the fiscal period within which the current term of office expires;
(d) Only producers may participate in designating nominees for producer committee members and their alternates and only handlers may participate in designating nominees for handler committee members and their alternates;
(e) Each person who is both a handler and a producer may vote either as a handler or as a producer, but not both;
(f) Each person is entitled to cast only one vote on behalf of him or herself, his or her partners, agents, subsidiaries, affiliates and representatives, in designating nominees for committee members and alternates. An eligible producer's or handler's privilege of casting only one vote, as aforesaid, shall be construed to permit such voter to cast one vote for each producer member and alternate member position to be filled or each handler member and alternate member position to be filled, but not both.
(g) Every three years, at the first meeting following selection, the committee shall nominate the public member and alternate for a three-year term of office.
(h) The committee shall prescribe such additional qualifications, administrative rules and procedures for selection and voting for each candidate as it deems necessary and as the Secretary approves.
§ 956.23
Selection.
The Secretary shall select members and alternate members of the committee from the nominations made pursuant to § 956.22 or from other qualified persons.
§ 956.24
Qualification and acceptance.
Any person nominated to serve as a member or alternate member of the committee shall, prior to selection by the Secretary, qualify by filing a written background and acceptance statement indicating such person's willingness to serve in the position for which nominated.
§ 956.25
Alternates.
An alternate member of the committee shall act in the place and stead of the member for whom such person is an alternate, during such member's absence. In the event of the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of a member, that member's alternate shall serve until a successor to such member has qualified and is selected.
§ 956.26
Vacancies.
To fill any vacancy occasioned by the failure of any person nominated as a member or as an alternate to qualify, or in the event of the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of a member or alternate, a successor for the unexpired term may be selected by the Secretary from nominations made pursuant to § 956.22 from previously unselected nominees on the current nominee list, or from other eligible persons.
§ 956.27
Failure to nominate.
If nominations are not made within the time and manner prescribed in § 956.22 the Secretary may, without regard to nominations, select the members and alternates on the basis of the representation provided for in § 956.20.
§ 956.28
Procedure.
(a) Four members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum, and four concurring votes shall be required to pass any motion or approve any Committee action, except that recommendations made pursuant to § 956.61 shall require five concurring votes.
(b) The committee may provide for meetings by telephone, telegraph, facsimile, or other means of communication, and any vote cast orally at such meetings shall be confirmed promptly in writing:
Provided,
That if an assembled meeting is held, all votes shall be cast in person.
[60 FR 27626, May 24, 1995, as amended at 84 FR 13516]
§ 956.29
Expenses.
Members and alternates shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for such expenses authorized by the committee and necessarily incurred by them in attending committee meetings and in the performance of their duties under this part.
§ 956.30
Powers.
The committee shall have the following powers:
(a) To administer the provisions of this part in accordance with its terms;
(b) To make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of this part;
(c) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of the provisions of this part; and
(d) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this part.
§ 956.31
Duties.
It shall be among the duties of the committee:
(a) At the beginning of each fiscal period, or as soon thereafter as practicable, to meet and organize, to select a chairperson and such other officers as may be necessary, to select subcommittees, and to adopt such rules and regulations for the conduct of its business as it may deem advisable;
(b) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any producer or handler;
(c) To furnish to the Secretary such available information as the Secretary may request;
(d) To appoint such employees, agents, and representatives as it may deem necessary and to determine the salaries and define the duties of each such person;
(e) To investigate from time to time and to assemble data on the growing, harvesting, shipping, and marketing conditions with respect to Walla Walla Sweet Onions and to engage in such research and service activities which relate to the production, handling, or
marketing of Walla Walla Sweet Onions as may be approved by the Secretary;
(f) To keep minutes, books, and records which clearly reflect all of the acts and transactions of the committee. Such minutes, books, and records shall be subject to examination at any time by the Secretary or the Secretary's authorized agent or representative;
(g) To make available to producers and handlers the committee voting record on recommended regulations and on other matters of policy;
(h) Prior to each fiscal period, to submit to the Secretary a budget of its proposed expenses for such fiscal period, together with a report thereon, and a recommendation as to the rate of assessment for such period;
(i) To cause its books to be audited by a competent accountant at least once each fiscal period, and at such other time as the committee may deem necessary or as the Secretary may require; the report of such audit shall show the receipt and expenditure of funds collected pursuant to this part; a copy of each such report shall be furnished to the Secretary, and a copy of each such report shall be made available at the principal office of the committee for inspection by producers and handlers:
Provided,
that confidential information shall be removed from all copies made available to the public; and
(j) To consult, cooperate, and exchange information with other onion marketing committees and other individuals or agencies in connection with all proper committee activities and objectives under this subpart.

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 956.40
Expenses.
The committee is authorized to incur such expenses as the Secretary may find are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the committee for its maintenance and functioning, and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this part. The funds to cover such expenses shall be acquired in the manner prescribed in §§ 956.42 and 956.45.
§ 956.41
Budget.
Prior to each fiscal period and as may be necessary thereafter, the committee shall prepare an estimated budget of income and expenditures necessary for the administration of this part. The committee shall recommend a rate of assessment calculated to provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures. The committee shall present such budget to the Secretary with an accompanying report showing the basis for its calculations.
§ 956.42
Assessments.
(a) The funds to cover the committee's expenses shall be acquired by the levying of assessments upon handlers as provided in this subpart. Each person who first handles Walla Walla Sweet Onions shall pay assessments to the committee upon demand, which assessments shall be in payment of such handler's pro rata share of the committee's expenses.
(b) Assessments shall be levied upon handlers, at rates established by the Secretary. Such rates may be established upon the basis of the committee's recommendations or other available information.
(c) At any time during, or subsequent to, a given fiscal period, the committee may recommend the approval of an amended budget and an increase in the rate of assessment. Upon the basis of such recommendations, or other available information, the Secretary may approve an amended budget and increase the assessment rate. Such increase in the assessment rate shall be applicable to all Walla Walla Sweet Onions which were handled by each handler thereof during such fiscal period.
(d) The payment of assessments for the maintenance and functioning of the committee may be required under this part throughout the period it is in effect, irrespective of whether particular provisions of this part are suspended or become inoperative.
(e) To provide funds for the administration of the provisions of this part during the initial fiscal period or the first part of a fiscal period when neither sufficient operating reserve funds nor sufficient revenue from assessments on the current season's shipments are available, the committee
may accept payment of assessments in advance or may borrow money for such purposes.
(f) The committee may impose a late payment charge or an interest charge, or both, on any handler who fails to pay any assessment in a timely manner. Such time and the rates shall be recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.
§ 956.43
Accounting.
(a) All funds received by the committee pursuant to the provisions of this part shall be used solely for the purposes specified in this part.
(b) The Secretary may at any time require the committee, its members and alternate members, employees, agents, and all other such persons associated with the committee to account for all receipts, disbursements, funds, property, or records for which they are responsible. Whenever any person ceases to be a member, alternate member, employee, or agent of the committee, such person shall account for all receipts, disbursements, funds, property, and records pertaining to the committee's activities for which such person was responsible, deliver all property and funds in such person's possession to the committee, and execute such assignments and other instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to vest in the committee full title to all of the property, funds, and claims vested in such person pursuant to this part.
(c) The committee may make recommendations to the Secretary for one or more of the members thereof, or any other person, to act as a trustee for holding records, funds, or any other committee property during periods of suspension of this part, or during any period or periods when regulations are not in effect and, upon determining such action is appropriate, the Secretary may direct that such person or persons shall act as trustee or trustees for the committee.
§ 956.44
Excess funds.
If, at the end of a fiscal period, the assessments collected are in excess of expenses incurred, such excess shall be accounted for as follows:
(a) The committee, with approval of the Secretary, may establish an operating reserve and may carry over to subsequent fiscal periods excess funds in a reserve so established, except funds in the reserve shall not exceed the equivalent of approximately two fiscal period's budgeted expenses. Such reserve funds may be used:
(1) To defray any expenses authorized under this part;
(2) To defray expenses during any fiscal period prior to the time assessment income is sufficient to cover such expenses;
(3) To cover deficits incurred during any fiscal period when assessment income is less than expenses;
(4) To defray expenses incurred during any period when any or all provisions of this part are suspended or are inoperative; and
(5) To cover necessary expenses of liquidation in the event of termination of this part.
(b) Upon termination of this part, any funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be disposed of in such manner as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate except that to the extent practicable, such funds shall be returned pro rata to the persons from whom such funds were collected.
(c) If such excess is not retained in a reserve as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, each handler entitled to a proportionate refund of the excess assessments collected shall be credited at the end of a fiscal period with such refund against the operations of the following fiscal period unless such handler demands payment thereof, in which event such proportionate refund shall be paid as soon as practicable.
§ 956.45
Contributions.
The committee may accept voluntary contributions but these shall be used only to pay expenses incurred pursuant to § 956.50. Such contributions shall be free from any encumbrances by the donor, and the committee shall retain complete control of their use.

# Research and Development
§ 956.50
Research and development.
(a) The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish or provide for the establishment of production research, marketing research and development, and marketing promotion projects, including paid advertising, designed to assist, improve, or promote the marketing, distribution, consumption, or efficient production of Walla Walla Sweet Onions. Any such project for the promotion and advertising of Walla Walla Sweet Onions may utilize an identifying mark, including but not limited to registered trademarks and logos, which shall be made available for use by all handlers in accordance with such terms and conditions as the committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may prescribe. The committee may register such logos with the Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The expense of such projects shall be paid from funds collected pursuant to §§ 956.42 and 956.45.
(b) In recommending projects pursuant to this section, the committee shall give consideration to the following:
(1) The expected supply of Walla Walla Sweet Onions in relation to market requirements;
(2) The supply situation among competing onion areas and communities;
(3) The anticipated benefits from such projects in relation to their costs;
(4) The need for marketing research with respect to any market development activity; and
(5) Other relevant factors.
(c) If the committee concludes that a program of research and development should be undertaken, or continued, in any fiscal period, it shall submit the following for the approval of the Secretary:
(1) Its recommendations as to the funds to be obtained pursuant to §§ 956.42 and 956.45;
(2) Its recommendations as to any research projects; and
(3) Its recommendations as to promotion activity and paid advertising.
(d) Upon conclusion of each activity, but at least annually, the committee shall summarize and report the results of such activity to the Secretary.
(e) All marketing promotion activity engaged in by the committee, including paid advertising, shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
(1) No marketing promotion, including paid advertising, shall refer to any private brand, private trademark, or private trade name;
(2) No promotion or advertising shall disparage the quality, use, value, or sale of like or any other agricultural commodity or product, and no false or unwarranted claims shall be made in connection with the product; and
(3) No promotion or advertising shall be undertaken without reason to believe that returns to producers will be improved by such activity.

# Regulation
§ 956.60
Marketing policy.
(a)
Preparation.
Prior to each marketing season, the committee shall consider and prepare a proposed policy for the marketing of Walla Walla Sweet Onions. In developing its marketing policy, the committee shall investigate relevant supply and demand conditions for Walla Walla Sweet Onions. In such investigations, the committee shall give appropriate consideration to the following:
(1) Market prices for sweet onions, including prices by variety, grade, size, quality, and maturity, and by different packs;
(2) Supply of sweet onions by grade, size, quality, maturity, and variety in the production area and in other sweet onion producing sections;
(3) The trend and level of consumer income;
(4) Establishing and maintaining orderly marketing conditions for Walla Walla Sweet Onions;
(5) Orderly marketing of Walla Walla Sweet Onions as will be in the public interest; and
(6) Other relevant factors.
(b)
Reports.
(1) The committee shall submit a report to the Secretary setting forth the aforesaid marketing policy, and the committee shall notify producers and handlers of the contents of such report.
(2) In the event it becomes advisable to shift from such marketing policy because of changed supply and demand conditions, the committee shall prepare an amended or revised marketing policy in accordance with the manner previously outlined. The committee shall submit a report thereon to the Secretary and notify producers and handlers of the contents of such report on the revised or amended marketing policy.
[64 FR 4933, Feb. 1, 1999]
§ 956.61
Recommendation for regulations.
The committee shall recommend regulations to the Secretary whenever it deems it advisable, as provided in § 956.62. The committee also may recommend modification, suspension, or termination of any regulation, or amendments thereto, in order to facilitate the handling of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for the purposes authorized in § 956.63. The committee may also recommend amendment, modification, termination, or suspension of any regulation issued under this part.
§ 956.62
Issuance of regulations.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the Secretary shall limit the shipment of Walla Walla Sweet Onions by any one or more of the methods hereinafter set forth whenever the Secretary finds from the recommendations and information submitted by the committee, or from other available information, that such regulation would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act. Such limitation may:
(1) Regulate in any or all portions of the production area, the handling of particular grades, sizes, qualities, or maturities of any or all varieties of Walla Walla Sweet Onions, or combinations thereof, during any period or periods;
(2) Regulate the handling of particular grades, sizes, qualities, or maturities of Walla Walla Sweet Onions differently, for different varieties or packs, or for any combination of the foregoing, during any period or periods;
(3) Provide a method, through rules and regulations issued pursuant to this part, for fixing the size, capacity, weight, dimensions, markings or pack of the container or containers, which may be used in the packaging or handling of Walla Walla Sweet Onions, including appropriate logo or other container markings to identify the contents thereof;
(4) Regulate the handling of Walla Walla Sweet Onions by establishing, in terms of grades, sizes, or both, minimum standards of quality and maturity.
(b) The Secretary may amend any regulation issued under this part whenever the Secretary finds that such amendment would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act. The Secretary may also terminate or suspend any regulation or amendment thereof whenever the Secretary finds that such regulation or amendment obstructs or no longer tends to effectuate the declared policy of the Act.
[64 FR 4933, Feb. 1, 1999]
§ 956.63
Handling for specified purposes.
Upon the basis of recommendations and information submitted by the committee, or other available information, the Secretary may issue special regulations, or modify, suspend, or terminate requirements in effect pursuant to §§ 956.42 and 956.62 or any combination thereof, in order to facilitate the handling of onions for the following purposes:
(a) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for relief or to charitable institutions;
(b) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for livestock feed;
(c) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for planting and for plants;
(d) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions as salad onions;
(e) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for all processing uses including, pickling, peeling, dehydration, juicing, or other processing;
(f) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for disposal;
(g) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for seed;
(h) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for packing or storing within the production area or outside the production area, but within specified locations in the States of Oregon and Washington; and
(i) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for other purposes which may be specified.
§ 956.64
Minimum quantities.
During any period in which shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions are regulated pursuant to this part, each handler may handle up to, but not to exceed, 2,000 pounds of Walla Walla Sweet Onions per shipment without regard to the inspection requirements of this part:
Provided,
That such Walla Walla Sweet Onion shipments meet the minimum requirements in effect at the time of the shipment pursuant to § 956.62. The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may recommend modifications to this section and the establishment of such other minimum quantities below which Walla Walla Sweet Onion shipments will be free from the requirements in, or pursuant to, §§ 956.42, 956.62, 956.63, and 956.70, or any combination thereof.
[64 FR 4934, Feb. 1, 1999]
§ 956.65
Notification of regulations.
The Secretary shall notify the committee of each regulation issued and of each amendment, modification, suspension, or termination thereof. The committee shall give reasonable notice thereof to handlers.
§ 956.66
Safeguards.
(a) The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may prescribe adequate safeguards to prevent Walla Walla Sweet Onions shipped, pursuant to §§ 956.63 and 956.64, from entering channels of trade for other than the purpose authorized therefor.
(b) The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may also prescribe rules and regulations governing the issuance, and the contents, of Certificates of Privilege, if such certificates are prescribed as safeguards by the committee. Such safeguards may include requirements that:
(1) Handlers shall first file applications with the committee to ship such Walla Walla Sweet Onions.
(2) Handlers shall pay the pro rata share of expenses provided by § 956.42 in connection with such Walla Walla Sweet Onions.
(3) Handlers shall obtain Certificates of Privilege from the committee prior to effecting the particular onion shipment.
(c) The committee may rescind any Certificate of Privilege, or refuse to issue any Certificate of Privilege, to any handler if proof is obtained that Walla Walla Sweet Onions shipped by the handler for the purposes stated in the Certificate of Privilege were handled contrary to the provisions of this part.
(d) The Secretary shall have the right to modify, change, alter, or rescind any safeguards prescribed and any certificates issued by the committee pursuant to the provisions of this section.
(e) The committee shall make reports to the Secretary as requested, showing the number of applications for such certificates, the quantity of Walla Walla Sweet Onions covered by such applications, the number of such applications denied and certificates granted, the quantity of Walla Walla Sweet Onions handled under duly issued certificates, and such other information as may be requested.

# Inspection
§ 956.70
Inspection and certification.
(a) During any period in which shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions are regulated pursuant to this subpart, no handler shall handle Walla Walla Sweet Onions unless such onions are inspected by an authorized representative of the Federal-State Inspection Service, or such other inspection service as the Secretary shall designate and are covered by a valid inspection certificate, except when relieved from such requirements pursuant to § 956.63 or § 956.64, or both. Upon recommendation of the committee, with approval of the Secretary, inspection providers and certification requirements may be modified to facilitate the handling of Walla Walla Sweet Onions.
(b) Regrading, resorting, or repacking any lot of Walla Walla Sweet Onions shall invalidate prior inspection certificates insofar as the requirements
of this section are concerned. No handler shall ship Walla Walla Sweet Onions after they have been regraded, resorted, repacked, or in any other way further prepared for market, unless such onions are inspected by an authorized representative of the Federal-State Inspection Service, or such other inspection service as the Secretary shall designate:
Provided,
That such inspection requirements on regraded, resorted, or repacked Walla Walla Sweet Onions may be modified, suspended, or terminated under rules and regulations recommended by the committee, and approved by the Secretary.
(c) Upon recommendation of the committee, and approval of the Secretary, all Walla Walla Sweet Onions that are required to be inspected and certified in accordance with this section shall be identified by appropriate seals, stamps, tags, or other identification to be furnished by the committee and affixed to the containers by the handler under the direction and supervision of the Federal-State or Federal inspector, or the committee. Master containers may bear the identification instead of the individual containers within said master container.
(d) Insofar as the requirements of this section are concerned, the length of time for which an inspection certificate is valid may be established by the committee with the approval of the Secretary.
(e) When Walla Walla Sweet Onions are inspected in accordance with the requirements of this section, a copy of each inspection certificate issued shall be made available to the committee by the inspection service.
(f) The committee may enter into an agreement with an inspection service with respect to the costs of the inspection as provided by paragraph (a) of this section, and may collect from handlers their respective pro rata shares of such costs.
[64 FR 4934, Feb. 1, 1999]

# Reports
§ 956.80
Reports and recordkeeping.
Upon request of the committee, made with the approval of the Secretary, each handler shall furnish to the committee, in such manner and at such time as it may prescribe, such reports and other information as may be necessary for the committee to perform its duties under this part.
(a) Such reports may include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following:
(1) The acreage of Walla Walla Sweet Onions grown;
(2) The quantities of Walla Walla Sweet Onions received by such handler;
(3) The quantities of Walla Walla Sweet Onions disposed of by such handler;
(4) The disposition date of such Walla Walla Sweet Onions;
(5) The manner of disposition of such Walla Walla Sweet Onions; and
(6) The identification of the carrier transporting such Walla Walla Sweet Onions.
(b) All such reports shall be held under appropriate protective classification and custody by the committee, or duly appointed employees thereof, so that any information contained therein which may adversely affect the competitive position of any handler in relation to other handlers will not be disclosed. Compilations of general reports from data submitted by handlers is authorized, subject to the prohibition of disclosure of individual handler's identity or operations.
(c) Each handler shall maintain for at least two succeeding years such records of the Walla Walla Sweet Onions received and disposed of by such handler as may be necessary to verify reports submitted to the committee pursuant to this section.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 956.85
Termination or suspension.
(a) The Secretary may at any time terminate the provisions of this subpart by giving at least one day's notice by means of a press release or in any other manner which the Secretary may determine.
(b) The Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operations of any or all of the provisions of this subpart whenever it is found that such provisions do not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.
(c) The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this subpart at the end of
any fiscal period whenever it is found that such termination is favored by a majority of producers who, during a representative period, have been engaged in the production of Walla Walla Sweet Onions: Provided, That such majority has, during such representative period, produced for market more than fifty percent of the volume of such Walla Walla Sweet Onions produced for market, but such termination shall be announced at least 90 days before the end of the current fiscal period.
(d) Within six years of the effective date of this subpart the Secretary shall conduct a continuance referendum to ascertain whether continuance of this subpart is favored by producers. Subsequent referenda to ascertain continuance shall be conducted every six years thereafter. The Secretary may terminate the provisions of this part at the end of any fiscal period in which the Secretary has found that continuance of this subpart is not favored by a majority of producers who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production for market of Walla Walla Sweet Onions in the production area. Such termination shall be announced on or before the end of the fiscal period.
(e) The provisions of this subpart shall, in any event, terminate whenever the provisions of the Act authorizing them cease to be in effect.
§ 956.87
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of the provisions of this subpart, the then functioning members of the committee shall continue as joint trustees, for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the committee, of all funds and property then in the possession, or under control, of the committee, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered at the time of such termination. Action by said trusteeship shall require the concurrence of a majority of the said trustees.
(b) The said trustees shall continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary; shall, from time to time, account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of said committee and of the trustees, to such person as the Secretary may direct; and shall upon the request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such person full title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims vested in said committee or the trustees pursuant to this subpart.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered by the committee or its members pursuant to this section shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the members of the committee and upon the said trustees.
§ 956.88
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any regulation issued pursuant to this subpart, or the issuance of any amendments to either thereof, shall not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart;
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or of any regulations issued under this subpart; and
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the Secretary or of any other person with respect to any such violations.
§ 956.89
Compliance.
No handler shall handle Walla Walla Sweet Onions except in conformity to the provisions of this part.
§ 956.90
Right of the Secretary.
The members of the committee, including successors and alternates, and any agent or employee appointed or employed by the committee shall be subject to removal or suspension by the Secretary at any time. Each and every order, regulation, decision, determination, or other act of the committee shall be subject to the continuing right of the Secretary to disapprove of the same at any time. Upon such disapproval, the disapproved action of the committee shall be deemed null and void except as to acts done in reliance thereon or in compliance
therewith prior to such disapproval by the Secretary.
§ 956.91
Duration of immunities.
The benefits, privileges, and immunities conferred upon any person by virtue of this subpart shall cease upon the termination of this subpart, except with respect to acts done under and during the existence of this subpart.
§ 956.92
Agents.
The Secretary may, by designation in writing, name any person, including any officer or employee of the Government, or name any agency in the United States Department of Agriculture, to act as the Secretary's agent or representative in connection with any of the provisions of this part.
§ 956.93
Derogation.
Nothing contained in this part is, or shall be construed to be, in derogation or in modification of the rights of the Secretary or of the United States to exercise any powers granted by the Act or otherwise, or, in accordance with such powers, to act in the premises whenever such action is deemed advisable.
§ 956.94
Personal liability.
No member or alternate of the committee or any employee or agent thereof, shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any handler or to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member, alternate, employee, or agent, except for acts of dishonesty, willful misconduct, or gross negligence.
§ 956.95
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid, or the applicability thereof to any person, circumstance, or thing is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart, or the applicability thereof to any other person, circumstance, or thing shall not be affected thereby.
§ 956.96
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed, from time to time, by the committee or by the Secretary.

# Subpart B—Administrative Requirements

# Source:
61 FR 44151, Aug. 28, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 956.113
Fiscal period.
Pursuant to § 956.13,
fiscal period
shall mean the period beginning January 1 and ending December 31 of each year.
[68 FR 57326, Oct. 3, 2003]
§ 956.142
Interest charges.
For Walla Walla Sweet Onions handled prior to September 1, the Committee shall impose an interest charge on any handler who fails to pay his or her annual assessments within thirty (30) days of the due date of September 30. For Walla Walla Sweet Onions handled during the period September 1 through May 31, the Committee shall impose an interest charge on any handler who fails to pay his or her assessments within thirty (30) days of the last day of the month in which such shipments are made. The interest charge shall be 1
1/2
percent of the unpaid assessment balance. In the event the handler fails to pay the delinquent assessment amount within 60 days following the due date, the 1
1/2
percent interest charge shall be applied monthly thereafter to the unpaid balance, including any accumulated interest. Any amount paid by a handler as an assessment, including any charges imposed pursuant to this paragraph, shall be credited when the payment is received in the Committee office.
[75 FR 34347, June 17, 2010]
§ 956.162
Container markings.
Effective April 15, 1997, no handler shall ship any container of Walla Walla Sweet Onions except in accordance with the following terms and provisions:
(a) Each container of Walla Walla Sweet Onions shall be conspicuously marked with the “Genuine Walla Walla Sweet Onion” logo. The marking may
be in the form of a decal or a stamped imprint of any color and size:
Provided,
That the decal or stamped imprint must be placed in plain sight and easy to read.
(b) Walla Walla Sweet Onions may be handled not subject to the marking requirements of this section when handlers ship such onions pursuant to § 956.163, or ship such onions in field packed bulk bins containing more than 500 pounds net weight for sale to roadside stands and farmers' market operators for repacking and direct consumer sale:
Provided,
That subject to Committee verification of handler container inventories, handlers may use their existing inventories of unmarked containers until April 15, 1999.
[62 FR 18026, Apr. 14, 1997]
§ 956.163
Handling for specified purposes.
(a) Assessment and container marking requirements specified in this part shall not be applicable to shipments of onions for any of the following purposes:
(1) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for relief or to charitable institutions:
Provided,
That such shipments must be donated and not sold in order for this exemption to apply;
(2) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for livestock feed;
(3) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for planting and for plants;
(4) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions as salad onions;
(5) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for all processing uses including, pickling, peeling, dehydration, juicing, or other processing;
(6) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for disposal;
(7) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for seed.
(b)
Market preparation outside the production area.
(1) Persons desiring to ship or receive Walla Walla sweet onions for grading, packing, or storing outside the production area, but within Oregon and Washington, shall apply to the Committee on a
“Shippers/Receivers Application for Certificate of Privilege”
form. Such application shall contain the following:
(i) Company name, contact name, address, contact telephone numbers, date, and signature of the applicant;
(ii) Whether the applicant is the shipper or receiver;
(iii) Agreement to provide a
Special Purpose Shipment Report
to the Committee as required after shipping or receiving Walla Walla sweet onions for grading, packing, or storing out of the production area under a Certificate of Privilege.
(iv) Certification by the applicant that all provisions of the rules and regulations of this part will be adhered to including, but not limited to, any grade, size, quality, maturity, pack, or container requirements that may be currently in effect;
(v) Certification by the applicant, if a receiver under the Certificate of Privilege, that they will forward to the Committee office all assessments due on Walla Walla sweet onions handled.
(vi) Such other information as the Committee may require.
(2) Each approved applicant shall furnish to the Committee a
Special Purpose Shipment Report
form no later than thirty (30) days after the final shipment of sweet onions are shipped or received pursuant to the Certificate of Privilege. That report shall contain the following information:
(i) Company name, contact name, address, contact telephone numbers, signature, and date;
(ii) Names of shippers or receivers who have either shipped Walla Walla sweet onions out of the production area or received the same;
(iii) The total quantity of Walla Walla sweet onions shipped or received under this section during the period covered;
(iv) Certification by the receiver that all assessments due on Walla Walla sweet onions handled under the respective Certificate of Privilege are being forwarded to the Committee; and
(v) Such other information as the Committee may require.
(3) The Committee may cancel any Certificate of Privilege if proof satisfactory to the Committee is obtained that any Walla Walla sweet onions shipped or received were done so contrary to the provisions of this section. Upon cancellation of such Certificate
of Privilege the shipper or receiver may appeal to the Committee for reconsideration.
[62 FR 18026, Apr. 14, 1997, as amended at 69 FR 22382, Apr. 26, 2004]
§ 956.180
Reports.
(a) Each handler shall furnish to the Committee, no later than May 31 each year, a preseason
Walla Walla Sweet Onion Handler Registration Form.
Such form shall include:
(1) Company name, contact name, mailing and physical addresses, contact telephone numbers, and signature of handler;
(2) Season covered by registration;
(3) Brand names or labels to be used; and
(4) Estimated number of acres of fall planted and spring planted Walla Walla Sweet Onions to be packed during the season.
(b) Each handler shall furnish to the Committee a
Handler's Statement of Walla Walla Sweet Onion Shipments
containing the information in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(3) of this section, except that gift box and roadside stand sales shall be exempt from paragraph (a)(2) of this section:
Provided,
That for Walla Walla Sweet Onions handled prior to September 1, such report shall be furnished to the Committee by September 30, and that for Walla Walla Sweet Onions handled during the period September 1 through May 31, such report shall be furnished to the Committee no later than thirty (30) days after the end of the month in which such onions were handled:
(1) The number of 50 lb. equivalents of Walla Walla Sweet Onions shipped by each handler during each week of the shipping season and the total for the season;
(2) The geographical regions as defined by the Committee to which each shipment is made;
(3) The name, address, and signature of each handler; and
(4) The name of each producer and the number of 50 lb. equivalents of Walla Walla Sweet Onions that were handled on behalf of or acquired from that producer.
[69 FR 22382, Apr. 26, 2004, as amended at 75 FR 34347, June 17, 2010]
§ 956.202
Assessment rate.
On and after January 1, 2023, an assessment rate of $0.20 per 50-pound bag or equivalent is established for Walla Walla sweet onions.
[88 FR 69879, Oct. 10, 2023]
Pt. 958

# PART 958—ONIONS GROWN IN CERTAIN DESIGNATED COUNTIES IN IDAHO, AND MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Definitions
Sec.
958.1
Secretary.
958.2
Act.
958.3
Person.
958.4
Production area.
958.5
Onions.
958.6
Handler.
958.7
Handle.
958.8
Grading.
958.9
Grade and size.
958.10
Producer.
958.11
Committee.
958.12
Fiscal period.
958.13
Variety or varieties.
958.14
Export.
958.15
District.
958.16
Pack.
958.17
Container.

# Administrative Committee
958.20
Establishment and membership.
958.21
Procedure.
958.22
Selection.
958.23
Term of office.
958.24
Powers.
958.25
Duties.
958.26
Expenses.
958.27
Districts.
958.28
Nominations.
958.29
Failure to nominate.
958.30
Vacancies.

# Expenses and Assessments
958.40
Expenses.
958.41
Budget.
958.42
Assessments.
958.43
Accounting.
958.44
Reserve fund.
958.45
Accounting of funds upon termination of the order.
958.46
Contributions.

# Research and Development
958.47
Research and development.

# Regulation
958.50
Marketing policy.
958.51
Recommendations for regulations.
958.52
Issuance of regulations.
958.53
Handling for specified purposes.
958.54
Minimum quantities.
958.55
Notification of regulations.
958.56
Safeguards.

# Inspection
958.60
Inspection and certification.

# Reports
958.65
Reports.

# Effective Time and Termination
958.70
Effective time.
958.71
Termination.
958.72
Proceeding after termination.
958.73
Effect of termination or amendment.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
958.81
Compliance.
958.82
Right of the Secretary.
958.83
Duration of immunities.
958.84
Agents.
958.85
Derogation.
958.86
Personal liability.
958.87
Separability.
958.88
Amendments.
958.89
Counterparts.
958.90
Additional parties.
958.91
Order with marketing agreement.

# Subpart B—Administrative Requirements
958.112
Fiscal period.
958.160
Reestablishment of Districts.
958.240
Assessment rate.
958.250
Assessment Credit Report.

# Subpart C—Handling Requirements
958.328
Handling regulation.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 601-674.

# Source:
22 FR 26, Jan. 3, 1957, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961.

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Definitions
§ 958.1
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or any officer or employee of the United States Department of Agriculture to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in his stead.
§ 958.2
Act.
Act
means Public Act No. 10, 73d Congress, as amended and as reenacted and amended by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (48 Stat. 31, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 601
et seq.;
68 Stat. 906, 1047).
§ 958.3
Person.
Person
means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other business unit.
§ 958.4
Production area.
Production area
means all territory included within the boundaries of the County of Malheur in Oregon, and all counties south and southeast of the southern boundary of Idaho County in the State of Idaho.
§ 958.5
Onions.
Onions
means all varieties of
Allium cepa,
commonly known as onions, grown, or which may be grown in the production area.
[41 FR 36196, Aug. 27, 1976]
§ 958.6
Handler.
Handler
is synonymous with
shipper
and means any person (except a common or contract carrier of onions owned by another person) who handles onions.
§ 958.7
Handle.
Handle
is synonymous with
ship
and means to sell or transport onions, or cause onions to be sold or transported, within the production area or between the production area and any point outside thereof. Except as otherwise provided in §§ 958.56 and 958.65, this definition of “handle” shall not be applicable to onions that are transported within the production area for grading or storing therein, or to onions that are transported or sold to commercial dehydrators for processing by such dehydrators into dehydrated onion products.
§ 958.8
Grading.
Grading
is synonymous with
prepare for market
and means the sorting or separation of onions into grades and sizes for market purposes.
§ 958.9
Grade and size.
Grade
means any of the officially established grades of onions, and
size
means any of the officially established sizes of onions, as set forth in:
(a) The United States Standards for grades of onions (other than Bermuda-Granex and Creole Types) (§§ 51.2830 to 51.2850 of this title), or amendments thereto, or modifications thereof, or variations based thereon; and
(b) Any other United States Standards, or State of Idaho or Oregon Standards for onions, or amendments thereto, or modifications thereof, or variations based thereon.
The term
size
also includes any of the sizes recognized by the onion trade in the production area.
§ 958.10
Producer.
Producer
means any person engaged in the production of onions for market.
§ 958.11
Committee.
Committee
means the Idaho-Eastern Oregon Onion Committee established pursuant to § 958.20.
§ 958.12
Fiscal period.
Fiscal period
means the period beginning and ending on the dates approved by the Secretary pursuant to recommendations by the committee.
§ 958.13
Variety or varieties.
Variety
or
varieties
means and includes all classifications of onions according to those definitive characteristics now or hereafter recognized by the United States Department of Agriculture.
§ 958.14
Export.
Export
means shipment of onions beyond the boundaries of continental United States.
§ 958.15
District.
District
means each of the geographical divisions of the production area initially established or as reestablished pursuant to § 958.27.
§ 958.16
Pack.
Pack
means a quantity of onions in any type of container and which falls within specific weight limits or within specific grade or size limits, or both, as may be recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.
§ 958.17
Container.
Container
means a sack, box, bag, crate, hamper, basket, carton, package, or any other type of receptacle used in the packaging, transportation, sale, shipment or other handling of onions.

# Administrative Committee
§ 958.20
Establishment and membership.
(a) The Idaho-Eastern Oregon Onion Committee, consisting of six producer members, four handler members, and one public member is hereby established. Each shall have an alternate who shall have the same qualifications as the member.
(b) An alternate member of the committee shall act in the place and stead of the member for whom he is an alternate, during such member's absence or inability to act, and shall perform other duties as assigned. In the event of the death, removal, resignation or disqualification of a member, his alternate shall act for him until a successor for such member is selected and has qualified.
[22 FR 26, Jan. 3, 1957. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 47 FR 8000, Feb. 24, 1982]
§ 958.21
Procedure.
(a) Seven members of the committee shall be necessary to constitute a quorum and seven concurring votes shall be required to pass any motion or approve any committee action.
(b) The committee may provide for voting by telephone, telegraph, or other means of communication and any such vote shall be confirmed promptly in writing:
Provided,
That if an assembled meeting is held, all votes shall be cast in person.
§ 958.22
Selection.
The Secretary shall select committee members and alternates from the nominee lists submitted pursuant to this part or from among other eligible persons.
(a) Each person selected as a committee member or alternate to represent producers shall be an individual who is a producer, or an officer or employee of a producer, in the district for which selected.
(b) Each person selected as a committee member or alternate to represent handlers shall be an individual who is a handler, or an officer or employee of a handler in the portion of the production area for which selected.
(c) The Secretary shall select one producer member of the committee, and alternate, from each of the districts established, or reestablished, pursuant to § 958.27. The Secretary shall also select one handler member of the committee, and his alternate, from the Idaho portion of the production area and one member and his alternate from Malheur County, Oregon, and two handler members, and their respective alternates, from the production area-at-large.
(d) Each person selected by the Secretary as a committee member or alternate shall qualify by filing a written acceptance promptly with the Secretary.
(e) The public member shall be a resident of the production area and have no direct financial interest in the commercial production, financing, buying, packing or marketing of onions except as a consumer nor be a director, officer or employee of any firm so engaged.
[22 FR 26, Jan. 3, 1957. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 47 FR 8000, Feb. 24, 1982]
§ 958.23
Term of office.
(a) The term of office of committee members and alternates shall be for two years beginning on the first day of June and continuing through May 31. The terms of office of members and alternates shall be so determined that one-half of the total committee membership shall terminate each May 31.
(b) Committee members and alternates shall serve during the term of office for which they are selected and have qualified, or during that portion thereof beginning on the date on which they qualify during the current term of office and continuing until the end thereof, and until their successors are selected and have qualified.
§ 958.24
Powers.
The committee shall have the following powers:
(a) To administer the provisions of this part in accordance with its terms;
(b) To make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of this part;
(c) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of the provisions of this part; and
(d) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this part.
§ 958.25
Duties.
It shall be the duty of the committee:
(a) At the beginning of each fiscal period, or as soon thereafter as practicable, to meet and organize, to select a chairman and such other officers as may be necessary, to select subcommittees of committee members, and to adopt such rules and regulations for the conduct of its business as it may deem advisable;
(b) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any producer or handler;
(c) To furnish to the Secretary such available information as he may request;
(d) To appoint such employees, agents, and representatives as it may deem necessary and to determine the salaries and define the duties of each such person;
(e) To investigate from time to time and to assemble data on the growing, harvesting, shipping and marketing conditions with respect to onions and to engage in such research and service activity which relate to the production, handling or marketing of onions as may be approved by the Secretary;
(f) To keep minutes, books, and records which clearly reflect all of the acts and transactions of the committee and such minutes, books, and records shall be subject to examination at any time by the Secretary or his authorized agent or representative;
(g) To make available to producers and handlers the committee voting record on recommended regulations and on other matters of policy;
(h) Prior to each fiscal period, to submit to the Secretary a budget of its proposed expenses for such fiscal period, together with a report thereon;
(i) To cause the books of the committee to be audited by a competent accountant at least once each fiscal period, and at such other time as the committee may deem necessary or as the Secretary may request; and the report of such audit shall show the receipt and expenditure of funds collected pursuant to this part; a copy of each such report shall be furnished to the Secretary and a copy of each such report shall be made available at the principal office of the committee for inspection by producers and handlers; and
(j) To consult, cooperate, and exchange information, with other onion marketing committees and other individuals or agencies in connection with all proper committee activities and objectives under this subpart; and
(k) To recommend nominees for the public member and alternate.
[22 FR 26, Jan. 3, 1957. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 41 FR 36196, Aug. 27, 1976; 47 FR 8000, Feb. 24, 1982]
§ 958.26
Expenses.
Committee members and alternates when acting on committee business shall be reimbursed for reasonable expenses necessarily incurred by them in the performance of their duties and in the exercise of their powers under this part. However, at its discretion the committee may request the attendance of alternates at any or all meetings notwithstanding the expected or actual presence of the respective members.
[41 FR 36196, Aug. 27, 1976]
§ 958.27
Districts.
(a) For the purpose of selecting committee members, the following districts of the production area are hereby initially established:
District No. 1
(Emmett, Payette, Weiser Area): All territory within the boundaries of Washington, Payette and Gem Counties, in Idaho.
District No. 2
(Oregon Slope): All territory within a boundary following the Snake River northwesterly from its junction with the Malheur River, to the west line of Range 46E; thence south along said west line to the south line of Township 17S, and thence east along said south line to its junction with the Malheur River, and thence northeasterly along the Malheur River to the junction with the Snake River, the point of beginning.
District No. 3
(Ontario, Vale, Jamieson, Brogan): All territory within a boundary starting at the junction of the Malheur River with the Snake River and extending southwestward along the Malheur River to its junction with the south line of Township 17S, E. W. M.; thence westward along this line to its junction with the west line of Range 46E; thence north along this line to its junction with the Snake River; thence northwest along the Snake River to its junction with the north boundary of Malheur County; thence west along the north boundary of Malheur County to the west boundary of the county; thence south along the west boundary of Malheur County to its intersection with the south line of Township 20S; thence east along this line to its junction with the Hyline Canal and Siphon; thence northeast along the Hyline Canal to its intersection with Highway 20; thence east along Highway 20 to Cairo Junction; thence south
1/8
mile to the junction of Highway 20 to Oregon Avenue; thence east along Oregon Avenue to its termination at the Snake River; thence north along the Snake River to its junction with the Malheur River, the point of beginning.
District No. 4
(Nyssa-Adrian): All the area of Malheur County, Oregon, south of District No. 3.
District No. 5
(Parma, Wilder, Nampa, and Notus Area): Canyon County, Idaho.
District No. 6
(Homedale, Marsing, Meridian, Melba, Mountain Home, Glenns Ferry and Twin Falls Area): All counties in the Idaho portion of the production area not included within Districts Nos. 1 and 5.
(b) The Secretary, upon the recommendation of the committee, may reestablish districts within the production area and may reapportion committee membership among the various districts:
Provided,
That in recommending any such changes in districts or representation, the committee shall give consideration to: (1) The relative importance of new producing sections; (2) changes in the relative position of existing districts with respect to onion production; (3) the geographic location of areas of production as they would affect the efficiency of administering this part; (4) other relevant factors:
Provided, further,
That there shall be no
change in the total number of committee members or in the total number of districts.
[22 FR 26, Jan. 3, 1957. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 88 FR 82234, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 958.28
Nominations.
Nominations from which the Secretary may select the members of the Idaho-Eastern Oregon Onion Committee and their respective alternates may be made in the following manner:
(a) The committee shall hold or cause to be held prior to April 1 of each year, after the effective date of this subpart, one or more meetings of producers and of handlers in each of the districts, or portions of the production area, in which the then current terms of office will expire the following May 31;
(b) In arranging for such meetings the committee may, if it deems desirable, cooperate with existing organizations and agencies and may combine its meetings with others;
(c) Nominations for committee members and alternate members shall be supplied to the Secretary, in such manner and form as he may prescribe, not later than 30 days prior to the end of each fiscal period;
(d) Only producers may participate in designating nominees for producer committee members and their alternates and only handlers may participate in designating nominees for handler committee members and their alternates;
(e) Each person who is both a handler and a producer may vote either as a handler or as a producer and may select the group in which he will vote;
(f) Regardless of the number of districts in which a person produces or handles onions, each such person is entitled to cast only one vote on behalf of himself, his partners, agents, subsidiaries, affiliates and representatives, in designating nominees for committee members and alternates. In the event a person is a producer engaged in producing onions in more than one district, such person shall select the district within which he may participate as aforesaid in designating nominees. Similarly, a person who is a handler both in Malheur County, Oregon, and in the Idaho portion of the production area, may select either Malheur County or the Idaho portion of the production area in which to cast his vote for the applicable committee handler member and alternate. Each such handler shall also be entitled to cast his vote for the committee member and alternate to represent the production area-at-large. An eligible voter's privilege of casting only one vote, as aforesaid, shall be construed to permit such voter to cast one vote for each member and alternate position to be filled in the respective district or portion of the production area, as the case may be, in which he elects to vote; and
(g) The producer and handler members of the committee shall nominate the public member and alternate. The committee shall prescribe such additional qualifications, administrative rules and procedures for selection and voting for each candidate as it deems necessary and as the Secretary approves.
[22 FR 26, Jan. 3, 1957. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 47 FR 8000, Feb. 24, 1982]
§ 958.29
Failure to nominate.
If nominations are not made within the time and in the manner specified by the Secretary pursuant to § 958.28, the Secretary may, without regard to nominations, select the committee members and alternates on the basis of the representation provided for in this subpart.
§ 958.30
Vacancies.
To fill any vacancy occasioned by the failure of any person, selected as a committee member or alternate, to qualify, or in the event of the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any qualified member or alternate, a successor for his unexpired term may be selected by the Secretary from nominations made in the manner specified in § 958.28, or the Secretary may select such committee member or alternate from previously unselected nominees on the current nominee list from the district or portion of the production area, as the case may be, that is involved, or from other eligible persons. If the names of nominees to fill
any such vacancy are not made available to the Secretary within 30 days after such vacancy occurs, the Secretary may fill such vacancy without regard to nominations, which selection shall be made on the basis of the representation provided for in this subpart.

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 958.40
Expenses.
The committee is authorized to incur such expenses as the Secretary may find are reasonable and likely to be incurred by it during each fiscal period for its maintenance and functioning, and for such purposes as the Secretary, pursuant to this subpart, determines to be appropriate. Handlers shall share expenses upon the basis of a fiscal period. Each handler's share of such expenses shall be proportionate to the ratio between the total quantity of such handler's onion shipments inspected pursuant to this part that are handled by him as the first handler thereof during a fiscal period, and the total quantity of such onions handled by all handlers as first handlers thereof during the same period.
§ 958.41
Budget.
Prior to each fiscal period, and as may be necessary thereafter the committee shall prepare a budget of estimated income and expenditures necessary for the administration of this part. The committee shall recommend to the Secretary a rate of assessment calculated to provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures. The committee shall present such budget promptly to the Secretary with an accompanying report thereon showing the basis for its calculations and recommended rate.
[22 FR 26, Jan. 3, 1957. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 41 FR 36196, Aug. 27, 1976]
§ 958.42
Assessments.
(a) The funds to cover the committee's expenses pursuant to § 958.40 shall be acquired by the levying of assessments upon handlers as provided in this subpart. Each handler who handles onions as the first handler thereof which are inspected pursuant to this part shall pay assessments to the committee upon demand, which assessments shall be in payment of such handler's pro rata share of such expenses.
(b) Assessments shall be levied upon handlers at rates established by the Secretary. Such rates may be established upon the basis of the committee's recommendations or other available information.
(c) At any time during or subsequent to a given fiscal period, the committee may recommend the approval of an amended budget and an increase in the rate of assessment. Upon the basis of such recommendation, or other available information, the Secretary may approve an amended budget and increase the rate of assessment. Such increase shall be applicable to all onion shipments inspected pursuant to this part during such fiscal period.
§ 958.43
Accounting.
(a) All funds received by the committee pursuant to the provisions of this part shall be used solely for the purposes specified in this part.
(b) The Secretary may at any time require the committee, its members and alternates, employees, agents, and all other persons to account for all receipts and disbursements, funds, property, or records for which they are responsible. Whenever any person ceases to be a member or alternate of the committee, he shall account for all receipts, disbursements, funds, and property (including, but not being limited to, books and other records) pertaining to the committee's activities for which he is responsible, and deliver all such property and funds in his hands to such successor, agency, or person as may be designated by the Secretary, and shall execute such assignments and other instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to vest in each such successor, agency, or person as may be designated by the Secretary the right to all of such property and funds and all claims vested in such person.
(c) The committee may make recommendations to the Secretary for one or more of the members thereof, or any other person, to act as a trustee for holding records, funds, and any other committee property during periods of suspension of this part, or during any
periods when regulations are not in effect; and, if the Secretary determines such action appropriate, he may direct that such person or persons shall so act as trustee or trustees.
§ 958.44
Reserve fund.
At the end of each fiscal period, funds in excess of the committee's expenses may be placed in an operating reserve not to exceed approximately 1 fiscal year's operational expenses or such lower limits as the committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish. Also, the committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may include in its budget an item for such reserve. Funds in the reserve shall be available for use by the committee for expenses authorized pursuant to § 958.40. Funds in excess of those placed in the operating reserve shall be refunded to handlers. Each handler's share of such excess shall be the amount he paid in excess of his pro rata share of the expenses of the committee.
[32 FR 11261, Aug. 3, 1967]
§ 958.45
Accounting of funds upon termination of the order.
Any funds collected as assessments pursuant to this subpart and remaining unexpended in the possession of the committee after termination of this part shall be distributed in such manner as the Secretary may direct:
Provided,
That to the extent practical, such funds shall be returned pro rata to the persons from whom such funds were collected.
[32 FR 11262, Aug. 3, 1967]
§ 958.46
Contributions.
The committee may accept voluntary contributions but these shall only be used to pay expenses incurred pursuant to § 958.47. Furthermore, such contributions shall be free from any encumbrances by the donor and the committee shall retain complete control of their use.
[41 FR 36196, Aug. 27, 1976]

# Research and Development
§ 958.47
Research and development.
(a) The committee with the approval of the Secretary, may establish or provide for the establishment of projects involving production research, marketing research and development projects, and marketing promotion including paid advertising, designed to assist, improve, or promote the marketing, distribution, consumption or efficient production of onions. Any such project for the promotion and advertising of onions may utilize an identifying mark which shall be made available for use by all handlers in accordance with such terms and conditions as the committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may prescribe. The expenses of such projects shall be paid from funds collected pursuant to § 958.42 or § 958.46.
(b) In recommending projects pursuant to this section the committee shall give consideration to the following:
(1) The expected supply of onions in relation to market requirements;
(2) The supply situation among competing areas and commodities;
(3) The anticipated benefits from such projects in relation to their costs;
(4) The need for marketing research with respect to any market development activity; and
(5) The need for a coordinated effort with USDA's Food Marketing Alert or other similar programs.
(c) If the committee should conclude that a program of research or development should be undertaken, or continued, in any crop year, it shall submit the following for the approval of the Secretary:
(1) Its recommendations as to the funds to be obtained pursuant to § 958.42 or § 958.46;
(2) Its recommendation as to any research projects; and
(3) Its recommendation as to promotion activity and paid advertising.
(d) Upon conclusion of each activity, but at least annually, the committee shall summarize and report the results of such activity to its members and to the Secretary.
[41 FR 36196, Aug. 27, 1976]

# Regulation
§ 958.50
Marketing policy.
(a)
Preparation.
Prior to each marketing season the committee shall consider and prepare a proposed policy for
the marketing of onions. In developing its marketing policy the committee shall investigate relevant supply and demand conditions for onions. In such investigations the committee shall give appropriate consideration to the following:
(1) Market prices for onions, including prices by variety, grade, size, and quality, and by different packs;
(2) Supply of onions by grade, size, quality, and variety in the production area and in other onion producing sections;
(3) The trend and level of consumer income;
(4) Establishing and maintaining orderly marketing conditions for onions;
(5) Orderly marketing of onions as will be in the public interest; and
(6) Other relevant factors.
(b)
Reports.
(1) The committee shall submit a report to the Secretary setting forth the aforesaid marketing policy; and the committee shall notify producers and handlers of the contents of such report.
(2) In the event it becomes advisable to shift from such marketing policy because of changed supply and demand conditions, the committee shall prepare an amended or revised marketing policy in accordance with the manner previously outlined. The committee shall submit a report thereon to the Secretary and notify producers and handlers of the contents of such report on the revised or amended marketing policy.
§ 958.51
Recommendations for regulations.
The committee shall recommend regulations to the Secretary whenever it finds that such regulations as provided in § 958.52 will tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act. The committee also may recommend modification, suspension, or termination of any regulation, or amendments thereto, in order to facilitate the handling of onions for the purposes authorized in § 958.53. The committee may also recommend amendment, modification, termination, or suspension of any regulation issued under this part.
§ 958.52
Issuance of regulations.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the Secretary shall limit the shipment of onions by any one or more of the methods hereinafter set forth whenever he finds from the recommendations and information submitted by the committee, or from other available information, that such regulation would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act. Such limitation may:
(1) Regulate in any or all portions of the production area, the handling of particular grades, sizes, or qualities of any or all varieties of onions, or combinations thereof, during any period or periods;
(2) Regulate the handling of particular grades, sizes, or qualities, of onions differently, for different varieties, for different portions of the production area, for different packs, or for any combination of the foregoing, during any period or periods;
(3) Provide a method, through rules and regulations issued pursuant to this part, for fixing the size, capacity, weight, dimensions, or pack of the container, or containers, which may be used in the packaging or handling of onions, including appropriate container markings to identify the contents thereof;
(4) Regulate the handling of onions by establishing, in terms of grades, sizes, or both, minimum standards of quality and maturity; or
(5) Limit the shipment of the total quantity of onions by prohibiting the handling thereof during a specified period or periods. No regulation issued pursuant to this subparagraph shall be effective for more than 96 consecutive hours:
Provided,
That not less than 72 consecutive hours shall elapse between the termination of any such period of prohibition and the beginning of the next such period.
(6) Regulate the handling of onions by establishing, in terms of total weight or total number of layers of containers of onions, the maximum load in railcars, taking into account types of containers and sizes of railcars used, potential resulting damage, and other relevant factors.
(b) In the event the handling of onions is regulated pursuant to paragraph
(a)(5) of this section, no handler shall handle any onions which were prepared for market or loaded during the effective period of such regulation. However, during any such period, no such regulation shall be deemed to limit the right of any person to sell or contract to sell onions for future shipment or delivery.
(c) The Secretary may amend any regulation issued under this part whenever he finds that such amendment would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act. The Secretary may also terminate or suspend any regulation or amendment thereof whenever he finds that such regulation or amendment obstructs or no longer tends to effectuate the declared policy of the act.
[22 FR 26, Jan. 3, 1957. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 32 FR 11262, Aug. 3, 1967; 47 FR 8000, Feb. 24, 1982]
§ 958.53
Handling for specified purposes.
Upon the basis of recommendations and information submitted by the committee, or other available information, the Secretary shall issue special regulations, or modify, suspend, or terminate requirements in effect pursuant to §§ 958.42, 958.52, 958.60, or any combination thereof, in order to facilitate the handling of onions for the following purposes whenever he finds that to do so will tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act:
(a) Shipments of onions for export;
(b) Shipments of onions for relief or to charitable institutions;
(c) Shipments of onions for livestock feed;
(d) Shipments of onions for planting; and
(e) Shipments of onions for other purposes which may be specified.
§ 958.54
Minimum quantities.
The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish minimum quantities below which onion shipments will be free from the requirements in, or pursuant to, §§ 958.42, 958.52, 958.53, 958.60, or any combination thereof.
§ 958.55
Notification of regulations.
The Secretary shall notify the committee of each regulation issued, and of each amendment, modification, suspension, or termination thereof. The committee shall give reasonable notice thereof to handlers.
§ 958.56
Safeguards.
(a) The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may prescribe adequate safeguards to prevent onions shipped,
(1) Pursuant to § 958.53 or § 958.54; or
(2) To commercial dehydrators for processing by such dehydrators into dehydrated onion products,
from entering channels of trade for other than the purpose authorized therefor.
(b) The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may also prescribe rules and regulations governing the issuance, and the contents, of Certificates of Privilege if such certificates are prescribed as safeguards by the committee. Such safeguards may include requirements that:
(1) Handlers shall first file applications with the committee to ship such onions;
(2) Handlers shall obtain inspection provided by § 958.60, or pay the pro rata share of expenses provided by § 958.42, or both, in connection with such onions; and
(3) Handlers shall obtain Certificates of Privilege from the committee prior to effecting the particular onion shipment.
(c) The committee may rescind any Certificate of Privilege, or refuse to issue any Certificate of Privilege to any handler if proof is obtained that onions shipped by him for the purposes stated in the Certificate of Privilege were handled contrary to the provisions of this part.
(d) The Secretary shall have the right to modify, change, alter, or rescind any safeguards prescribed and any certificates issued by the committee pursuant to the provisions of this section.
(e) The committee shall make reports to the Secretary, as requested, showing the number of applications for such certificates, the quantity of onions covered by such applications, the
number of such applications denied and certificates granted, the quantity of onions handled under duly issued certificates, and such other information as may be requested.

# Inspection
§ 958.60
Inspection and certification.
(a) During any period in which shipments of onions are regulated pursuant to this subpart, no handler shall handle onions unless such onions are inspected by an authorized representative of the Federal-State Inspection Service, or such other inspection service as the Secretary shall designate and are covered by a valid inspection certificate, except when relieved from such requirements pursuant to § 958.53, § 958.54, or both.
(b) Regarding, resorting, or repacking any lot of onions shall invalidate prior inspection certificates insofar as the requirements of this section are concerned. No handler shall ship onions after they have been regarded, resorted, repacked or in any other way further prepared for market, unless such onions are inspected by an authorized representative of the Federal-State Inspection Service, or such other inspection service as the Secretary shall designate.
(c) Upon recommendation of the committee, and approval of the Secretary, all onions that are required to be inspected and certified in accordance with this section, shall be identified by appropriate seals, stamps, tags, or other identification to be furnished by the committee and affixed to the containers by the handler under the direction and supervision of the Federal-State, or Federal inspector, or the committee. Master containers may bear the identification instead of the individual containers within said master container.
(d) Insofar as the requirements of this section are concerned, the length of time for which an inspection certificate is valid may be established by the committee with the approval of the Secretary.
(e) When onions are inspected in accordance with the requirements of this section, a copy of each inspection certificate issued shall be made available to the committee by the inspection service.

# Reports
§ 958.65
Reports.
Upon request of the committee, made with the approval of the Secretary, each handler shall furnish to the committee, in such manner and at such time as it may prescribe, such reports and other information as may be necessary for the committee to perform its duties under this part.
(a) Such reports may include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following:
(1) The quantities of onions received by a handler;
(2) The quantities disposed of by him, segregated as to the respective quantities subject to regulation and not subject to regulation;
(3) The date of each such disposition and the identification of the carrier transporting such onions; and
(4) identification of the inspection certificates relating to the onions which were handled pursuant to §§ 958.53 and 958.54.
(b) All such reports shall be held under appropriate protective classification and custody by the committee, or duly appointed employees thereof, so that the information contained therein which may adversely affect the competitive position of any handler in relation to other handlers will not be disclosed. Compilations of general reports from data submitted by handlers is authorized, subject to the prohibition of disclosure of individual handler's identities or operations.
(c) Each handler shall maintain for at least two succeeding years such records of the onions received, and of onions disposed of, by such handler as may be necessary to verify the reports he submits to the committee pursuant to this section.

# Effective Time and Termination
§ 958.70
Effective time.
The provisions of this subpart, or any amendment thereto, shall become effective at such time as the Secretary may declare and shall continue in force
until terminated in one of the ways specified in this subpart.
§ 958.71
Termination.
(a) The Secretary may at any time terminate the provisions of this subpart by giving at least one day's notice by means of a press release or in any other manner which he may determine.
(b) The Secretary may terminate or suspend the operations of any or all of the provisions of this subpart whenever he finds that such provisions do not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.
(c) The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this subpart at the end of any fiscal period whenever he finds that such termination is favored by a majority of producers who, during a representative period, have been engaged in the production for market of onions:
Provided,
That such majority has, during such representative period, produced for market more than fifty percent of the volume of such onions produced for market, but such termination shall be effective only if announced on or before May 31 of the then current fiscal period.
(d) The provisions of this subpart shall, in any event, terminate whenever the provisions of the act authorizing them cease to be in effect.
§ 958.72
Proceeding after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of the provisions of this subpart, the then functioning members of the committee shall continue as joint trustees, for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the committee, of all the funds and property then in the possession, or under control, of the committee, including claims for any funds unpaid and property not delivered at the time of such termination. Action by said trusteeship shall require the concurrence of a majority of the said trustees.
(b) The said trustees shall continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary; shall, from time to time, account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the committee and of the trustees, to such person as the Secretary may direct; and shall, upon request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such person full title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims vested in the committee or the trustees pursuant to this subpart.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered by the committee or its members pursuant to this section, shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the members of the committee and upon the said trustees.
§ 958.73
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any regulation issued pursuant to this subpart, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not (a) affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or of any regulation issued under this subpart; (b) release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or of any regulations issued under this subpart; or (c) affect or impair any rights or remedies of the Secretary or of any other person with respect to any such violations.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 958.81
Compliance.
No handler shall handle onions the handling of which has been prohibited or otherwise limited by the Secretary in accordance with provisions of this part; and no handler shall handle onions except in conformity to the provisions of this part.
§ 958.82
Right of the Secretary.
The members of the committee (including successors and alternates) and any agent or employee appointed or employed by the committee shall be subject to removal or suspension by the Secretary at any time. Each and every order, regulation, decision, determination, or other act of the committee shall be subject to the continuing right of the Secretary to disapprove of the same at any time. Upon such disapproval, the disapproved action of the said committee shall be
deemed null and void except as to acts done in reliance thereon or in compliance therewith prior to such disapproval by the Secretary.
§ 958.83
Duration of immunities.
The benefits, privileges, and immunities conferred upon any person by virtue of this subpart shall cease upon the termination of this subpart, except with respect to acts done under and during the existence of this subpart.
§ 958.84
Agents.
The Secretary may, by designation in writing, name any person, including any officer or employee of the Government, or name any agency in the United States Department of Agriculture, to act as his agent or representative in connection with any of the provisions of this part.
§ 958.85
Derogation.
Nothing contained in this subpart is, or shall be construed to be, in derogation or in modification of the rights of the Secretary or of the United States to exercise any powers granted by the act or otherwise, or, in accordance with such powers, to act in the premises whenever such action is deemed advisable.
§ 958.86
Personal liability.
No member or alternate of the committee nor any employee or agent thereof, shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any handler or to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member, alternate, employee, or agent, except for acts of dishonesty, willful misconduct, or gross negligence.
[22 FR 26, Jan. 3, 1957. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 88 FR 82234, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 958.87
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid, or the applicability thereof to any person, circumstance, or thing is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart, or the applicability thereof to any other person, circumstance, or thing, shall not be affected thereby.
§ 958.88
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed, from time to time, by the committee or by the Secretary.
§ 958.89
Counterparts.
This agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts and when one counterpart is signed by the Secretary, all such counterparts shall constitute, when taken together, one and the same instrument as if all signatures were contained in one original.
[41 FR 29135, July 15, 1976]
§ 958.90
Additional parties.
After the effective date hereof, any handler may become a party to this agreement if a counterpart is executed by him and delivered to the Secretary. This agreement shall take effect as to such new contracting party at the time such counterpart is delivered to the Secretary, and the benefits, privileges, and immunities conferred by this agreement shall then be effective as to such new contracting party.
[41 FR 29135, July 15, 1976]
§ 958.91
Order with marketing agreement.
Each signatory handler requests the Secretary to issue, pursuant to the act, an order providing for regulating the handling of onions in the same manner as is provided for in this agreement.
The undersigned hereby authorizes the Director, or Acting Director, Market Development Division, Specialty Crops Program, Agricultural Marketing Service, United States Department of Agriculture, to correct any typographical errors which may have been made in this marketing agreement.
In witness whereof, the contracting parties, acting under the provisions of the act, for the purpose and subject to the limitations therein contained, and not otherwise, have hereto set their respective signatures and seals.
__________
(Firm name)
By:
(Signature)
1
1
If one of the contracting parties to this agreement is a corporation my signature constitutes certification that I have the power granted to me by the Board of Directors to bind this corporation to the marketing agreement.
(Mailing address)
(Title)
(Corporate Seal; if none, so state)
(Date of execution)
[41 FR 29136, July 15, 1976, as amended at 88 FR 82234, Nov. 24, 2023]

# Subpart B—Administrative Requirements
§ 958.112
Fiscal period.
The fiscal period shall begin July 1 of each year and end June 30 of the following year, both dates inclusive.
[68 FR 48531, Aug. 14, 2003]
§ 958.160
Reestablishment of Districts.
(a) Pursuant to § 958.27(b) the following districts are reestablished:
(1) District No. 5 (Parma-Wilder area): That portion of Canyon County lying west and north of a line commencing at the junction of the north boundary of Canyon County and Range 4, Township 12 east, thence south along this line to Soeck Road, thence west along Soeck Road one-fourth mile to Notus Road, thence south along Notus Road to Highway 19, thence west one mile along Highway 19 to Friends Road, thence south along Friends Road to Boundary Road, thence east one-half mile along Boundary Road to Plum Road, thence south along Plum Road to Homedale Road, thence west along Homedale Road to the western boundary of Canyon County.
(2) District No. 6 (Caldwell-Nampa-Homedale and southern Idaho area): That portion of Canyon County not included in District No. 5 plus all of the counties in the Idaho portion of the production area not included within District No. 1.
(b) Terms used in this section have the same meaning as when used in said marketing agreement and this part.
[39 FR 1601, Jan. 11, 1974]
§ 958.240
Assessment rate.
On and after July 1, 2023, an assessment rate of $0.07 per hundredweight is established for Idaho-Eastern Oregon onions.
[89 FR 45754, May 24, 2024]
§ 958.250
Assessment Credit Report.
Each handler may receive a credit for assessments on onions that have been levied in accordance with §§ 958.42 and 958.240 and are subsequently regraded, resorted, or repacked within the production area, or shipped in accordance with § 958.328(e) by furnishing the “Assessment Credit Report” and such other information as required to the committee.
[71 FR 65040, Nov. 7, 2006]

# Subpart C—Handling Requirements
§ 958.328
Handling regulation.
No person shall handle any lot of onions, except braided red onions, unless such onions are at least “moderately cured,” as defined in paragraph (h) of this section, and meet the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, or unless such onions are handled in accordance with paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) or (g) of this section.
(a)
Grade and size requirements—(1) White varieties (except cipolline (Borettana) varieties).
Shall be either:
(i) U.S. No. 1, 1 inch minimum to 2 inches maximum diameter; or
(ii) U.S. No. 1, at least 1
1/2
inches minimum diameter. However, neither of these two categories of onions may be commingled in the same bag or other container.
(2)
Cipolline (Borettana) varieties and red varieties.
U.S. No. 2 or better grade, at least 1
1/2
inches minimum diameter.
(3)
All other varieties.
Shall be either:
(i) U.S. No. 2 or U.S. Commercial grade, at least 3 inches minimum diameter, but not more than 30 percent of the lot shall be comprised of onions of U.S. No. 1 quality when packed in containers weighing less than 60 pounds; or
(ii) U.S. No. 1, 1
3/4
inches minimum to 2
3/4
maximum diameter; or
(iii) U.S. No. 1, at least 2
1/4
inches minimum diameter.
However, none of these three categories of onions may be commingled in the same bag or other container.
(b)
Pack.
Onions packed as U.S. Commercial grade in containers weighing less than 60 pounds shall have the grade marked permanently and conspicuously on the container.
(c)
Inspection.
No handler may handle any onions regulated hereunder unless such onions are inspected by the Federal-State Inspection Service and are covered by a valid applicable inspection certificate, except when relieved of such requirement pursuant to paragraph (d), (e) or (g) of this section.
(d)
Onions for peeling, chopping, or slicing.
Onions that have been inspected and certified as meeting the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and that are subsequently peeled, chopped, or sliced for fresh market within the production area may be handled without reinspection:
Provided the following:
(1) Each handler making shipments of onions for alteration or performing alteration by peeling, chopping, or slicing must furnish the committee the following information on the “Fresh Cut Report” and such other documents as required:
(i) Business name, address, telephone number, signature, and the date the form was signed;
(ii) The date of peeling, chopping, or slicing;
(iii) Inspection certificate number;
(iv) The quantity of onions; and
(v) Such other information as may be required by the committee.
(2) Handlers who peel, chop, or slice onions produced outside the production area must provide the committee with documentation showing that the onions so prepared were produced outside the production area.
(e)
Special purpose shipments.
(1) The minimum grade, size, maturity, pack, assessment, and inspection requirements of this section shall not be applicable to shipments of onions for any of the following purposes:
(i) Planting,
(ii) Livestock feed,
(iii) Charity,
(iv) Dehydration,
(v) Canning,
(vi) Freezing,
(vii) Extraction,
(viii) Pickling, and
(ix) Disposal.
(2) Shipments of onions for the purpose of experimentation, as approved by the Committee, may be made without regard to the minimum grade, size, maturity, pack, and inspection requirements of this section. Assessment requirements shall be applicable to such shipments.
(3) The minimum grade, size, and maturity requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section shall not be applicable to shipments of pearl onions, but the maximum size requirement in paragraph (h) of this section and the assessment and inspection requirements shall be applicable to shipments of pearl onions.
(f)
Safeguards.
Each handler making shipments of onions outside the production area for dehydration, canning, freezing, extraction, pickling, or experimentation pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section shall:
(1) Furnish “Application to Make Special Purpose Shipments—Certificate of Privilege” and such other information to the committee as required. The committee will review and verify each “Application to Make Special Purpose Shipments—Certificate of Privilege” and notify the handler of approval or disapproval. The committee may contact the receiver or receiver's agent of the special purpose shipment for verification and request the receiver or receiver's agent to complete a “Special Purpose Shipment Receiver Certification”
(2) Bill or consign each shipment directly to the applicable receiver or receiver's agent of the special purpose shipment;
(3) Furnish “Onion Diversion Report” and such other information to the committee as required. Failure of the handler to furnish such report and information as required to the committee may be cause for cancellation of such handlers' Certificate of Privilege. Upon cancellation of any such Certificate of Privilege the handler may appeal to the committee for reconsideration. The committee may audit a receiver or receiver's agent of the special purpose
shipment to verify reports and information submitted by handlers. Failure of a receiver or receiver's agent of a special purpose shipment to comply with the committee may be cause for cancellation of the receiver's or receiver agent's eligibility to receive further special purpose shipments from the production area. Upon cancellation of any such Certificate of Privilege the receiver or the receiver's agent may appeal to the committee for reconsideration.
(g)
Minimum quantity exemption.
Each handler may ship up to, but not to exceed, one ton of onions each day without regard to the inspection and assessment requirements of this part, if such onions meet minimum grade, size and maturity requirements of this section. This exception shall not apply to any portion of a shipment that exceeds one ton of onions.
(h)
Definitions.
The terms “U.S. No. 1”, “U.S. Commercial,” and “U.S. No. 2” have the same meaning as defined in the United States Standards for Grades of Onions (Other than Bermuda Granex-Grano and Creole Types), as amended (7 CFR 51.2830 through 51.2854), or the United States Standards for Grades of Bermuda-Granex-Grano Type Onions (7 CFR 51.3195 through 51.3209), as amended, whichever is applicable to the particular variety, or variations thereof specified in this section. The term “braided red onions” means onions of red varieties with tops braided (interlaced). “Pearl onions” means onions produced using specific cultural practices that limit growth to the same general size as boilers and picklers (defined in the United States Standards specified in this paragraph), and that have been inspected and certified as measuring 2 inches in diameter or less. The term “moderately cured” means the onions are mature and are more nearly well cured than fairly well cured. Other terms used in this section have the same meaning as when used in Marketing Agreement No. 130 and this part.
[47 FR 32913, July 30, 1982, as amended at 49 FR 31257, Aug. 6, 1984; 50 FR 50157, Dec. 9, 1985; 53 FR 32597, Aug. 26, 1988; 55 FR 31036, July 31, 1990; 55 FR 36601, Sept. 6, 1990; 58 FR 60369, Nov. 16, 1993; 61 FR 35593, July 8, 1996; 61 FR 39841, July 31, 1996; 63 FR 55783, Oct. 19, 1998; 69 FR 56671, Sept. 22, 2004; 71 FR 65040, Nov. 7, 2006; 76 FR 67319, Nov. 1, 2011; 76 FR 67319, Nov. 1, 2011]
Pt. 959

# PART 959—ONIONS GROWN IN SOUTH TEXAS

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Definitions
Sec.
959.1
Secretary.
959.2
Act.
959.3
Person.
959.4
Production area.
959.5
Onions.
959.6
Handler.
959.7
Handle.
959.8
Registered handler.
959.9
Producer.
959.10
Grading.
959.11
Grade and size.
959.12
Pack.
959.13
Container.
959.14
Varieties.
959.15
Committee.
959.16
Fiscal period.
959.17
District.
959.18
Export.

# Committee
959.22
Establishment and membership.
959.23
Term of office.
959.24
Districts.
959.25
Redistricting.
959.26
Selection.
959.27
Nomination.
959.28
Failure to nominate.
959.29
Acceptance.
959.30
Vacancies.
959.31
Alternate members.
959.32
Procedure.
959.33
Expenses and compensation.
959.34
Powers.
959.35
Duties.

# Expenses and Assessments
959.40
Expenses.
959.41
Budget.
959.42
Assessments.
959.43
Accounting.

# Research and Development
959.48
Research and development.

# Regulations
959.50
Marketing policy.
959.51
Recommendations for regulations.
959.52
Issuance of regulations.
959.53
Handling for special purposes.
959.54
Safeguards.
959.55
Notification of regulation.

# Inspection
959.60
Inspection and certification.

# Reports
959.80
Reports.

# Compliance
959.81
Compliance.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
959.82
Right of the Secretary.
959.83
Effective time.
959.84
Termination.
959.85
Proceeding after termination.
959.86
Effect of termination or amendments.
959.87
Duration of immunities.
959.88
Agents.
959.89
Derogation.
959.90
Personal liability.
959.91
Separability.
959.92
Amendments.

# Subpart B—Administrative Provisions

# General
959.100
Order.
959.101
Terms.
959.102
Communications.
959.103
Registered handler.
959.104
Fiscal period.
959.110
Reestablishment of districts.
959.111
Reapportionment of Committee membership.
959.115
Planting reports.

# Safeguards
959.120
Policy.
959.121
Qualification.
959.122
Application.
959.123
Approval.
959.124
Reports.
959.125
Disqualification.
959.126
Handling of culls.
959.237
Assessment rate.
959.322
Handling regulation.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 601-674.

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Source:
26 FR 704, Jan. 25, 1961, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961.

# Definitions
§ 959.1
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may be hereafter delegated, to act in his stead.
§ 959.2
Act.
Act
means Public Act No. 10, 73d Congress, as amended and as reenacted and amended by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (sections 1-19, 48 Stat. 31, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 601-674).
§ 959.3
Person.
Person
means an individual, partnership, corporation, association or any other business unit.
§ 959.4
Production area.
Production area
means the counties of Val Verde, Kinney, Uvalde, Medina, Wilson, Karnes, Goliad, Victoria, Calhoun, Maverick, Zavala, Frio, Atascosa, Dimmit, La Salle, McMullen, Live Oak, Bee, Refugio, Webb, Duval, Jim Wells, San Patricio, Nueces, Zapata, Jim Hogg, Brooks, Kleberg, Kenedy, Starr, DeWitt, Aransas, Hidalgo, Willacy, and Cameron, in the State of Texas.
[26 FR 704, Jan. 25, 1961. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 88 FR 82234, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 959.5
Onions.
Onions
means all varieties of Allium cepa commonly known as onions grown within the production area and marketed dry.
§ 959.6
Handler.
Handler
is synonymous with
shipper
and means any person (except a common or contract carrier of onions owned by another person) who handles onions or causes onions to be handled.
§ 959.7
Handle.
Handle
or
ship
means to package, load, sell, transport, or in any way to place onions in the current of the commerce within the production area or
between the production area and any point outside thereof. Such term shall not include the transportation, sale, or delivery of field-run onions to a person in the production area who is a registered handler.
[27 FR 227, Mar. 9, 1962, as amended at 34 FR 6440, Apr. 12, 1969]
§ 959.8
Registered handler.
Registered handler
means any person with adequate facilities within the production area for preparing onions for commercial market, who customarily does so, and who is so recorded by the committee, or any person who has access to such facilities within the production area, and has recorded with the committee his ability and willingness to assume customary obligations of preparing onions for commercial market.
§ 959.9
Producer.
Producer
means any person engaged in a proprietary capacity in the production of onions for market.
§ 959.10
Grading.
Grading
is synonymous with
preparation for market
and means the sorting or separation of onions into grades, sizes, and packs for market purposes.
§ 959.11
Grade and size.
Grade
means any of the established grades of onions, and
size
means any of the established sizes of onions as defined and set forth in the United States Standards for Bermuda-Granex Type Onions (§§ 51.3195 to 51.3209 of this title) or any other United States Standards for onions, or amendments thereto or modifications thereof, or variations based thereon, recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.
§ 959.12
Pack.
Pack
means a quantity of onions specified by grade, size, weight, or count, or by type or condition of container, or any combination of these recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.
[27 FR 2278, Mar. 9, 1962]
§ 959.13
Container.
Container
means a box, bag, crate, hamper, basket, package, or any other receptacle used in the packaging, transportation, sale, shipment or other handling of onions.
§ 959.14
Varieties.
Varieties
means and includes all classifications, subdivisions, or types of onions according to those definitive characteristics now or hereafter recognized by the United States Department of Agriculture or recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.
§ 959.15
Committee.
Committee
means the South Texas Onion Committee, established pursuant to § 959.22.
§ 959.16
Fiscal period.
Fiscal period
means the annual period beginning and ending on such dates as may be approved by the Secretary pursuant to recommendations of the committee.
§ 959.17
District.
District
means each of the geographic divisions of the production area initially established pursuant to § 959.24 or as reestablished pursuant to § 959.25.
§ 959.18
Export.
Export
means to ship onions to any destination which is not within the 48 contiguous States, or the District of Columbia, of the United States.

# Committee
§ 959.22
Establishment and membership.
The South Texas Onion Committee, consisting of thirteen members, eight of whom shall be producers and five of whom shall be handlers, is hereby established. For each member of the Committee there shall be an alternate. Producer members and alternates shall not have a proprietary interest in or be employees of a handler organization.
[84 FR 10667, Mar. 22, 2019]
§ 959.23
Term of office.
(a) The term of office of committee members and their respective alternates shall be for two years and shall begin as of August 1 and end as of July 31. The terms shall be so determined that about one-half of the total committee membership shall terminate each year.
(b) Committee members and alternates shall serve during the term of office for which they are selected and have qualified, or during that portion thereof beginning on the date on which they qualify during such term of office and continuing until the end thereof, and until their successors are selected and have qualified.
§ 959.24
Districts.
To determine a basis for selecting Committee members, the following districts of the production area are hereby established:
(a)
District No. 1.
(Coastal Bend-Lower Valley) The Counties of Victoria, Calhoun, Goliad, Refugio, Bee, Live Oak, San Patricio, Aransas, Jim Wells, Nueces, Kleberg, Brooks, Kenedy, Duval, McMullen, Cameron, Hidalgo, Starr, and Willacy in the State of Texas.
(b)
District No. 2.
(Laredo-Winter Garden) The Counties of Zapata, Webb, Jim Hogg, DeWitt, Wilson, Atascosa, Karnes Val Verde, Frio, Kinney, Uvalde, Medina, Maverick, Zavala, Dimmit, and La Salle in the State of Texas.
[84 FR 10667, Mar. 22, 2019, as amended at 88 FR 82234, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 959.25
Redistricting.
The committee may recommend, and pursuant thereto, the Secretary may approve, the reapportionment of members among districts, and the reestablishment of districts within the production area. In recommending any such changes, the committee shall give consideration to:
(a) Shifts in onion acreage within the districts and within the production area during recent years;
(b) The importance of new production in its relation to existing districts;
(c) The equitable relationship of committee membership and districts;
(d) Economies to result for producers in promoting efficient administration due to redistricting or reapportionment of members within districts; and
(e) Other relevant factors. No change in districting or in apportionment of members within districts may become effective less than 30 days prior to the date on which terms of office begin each year and no recommendations for such redistricting or reapportionment may be made less than six months prior to such date.
§ 959.26
Selection.
The Secretary shall select members and respective alternates from districts established pursuant to § 959.24 or § 959.25. Selections shall be as follows:
(a)
District No. 1.
Five producer members and alternates; three handler members and alternates.
(b)
District No. 2.
Three producer members and alternates; two handler members and alternates.
[84 FR 10667, Mar. 22, 2019]
§ 959.27
Nomination.
The Secretary may select the members of the committee and alternates from nominations which may be made in the following manner:
(a) A meeting or meetings of producers and handlers shall be held for each district to nominate members and alternates for the committee. For nominations to the initial committee, the meetings may be sponsored by the United States Department of Agriculture or by any agency or group requested to do so by such department. For nominations for succeeding members and alternates on the committee, the committee shall hold such meetings or cause them to be held prior to June 15 of each year, after the effective date of this subpart, or by such other date as may be specified by the Secretary;
(b) At each such meeting at least one nominee shall be designated for each position as member and for each position as alternate member on the committee;
(c) Nominations for committee members and alternates shall be supplied to the Secretary in such manner and form as he may prescribe, not later than July 1 of each year, or by such other
date as may be specified by the Secretary;
(d) Only producers may participate in designating producer nominees, and only handlers may participate in naming handler nominees. In the event a person is engaged in producing or handling onions in more than one district, such person shall elect the district within which he may participate as aforesaid in designating nominees;
(e) Regardless of the number of districts in which a person produces or handles onions, each such person is entitled to cast only one vote on behalf of himself, his agents, subsidiaries, affiliates, and representatives in designating nominees for committee members and alternates. An eligible voter's privilege of casting only one vote as aforesaid shall be construed to permit a voter to cast one vote for each position to be filled in the respective district in which he elects to vote.
[26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 34 FR 6440, Apr. 12, 1969]
§ 959.28
Failure to nominate.
If nominations are not made within the time and in the manner specified in § 959.27, the Secretary may, without regard to nominations, select the committee members and alternates, which selection shall be on the basis of the representation provided for in §§ 959.22 through 959.26.
§ 959.29
Acceptance.
Any person selected as a committee member or alternate shall qualify by filing a written acceptance within ten days after being notified of such selection.
§ 959.30
Vacancies.
To fill committee vacancies, the Secretary may select such members or alternates from unselected nominees on the current nominee list from the district involved, or from nominations made in the manner specified in § 959.27. If the names of nominees to fill any such vacancy are not made available to the Secretary within 30 days after such vacancy occurs, such vacancy may be filled without regard to nominations, which selection shall be made on the basis of the representation provided for in §§ 959.24 to 959.26.
§ 959.31
Alternate members.
An alternate member of the committee shall act in the place and stead of the member for whom he is an alternate, during such member's absence or when designated to do so by the member for whom he is an alternate. In the event both a member of the committee and his alternate are unable to attend a committee meeting, the member or his alternate or the committee (in that order) may designate another alternate from the same district and the same group (handler or grower) to serve in such member's place and stead. In the event of the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of a member, his alternate shall act for him until a successor of such member is selected and has qualified. The committee may request the attendance of alternates at any or all meetings, notwithstanding the expected or actual presence of the respective members.
[27 FR 2278, Mar. 9, 1962]
§ 959.32
Procedure.
(a) Nine members of the Committee shall be necessary to constitute a quorum. Seven concurring votes, or two-thirds of the votes cast, whichever is greater, shall be required to pass any motion or approve any Committee action. At assembled meetings all votes shall be cast in person.
(b) The committee may meet by telephone, telegraph, or other means of communication and any vote at such a meeting shall be promptly confirmed in writing. On such occasions unanimous vote of committee members voting will be required to approve any action.
[26 FR 704, Jan. 25, 1961, as amended at 84 FR 10667, Mar. 22, 2019]
§ 959.33
Expenses and compensation.
Committee members and alternates when acting on committee business shall be reimbursed for reasonable expenses necessarily incurred by them in the performance of their duties and in the exercise of their powers under this part. In addition they may receive compensation at a rate to be determined by the committee and approved by the Secretary, not to exceed $10 for
each day, or portion thereof, spent in attending to committee business.
§ 959.34
Powers.
The committee shall have the following powers:
(a) To administer the provisions of this part in accordance with its terms and provisions;
(b) To make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of this part;
(c) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violation of the provisions of this part; and
(d) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this part.
§ 959.35
Duties.
It shall be, among other things, the duty of the committee:
(a) As soon as practicable after the beginning of each term of office, to meet and organize, to select a chairman and such other officers as may be necessary, to select subcommittees of committee members and alternates, and to adopt such rules and regulations for the conduct of its business as it may deem advisable;
(b) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any producer or handler;
(c) To furnish to the Secretary such available information as he may request;
(d) To appoint such employees, agents, and representatives as it may deem necessary and to determine the salaries and define the duties of each such person, and to protect the handling of committee funds through fidelity bonds for employees;
(e) To investigate from time to time and to assemble data on the growing, harvesting, shipping, and marketing conditions with respect to onions;
(f) To prepare a marketing policy;
(g) To recommend marketing regulations to the Secretary;
(h) To recommend rules and procedures for, and to make determinations in connection with, issuance of certificates of privilege;
(i) To keep minutes, books, and records which clearly reflect all of the acts and transactions of the committee, and such minutes, books and records shall be subject to examination at any time by the Secretary or by his authorized agent or representative. Minutes of each committee meeting shall be reported promptly to the Secretary;
(j) At the beginning of each fiscal period, to prepare a budget of its expenses for such fiscal period, together with a report thereon;
(k) To cause the books of the committee to be audited by a competent accountant at least once each fiscal period, and at such other time as the committee may deem necessary or as the Secretary may request. The report of such audit shall show the receipt and expenditure of funds collected pursuant to this part. A copy of each such report shall be made available at the principal office of the committee for inspection by producers and handlers, and a copy of each such report shall be furnished the Secretary;
(l) To consult, cooperate, and exchange information with other marketing agreement committees and other individuals or agencies in connection with all proper committee activities and objectives under this part.

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 959.40
Expenses.
The committee is authorized to incur such expenses as the Secretary may find are reasonable and likely to be incurred during each fiscal period for its maintenance and functioning, and for such purposes as the Secretary, pursuant to this subpart, determines to be appropriate. Handlers shall share expenses on the basis of a fiscal period. Each handler's share of such expenses shall be proportionate to the ratio between the total quantity of onions handled by him as the first handler thereof during a fiscal period and the quantity of onions handled by all handlers as first handlers thereof during such fiscal period.
§ 959.41
Budget.
As soon as practicable after the beginning of each fiscal period and as may be necessary thereafter, the committee shall prepare an estimated budget of income and expenditures necessary for the administration of this part. The committee may recommend a
rate of assessment calculated to provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures. The committee shall present such budget to the Secretary with an accompanying report showing the basis for its calculations.
§ 959.42
Assessments.
(a) The funds to cover the committee's expenses shall be acquired by the levying of assessments upon handlers as provided in this subpart. Each handler who first handles onions, which are regulated under this part, shall pay assessments to the committee upon demand, which assessments shall be in payment of such handler's pro rata share of the committee's expenses.
(b) Assessments shall be levied upon handlers at rates established by the Secretary. Such rates may be established upon the basis of the committee's recommendations and other available information. Such rates may be applied to specified containers used in the production area.
(c) At any time during, or subsequent to, a given fiscal period the committee may recommend the approval of an amended budget and an increase in the rate of assessment. Upon the basis of such recommendations, or other available information, the Secretary may approve an amended budget and increase the rate of assessment. Such increase shall be applicable to all onions which were regulated under this part and which were handled by the first handlers thereof during such fiscal period.
(d) The payment of assessments for the maintenance and functioning of the committee may be required under this part throughout the period it is in effect irrespective of whether particular provisions thereof are suspended or become inoperative.
(e) If a handler does not pay assessments within the time prescribed by the committee, the assessment may be increased by a late payment charge and/or an interest rate charge at amounts prescribed by the committee with approval of the Secretary.
[26 FR 704, Jan. 25, 1961, as amended at 73 FR 10976, Feb. 29, 2008]
§ 959.43
Accounting.
(a) Assessments collected in excess of expenses incurred shall be accounted for in accordance with one of the following:
(1) Excess funds not retained in a reserve, as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be refunded proportionately to the persons from whom they were collected.
(2) The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may carry over excess funds into subsequent fiscal periods as reserves:
Provided,
That funds already in reserves do not equal approximately two fiscal periods' expenses. Such reserve funds may be used (i) to defray expenses during any fiscal period prior to the time assessment income is sufficient to cover such expenses, (ii) to cover deficits incurred during any fiscal period when assessment income is less than expenses, (iii) to defray expenses incurred during any period when any or all provisions of this part are suspended or are inoperative, (iv) to cover necessary expenses of liquidation in the event of termination of this part. Upon such termination, any funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be disposed of in such manner as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate. To the extent practical, such funds shall be returned pro rata to the persons from whom such funds were collected.
(b) All funds received by the committee pursuant to the provisions of this part shall be used solely for the purpose specified in this part and shall be accounted for in the manner provided for in this part. The Secretary may at any time require the committee and its members to account for all receipts and disbursements.
(c) Upon the removal or expiration of the term of office of any member of the committee, such member shall account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property and funds in his possession to the committee, and shall execute such assignments and other instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to vest in the committee full title to all of the property, funds, and claims vested in such member pursuant to this part.
(d) The committee may make recommendations to the Secretary for one or more of the members thereof, or any other person, to act as a trustee for holding records, funds, or any other committee property during periods of suspension of this subpart, or during any period or periods when regulations are not in effect and if the Secretary determines such action appropriate, he may direct that such person or persons shall act as trustee or trustees for the committee.
[26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 34 FR 6440, Apr. 12, 1969]

# Research and Development
§ 959.48
Research and development.
The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish or provide for the establishment of production research, marketing research, and development projects designed to assist, improve, or promote the marketing, distribution, consumption or efficient production of onions. The expenses of such projects shall be paid from funds collected pursuant to § 959.42.
[38 FR 31516, Nov. 15, 1973]

# Regulations
§ 959.50
Marketing policy.
(a) At the beginning of each season, and as the Secretary may require, the committee shall prepare a marketing policy. Such policy shall indicate the data on onion supplies and demand on which the committee bases its judgments and recommendations. It shall indicate also the kind or types of regulations contemplated during the ensuing season, and, to the extent practical, shall include recommendations for specific regulations. Notice of such marketing policy shall be given to producers, handlers, and other interested parties by bulletins, newspapers, or other appropriate media, and copies thereof shall be submitted to the Secretary and shall be available generally.
(b) Marketing policy statements relating to recommendations for regulations shall give appropriate consideration to onion supplies for the season, with special consideration to:
(1) Estimates of total supplies, including grade, size, and quality thereof, in the production area;
(2) Estimates of supplies in the competing areas;
(3) Market prices by grades, sizes, containers, and packs;
(4) Estimates of supplies of competing commodities;
(5) Anticipated marketing problems;
(6) Level and trend of consumer income; and
(7) Other relevant factors.
§ 959.51
Recommendations for regulations.
Upon complying with the requirements of § 959.50 the committee may recommend regulations to the Secretary whenever it finds that such regulations as are provided for in this subpart will tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.
§ 959.52
Issuance of regulations.
(a) The Secretary shall limit the handling of onions by regulations specified in this section whenever he finds from the recommendations and information submitted by the committee, or from other available information, that such regulations would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.
(b) Such regulations may:
(1) Limit in any or all portions of the production area the handling of particular grades, sizes, qualities or packs, or any combination thereof, of any or all varieties of onions during any period;
(2) Limit the handling of particular grades, sizes, qualities, or packs of onions differently for different varieties, for different containers, for different portions of the production area, or any combination of the foregoing, during any period;
(3) Limit the handling of onions by establishing, in terms of grades, sizes, or both, minimum standards of quality and maturity;
(4) Fix the size, capacity, weight, dimensions, or pack of the container or containers which may be used in the packaging, transportation, sale, preparation for market, shipment, or other handling of onions;
(5) Establish holidays by prohibiting throughout the entire production area,
the packaging or loading, or both, of onions on Sundays;
(6) Prohibit the packaging or loading, or both, of onions except during specified consecutive hours of any calendar day or days:
Provided,
That, any handler may, upon such notice to the committee as it may prescribe with approval of the Secretary, package or load onions during a different period in such day consisting of the same number of consecutive hours:
Provided further,
That any handler who, due to conditions specified in regulations established by the committee with the approval of the Secretary as being beyond a handler's reasonable control, is prevented for more than one of such consecutive hours from so packaging or loading onions may, in accordance with such regulations, obtain permission from the committee to package or load onions, or both, during a comparable number of additional hours in the same day or a later day as specified by the committee.
(c) Regulations issued hereunder may be amended, modified, suspended, or terminated whenever it is determined:
(1) That such action is warranted upon recommendation of the committee or other available information;
(2) That such action is essential to provide relief from inspection, assessment, or regulations under paragraph (b) of this section for minimum quantities less than customary commercial transactions; or
(3) That regulations issued hereunder no longer tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.
(d) No handler may handle onions that were packaged or loaded or both during any period when such packaging or loading or both was prohibited by any regulation issued pursuant to paragraphs (b)(5) or (6) of this section, except such onions as were exempted thereunder.
[26 FR 704, Jan. 25, 1961. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 34 FR 6440, Apr. 12, 1969]
§ 959.53
Handling for special purposes.
Regulations in effect pursuant to §§ 959.42, 959.52, or 959.60 may be modified, suspended, or terminated to facilitate handling of onions for:
(a) Relief or charity;
(b) Experimental purposes;
(c) Export; and
(d) Other purposes which may be recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.
§ 959.54
Safeguards.
The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish through rules such requirements as may be necessary to establish that shipments made pursuant to § 959.53 were handled and used for the purpose stated.
§ 959.55
Notification of regulation.
The Secretary shall promptly notify the committee of regulations issued or of any modification, suspension, or termination thereof. The committee shall give reasonable notice thereof to handlers.

# Inspection
§ 959.60
Inspection and certification.
(a) Whenever the handling of onions is regulated pursuant to § 959.52, or at other times when recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary, no handlers shall handle onions unless they are inspected by an authorized representative of the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service and are covered by a valid inspection certificate, except when relieved from such requirements pursuant to § 959.52(c) or § 959.54, or paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Regarding, resorting, or repacking any lot of onions shall invalidate any prior inspection certificate insofar as the requirements of this section are concerned. No handler shall handle onions after they have been regraded, resorted, or repacked unless such onions are inspected by an authorized representative of the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service. Such inspection requirements on regraded, resorted, or repacked onions may be modified, suspended, or terminated upon recommendation by the committee and approval of the Secretary.
(c) Upon recommendation of the committee and approval by the Secretary, any or all onions so inspected and certified shall be identified by appropriate seals, stamps, or tags to be affixed to the containers by the handler under
the direction and supervision of a Federal or Federal-State Inspector or the Committee. Master containers may bear the identification instead of the individual containers within said master container.
(d) At any time this marketing order is inoperative, compulsory inspection is not required.
(e) Insofar as the requirements of this section are concerned, the length of time for which an inspection certificate is valid may be established by the committee with the approval of the Secretary.
(f) When onions are inspected in accordance with the requirements of this section, a copy of each inspection certificate issued shall be made available to the committee by the Inspection Service.
(g) The committee may recommend and the Secretary may require that no handler shall transport or cause the transportation of onions by motor vehicle or by other means unless such shipment is accompanied by a copy of the inspection certificate issued thereon, or other document authorized by the committee to indicate that such inspection has been performed. Such certificate or document shall be surrendered to such authority as may be designated.

# Reports
§ 959.80
Reports.
Upon request of the committee, made with the approval of the Secretary, each handler shall furnish to the committee, in such manner or form and at such time as it may prescribe, such reports and other information as may be necessary for the committee to perform its duties under this part.
(a) Such reports may include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following:
(1) The quantities of onions received by a handler;
(2) The quantities disposed of by him segregated as to the respective quantities subject to regulation and not subject to regulation;
(3) The date of each such disposition and the identification of the carrier transporting such onions; and
(4) Identification of the inspection certificates relating to the onions which were handled pursuant to § 959.52 or § 959.53, or both.
(b) All such reports shall be held under appropriate protective classification and custody by the committee, or duly appointed employees thereof, so that the information contained therein which may adversely affect the competitive position of any handler in relation to other handlers will not be disclosed. Compilations of general reports from data submitted by handlers is authorized, subject to the prohibition of disclosure of individual handlers' identities or operations.
(c) Each handler shall maintain for at least two succeeding years such records and documents on onions received and onions disposed of by him as may be necessary to verify reports he submits to the committee pursuant to this section.

# Compliance
§ 959.81
Compliance.
Except as provided in this subpart, no handler shall handle onions, the handling of which has been prohibited by the Secretary in accordance with provisions of this subpart, or the rules and regulations thereunder, and no handler shall handle onions except in conformity to the provisions of this subpart.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 959.82
Right of the Secretary.
The members of the committee (including successors and alternates), and any agent or employee appointed or employed by the committee, shall be subject to removal or suspension by the Secretary at any time. Each and every order, regulation, decision, determination or other act of the committee shall be subject to the continuing right of the Secretary to disapprove of the same at any time. Upon such disapproval, the disapproved action of the said committee shall be deemed null and void, except as to acts done in reliance thereon or in compliance therewith prior to such disapproval by the Secretary.
§ 959.83
Effective time.
The provisions of this subpart, or any amendment thereto, shall become effective at such time as the Secretary may declare and shall continue in force until terminated in one of the ways specified in this subpart.
§ 959.84
Termination.
(a) The Secretary may, at any time, terminate the provisions of this subpart by giving at least one day's notice by means of a press release or in any other manner which he may determine.
(b) The Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operation of any or all of the provisions of this subpart whenever he finds that such provisions do not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.
(c) The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this subpart at the end of any fiscal period whenever he finds that such termination is favored by a majority of producers who, during a representative period, have been engaged in the production of onions for market:
Provided,
That such majority has, during such representative period, produced for market more than fifty percent of the volume of such onions produced for market.
(d) The Secretary shall conduct a referendum within six years after the effective date of this paragraph and every sixth year thereafter to ascertain whether continuance is favored by producers. The Secretary would consider termination of this part if less than two-thirds of the growers voting in the referendum and growers of less than two-thirds of the volume of onions represented in the referendum favor continuance.
(e) The provisions of this subpart shall, in any event, terminate whenever the provisions of the act authorizing them cease to be in effect.
[26 FR 704, Jan. 25, 1961, as amended at 73 FR 10976, Feb. 29, 2008]
§ 959.85
Proceeding after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of the provisions of this subpart the then functioning members of the committee shall continue as joint trustees for the purpose of settling the affairs of the committee by liquidating all of the funds and property then in the possession of or under control of the committee, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered at the time of such termination. Action by said trusteeship shall require the concurrence of a majority of the said trustees.
(b) The said trustees shall continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary; shall, from time to time, account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the committee and of the trustees, to such person as the Secretary may direct; and shall, upon request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such persons full title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims vested in the committee or the trustees pursuant to this subpart.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered by the committee or its members, pursuant to this section, shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the members of the committee and upon the said trustees.
§ 959.86
Effect of termination or amendments.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any regulation issued pursuant to this subpart, or the issuance of any amendments to either thereof, shall not (a) affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provisions of this subpart or any regulation issued under this subpart, or (b) release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or of any regulation issued under this subpart, or (c) affect or impair any rights or remedies of the Secretary or of any other person with respect to any such violation.
§ 959.87
Duration of immunities.
The benefits, privileges, and immunities conferred upon any person by virtue of this subpart shall cease upon the termination of this subpart, except with respect to acts done under and during the existence of this subpart.
§ 959.88
Agents.
The Secretary may, by designation in writing, name any person, including any officer or employee of the United States Department of Agriculture, to act as his agent or representative in connection with any of the provisions of this subpart.
§ 959.89
Derogation.
Nothing contained in this subpart is, or shall be construed to be, in derogation or in modification of the rights of the Secretary or of the United States to exercise any powers granted by the act or otherwise, or, in accordance with such powers, to act in the premises whenever such action is deemed advisable.
§ 959.90
Personal liability.
No member or alternate of the committee nor any employee or agent thereof, shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any handler or to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member, alternate, agent, or employee, except for acts of dishonesty, willful misconduct, or gross negligence.
§ 959.91
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid, or the applicability thereof to any person, circumstance, or thing is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart, or the applicability thereof to any other person, circumstance, or thing, shall not be affected thereby.
§ 959.92
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed, from time to time, by the committee or by the Secretary.

# Subpart B—Administrative Provisions

# Source:
26 FR 2560, Mar. 25, 1961, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961.

# General
§ 959.100
Order.
Order means Order No. 959 (§§ 959.1 to 959.92; 26 FR 704) regulating the handling of onions grown in South Texas.
§ 959.101
Terms.
The terms used in this subpart shall have the same meaning as when used in the order.
§ 959.102
Communications.
Unless otherwise provided in the order, or by specific direction of the committee, all reports, applications, submittals, requests and communications in connection with the order shall be addressed to the South Texas Onion Committee, at its principal office.
§ 959.103
Registered handler.
For purposes of this part any person who operates an established packing house within the production area with commonly accepted adequate facilities for grading and packing onions for market, and who customarily buys onions from producers for grading, packing, and marketing shall be recorded by the committee as a registered handler. Any other person who wishes to be listed as a registered handler may make application for registration on forms furnished by the committee. If such applicant has facilities available to him that are determined by the committee to be adequate for grading and packing onions for market, and he assumes responsibility for inspection of onions handled by him, and for assessments thereon, he may be approved and recorded as a registered handler. If the committee determines from the available information that the applicant is not entitled to be registered with the committee, he shall be so informed by written notice stating the reason for denial of his application. Any registration of a handler pursuant to this section may be canceled by the committee under circumstances which would have justified denial of his application. Any handler whose registration has been canceled shall be so informed by written notice thereof stating the reason
therefor. The committee shall also notify producers of each such cancellation of handler registration through committee bulletins or published notice in local newspapers of general distribution, or both.
§ 959.104
Fiscal period.
The fiscal period shall begin August 1 of each year and end July 31 of the following year, both dates inclusive.
[68 FR 11466, Mar. 11, 2003]
§ 959.110
Reestablishment of districts.
Pursuant to § 959.25, a single district is reestablished to include all counties in the production area as follows: the counties of Aransas, Atascosa, Bee, Brooks, Calhoun, Cameron, DeWitt, Dimmit, Duval, Frio, Goliad, Hidalgo, Jim Hogg, Jim Wells, Karnes, Val Verde, Kenedy, Kinney, Kleberg, La Salle, Live Oak, Maverick, McMullen, Medina, Nueces, Refugio, San Patricio, Starr, Uvalde, Victoria, Webb, Willacy, Wilson, Zavala and Zapata in the State of Texas.
[89 FR 63081, Aug. 2, 2024]
§ 959.111
Reapportionment of Committee membership.
Pursuant to § 959.25, the Committee membership of eight producer members and five handler members and the respective alternates is reapportioned to a single district made up of all counties in the production area.
[89 FR 63082, Aug. 2, 2024]
§ 959.115
Planting reports.
Each handler shall furnish every two weeks during the planting season to the committee, on a form provided by the committee, the number of acres of onions planted by the handler or growers for whom the handler packs onions during such period and the location of such plantings.
[53 FR 7330, Mar. 8, 1988]

# Safeguards
§ 959.120
Policy.
Whenever shipments of onions for special purposes pursuant to § 959.53 are relieved in whole or in part from regulations issued under § 959.52, the committee may require information and evidence on the manner, methods, and timing of such shipments as safeguards against the entry of any such onions in trade channels other than those for which intended. Such information and evidence shall include requirements set forth below with respect to Certificates of Privilege.
§ 959.121
Qualification.
Before handling onions for special purposes which do not meet regulations issued pursuant to § 959.52, a handler, when required by such regulations, must qualify with the committee to handle shipments for special purposes. To qualify he must (a) apply for and receive a Certificate of Privilege indicating his intent to so handle onions, (b) agree to comply with reporting and other requirements set forth in §§ 959.120 to 959.125, inclusive, with respect to such shipments, and (c) receive approval of the committee, or its duly authorized agents, to so handle onions. Such approval will be based upon evidence furnished in his application for Certificate of Privilege and other information available to the committee.
§ 959.122
Application.
(a) Applications for a Certificate of Privilege shall be made on forms furnished by the committee. Each application may contain, but need not be limited to, the name and address of the handler; the quantity by grade, size, and quality of the onions to be shipped; the mode of transportation; the consignee; the destination; the purpose for which the onions are to be used; and certification to the United States Department of Agriculture and to the committee as to the truthfulness of the information shown thereon, and any other appropriate information or documents deemed necessary by the committee or its duly authorized agents for the purposes stated in § 959.120.
(b) The committee may require each handler making shipments of onions for export to include with his application a copy of the Department of Commerce Shippers Export Declaration Form No. 7525-V applicable to such shipment.
§ 959.123
Approval.
The committee or its duly authorized agents shall give prompt consideration to each application for a Certificate of Privilege. Approval of an application, based upon the determination as to whether the information contained therein and other information available to the committee supports approval, shall be evidenced by the issuance of a Certificate of Privilege to the applicant. Each certificate shall cover a specified period and specified qualities and quantities of onions to be sold or transported to a designated consignee for the purpose declared.
§ 959.124
Reports.
Each handler of onions shipping under Certificates of Privilege shall supply the committee with reports as requested by the committee, or its duly authorized agents, showing the name and address of the shipper; the car or truck identification; the loading point; destination; consignee; the inspection certificate number when inspection is required; and any other information deemed necessary by the committee.
§ 959.125
Disqualification.
The committee from time to time may conduct surveys of handling of onions for special purposes requiring Certificates of Privilege to determine whether handlers are complying with the requirements and regulations applicable to such certificates. Whenever the committee finds that the handler or consignee is failing to comply with requirements and regulations applicable to handling of onions in special outlets and requiring such certificates, a Certificate or Certificates of Privilege issued such handler may be rescinded and subsequent certificates denied. Such disqualification shall apply to, and not exceed, a reasonable period of time as determined by the committee, but in no event shall it extend beyond the date of the succeeding fiscal period. Any handler who has a Certificate rescinded or denied may appeal to the committee in writing for reconsideration of his disqualification.
§ 959.126
Handling of culls.
(a) The handling of culls, i.e., onions which fail to meet the grade, size and quality requirements established under § 959.52(b) of this part, is prohibited, unless such onions are:
(1) Mechanically mutilated at the packing shed rendering them unsuitable for fresh market;
(2) Handled for special purpose outlets approved under § 959.53 of this part; or
(3) Handled for canning or freezing.
(b) As a safeguard against culls entering fresh market channels each handler of culls under paragraphs (a) (2) or (3) of this section shall apply for and obtain a certificate from the committee which shall require the handler to furnish such reports or other information as the committee may request.
[28 FR 60, Jan. 3, 1963]
§ 959.237
Assessment rate.
On and after August 1, 2023, an assessment rate of $0.08 per 50-pound container or equivalent is established for South Texas onions.
[89 FR 67522, Aug. 21, 2024]
§ 959.322
Handling regulation.
During the period beginning March 1 and ending June 4, no handler shall handle any onions, including onions for peeling, chopping, and slicing, unless they comply with paragraphs (a) through (c) or (d) or (e) of this section; except that onions handled during the period June 5 through July 15 shall comply with paragraphs (c) or (d) or (e) of this section.
(a)
Grade requirements.
Not to exceed 20 percent defects of U.S. No. 1 grade. In percentage grade lots, tolerances for serious damage shall not exceed 10 percent including not more than 2 percent decay. Double the lot tolerance shall be permitted in individual packages in percentage grade lots. Application of tolerances in U.S. onion standards shall apply to in-grade lots.
(b)
Size requirements.
(1) “Small”—1 to 2
1/4
inches in diameter, and limited to whites only;
(2) “Repacker”—1
3/4
to 3 inches in diameter, with 60 percent or more 2 inches in diameter or larger;
(3) “Medium”—2 to 3
1/2
inches in diameter; or
(4) “Jumbo” or “Large”—3 inches or larger in diameter; or
(5) “Colossal”—3
3/4
inches or larger in diameter.
(6) Tolerances for size in the U.S. onion standards shall apply except that for “repacker” and “medium” sizes not more than 20 percent, by weight, of onions in any lot may be larger than the maximum diameter specified. Application of tolerances in the U.S. onion standards shall apply.
(c)
Inspection.
(1) No handler may handle any onions regulated hereunder, except pursuant to paragraphs (d), (e)(1), or (e)(2) of this section unless an inspection certificate has been issued by the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service, Texas Cooperative Inspection Program, covering them and the certificate is valid at the time of shipment. City destinations shall be listed on inspection certificates and release forms.
(2) No handler may transport by motor vehicle or cause such transportation of any shipment of onions for which an inspection certificate is required unless each such shipment is accompanied by a copy of the inspection certificate applicable thereto or the shipment release form furnished by the inspection service identifying truck lots to which a valid inspection certificate is applicable. A copy of such inspection certificate or shipment release form shall be surrendered upon request to Texas Department of Agriculture personnel designated by the committee.
(3) For purposes of operation under this part, each inspection certificate, shipment release form, or committee form required as evidence of inspection is hereby determined to be valid for a period not to exceed 72 hours following completion of inspection as shown on the certificate.
(4) Handlers shall pay assessment on all assessable onions according to the provisions of § 959.42.
(d)
Minimum quantity exemption.
Any handler may handle, other than for resale, up to, but not to exceed 110 pounds of onions per day without regard to the requirements of this section, but this exemption shall not apply to any shipment or any portion thereof of over 110 pounds of onions.
(e)
Special purpose shipments.
(1) The minimum grade, size, quality, and inspection requirements set forth in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section shall not be applicable to shipments of onions for charity, relief, export, and processing if handled in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
(2)
Experimental shipments.
Upon approval by the committee, onions may be shipped for experimental purposes exempt from regulations issued pursuant to §§ 959.42, 959.52 and 959.60, provided they are handled in accordance with the safeguard provisions of paragraph (f) of this section.
(3)
Onions failing to meet requirements.
Onions failing to meet the grade and size requirements of this section, and not exempt under paragraphs (d) or (e) of this section, may be handled only pursuant to § 959.126. Such onions not handled in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section shall be mechanically mutilated at the packing shed rendering them unsuitable for fresh market.
(f)
Safeguards.
Each handler making shipments of onions for charity, relief, export, processing, or experimental purposes shall:
(1) Apply to the committee for and obtain a Certificate of Privilege to make such shipments;
(2) Furnish reports of each shipment made under the applicable Certificate of Privilege;
(3) Such reports, in accordance with § 959.80, shall be furnished to the committee in such manner, on such forms and at such times as it may prescribe. Each handler shall maintain records of such shipments pursuant to § 959.80(c), and the records shall be subject to review and audit by the committee to verify reports thereon.
(4) In addition to provisions in the preceding paragraphs, each handler making shipments for processing shall:
(i) Weigh or cause to be weighed each shipment prior to, or upon arrival at, the processor.
(ii) Attach a copy of the weight ticket to a completed copy of the Report of Special Purpose Onion Shipment and
return both promptly to the committee office.
(iii) Make each shipment directly to the processor or the processor's subcontractor and attach a copy of the Report of Special Purpose Onion Shipment.
(iv) Each processor or processor's subcontractor who receives cull onions shall weigh the onions upon receipt, complete the Report of Special Purpose Shipment which accompanies each load and mail it immediately to the committee office.
(v) Each processor who receives cull onions shall make available at its business office at any reasonable time during business hours, copies of all applicable purchase orders, sales contracts, or disposition documents for examination by the Department or by the committee, together with any other information which the committee or the Department may deem necessary to enable it to determine the disposition of the onions.
(vi) If a processor employs a subcontractor for any stage of processing, such processor shall be responsible for ensuring that the subcontractor accounts for all quantities of onions received and processed or otherwise disposed of, and that the subcontractor reports to the committee in the same manner and frequently as the processor.
(5) Cull onions transported in bags shall be transported in unlabelled bags, or shall have labelled bags reversed so that the label is not visible.
(g)
Definitions. U.S. onion standards
means the United States Standards for Grades of Bermuda-Granex-Grano Type Onions (7 CFR 51.3195-51.3209), or the United States Standards for Grades of Onions (Other Than Bermuda-Granex-Grano and Creole Types) (7 CFR 51.2830-51.2854), whichever is applicable to the particular variety, or variations thereof specified in this section. The term
U.S. No. 1
shall have the same meaning as set forth in these standards.
Processing
means cooking or freezing the onions in such a way, or with such other food components, that the consistency of the product is changed. Canning and freezing shall be considered forms of processing. All other terms used in this section shall have the same meaning as when used in Marketing Agreement No. 143, as amended, and this part.
[47 FR 8552, Mar. 1, 1982]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 959.322, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
Pt. 966

# PART 966—TOMATOES GROWN IN FLORIDA

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Definitions
Sec.
966.1
Secretary.
966.2
Act.
966.3
Person.
966.4
Production area and regulated area.
966.5
Tomatoes.
966.6
Handler.
966.7
Handle.
966.8
Producer.
966.9
Grading.
966.10
Grade and size.
966.11
Pack.
966.12
Maturity.
966.13
Container.
966.14
Varieties.
966.15
Committee.
966.16
Fiscal period.
966.17
District.
966.18
Export.

# Committee
966.22
Establishment and membership.
966.23
Term of office.
966.24
Districts.
966.25
Redistricting.
966.26
Selection.
966.27
Nomination.
966.28
Failure to nominate.
966.29
Acceptance.
966.30
Vacancies.
966.31
Alternate members.
966.32
Procedure.
966.33
Expenses and compensation.
966.34
Powers.
966.35
Duties.

# Expenses and Assessments
966.40
Expenses.
966.41
Budget.
966.42
Assessments.
966.43
Accounting.
966.44
Excess funds.
966.45
Contributions.

# Research and Development
966.48
Research and promotion.

# Regulation
966.50
Marketing policy.
966.51
Recommendations for regulations.
966.52
Issuance of regulations.
966.53
Minimum quantities.
966.54
Shipments for special purposes.
966.55
Notification of regulation.
966.56
Safeguards.

# Inspection
966.60
Inspection and certification.

# Exemptions
966.70
Procedure.
966.71
Granting exemptions.
966.72
Investigation.
966.73
Appeal.
966.74
Records.

# Reports
966.80
Reports.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
966.81
Compliance.
966.82
Right of the Secretary.
966.83
Effective time.
966.84
Termination.
966.85
Proceedings after termination.
966.86
Effect of termination or amendment.
966.87
Duration of immunities.
966.88
Agents.
966.89
Derogation.
966.90
Personal liability.
966.91
Separability.
966.92
Amendments.

# Subpart B—Administrative Requirements

# General
966.100
Communications.

# Definitions
966.110
Order.
966.111
Marketing Agreement.
966.112
Terms.
966.113
Registered handler certification.

# Safeguards
966.120
Application for Certificate of Privilege.
966.121
Issuance.
966.122
Reports.
966.123
Denial and appeal.
966.124
Approved receiver.

# Exemption Procedures
966.130
Application.
966.131
Investigations.
966.132
Issuance.
966.133
Disposition of certificates.
966.134
Reports.
966.135
Appeals.

# Inspection
966.140
Truck shipments.

# Interpretative Rules
966.150
Meaning of “producer”.

# Reestablishment of Districts
966.160
Reestablishment of districts.
966.161
Reapportionment of committee membership.

# Subpart C—Assessment Rates
966.234
Assessment rate.

# Subpart D—Handling Requirements
966.323
Handling regulation.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 601-674.

# Source:
20 FR 7357, Oct. 4, 1955, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961.

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Definitions
§ 966.1
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in his stead.
§ 966.2
Act.
Act
means Public Act No. 10, 73d Congress, as amended and as reenacted and amended by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (48 Stat. 31, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 601
et seq.;
68 Stat. 906, 1047).
§ 966.3
Person.
Person
means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other business unit.
§ 966.4
Production area and regulated area.
(a)
Production area
means the counties of Pinellas, Hillsborough, Polk, Osceola, and Brevard in the State of Florida, and all the counties of that State situated south of such counties.
(b)
Regulated area
means that portion of the State of Florida which is bounded by the Suwannee River, the Georgia
border, the Atlantic Ocean, and the Gulf of Mexico.
[33 FR 8585, June 12, 1968, as amended at 34 FR 19186, Dec. 4, 1969]
§ 966.5
Tomatoes.
Tomatoes
means all varieties of the edible fruit (Lycopersicon esculentum) commonly known as tomatoes and grown within the production area.
§ 966.6
Handler.
Handler
is synonymous with
shipper
and means any person (except a common or contract carrier transporting tomatoes for another person) who, as owner, agent, or otherwise, handles fresh tomatoes or causes fresh tomatoes to be handled.
[33 FR 8585, June 12, 1968]
§ 966.7
Handle.
Handle
or
ship
means to sell, transport, deliver, or in any other way to place fresh tomatoes, produced in the production area, in the current of commerce within the regulated area or between any point in the regulated area and any point outside thereof. Such term shall not include the transportation, sale or delivery of field-run tomatoes within the production area by the producer thereof to a registered handler for the purpose of having such tomatoes prepared for market. A registered handler is a handler who has adequate facilities in the production area for grading and packing tomatoes and who is registered with the committee pursuant to rules established with the approval of the Secretary.
[34 FR 19186, Dec. 4, 1969]
§ 966.8
Producer.
Producer
means any person engaged in a proprietary capacity in the production of tomatoes for market.
§ 966.9
Grading.
Grading
is synonymous with
preparation for market
and means the sorting or separation of tomatoes into grades, sizes, maturities, and packs for market purposes.
§ 966.10
Grade and size.
Grade
means any one of the established grades of tomatoes and
size
means any one of the established sizes of tomatoes as defined and set forth in U.S. Standards for Fresh Tomatoes (§§ 51.1855 to 51.1877 of this title or U.S. Consumer Standards for Fresh Tomatoes (§§ 51.1900 to 51.1913 of this title), both issued by the United States Department of Agriculture, or amendments thereto, or modifications thereof, or variations based thereon recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.
§ 966.11
Pack.
Pack
means any of the packs of tomatoes as defined and set forth in the United States Standards for Fresh Tomatoes issued by the United States Department of Agriculture (§§ 51.1855 to 51.1877 of this title), or any pack of tomatoes recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.
§ 966.12
Maturity.
Maturity
means any of the various degrees of ripeness of tomatoes as established by the committee with approval of the Secretary as determined at the time of the inspection, pursuant to § 966.60(a).
[34 FR 19186, Dec. 4, 1969]
§ 966.13
Container.
Container
means a box, bag, crate, hamper, basket, package, tube, bulk load or any other type of unit used in the packaging, transportation, sale, shipment, or handling of tomatoes.
§ 966.14
Varieties.
Varieties
means and includes all classifications or subdivisions of tomatoes according to those definitive characteristics now or hereafter recognized by the United States Department of Agriculture.
§ 966.15
Committee.
Committee
means the Florida Tomato Committee, established pursuant to § 966.22.
§ 966.16
Fiscal period.
Fiscal period
means the period beginning August 1 and ending July 31 following.
§ 966.17
District.
District
means each one of the geographic divisions of the production area initially established pursuant to § 966.24, or as reestablished pursuant to § 966.25.
§ 966.18
Export.
Export
means shipment of tomatoes beyond the boundaries of the 48 contiguous States (including the District of Columbia) of the United States.
[34 FR 19186, Dec. 4, 1969]

# Committee
§ 966.22
Establishment and membership.
(a) The Florida Tomato Committee, consisting of 10 producer members, is hereby established. For each member of the committee there shall be an alternate who shall have the same qualifications as the member.
(b) Each person selected as a committee member or alternate shall be an individual who is a producer, or an officer or an employee of a corporate producer, in the district for which selected and a resident of the production area.
[33 FR 8586, June 12, 1968, as amended at 85 FR 72916, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 966.23
Term of office.
(a) The term of office of committee members, and their respective alternates, shall be for 2 years and shall begin as of August 1 and end as of July 31.
(b) Committee members and alternates shall serve during the term of office for which they are selected and have qualified, or during that portion thereof beginning on the date on which they qualify during such term of office and continuing until the end thereof, and until their successors are selected and have qualified.
[20 FR 7357, Oct. 4, 1955. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 85 FR 72916, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 966.24
Districts.
For the purpose of determining the basis for selecting committee members the following districts of the production area are hereby initially established.
District No. 1.
The counties of Broward and Dade in the State of Florida;
District No. 2.
The counties of Brevard, Glades, Indian River, Martin, Osceola, Okeechobee, Palm Beach, and St. Lucie in the State of Florida;
District No. 3.
The counties of Charlotte, Collier, Hendry, Lee, and Monroe in the State of Florida; and
District No. 4.
The counties of De Soto, Hardee, Highlands, Hillsborough, Manatee, Pinellas, Polk, and Sarasota in the State of Florida.
[33 FR 8586, June 12, 1968]
§ 966.25
Redistricting.
The committee may recommend, and pursuant thereto, the Secretary may approve, the reapportionment of members among districts, and the reestablishment of districts within the production area. In recommending any such changes, the committee shall give consideration to: (a) Shifts in tomato acreage within districts and within the production area during recent years; (b) the importance of new production in its relation to existing districts; (c) the equitable relationship of committee membership and districts; (d) economies to result for producers in promoting efficient administration due to redistricting or reapportionment of members within districts; and (e) other relevant factors. No change in districting or in apportionment of members within districts may become effective within less than 30 days prior to the date on which terms of office begin each year and no recommendations for such redistricting or reapportionment may be made less than six months prior to such date.
§ 966.26
Selection.
The Secretary shall select initially 3 members of the committee with their respective alternates, from each district.
§ 966.27
Nomination.
The Secretary may select the members of the committee and alternates
from nominations which may be made in the following manner:
(a) A meeting or meetings of producers shall be held in each district to nominate members and alternates for the committee. The committee shall hold such meetings or cause them to be held prior to June 15 of each year or by such other date as may be approved by the Secretary pursuant to recommendation of the committee.
(b) At each such meeting at least one nominee shall be designated for each position as member and for each position as alternate on the committee.
(c) Nominations for committee members and alternates shall be supplied to the Secretary in such manner and form as he may prescribe, not later than July 15 of each year, or by such other date as may be approved by the Secretary pursuant to recommendation of the committee.
(d) Only producers may participate in designating nominees for members and alternates on the committee. In the event a person is engaged in producing tomatoes in more than one district, such person shall elect the district within which he may participate as aforesaid in designating nominees; and
(e) Regardless of the number of districts in which a person produces tomatoes, each such person is entitled to cast only one vote on behalf of himself, his agents, subsidiaries, affiliates, and representatives in designating nominees for committee members and alternates. An eligible voter's privilege of casting only one vote as aforesaid shall be construed to permit a voter to cast one vote for each position to be filled in the respective district in which he elects to vote.
[20 FR 7357, Oct. 4, 1955. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 33 FR 8586, June 12, 1968]
§ 966.28
Failure to nominate.
If nominations are not made within the time and in the manner specified in § 966.27, the Secretary may, without regard to nominations, select the committee members and alternates, which selection shall be on the basis of the representation provided for in §§ 966.24 through 966.26 inclusive.
§ 966.29
Acceptance.
Any person selected as a committee member or alternate shall qualify by filing a written acceptance with the Secretary within ten days after being notified of such selection.
§ 966.30
Vacancies.
To fill committee vacancies, the Secretary may select such members or alternates from unselected nominees on the current nominee list from the district involved, or from nominations made in the manner specified in § 966.27. If the names of nominees to fill any such vacancy are not made available to the Secretary within 30 days after such vacancy occurs, such vacancy may be filled without regard to nominations, which selection shall be made on the basis of the representation provided for in §§ 966.24 through 966.26 inclusive.
§ 966.31
Alternate members.
An alternate member of the committee shall act in the place and stead of the member for whom he is an alternate, during such member's absence. In the event of the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of a member, his alternate shall act for him until a successor of such member is selected and has qualified.
§ 966.32
Procedure.
(a) Six members of the committee shall be necessary to constitute a quorum and the same number of concurring votes shall be required to pass any motion or approve any committee action.
(b) If both a member and respective alternate are unable to attend a committee meeting, the committee may designate any other alternate present from the same district to serve in place of the absent member.
(c) The committee may provide for meeting by telephone, telegraph, or other means of communication, and any vote cast at such a meeting shall
be promptly confirmed in writing:
Provided,
That if any assembled meeting is held, all votes shall be cast in person.
[20 FR 7357, Oct. 4, 1955. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 33 FR 8586, June 12, 1968; 51 FR 30474, Aug. 27, 1986; 85 FR 72916, Nov. 16, 2020; 85 FR 72916, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 966.33
Expenses and compensation.
Committee members and alternates may be reimbursed for expenses necessarily incurred by them in the performance of duties and in the exercise of powers under this part.
§ 966.34
Powers.
The committee shall have the following powers:
(a) To administer the provisions of this part in accordance with its terms;
(b) To make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of this part;
(c) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violation of the provisions of this part; and
(d) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this part.
§ 966.35
Duties.
It shall be, among other things, the duty of the committee:
(a) At the beginning of each term of office, to meet and organize, to select a chairman and such other officers as may be necessary, to select subcommittees of committee members, and to adopt such rules and regulations for the conduct of its business as it may deem advisable;
(b) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any producer or handler;
(c) To furnish to the Secretary such available information as he may request;
(d) To appoint such employees, agents, and representatives as it may deem necessary and to determine the salaries and define the duties of each such person;
(e) To investigate from time to time and to assemble data on the growing, harvesting, shipping, and marketing conditions with respect to tomatoes;
(f) To prepare a marketing policy;
(g) To recommend marketing regulations to the Secretary;
(h) To recommend rules and procedures for, and to make determinations in connection with, issuance of certificates of privilege or exemptions, or both;
(i) To investigate an applicant's claim for exemptions;
(j) To keep minutes, books, and records which clearly reflect all of the acts and transactions of the committee and such minutes, books and records shall be subject to examination at any time by the Secretary or his authorized agent or representative. Minutes of each committee meeting shall be reported promptly to the Secretary;
(k) At the beginning of each fiscal period, to prepare a budget of its expenses for such fiscal period, together with a report thereon;
(l) To cause the books of the committee to be audited by a competent accountant at least once each fiscal period, and at such other time as the committee may deem necessary or as the Secretary may request. The report of such audit shall show the receipt and expenditure of funds collected pursuant to this part; a copy of each such report shall be furnished to the Secretary and a copy of each such report shall be made available at the principal office of the committee for inspection by producers and handlers; and
(m) To consult, cooperate, and exchange information with other marketing agreement committees and other individuals or agencies in connection with all proper committee activities and objectives under this part.

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 966.40
Expenses.
The committee is authorized to incur such expenses as the Secretary may find are reasonable and likely to be incurred during each fiscal period for its maintenance and functioning, and for such purposes as the Secretary, pursuant to this subpart, determines to be appropriate. Handlers shall share expenses upon the basis of a fiscal period. Each handler's share of such expense shall be proportionate to the ratio between the total quantity of tomatoes handled by him as the first handler thereof during a fiscal period and the total quantity of tomatoes handled by
all handlers as first handlers thereof during such fiscal period.
§ 966.41
Budget.
At the beginning of each fiscal period and as may be necessary thereafter, the committee shall prepare an estimated budget of income and expenditures necessary for the administration of this part. The committee may recommend a rate of assessment calculated to provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures. The committee shall present such budget to the Secretary with an accompanying report showing the basis for its calculations.
§ 966.42
Assessments.
(a) The funds to cover the committee's expenses shall be acquired by the levying of assessments upon handlers as provided in this subpart. Each handler who first handles tomatoes shall pay assessments to the committee upon demand, which assessments shall be in payment of such handler's pro rata share of the committee's expenses.
(b) Assessments shall be levied upon handlers at rates established by the Secretary. Such rates may be established upon the basis of the committee's recommendations and other available information. Such rates may be applied to specified containers used in the production area.
(c) At any time during, or subsequent to, a given fiscal period the committee may recommend the approval of an amended budget and an increase in the rate of assessment. Upon the basis of such recommendations, or other available information, the Secretary may approve an amended budget and increase the rate of assessment. Such increase shall be applicable to all tomatoes which were regulated under this part and which were shipped by the first handler thereof during such fiscal period.
(d) The payment of assessments for the maintenance and functioning of the committee may be required under this part throughout the period it is in effect irrespective whether particular provisions thereof are suspended or become inoperative.
(e) In order to provide funds for the administration of the provisions of this part, the committee may accept the payment of assessments in advance, or may borrow money on a short-term basis not to exceed one full-year coinciding with the existing committee's term of office. The authority of the committee to borrow money may be used only to meet financial obligations as they occur and to allow the committee a season to adjust its reserve funds to meet any additional obligations.
[20 FR 7357, Oct. 4, 1955. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 51 FR 30474, Aug. 27, 1986]
§ 966.43
Accounting.
(a) All funds received by the committee pursuant to the provisions of this subpart shall be used solely for the purposes specified in this part.
(b) The Secretary may at any time require the committee, its members and alternates, employees, agents and all other persons to account for all receipts and disbursements, funds, property, or records for which they are responsible. Whenever any person ceases to be a member of the committee or alternate, he shall account to his successor, the committee, or to the person designated by the Secretary, for all receipts, disbursements, funds and property (including but not being limited to books and other records) pertaining to the committee's activities for which he is responsible, and shall execute such assignments and other instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to vest in such successor, committee, or designated person, the right to all of such property and funds and all claims vested in such person.
(c) The committee may make recommendations to the Secretary for one or more of the members thereof, or any other person, to act as a trustee for holding records, funds, or any other committee property during periods of suspension of this subpart, or during any period or periods when regulations are not in effect and, if the Secretary determines such action appropriate, he may direct that such person or persons shall act as trustee or trustees for the committee.
§ 966.44
Excess funds.
(a) If, at the end of a fiscal period, the assessments collected are in excess of expenses incurred, such excess shall be accounted for in accordance with one of the following:
(1) If such excess is not retained in a reserve, as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, to the extent practical it shall be refunded proportionately to the persons from whom it was collected.
(2) The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish an operating monetary reserve and may carry over to subsequent fiscal periods excess funds in a reserve so established:
Provided,
That funds in the reserve shall not exceed approximately one fiscal period's expenses. Such reserve funds may be used (i) to defray any expenses authorized under this part, (ii) to defray expenses during any fiscal period prior to the time assessment income is sufficient to cover such expenses, (iii) to cover deficits incurred during any fiscal period when assessment income is less than expenses, (iv) to defray expenses incurred during any period when any or all provisions of this part are suspended or are inoperative, and (v) to cover necessary expenses of liquidation in the event of termination of this part. Upon such termination any funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation, and after reasonable effort by the committee it is found impracticable to return such remaining funds to handlers, such funds shall be disposed of in such manner as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate.
(b) [Reserved]
[33 FR 8586, June 12, 1968]
§ 966.45
Contributions.
The committee may accept voluntary contributions but these shall only be used for production research, market research and development and marketing and promotion including paid advertising pursuant to § 966.48. Furthermore, such contributions shall be free from any encumbrances by the donor and the committee shall retain complete control of their use. The committee is prohibited from accepting contributions from handlers subject to the order, or any person whose contributions would constitute a conflict of interest.
[51 FR 30474, Aug. 27, 1986]

# Research and Development
§ 966.48
Research and promotion.
The committee may, with the approval of the Secretary, establish, or provide for the establishment of projects including production research, marketing research and development projects, and marketing promotion including paid advertising, designed to assist, improve or promote the marketing, distribution and consumption or efficient production of tomatoes. The expenses of such projects shall be paid by funds collected pursuant to §§ 966.42 and 966.45. Upon conclusion of each project, but at least annually, the committee shall summarize the program status and accomplishments, to its members and the Secretary. A similar report to the committee shall be required of any contracting party on any project carried out under this section. Also, for each project the contracting party shall be required to maintain records of money received and expenditures and such shall be available to the committee and the Secretary.
[51 FR 30474, Aug. 27, 1986]

# Regulation
§ 966.50
Marketing policy.
Prior to or at the same time as initial recommendations are made pursuant to § 966.51, the committee shall submit to the Secretary a report setting forth the marketing policy it deems desirable for the industry to follow in shipping tomatoes from the production area during the ensuring season. Additional reports shall be submitted from time to time if it is deemed advisable by the committee to adopt a new or modified marketing policy because of changes in the demand and supply situation with respect to tomatoes. The committee shall publicly announce the submission of each such marketing policy report and copies thereof shall be available at the committee's office for
inspection by any producer or any handler. In determining each such marketing policy the committee shall give due consideration to the following:
(a) Market prices of tomatoes, including prices by grades, sizes, and quality in different packs, and such prices by foreign competing areas;
(b) Supply of tomatoes, by grade, size, and quality in the production area, and in other production areas, including foreign competing production areas;
(c) Trend and level of consumer income;
(d) Marketing conditions affecting tomato prices; and
(e) Other relevant factors.
§ 966.51
Recommendations for regulations.
The committee, upon complying with the requirements of § 966.50, may recommend regulations to the Secretary whenever it finds that such regulations, as are provided for in this subpart, will tend to effectuate the declared policies of the act.
§ 966.52
Issuance of regulations.
The Secretary shall limit the handling of tomatoes whenever he finds from the recommendation and information submitted by the Committee, or from other available information, that such regulation would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act. Such regulation may:
(a) Limit, in any or all portions of the production area, the handling of particular grades, sizes, qualities (including maturity as a factor of grade or quality), or packs of any or all varieties of tomatoes, during any period; or
(b) Limit the handling of particular grades, sizes, qualities, or packs of tomatoes differently, from different varieties, for different stages of maturity, for different portions of the production area, for different containers, for different markets, for different purposes specified in § 966.54, or any combination of the foregoing, during any period; or
(c) Limit the handling of tomatoes by establishing, in terms of grades, sizes, or both, minimum standards of quality and maturity; or
(d) Fix the size, weight, capacity, dimensions, markings (including labels and stamps), or pack of the container or containers which may be used in the packaging, transportation, sale, shipment, or other handling of tomatoes.
[20 FR 7357, Oct. 4, 1955. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 33 FR 8586, June 12, 1968; 34 FR 19186, Dec. 4, 1969]
§ 966.53
Minimum quantities.
The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish, for any or all portions of the production area, minimum quantities below which handling will be free from regulations issued or effective pursuant to §§ 966.42, 966.52, 966.54, 966.60, or any combination thereof.
§ 966.54
Shipments for special purposes.
Upon the basis of recommendations and information submitted by the committee, or other available information, the Secretary, whenever he finds that it will tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act, shall modify, suspend, or terminate regulations issued pursuant to §§ 966.42, 966.52, 966.53, 966.60, or any combination thereof, in order to facilitate handling of tomatoes for the following purposes:
(a) For export;
(b) For relief or for charity;
(c) For processing; or
(d) For other purposes which may be specified by the committee, with the approval of the Secretary.
§ 966.55
Notification of regulation.
The Secretary shall notify the committee of any regulations issued or of any modification, suspension, or termination thereof. The committee shall give reasonable notice thereof to handlers.
§ 966.56
Safeguards.
(a) The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may prescribe adequate safeguards to prevent handling of tomatoes pursuant to § 966.53 or § 966.54 from entering channels of trade for other than the specific purpose authorized therefor, and rules governing the issuance and the contents of Certificates of Privilege if such certificates are prescribed as safeguards by the committee. Such safeguards may include requirements that:
(1) Handlers shall file applications with the committee to ship tomatoes pursuant to §§ 966.53 and 966.54; or
(2) Handlers shall obtain inspection provided by § 966.60, or pay the assessment levied pursuant to § 966.42, or both, in connection with shipments made under § 966.54; or
(3) Handlers shall obtain Certificates of Privilege from the committee to handle tomatoes effected or to be effected under the provisions of §§ 966.53 and 966.54.
(b) The committee may rescind or deny Certificates of Privilege to any handler if proof is obtained that tomatoes handled by him for the purposes stated in §§ 966.53 and 966.54 were handled contrary to the provisions of this part.
(c) The Secretary shall have the right to modify, change, alter, or rescind any safeguards prescribed and any certificates issued by the committee pursuant to the provisions of this section.
(d) The committee shall make reports to the Secretary, as requested, showing the number of applications for such certificates, the quantity of tomatoes covered by such applications, the number of such applications denied and certificates granted, the quantity of tomatoes handled under duly issued certificates, and such other information as may be requested.

# Inspection
§ 966.60
Inspection and certification.
(a) During any period in which the handling of tomatoes is regulated pursuant to this subpart no handler shall handle tomatoes unless such tomatoes have been inspected and certified as meeting the requirements of this subpart by an authorized representative of the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service, or such other inspection service as the Secretary shall designate, and such tomatoes are covered by a valid inspection certificate except when relieved from such requirements pursuant to § 966.53 or § 966.54 or both.
(b) Insofar as the requirements of this section are concerned, the length of time for which an inspection certificate is valid may be established by the Secretary upon the recommendation of the committee.
(c) When tomatoes are inspected in accordance with the requirements of this section a copy of each inspection certificate issued shall be made available to the committee by the inspection service.
[34 FR 19186, Dec. 4, 1969]

# Exemptions
§ 966.70
Procedure.
The committee may adopt, with approval of the Secretary, the procedures pursuant to which certificates of exemption will be issued to producers or handlers.
§ 966.71
Granting exemptions.
The committee shall issue certificates of exemption to any producer who applies for such exemption and furnishes adequate evidence to the committee, that by reason of a regulation issued pursuant to § 966.52 he will be prevented from handling as large a proportion of his production as the average proportion of production handled during the entire season, or such portion thereof as may be determined by the committee, by all producers in said applicant's immediate production area and that the grade, size, or quality of the applicant's tomatoes have been adversely affected by acts beyond the applicant's control and by acts beyond reasonable expectation. Each certificate shall permit the producer to handle the amount of tomatoes specified thereon. Such certificate shall be transferred with such tomatoes at time of transportation or sale.
§ 966.72
Investigation.
The committee shall be permitted at any time to make a thorough investigation of any producer's or handler's claim pertaining to exemptions.
§ 966.73
Appeal.
If any applicant for exemption certificates is dissatisfied with the determination by the committee with respect to his application, said applicant may file an appeal with the committee. Such an appeal must be taken promptly after the determination by the committee from which the appeal is taken. Any applicant filing an appeal shall furnish evidence satisfactory to the
committee for a determination on the appeal. The committee shall thereupon reconsider the application, examine all available evidence, and make a final determination concerning the application. The committee shall notify the appellant of the final determination, and shall furnish the Secretary with a copy of the appeal and a statement of considerations involved in making the final determination.
§ 966.74
Records.
(a) The committee shall maintain a record of all applications submitted for exemption certificates, a record of all exemption certificates issued and denied, the quantity of tomatoes covered by such exemption certificates, a record of the amount of tomatoes handled under exemption certificates, a record of appeals for reconsideration of applications, and such information as may be requested by the Secretary. Periodic reports on such records shall be compiled and issued by the committee upon request of the Secretary.
(b) The Secretary shall have the right, to modify, change, alter, or rescind any procedure and any exemptions granted pursuant to §§ 966.70, 966.71, 966.72, 966.73, or any combination thereof.

# Reports
§ 966.80
Reports.
Upon request of the committee, made with approval of the Secretary, each handler shall furnish to the committee, in such manner and at such time as it may prescribe, such reports and other information as may be necessary for the committee to perform its duties under this part.
(a) Such reports may include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: (1) The quantities of tomatoes received by a handler; (2) the quantities disposed of by him, segregated as to the respective quantities subject to regulation and not subject to regulation; (3) the date of each such disposition and the identification of the carrier transporting such tomatoes; and (4) identification of the inspection certificates and the exemption certificates, if any, pursuant to which the tomatoes were handled, together with the destination of each exempted disposition, and of all tomatoes handled pursuant to §§ 966.53 and 966.54.
(b) All such reports shall be held under appropriate protective classification and custody by the committee, or duly appointed employees thereof, so that the information contained therein which may adversely affect the competitive position of any handler in relation to other handlers will not be disclosed. Compilations of general reports from data submitted by handlers is authorized, subject to prohibition of disclosure of individual handlers identities or operations.
(c) Each handler shall maintain for at least two succeeding years such records of the tomatoes received and disposed of by such handler as may be necessary to verify the reports he submits to the committee pursuant to this section.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 966.81
Compliance.
Except as provided in this subpart, no handler shall handle tomatoes, the handling of which has been prohibited by the Secretary in accordance with provisions of this subpart, and no handler shall handle tomatoes except in conformity to the provisions of this subpart.
§ 966.82
Right of the Secretary.
The members of the committee (including successors and alternates), and any agent or employee appointed or employed by the committee, shall be subject to removal or suspension by the Secretary at any time. Each and every order, regulation, decision, determination or other act of the committee shall be subject to the continuing right of the Secretary to disapprove of the same at any time. Upon such disapproval, the disapproved action of the said committee shall be deemed null and void, except as to acts done in reliance thereon or in compliance therewith prior to such disapproval by the Secretary.
§ 966.83
Effective time.
The provisions of this subpart, or any amendment thereto, shall become effective at such time as the Secretary
may declare and shall continue in force until terminated in one of the ways specified in this subpart.
§ 966.84
Termination.
(a) The Secretary may, at any time, terminate the provisions of this subpart by giving at least one day's notice by means of a press release or in any other manner which he may determine.
(b) The Secretary may terminate or suspend the operations of any or all of the provisions of this subpart whenever he finds that such provisions do not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.
(c) The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this subpart at the end of any fiscal period whenever he finds that such termination is favored by a majority of producers, who during a representative period, have been engaged in the production for market of tomatoes:
Provided,
That such majority has, during such representative period, produced for market more than fifty percent of the volume of such tomatoes produced for market.
(d) The provisions of this subpart shall, in any event, terminate whenever the provisions of the act authorizing them cease to be in effect.
§ 966.85
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of the provisions of this subpart the then functioning members of the committee shall continue as joint trustees for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the committee of all the funds and property then in the possession of or under control of the committee, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered at the time of such termination. Action by said trusteeship shall require the concurrence of a majority of the said trustees.
(b) The said trustees shall continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary; shall, from time to time, account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the committee and of the trustees, to such person as the Secretary may direct; and shall, upon request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such person full title and right to all of the funds, property and claims vested in the committee or the trustees pursuant to this subpart.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered by the committee or its members pursuant to this section, shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the members of the committee and upon the said trustees.
§ 966.86
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any regulation issued pursuant to this subpart, or the issuance of any amendments to either thereof, shall not (a) affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or any regulation issued under this subpart, or (b) release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or of any regulations issued under this subpart, or (c) affect or impair any rights or remedies of the Secretary or of any other person with respect to any such violations.
§ 966.87
Duration of immunities.
The benefits, privileges, and immunities conferred upon any person by virtue of this subpart shall cease upon the termination of this subpart, except with respect to acts done under and during the existence of this subpart.
§ 966.88
Agents.
The Secretary may, by designation in writing, name any person, including any officer or employee of the United States, or name any agency in the United States Department of Agriculture, to act as his agent or representative in connection with any of the provisions of this subpart.
§ 966.89
Derogation.
Nothing contained in this subpart is, or shall be construed to be, in derogation or in modification of the rights of the Secretary or of the United States to exercise any powers granted by the act or otherwise, or, in accordance
with such powers, to act in the premises whenever such action is deemed advisable.
§ 966.90
Personal liability.
No member or alternate of the committee nor any employee or agent thereof, shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any handler or to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member, alternate, agent, or employee except for acts of dishonesty, willful misconduct, or gross negligence.
§ 966.91
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid, or the applicability thereof to any person, circumstance, or thing is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart, or the applicability thereof to any other person, circumstance, or thing, shall not be affected thereby.
§ 966.92
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed, from time to time, by the committee or by the Secretary.

# Subpart B—Administrative Requirements

# General
§ 966.100
Communications.
Unless otherwise provided in the marketing agreement and order, or by specific direction of the committee, all reports, applications, submittals, requests, and communications in connection with the marketing agreement and order shall be addressed to the Florida Tomato Committee at its principal office.

# Definitions
§ 966.110
Order.
Order
means Order No. 966 (§§ 966.1 through 966.92) regulating the handling of tomatoes grown in Florida, also referenced in this part as
marketing order and agreement.
[84 FR 59292, Dec. 5, 2019]
§ 966.111
Marketing Agreement.
The Marketing Agreement associated with Order No. 966 is Marketing Agreement No. 125.
[84 FR 59292, Dec. 5, 2019]
§ 966.112
Terms.
Terms used in this subpart shall have the same meaning as when used in the marketing agreement and order.
§ 966.113
Registered handler certification.
Each handler who handles tomatoes grown in the production area must be certified as a registered handler by the committee in order to ship such tomatoes outside of the regulated area. A handler who is certified as a registered handler is a handler who has adequate facilities to meet the requirements for preparing tomatoes for market, obtains inspection on tomatoes handled, agrees to handle tomatoes in compliance with the order's grade, size and container requirements, pays applicable assessments on a timely basis, submits reports required by the committee, and agrees to comply with other regulatory requirements on the handling of tomatoes grown in the production area.
(a) Based on the criteria specified in this section, the committee shall determine eligibility for certification as a registered handler. The committee or its authorized agent shall inspect a handler's facilities to determine if the facilities are adequate for preparing tomatoes for market. In order to be adequate for such purposes, the facilities must be permanent, nonportable buildings located in the production area with equipment that is nonportable for the proper washing, grading, sizing and packing of tomatoes grown in the production area.
(b) Application for certification shall be executed by the handler and filed with the committee on a form, prescribed by and available at the principal office of the committee, containing the following information:
(1) Business name,
(2) Address of handling facilities (including telephone and facsimile number),
(3) Mailing address (if different from handling facility),
(4) Number of years in tomato business in Florida,
(5) Type of business, and
(6) Names of senior officers, partners, or principal owners with financial interest in the business.
(c) If the committee determines from available information that an applicant meets the criteria specified in this section, such applicant shall be certified as a registered handler and shall be so informed by written notice from the committee. If certification is denied, such denial shall be made by the committee in writing, stating the reasons for denial.
(d) A registered handler's certification shall be cancelled by the committee, with the approval of the Secretary, if the handler fails to pay assessments within 45 days of the end of the assessment billing period, fails to provide reports, or no longer has adequate facilities as described in this section. Cancellation of a handler's registration shall be made in writing to the handler and shall specify the reason(s) for and effective date of such cancellation. The committee shall recertify the handler's registration at such time as the handler corrects the deficiencies which resulted in the cancellation. Certification is permanent until the committee determines, based on criteria herein, that cancellation is warranted. Persons who make deliveries of ungraded tomatoes to such certified registered handlers are hereby determined to be exempt from otherwise applicable regulations pursuant to this part.
(e) During any period in which the handling of tomatoes is regulated pursuant to this part, no handler shall obtain an inspection certifying that said handler's tomatoes meet the requirements of the marketing order unless said handler has been certified as a registered handler. Any person who is not certified as a registered handler may receive inspection on tomatoes from the Federal-State Inspection Service. Such inspection certificate shall state “Fails to meet the requirements of Marketing Order No. 966 because the handler is not a registered handler.”
[59 FR 51090, Oct. 7, 1994]

# Safeguards
§ 966.120
Application for Certificate of Privilege.
(a) Whenever handling is regulated pursuant to § 966.54, each handler desiring to make shipments of tomatoes for any of the following purposes shall, prior thereto, apply to the committee for and obtain a Certificate of Privilege permitting such shipment:
(1) For pickling, or
(2) For processing, or
(3) For experimental purposes, or
(4) For relief or charity, or
(5) For export, or
(6) For other purposes which may be specified by the committee, with the approval of the Secretary.
(b) Applications for Certificates of Privilege shall be made on forms furnished by the committee. Each application shall contain the name and address of the handler, and such other information as such committee may require, such as, but not limited, to the quantity (by grade, size, quality, and variety) of tomatoes to be shipped, the mode of transportation, consignee, destination, and other appropriate information or documents necessary to safeguard against the entry of such tomatoes into trade channels other than those for which the Certificate of Privilege is granted.
[21 FR 353, Jan. 19, 1956. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 59 FR 51091, Oct. 7, 1994]
§ 966.121
Issuance.
The committee, or its duly authorized agents, shall give prompt consideration to each application for a Certificate of Privilege and shall determine whether the application is approved. Approval of an application shall be evidenced by the issuance of a Certificate of Privilege authorizing the applicant named therein to ship tomatoes for a specified purpose for a specified period of time.
§ 966.122
Reports.
Each handler handling tomatoes under and pursuant to a Certificate of Privilege shall supply the committee with a report thereon within the time specified on the application for such
certificate showing the name and address of the shipper, car or truck identification, loading point, destination, consignee, and, when inspection is required, the Federal-State Inspection Certificate number.
§ 966.123
Denial and appeal.
The committee may rescind a Certificate of Privilege issued to a handler, or deny a Certificate of Privilege to a handler, upon proof satisfactory to such committee, that such handler has shipped tomatoes contrary to the provisions of this part. Such committee action denying a Certificate of Privilege shall apply to and not exceed a reasonable period of time as determined by such committee. Any handler who has been denied a Certificate of Privilege, or who has had a Certificate of Privilege rescinded, may appeal to the committee for reconsideration. Such appeal shall be in writing.
§ 966.124
Approved receiver.
(a)
Approved receiver.
Any person who desires to acquire, as an approved receiver, tomatoes for purposes as set forth in § 966.120(a), shall annually, prior thereto, file an application with the committee on a form approved by it, which shall contain, but not be limited to, the following information:
(1) Name, address, contact person, telephone number, and e-mail address of applicant;
(2) Purpose of shipment;
(3) Physical address of where manufacturing or other specified purpose is to occur;
(4) Whether or not the receiver packs, repacks or sells fresh tomatoes;
(5) A statement that the tomatoes obtained exempt from the fresh tomato regulations will not be resold or transferred for resale, directly or indirectly, but will be used only for the purpose specified in the corresponding certificate of privilege;
(6) A statement agreeing to undergo random inspection by the committee;
(7) A statement agreeing to submit such reports as is required by the committee.
(b) The committee, or its duly authorized agents, shall give prompt consideration to each application for an approved receiver and shall determine whether the application is approved or disapproved and notify the applicant accordingly.
(c) The committee, or its duly authorized agents, may rescind a person's approved receiver status upon proof satisfactory that such a receiver has handled tomatoes contrary to the provisions established under the Certificate of Privilege. Such action rescinding approved receiver status shall apply to and not exceed a reasonable period of time as determined by the committee or its duly authorized agents. Any person who has been denied as an approved receiver or who has had their approved receiver status rescinded, may appeal to the committee for reconsideration. Such an appeal shall be made in writing.
[70 FR 53540, Sept. 9, 2005]

# Exemption Procedures
§ 966.130
Application.
Any person applying for exemption from regulations issued pursuant to § 966.52 shall file such application with the committee, or its duly authorized agent for such purpose, on forms to be furnished by such committee. Each application shall state the name and address of the applicant, the grade, size, and quality regulations from which exemption is requested; and facts demonstrating that the tomatoes, for which exemption is requested, were adversely affected by acts beyond his control or by acts beyond the applicant's reasonable expectation. Applications shall set forth such additional information as the committee may find necessary in making determinations with respect thereto, including, without limitation thereto, the information required on producers' applications by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) The location and acreage of the farm on which tomatoes for which exemption is requested, the location where such tomatoes are to be prepared for market, and the loading point from which such tomatoes are to be shipped if exemption is granted;
(b) Quantity (by grade, size, quality, and variety) of tomatoes harvested during the current season or any specific portion thereof prior to the date
of application and to be harvested, subsequent to such date, during the remainder of the current season or any specific portion thereof (as may be determined pursuant to this part); an estimate of the portion of such tomatoes which can be handled under regulation issued pursuant to § 966.52, during the remainder of the season; and the reasons why all of such tomatoes cannot be handled under such regulations.
[22 FR 9132, Nov. 16, 1957. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961]
§ 966.131
Investigations.
The committee may authorize investigations of applications by its employees, and such other persons as may be necessary to procure adequate information to pass upon the merits of such applications.
[22 FR 9132, Nov. 16, 1957. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961]
§ 966.132
Issuance.
(a) The committee, or its duly authorized agents, shall give prompt consideration to all statements and facts relating to each application for exemption, and, pursuant to applicable provisions of this part, a determination shall be made as to whether or not the application is approved. The determination, if approving the application, shall be evidenced by the issuance of a certificate of exemption pursuant to § 966.71:
Provided,
That a separate certificate may be issued, at the request of an applicant, for each affected field.
(b) The applicant shall be notified in writing if his request for exemption is denied.
(c) Each exemption certificate issued pursuant to this subpart shall be on a form duly approved by the committee and signed by an authorized representative of such committee. At least one copy of each exemption certificate issued shall be retained in the committee records. Each such certificate shall contain the name and address of the recipient, the location of all tomatoes authorized to be shipped thereunder, the quantity (by grade, size, quality and variety) of tomatoes which will be permitted in the exempted shipments and such other information as may be deemed necessary by the committee to provide such committee, the recipient, or both, with adequate and specific information regarding such exempted tomatoes.
[22 FR 9132, Nov. 16, 1957. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961]
§ 966.133
Disposition of certificates.
(a) Each lot of tomatoes handled under an exemption certificate shall be accompanied by such certificate, or such appropriate identifying information with respect to such certificate, as the committee may require, to facilitate the administration of regulatory provisions applicable thereto.
(b) Each shipment of a lot or portion thereof, of tomatoes covered by an exemption certificate shall be accompanied by a Federal-State Inspection Certificate which shall show the exemption certificate number covering the lot.
[22 FR 9132, Nov. 16, 1957. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961]
§ 966.134
Reports.
Persons handling tomatoes under exemption certificates shall, at such times as may be specified in such certificates, report thereon to the committee the names and addresses of the receivers of such tomatoes, the quantity shipped (by grade, size, quality, and variety), the inspection certificates issued with respect thereto, the dates of such shipments, and such other information as may be requested by such committee in order to administer the regulatory provisions applicable thereto.
[22 FR 9132, Nov. 16, 1957. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961]
§ 966.135
Appeals.
If any applicant is dissatisfied with the determination of the committee regarding an application for an exemption certificate, or any duly issued exemption certificate an appeal by such applicant may be taken to such committee in accordance with § 966.73.
[22 FR 9132, Nov. 16, 1957. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961]

# Inspection
§ 966.140
Truck shipments.
In case of the transportation by truck outside of the production area of any tomatoes which are required to be inspected and certified as complying with any applicable requirements under this part, such tomatoes shall be accompanied by, and made available for examination at any time upon request, a copy of the appropriate inspection certificate or a copy of the appropriate transfer clearance receipt issued by the Federal-State Inspection Service, the official inspection agency for this program, showing that such tomatoes have been so inspected and certified.
[21 FR 3000, May 5, 1956. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 65 FR 8253, Feb. 18, 2000]

# Interpretative Rules
§ 966.150
Meaning of “producer”.
The term “producer” is defined in § 966.8 as being any person engaged in a proprietary capacity in the production of tomatoes for market. Under the definition of “tomatoes” in § 966.5, such production must have been in the production area. Section 966.22 provides that each person selected as a committee member or alternate must be a producer, or an officer or an employee of a corporate producer. Section 966.27 provides that producers may vote for nominees for members and alternates on the Florida Tomato Committee, the administrative agency established pursuant to said marketing agreement and order. Section 966.3 defines a person as an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other business unit. The term “person” is construed to mean the business unit which produces the tomatoes for market.
(a) The prevailing principle which shall apply to the determination of “producer” is who or which interest as a unit, whether an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other business unit, has the authority to pass title to the tomatoes grown and made a part of the marketable supply of tomatoes. In other words, the terms shall be limited to those who have an ownership in tomatoes produced in the production area.
(b)
Producer
means any person, as defined in this section:
(1) Who or which owns and farms land resulting in his or its ownership of the tomatoes produced thereon;
(2) Who or which rents or farms land, resulting in his or its ownership of all or a portion of the tomatoes produced thereon; or
(3) Who or which owns land which he or it does not farm and, as rental for such land, obtains the ownership of a portion of the tomatoes produced thereon.
(c) The term “partnership” shall be deemed to include a husband and wife with respect to land, the title to which, or leasehold interest in which, is vested in them as tenants in common, joint tenants, tenants by entirety, or, under community property laws, as community property. The term “partnership” shall also be deemed to include individuals, partnerships or corporations which join together by agreement, informal or otherwise, for the purpose of growing tomatoes and which, as a unit, have authority to transfer title to such tomatoes at the time they are harvested or subsequent thereto. The term “partnership” shall also include so-called “joint ventures,” wherein one or more parties to the arrangement contributes capital and others contribute labor, management, equipment, or other services, or any variation of such contributions by two or more parties, so that it results in the growing of tomatoes and the authority to transfer title to the tomatoes so produced from that business unit to some other parties in the marketing chain.
(d) Each legal entity, whether an individual, a partnership, a “joint venture,” or a corporation, so engaged in the production of tomatoes for market shall have one vote for each position which is to be filled for the district for which he or it is eligible to vote. In the case of a partnership or a “joint venture,” such vote shall not be accepted in the absence of unanimous agreement of the respective members. In the case of a corporation, such vote shall be cast pursuant to the authorization of its board of directors. In the case of a person who owns land which he or it
does not farm but, as rental for such land, obtains the ownership of a portion of the tomatoes produced thereon, such person shall be regarded as the producer of that portion and entitled to one vote, and the tenant on such land shall be regarded as the producer of the remaining portion produced on such land and also entitled to one vote.
(e) A producer eligible to vote is a person who produced tomatoes for market in a proprietary capacity in the production area during the then current fiscal period, i.e., between August 1, of the previous year and July 31 of the then current year. If a person who would otherwise qualify as a producer in a proprietary capacity in the production area planted tomatoes for market as fresh tomatoes during the current fiscal period, but (1) did not market any tomatoes in the fresh market during the current fiscal period due to adverse weather conditions, or (2) has tomatoes in production for fresh market during the current fiscal period, although still unharvested, he shall, nevertheless, be eligible as a producer to vote for committee nominees, if he produced and marketed tomatoes grown in the production area in the next preceding fiscal period.
[23 FR 2588, Apr. 19, 1958. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961]

# Reestablishment of Districts
§ 966.160
Reestablishment of districts.
(a) District No. 1: The counties of Charlotte, Glades, Palm Beach, Lee, Hendry, Collier, Broward, Monroe, and Dade in the State of Florida.
(b) District No. 2: The counties of Pinellas, Hillsborough, Polk, Osceola, Brevard, Manatee, Hardee, Highlands, Okeechobee, Indian River, St. Lucie, Sarasota, De Soto, and Martin in the State of Florida.
(c) Terms used in this section have the same meaning as when used in said marketing agreement and this part.
[35 FR 19633, Dec. 25, 1970, as amended at 84 FR 50713, Sept. 26, 2019]
§ 966.161
Reapportionment of Committee Membership.
Pursuant to § 966.25, industry membership on the Florida Tomato Committee shall be reapportioned as follows:
(a) District 1—five members and their alternates.
(b) District 2—five members and their alternates.
[86 FR 57357, Oct. 15, 2021]

# Subpart C—Assessment Rates
§ 966.234
Assessment rate.
On and after August 1, 2023, an assessment rate of $0.035 per 25-pound container or equivalent is established for Florida tomatoes.
[89 FR 55023, July 3, 2024]

# Subpart D—Handling Requirements
§ 966.323
Handling regulation.
From October 10 through June 15 of each season, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section, no person shall handle any lot of tomatoes produced in the production area for shipment outside the regulated area unless it meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.
(a)
Grade, size, container, and inspection requirements
—(1)
Grade.
Tomatoes shall be graded and meet the requirements specified for U.S. No. 1, U.S. Combination, or U.S. No. 2 of the U.S. Standards for Grades of Fresh Tomatoes. When not more than 15 percent of the tomatoes in any lot fail to meet the requirements of U.S. No. 1 grade and not more than one-third of this 15 percent (or 5 percent) are comprised of defects causing very serious damage including not more than 1 percent of tomatoes which are soft or affected by decay, such tomatoes may be shipped and designated as at least 85 percent U.S. No. 1 grade.
(2)
Size.
(i) All tomatoes packed by a registered handler shall be at least 2
9/32
inches in diameter and shall be sized with proper equipment in one or more of the following ranges of diameters. Tomatoes shipped outside the regulated area shall also be sized with proper equipment in one or more of the following ranges of diameters. Measurements of diameters shall be in accordance with the methods prescribed in
§ 51.1859 of the U.S. Standards for Grades of Fresh Tomatoes.
Size designation
Inches minimum diameter
Inches maximum diameter
6 × 7
2
9/32
2
19/32
6 × 6
2
17/32
2
29/32
5 × 6
2
25/32
(ii) Tomatoes of designated sizes may not be commingled, and each container or lid shall be marked to indicate the designated size.
(iii) Only 6 × 7, 6 × 6, or 5 × 6, may be used to indicate the above listed size designations or containers of tomatoes.
(iv) To allow for variations incident to proper sizing, not more than a total of ten (10) percent, by count, of the tomatoes in any lot may be smaller than the specified minimum diameter or larger than the maximum diameter.
(3)
Containers.
(i) All tomatoes packed by a registered handler shall be packed in containers of 10, 20, and 25 pounds designated net weights. The net weight of the contents shall not be less than the designated net weight and shall not exceed the designated net weight by more than two pounds.
(ii) Each container or lid shall be marked to indicate the designated net weight and must show the name and address of the registered handler (as defined in 966.7) in letters at least one-fourth (
1/4
) inch high, and such containers must be packed at the registered handler's facilities. The use of inverted, previously printed container lids is limited to the registered handler identified by the labels or marks that originally appeared on the lid.
(iii) The container in which the tomatoes are packed must be clean and bright in appearance without marks, stains, or other evidence of previous use.
(4)
Inspection.
Tomatoes shall be inspected and certified pursuant to the provisions of § 966.60. Each handler who applies for inspection shall register with the committee pursuant to § 966.113. Persons not certified by the committee as a registered handler shall be issued inspection certificates on shipments handled by such persons stating “Fails to meet the requirements of Marketing Order No. 966 because the handler is not a registered handler.” Evidence of inspection must accompany truck shipments.
(b)
Special purpose shipments.
The requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall not be applicable to shipments of tomatoes for pickling, processing, experimental purposes, relief, charity, export, or other outlets recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary, if the handler thereof complies with the safeguard requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. Shipments for processing are also exempt from the assessment requirements of this part.
(c)
Safeguards.
Each handler making shipments of tomatoes for pickling, canning, experimental purposes, relief, charity, or export in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section shall:
(1) Apply to the committee and obtain a Certificate of Privilege to make such shipments.
(2) Prepare on forms furnished by the committee a report in quadruplicate on such shipments authorized in paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) Bill or consign each shipment directly to the designated applicable receiver.
(4) Forward one copy of such report to the committee office and two copies to the receiver for signing and returning one copy to the committee office. Failure of the handler or receiver to report such shipments by signing and returning the applicable report to the committee office within ten days after shipment may be cause for cancellation of such handler's certificate and/or receiver's eligibility to receive further shipments pursuant to such certificate. Upon cancellation of any such certificate, the handler may appeal to the committee for reconsideration.
(5) Make shipments only to those who have qualified with the committee as approved receivers.
(d)
Exemption
—(1)
For types.
The following types of tomatoes are exempt from these regulations: Elongated types commonly referred to as pear shaped or paste tomatoes and including but not limited to San Marzano, Red Top, and Roma varieties; cerasiforme type tomatoes commonly referred to as cherry tomatoes; hydroponic tomatoes; and greenhouse tomatoes. Specialty packed red ripe tomatoes, yellow
meated tomatoes, and single layer and two layer place packed tomatoes are exempt from the container net weight requirements specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, and the requirement that each container or lid shall be marked to indicate the designated net weight as specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, but must meet the other requirements of this section. Producer field-packed tomatoes must meet all of the requirements of this section except for the requirement that all containers must be packed at registered handler facilities as specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, and the requirement that such tomatoes designated as size 6 × 6 must meet the maximum diameter requirement specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section:
Provided,
That 6 × 6 and larger is used to indicate the listed size designation on containers.
(2)
For minimum quantity.
For purposes of this regulation each person subject thereto may handle up to but not to exceed 50 pounds of tomatoes per day without regard to the requirements of this regulation, but this exemption shall not apply to any shipment or any portion thereof of over 50 pounds of tomatoes.
(3)
For special packed tomatoes.
Tomatoes which met the inspection requirements of paragraph (a)(4) of this section which are resorted, regraded, and repacked by a handler who has been designated as a “Certified Tomato Repacker” by the committee are exempt from:
(i) The tomato grade classifications of paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(ii) The size classifications of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, except that the tomatoes shall be at least 2-9/32 inches in diameter; and
(iii) The container weight requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(4)
For varieties.
Upon recommendation of the committee, varieties of tomatoes that are elongated or otherwise misshapen due to adverse growing conditions may be exempted by the Secretary from the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(5)
For UglyRipe
TM
and Vintage Ripes
TM
tomatoes.
UglyRipe
TM
and Vintage Ripes
TM
tomatoes must meet all the requirements of this section:
Provided,
That UglyRipe
TM
and Vintage Ripes
TM
tomatoes shall be graded and at least meet the requirements specified for U.S. No. 2 under the U.S. Standards for Grades of Fresh Tomatoes, except they are exempt from the requirements that they be reasonably well formed and not more than slightly rough, and
Provided,
Further that the UglyRipe
TM
and Vintage Ripes
TM
tomatoes meet the requirements of the Identity Preservation program, Specialty Crops Inspection Division, Specialty Crops Program, AMS, USDA.
(e)
Report of packouts.
Each registered handler shall, at the end of each day during which handling activities have been conducted, or the following morning as the committee may prescribe, provide to the committee or its designated agent a complete and accurate accounting of the number of containers of tomatoes packed that day. The report shall include an accounting of the grade, size, maturity, and net weight of the containers packed in each such category. The total packout report shall be provided to the committee or its authorized agent in a timely fashion that allows the committee to compile a daily, industry-wide packout report.
(f)
Assessments.
Handlers shall pay assessments as provided in § 966.42. Assessment will be based on inspection certificates supplied to the committee by the Federal-State Inspection Service.
(g)
Definitions. Hydroponic tomatoes
means tomatoes grown in solution without soil;
greenhouse tomatoes
means tomatoes grown indoors;
specialty packed red ripe tomatoes
means tomatoes which at the time of inspection are #5 or #6 color (according to color classification requirements in the U.S. tomato standards) with their calyx ends and stems attached and cell packed in a single layer container; and
producer field-packed tomatoes
means tomatoes which at the time of inspection are #3 color or higher (according to color classification requirements in the U.S. tomato standards), that are picked and place packed in new containers in the field by a producer as defined in § 966.150 and transferred to a registered handler's facilities for final
preparation for market. A
Certified Tomato Repacker
is a repacker of tomatoes in the regulated area who has the facilities for handling, regrading, resorting, and repacking tomatoes into consumer sized packages and has been certified as such by the committee.
Processing
as used in §§ 966.120 and 966.323 means the manufacture of any tomato product which has been converted into juice, or preserved by any commercial process, including canning, dehydrating, drying, and the addition of chemical substances. Further, all processing procedures must result in a product that does not require refrigeration until opened.
Pickling
as used in §§ 966.120 and 966.323 means to preserve tomatoes in a brine or vinegar solution.
U.S. tomato standards
means the revised United States Standards for Fresh Tomatoes (7 CFR 51.1855 through 51.1877) effective October 1, 1991, as amended, or variations thereof specified in this section, provided that § 51.1863 shall not apply to tomatoes covered by this part. Other terms in this section shall have the same meaning as when used in this part and the U.S. tomato standards.
[52 FR 46347, Dec. 7, 1987]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 966.323, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
Pt. 980

# PART 980—VEGETABLES; IMPORT REGULATIONS
Sec.
980.1
Import regulations; Irish potatoes.
980.117
Import regulations; onions.
980.212
Import regulations; tomatoes.
980.501
Safeguard procedures for potatoes, onions, and tomatoes exempt from grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 601-674.
§ 980.1
Import regulations; Irish potatoes.
(a)
Findings and determinations with respect to imports of Irish potatoes.
(1) Pursuant to section 8e of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 601-674), it is hereby found that:
(i) Grade, size, quality, and maturity regulations have been issued from time to time pursuant to the following marketing orders: No. 945 (part 945 of this chapter), No. 948 (part 948 of this chapter), No. 947 (part 947 of this chapter), No. 946 (part 946 of this chapter), and No. 953 (part 953 of this chapter).
(ii) During the past several years, grade, size, quality, and maturity regulations have been in effect pursuant to two or more of such orders during each month of the year;
(iii) The marketing of Irish potatoes can be reasonably distinguished by the several seasonal categories, i.e., winter, early spring, late spring, early summer, late summer, and fall. The bulk of the fall crop is harvested and placed in storage in the fall and marketed over a period of several months extending into the following summer. But potatoes harvested from the other seasonal crops are generally marketed as the potatoes are harvested. The marketing seasons for these crops overlap.
(iv) Concurrent grade, size, quality, and maturity regulations under two or more of the aforesaid marketing orders are expected in the ensuing and future seasons, as in the past.
(2) Therefore it is hereby determined that:
(i) Imports of red-skinned, round type potatoes during each month of the marketing year are in most direct competition with potatoes of the same type produced in the area covered by Marketing Order No. 946 (part 946 of this chapter).
(ii) Imports of all other round type potatoes during each month of the marketing year are in most direct competition with potatoes of the same type produced in Area 2, Colorado (San Luis Valley) covered by Marketing Order No. 948, as amended (part 948 of this chapter).
(iii) Imports of long type potatoes during each month of the marketing year are in most direct competition with potatoes of the same type produced in the area covered by Order No. 945 (part 945 of this chapter).
(b)
Grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements.
On and after the effective date hereof importation of Irish potatoes, except certified seed potatoes and red skinned, round types of potatoes,
shall be prohibited unless they comply with the following requirements.
(1) Through the entire year, the grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements of Area 2, Colorado (San Luis Valley) covered by Marketing Order No. 948, as amended (part 948 of this chapter), applicable to potatoes of the round type, other than red-skinned varieties, shall be the respective grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements for imports of all other round type potatoes.
(2) Through the entire year the grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements of Marketing Order 945, as amended (part 945 of this chapter) applicable to potatoes of all long types shall be the respective grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements for imported potatoes of all long types.
(3) The grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements as provided for in this paragraph shall apply to imports of similar types of potatoes, unless otherwise ordered, on and after the effective date of the applicable domestic regulation or amendment thereto, as provided in this paragraph or 3 days following publication of such regulation or amendment in the
Federal Register,
whichever is later.
(c)
Minimum quantities.
Any importation which, in the aggregate, does not exceed 500 pounds of red skinned, round type or long type potatoes, or 2,000 pounds for all other round type potatoes, may be imported without regard to the provisions of this section.
(d)
Plant quarantine.
No provisions of this section shall supersede the restrictions or prohibitions of potatoes under the Plant Quarantine Act of 1912.
(e)
Certified seed.
Certified seed potatoes shall include only those potatoes which are officially certified and tagged as seed potatoes by the Plant Health and Production Division, Plant Products Directorate, Canadian Food Inspection Agency, and which are subsequently used as seed.
(f)
Designation of governmental inspection services.
The Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service, Specialty Crops Program, Agricultural Marketing Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the Food of Plant Origin Division, Plant Products Directorate, Canadian Food Inspection Agency, are hereby designated as governmental inspection services for the purpose of certifying the grade, size, quality, and maturity of Irish potatoes that are imported, or to be imported, into the United States under the provisions of § 608e of the Act.
(g)
Inspection and official inspection certificates.
An official inspection certificate certifying the potatoes meet the United States import requirements for Irish potatoes under section 8e (7 U.S.C. 608e) issued by a designated governmental inspection service applicable to a particular shipment of potatoes is required on all imports of potatoes other than certified seed.
(1)(i) Inspection and certification by the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service will be available and performed in accordance with the rules and regulations governing certification of fresh fruits, vegetables, and other products (7 CFR part 51), and each lot shall be made available and accessible for inspection as provided therein. Cost of inspection and certification shall be borne by the applicant. For questions about inspection services or for further assistance, contact: Specialty Crops Inspection Division, Specialty Crops Program, AMS, USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, Room 1536-S, STOP 0240, Washington, DC 20250-0237; telephone (202) 720-5870; fax (202) 720-0393.
(ii) If certification is provided by a designated governmental inspection service other than the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service, in accordance with 980.1(f), an importer shall electronically transmit to USDA, prior to entry, the certificate number and an electronic image of the certificate using the U.S. Customs and Border Protection's Automated Commercial Environment system. If this information is not provided electronically prior to entry, a paper copy of the certificate must accompany the shipment at the time of entry, and a copy of the certificate must be submitted by email or mail to the Market Development Division, Specialty Crops Program, AMS, USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, STOP 0237, Washington, DC 20250-0237; telephone (888) 551-3523; or email
ComplianceInfo@usda.gov.
(2) In the event the required inspection is performed prior to the arrival of
the potatoes at the port of entry, the inspection certificate that is issued must show that the inspection was performed at the time of loading such potatoes for direct transportation to the United States; and if transportation is by water, the certificate must show that the inspection was performed at the time of loading onto the vessel.
(3) Inspection certificates shall cover only the quantity of potatoes that is being imported at a particular port of entry by particular importers.
(4) Each inspection certificate issued with respect to any Irish potatoes to be imported into the United States shall set forth, among other things:
(i) The date and place of inspection;
(ii) The name of the shipper, or applicant;
(iii) The Customs entry number pertaining to the lot or shipment covered by the certificate;
(iv) The commodity inspected;
(v) The quantity of the commodity covered by the Certificate;
(vi) The principal identifying marks of the containers;
(vii) The railroad car initials and number, the truck and trailer number, the name of the vessel, or other identification of the shipment; and
(viii) The following statement if the facts warrant: Meets U.S. Import requirements under section 8e of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937.
(h)
Reconditioning prior to importation.
Nothing contained in this part shall be deemed to preclude any importer from reconditioning prior to importation any shipment of Irish potatoes for the purpose of making it eligible for importation under the Act.
(i)
Definitions.
(1) For the purpose of this part potatoes meeting the requirements of Canada No. 1 grade and Canada No. 2 grade shall be deemed to comply with the requirements of the U.S. No. 1 grade and U.S. No. 2 grade, respectively, and the tolerances for size, as set forth in the U.S. Standards for Grades of Potatoes (§§ 51.1540 to 51.1556, inclusive of this title) may be used.
(2)
Importation
means release from the custody of U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
(j)
Exemptions.
(1) The grade, size, quality and maturity requirements of this section shall not be applicable to potatoes imported for canning, freezing, other processing, livestock feed, charity, or relief, but such potatoes shall be subject to the safeguard provisions contained in § 980.501. Processing includes canning, freezing, dehydration, chips, shoestrings, starch and flour. Processing does not include potatoes that are only peeled, or cooled, sliced, diced, or treated to prevent oxidation, or made into fresh potato salad.
(2) There shall be no size requirements for potatoes that are imported in containers with a net weight of 3 pounds or less, if the potatoes are otherwise U.S. No. 1 grade or better.
[34 FR 8044, May 22, 1969, as amended at 35 FR 8204, May 26, 1970; 36 FR 9634, May 27, 1971; 37 FR 8059, Apr. 25, 1972; 54 FR 22577, May 25, 1989; 57 FR 30382, July 9, 1992; 58 FR 69189, Dec. 30, 1993; 61 FR 13060, Mar. 26, 1996; 67 FR 66531, Nov. 1, 2002; 74 FR 2808, Jan. 16, 2009; 74 FR 65394, Dec. 10, 2009; 79 FR 8256, Feb. 12, 2014; 80 FR 22361, Apr. 22, 2015; 85 FR 12295, Mar. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82234, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 980.117
Import regulations; onions.
(a)
Findings and determinations with respect to onions.
(1) Under section 8e of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 601-674), it is hereby found that:
(i) Grade, size, quality, and maturity regulations have been issued regularly under Marketing Orders No. 958 and 959, both as amended;
(ii) Since December 9, 1985, grade, size, quality, and maturity regulations have been in effect pursuant to these orders during the period August through July;
(iii) The marketing of onions can be reasonably distinguished by the seasonal categories, i.e., late summer and early spring. The bulk of the late summer crop is harvested and placed in storage in late summer and early fall and marketed over a period of several months extending into the following spring. But the onions harvested from the early spring crop are generally marketed as soon as the onions are harvested. The marketing seasons for these crops overlap;
(iv) Concurrent grade, size, quality, and maturity regulations under the
two marketing orders are expected in future seasons, as in the past.
(2) Therefore, it is hereby determined that: Imports of onions during the June 5 through March 9 period, and the entire year for imports of pearl and cipolline varieties of onions, are in most direct competition with the marketing of onions produced in designated counties of Idaho and Malheur County, Oregon, covered by Marketing Order No. 958, as amended (7 CFR Part 958) and during the March 10 through June 4 period the marketing of imported onions, not including pearl or cipolline varieties of onions, is in most direct competition with onions produced in designated counties in South Texas covered by Marketing Order No. 959, as amended (7 CFR part 959).
(b)
Grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements.
On and after the effective date hereof no person may import onions as defined herein unless they are inspected and meet the following requirements:
(1) During the period June 5 through March 9 of each marketing year, and the entire year for pearl and cipolline onions, whenever onions grown in designated counties in Idaho and Malheur County, Oregon, are regulated under Marketing Order No. 958, imported onions shall comply with the grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements imposed under that order.
(2) During the period March 10 through June 4 of each marketing year, whenever onions grown in designated counties in South Texas are regulated under Marketing Order No. 959, imported onions, not including pearl and cipolline onions, shall comply with the grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements imposed under that order.
(c)
Minimum quantity exemption.
Any importation which in the aggregate does not exceed 110 pounds (50 kilograms) may be imported without regard to the provisions of this section.
(d)
Plant quarantine.
Provisions of this section shall not supersede the restrictions or prohibitions on onions under the Plant Quarantine Act of 1912.
(e)
Designation of governmental inspection service.
The Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service, Specialty Crops Program, Agricultural Marketing Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the Food of Plant Origin Division, Plant Products Directorate, Canadian Food Inspection Agency, are hereby designated as governmental inspection services for the purpose of certifying the grade, size, quality, and maturity of onions that are imported, or to be imported, into the United States under the provisions of section 8e of the Act.
(f)
Inspection and official inspection certificates.
(1) An official inspection certificate certifying the onions meet the U.S. import requirements for onions under section 8e (7 U.S.C. 608e-1), issued by a designated governmental inspection service and applicable to a specified lot is required on all imports of onions.
(2) Inspection and certification by the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service will be available and performed in accordance with the rules and regulations governing certification of fresh fruits, vegetables and other products (7 CFR part 51). Each lot shall be made available and accessible for inspection as provided therein. Cost of inspection and certification shall be borne by the applicant. For questions about inspection services or for further assistance, contact: Specialty Crops Inspection Division, Specialty Crops Program, AMS, USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, Room 1536-S, STOP 0240, Washington, DC 20250-0237; telephone (202) 720-5870; fax (202) 720-0393.
(3) If certification is provided by a designated governmental inspection service other than the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service, in accordance with 980.117(e), an importer shall electronically transmit to USDA, prior to entry, the certificate number and an electronic image of the certificate using the U.S. Customs and Border Protection's Automated Commercial Environment system. If this information is not provided electronically prior to entry, a paper copy of the certificate must accompany the shipment at the time of entry, and a copy of the certificate must be submitted by email or mail to the Market Development Division, Specialty Crops Program, AMS, USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, STOP 0237, Washington, DC 20250-0237; telephone (888) 551-3523; email
ComplianceInfo@usda.gov;
or fax (202) 720-5698.
(4) Inspection certificates shall cover only the quantity of onions that is being imported at a particular port of entry by a particular importer.
(5) Each inspection certificate issued with respect to any onions to be imported into the United States shall set forth, among other things:
(i) The date and place of inspection;
(ii) The name of the shipper, or applicant;
(iii) The Customs entry number pertaining to the lot or shipment covered by the certificate;
(iv) The commodity inspected;
(v) The quantity of the commodity covered by the certificate;
(vi) The principal identifying marks on the containers;
(vii) The railroad car initials and number, the truck and trailer license number, the name of the vessel, or other identification of the shipment; and
(viii) The following statement, if the facts warrant: Meets import requirements of 7 U.S.C. 608e-1.
(g)
Reconditioning prior to importation.
Nothing contained in this part shall be deemed to preclude any importer from reconditioning prior to importation any shipment of onions for the purpose of making it eligible for importation.
(h)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this section,
Onions
means all varieties of
Allium cepa
marketed dry, except dehydrated, canned, or frozen onions, pickling onions in brine, onion sets, green onions, or braided red onions. The term
U.S. No. 2
has the same meaning as set forth in the United States Standards for Grades of Bermuda-Granex-Grano Type Onions (7 CFR 51.3195 through 51.3209), the United States Standards for Grades of Creole Onions (7 CFR 51.3955 through 51.3970), or the United States Standards for Grades of Onions Other Than Bermuda-Granex-Grano and Creole Types (7 CFR 51.2830 through 51.2854), whichever is applicable to the particular variety, and variations thereof specified in this section. The term
moderately cured
means the onions are mature and are more nearly well cured than fairly well cured.
Importation
means release from the custody of U.S. Customs and Border Protection. The term
pearl onions
means onions produced using specific cultural practices that limit growth to 2 inches in diameter or less.
(i)
Exemptions.
The grade, size, quality and maturity requirements of this section shall not be applicable to onions imported for processing, livestock feed, charity, or relief, and pearl onions, onion sets (plantings), braided red onions, and minimum quantity shipments of 110 pounds, but such onions shall be subject to the safeguard provisions in § 980.501. Processing includes canning, freezing, dehydration, extraction (juice) and pickling in brine. Processing does not include fresh chop, fresh cut, convenience food or other pre-packaged salad operations. Pearl onions must be inspected for size prior to entry into the United States.
[43 FR 5500, Feb. 9, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 8872, Mar. 20, 1987; 52 FR 19281, May 22, 1987; 54 FR 8520, Mar. 1, 1989; 58 FR 69189, Dec. 30, 1993; 59 FR 46912, Sept. 13, 1994; 61 FR 13060, Mar. 26, 1996; 61 FR 25557, May 22, 1996; 69 FR 56671, Sept. 22, 2004; 74 FR 2808, Jan. 16, 2009; 74 FR 65394, Dec. 10, 2009; 75 FR 1269, Jan. 11, 2010; 85 FR 12295, Mar. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82234, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 980.212
Import regulations; tomatoes.
(a)
Findings and determinations with respect to fresh tomatoes.
(1) Under Section 8e of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 601-674), it is hereby found that:
(i) Grade, size, quality and maturity regulations have been issued from time to time under Marketing Order No. 966, as amended;
(ii) The marketing of fresh tomatoes from Florida covered by Marketing Order No. 966, as amended, can reasonably be expected to occur during the months of October through June;
(2) Therefore, it is hereby determined that imports of fresh tomatoes during the months of October through June are in most direct competition with the marketing of fresh tomatoes produced in Florida covered by Marketing Order No. 966, as amended.
(b)
Grade, size, quality and maturity requirements.
On and after the effective date hereof no person may import fresh tomatoes except pear shaped, cherry, hydroponic and greenhouse tomatoes
as defined herein, unless they are inspected and meet the following requirements:
(1) From October 10 through June 15 of each season, tomatoes offered for importation shall be at least 2
9/32
inches in diameter. Not more than 10 percent, by count, in any lot may be smaller than the minimum specified diameter. All lots of tomatoes shall be at least U.S. No. 2 grade.
Provided,
That UglyRipe
TM
and Vintage Ripes
TM
tomatoes shall be graded and at least meet the requirements specified for U.S. No. 2 under the U.S. Standards for Grades of Fresh Tomatoes, except they are exempt from the requirements that they be reasonably well formed and not more than slightly rough, and
Provided,
Further that the UglyRipe
TM
and Vintage Ripes
TM
tomatoes meet the requirements of the Identity Preservation program, Specialty Crop Inspection Division, Specialty Crops Program, AMS, USDA.
(2)—(3) [Reserved]
(c)
Minimum quantity exemption.
Any importation which in the aggregate does not exceed 60 pounds may be imported without regard to the provisions of this section.
(d)
Plant quarantine.
Provisions of this section shall not supersede the restrictions or prohibitions on tomatoes under the Plant Quarantine Act of 1912.
(e)
Designation of governmental inspection service.
The Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service, Specialty Crops Program, Agricultural Marketing Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the Food of Plant Origin Division, Plant Products Directorate, Canadian Food Inspection Agency, are hereby designated as governmental inspection services for the purpose of certifying the grade, size, quality, and maturity of tomatoes that are imported, or to be imported, into the United States under the provisions of section 8e of the Act.
(f)
Inspection and official inspection certificates.
(1) An official inspection certificate certifying the tomatoes meet the United States import requirements for tomatoes under Section 8e (7 U.S.C. 608e-1), issued by a designated governmental inspection service and applicable to a specified lot is required on all imports of fresh tomatoes.
(2) Inspection and certification by the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service will be available and performed in accordance with the rules and regulations governing certification of fresh fruits, vegetables and other products (7 CFR part 51). Each lot shall be made available and accessible for inspection as provided therein. Cost of inspection and certification shall be borne by the applicant. For questions about inspection services or for further assistance, contact: Specialty Crops Inspection Division, Specialty Crops Program, AMS, USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, Room 1536-S, STOP 0240, Washington, DC 20250-0237; telephone (202) 720-5870; fax (202) 720-0393.
(3) If certification is provided by a designated governmental inspection service other than the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service, in accordance with 980.212(e), an importer shall electronically transmit to USDA, prior to entry, the certificate number and an electronic image of the certificate using the U.S. Customs and Border Protection's Automated Commercial Environment system. If this information is not provided electronically prior to entry, a paper copy of the certificate must accompany the shipment at the time of entry, and a copy of the certificate must be submitted by email or mail to the Market Development Division, Specialty Crops Program, AMS, USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, STOP 0237, Washington, DC 20250-0237; telephone (888) 551-3523; email
ComplianceInfo@usda.gov;
or fax (202) 720-5698.
(4) Inspection certificates shall cover only the quantity of tomatoes that is being imported at a particular port of entry by a particular importer.
(5) Each inspection certificate issued with respect to any tomatoes to be imported into the United States shall set forth, among other things:
(i) The date and place of inspection;
(ii) The name of the shipper, or applicant;
(iii) The Customs entry number pertaining to the lot or shipment covered by the certificate;
(iv) The commodity inspected;
(v) The quantity of the commodity covered by the certificate;
(vi) The principal identifying marks on the containers;
(vii) The railroad car initials and number, the truck and trailer license number, the name of the vessel, or other identification of the shipment; and
(viii) The following statement, if the facts warrant: Meets import requirements of 7 U.S.C. 608e-1.
(g)
Reconditioning prior to importation.
Nothing contained in this part shall be deemed to preclude any importer from reconditioning prior to importation any shipment of tomatoes for the purpose of making it eligible for importation.
(h)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this section,
Importation
means release from custody of U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
Cherry tomatoes
means cerasiforme types commonly referred to as “cherry tomatoes.”
Pear shaped tomatoes
means elongated types, commonly referred to as pear shaped or paste tomatoes and include San Marzano, Red Top and Roma varieties.
Hydroponic tomatoes
means tomatoes grown in solution without soil.
Greenhouse tomatoes
means tomatoes grown indoors. The terms relating to grade and size, as used herein, shall have the same meaning as when used in the U.S. Standards for Grades of Fresh Tomatoes (7 CFR 51.1855 through 51.1877).
(i)
Exemptions.
The grade, size, quality and maturity requirements of this section shall not apply to tomatoes for charity, relief, canning or pickling, but such tomatoes shall be subject to the safeguard provisions contained in § 980.501. Processing includes canning and pickling.
[42 FR 55192, Oct. 14, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 3349, Jan. 25, 1978; 57 FR 27352, June 19, 1992; 58 FR 69189, Dec. 30, 1993; 61 FR 13060, Mar. 26, 1996; 63 FR 12401, Mar. 13, 1998; 72 FR 2172, Jan. 18, 2007; 74 FR 2808, Jan. 16, 2009; 74 FR 45736, Sept. 4, 2009; 74 FR 65394, Dec. 10, 2009; 81 FR 87412, Dec. 5, 2016; 85 FR 12295, Mar. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82234, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 980.501
Safeguard procedures for potatoes, onions, and tomatoes exempt from grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements.
(a)
Exempt use.
Each person who imports or receives any of the commodities listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section shall file (electronically or paper) an “Importer's Exempt Commodity Form” (SC-6) with the Market Development Division, Specialty Crops Program, AMS, USDA. A “person who imports” may include a customs broker, acting as an importer's representative (hereinafter referred to as “importer”). A copy of the completed form (electronic or paper) shall be provided to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. If a paper form is used, a copy of the form shall accompany the lot to the exempt outlet specified on the form. Any lot of any commodity offered for inspection and, all or a portion thereof, subsequently imported as exempt under this provision shall also be reported on an SC-6 form. Such form (electronic or paper) shall be provided to the Market Development Division in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The applicable commodities are:
(1) Potatoes, onions or tomatoes for consumption by charitable institutions or distribution by relief agencies;
(2) Potatoes, onions, or tomatoes for processing;
(3) Potatoes or onions for livestock feed; or
(4) Pearl onions; or
(5) Tomatoes to be used in noncommercial outlets for experimental
(b)
Certification of exempt use.
(1) Each importer of an exempt commodity as specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall certify on the SC-6 form (electronic or paper) as to the intended exempt outlet (
e.g.,
processing, charity, livestock feed). If certification is made using a paper SC-6 form, the importer shall provide a handwritten signature on the form.
(2) Each receiver of an exempt commodity as specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall also receive a copy of the associated SC-6 form (electronic or paper) filed by the importer. Within two days of receipt of the exempt lot, the receiver shall certify on the form (electronic or paper) to the Market Development Division that such lot has been received and will be utilized in the exempt outlet as certified by the importer. If certification is made using a paper SC-6 form, the receiver shall provide a handwritten signature on the form.
(c)
Disposition.
It is the responsibility of the importer to notify the Market Development Division of any lot of exempt commodity rejected by a receiver, shipped to an alternative exempt receiver, returned to the country of origin, or otherwise disposed of. In such cases, a second SC-6 form must be filed by the importer, providing sufficient information to determine ultimate disposition of the exempt lot, and such disposition shall be so certified by the final receiver.
(d)
Filing.
All SC-6 forms and other correspondence regarding entry of exempt commodities must be submitted electronically, by mail, or by fax to the Market Development Division, Specialty Crops Program, AMS, USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, STOP 0237, Washington, DC 20250-0237; telephone (202) 720-2491; email
ComplianceInfo@usda.gov;
or fax (202) 720-5698.
[88 FR 82234, Nov. 24, 2023]
Pt. 981

# PART 981—ALMONDS GROWN IN CALIFORNIA

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Definitions
Sec.
981.1
Secretary.
981.2
Act.
981.3
Person.
981.4
Almonds and almond biomass.
981.5
Unshelled almonds.
981.6
Shelled almonds.
981.7
Edible kernel.
981.8
Inedible kernel.
981.9
Kernel weight.
981.10
Almonds received for his own account.
981.11
Area of production.
981.12
Grower.
981.13
Handler.
981.14
Cooperative handler.
981.15
Almond product.
981.16
To handle.
981.17
Inspection agency.
981.18
Settlement weight.
981.19
Crop year.
981.20
Handler carryover.
981.21
Trade demand.
981.21a
Salable almonds.
981.21b
Reserve almonds.
981.22
Board.
981.23
Part and subpart.

# Almond Board of California
981.30
Establishment.
981.31
Membership representation.
981.32
Nominations.
981.33
Selection and term of office.
981.34
Qualification and acceptance.
981.35
Alternates.
981.36
Vacancy.
981.37
Expenses.
981.38
Powers.
981.39
Duties.
981.40
Procedure.

# Research
981.41
Research and development.

# Quality Control
981.42
Quality control.
981.43
Marking or labeling of containers.

# Volume Regulation
981.45
General.
981.46
Withholding reserve.
981.47
Method of establishing salable and reserve percentages.
981.48
Increase of salable percentage.
981.49
Board estimates and recommendations.
981.50
Reserve obligation.
981.51
Requirements for reserve.
981.52
Holding requirement and delivery.
981.54
Payment to handlers for services rendered.
981.55
Interhandler transfers.
981.56
Assistance of Board in accounting for reserve.
981.57
Application of salable and reserve percentages after end of crop year.
981.59
Adjustment upon increase of salable percentage.
981.60
Determination of kernel weight.
981.61
Redetermination of kernel weight.

# Disposition of Reserve
981.65
Prohibition on the use or disposition of reserve almonds.
981.66
Conditions governing disposition of reserve.
981.67
Disposition by handler.

# Records and Reports
981.70
Records and verification.
981.71
Record of receipts.
981.72
Reports of receipts.
981.73
Periodic reports.
981.74
Other reports.
981.75
Confidential nature of records and reports.
981.76
Handler list of growers.

# Expenses and Assessments
981.80
Expenses.
981.81
Assessment.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
981.85
Personal liability.
981.86
Separability.
981.87
Derogation.
981.88
Duration of immunities.
981.89
Agents.
981.90
Effective time, suspension, or termination.
981.91
Effect of termination or amendment.
981.92
Amendments.

# Subpart B—Assessment Rates
981.343
Assessment rate.

# Subpart C—Administrative Requirements
981.401
Adjusted kernel weight.
981.408
Inedible kernel.
981.413
Roadside stand exemption.
981.441
Credit for market promotion activities, including paid advertising.
981.442
Quality control.
981.450
Exempt dispositions.
981.455
Interhandler transfers.
981.466
Almond butter.
981.467
Disposition in reserve outlets by handlers.
981.472
Reports of almonds received.
981.473
Redetermination reports.
981.474
Other reports.
981.481
Interest and late payment charges.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 601-674.

# Source:
35 FR 11372, July 16, 1970, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Definitions
§ 981.1
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any other officer or employee of the United States Department of Agriculture who is, or who may be, authorized to perform the duties under this part of the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States.
§ 981.2
Act.
Act
means Public Act No. 10, 73d Congress, as amended and as reenacted and amended by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (48 Stat. 31, as amended; 62 Stat. 1247; 63 Stat. 282, 1051; 7 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
).
§ 981.3
Person.
Person
means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other business unit.
§ 981.4
Almonds and almond biomass.
(a)
Almonds
means (unless otherwise specified) all varieties of almonds (except bitter almonds), either shelled or unshelled, grown in the State of California, and, for the purposes of research includes almond biomass.
(b)
Almond biomass
means the hulls, shells, and skins of harvested almonds and woody biomass derived from almond trees (
e.g.,
tree limbs, bark, prunings).
[89 FR 37968, May 7, 2024]
§ 981.5
Unshelled almonds.
Unshelled almonds
means almonds the kernels of which are contained in the shell.
§ 981.6
Shelled almonds.
Shelled almonds
mean almonds after the shells are removed and includes any form those almonds might take. Additional almond products may be included by the Secretary from time to time upon consideration of a recommendation from the Board or other pertinent information.
[35 FR 11372, July 16, 1970, as amended at 89 FR 37968, May 7, 2024]
§ 981.7
Edible kernel.
Edible kernel
means a kernel, piece, or particle of almond kernel that is not inedible.
[41 FR 26852, June 30, 1976]
§ 981.8
Inedible kernel.
Inedible kernel
means a kernel, piece, or particle of almond kernel with any defect scored as serious damage, or damage due to mold, gum, shrivel, or brown spot, as defined in the United States Standards for Shelled Almonds, or which has embedded dirt not easily removed by washing. This definition may be modified by the Board with the approval of the Secretary:
Provided,
That the Board shall submit any recommendation for modification to the Secretary not later than August 1.
[41 FR 26852, June 30, 1976]
§ 981.9
Kernel weight.
Kernel weight
means the weight of kernels, including pieces and particles,
regardless of whether edible or inedible, contained in any lot of almonds, unshelled or shelled.
§ 981.10
Almonds received for his own account.
Almonds received for his own account
means all almonds which are received by a handler (including all almonds of his own production), except those which are received by him for storage or processing for the account of any other person and with respect to which such handler performs no handling function.
§ 981.11
Area of production.
Area of production
means the State of California.
§ 981.12
Grower.
Grower
is synonymous with
producer
and means any person engaging, in a proprietary capacity, in the commercial production of almonds.
§ 981.13
Handler.
Handler
means any person handling almonds during any crop year, except that such term shall not include either a grower who sells only almonds of his own production at retail at a roadside stand operated by him, or a person receiving almonds from growers and other persons and delivering these almonds to a handler.
[41 FR 26852, June 30, 1976]
§ 981.14
Cooperative handler.
Cooperative handler
means any handler as defined in § 981.13 of this subpart which qualifies for treatment as a nonprofit cooperative association as defined in Section 54001,
et seq.
of the California Food and Agricultural Code. The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may modify this definition, if necessary.
[61 FR 32920, June 26, 1996]
§ 981.15
Almond product.
Almond product
means any edible preparation other than those included under the definition of “shelled almonds,” manufactured entirely or partially from raw shelled almonds, and nut mixtures containing shelled or unshelled almonds.
§ 981.16
To handle.
To handle
means to use almonds commercially of own production or to sell, consign, transport, ship (except as a common carrier of almonds owned by another) or in any other way to put almonds grown in the area of production into any channel of trade for human consumption worldwide, either within the area of production or by transfer from the area of production to points outside or by receipt as first receiver at any point of entry in the United States or Puerto Rico of almonds grown in the area of production, exported therefrom and submitted for reentry or which are reentered free of duty. However, sales or deliveries by a grower to handlers, hullers or other processors within the area of production shall not, in itself, be considered as handling by a grower.
[61 FR 32920, June 26, 1996]
§ 981.17
Inspection agency.
Inspection agency
means the Federal-State Inspection Service or, when specifically designated, the Federal Inspection Service.
§ 981.18
Settlement weight.
Settlement weight
means the actual gross weight of any lot of almonds received for his own account by any handler, less adjustments as follows:
(a) For weight of containers,
(b) For excess moisture,
(c) For trash or other foreign material of any kind, and
(d) For inedible kernels as defined in § 981.8.
[35 FR 11372, July 16, 1970, as amended at 61 FR 32920, June 26, 1996]
§ 981.19
Crop year.
Crop year
means the twelve-month period from August 1 to the following July 31, inclusive. Any new crop almonds harvested or received prior to August 1 will be applied to the next crop year for marketing order purposes. The first crop year after the implementation of this amendment shall be a 13-month period.
[61 FR 32920, June 26, 1996, as amended at 88 FR 82235, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 981.20
Handler carryover.
Handler carryover
as of any given date means all almonds, wherever located, then held by handlers for their own accounts (whether or not sold) but not including any almond products.
[41 FR 26852, June 30, 1976]
§ 981.21
Trade demand.
Trade demand
means the quantity of almonds (kernel weight basis) which commercial distributors and users such as the wholesale, chain store, confectionery, bakery, ice cream, and nut salting trades will acquire from all handlers during a crop year for distribution worldwide.
[61 FR 32920, June 26, 1996, as amended at 88 FR 82235, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 981.21a
Salable almonds.
Salable almonds
means those almonds which are free to be handled pursuant to any salable percentage established by the Secretary pursuant to § 981.47 or § 981.48 and, in the absence of a reserve percentage being established for a crop year, all almonds received by handlers for their own accounts during that crop year.
§ 981.21b
Reserve almonds.
Reserve almonds
means those almonds which must be withheld from handling in satisfaction of a reserve obligation arising from application of a reserve percentage established by the Secretary pursuant to § 981.47 or § 981.48.
§ 981.22
Board.
Board
means the Almond Board of California which is the administrative agency established by this subpart.
[41 FR 26852, June 30, 1976]
§ 981.23
Part and subpart.
Part
means the order regulating the handling of almonds grown in the State of California, and all rules, regulations, and supplementary orders issued thereunder, and the aforesaid order shall be a
subpart
of such part.

# Almond Board of California
§ 981.30
Establishment.
A Board of ten members, with an alternate member for each such member, is hereby established.
§ 981.31
Membership representation.
Membership of the Board will be determined in the following manner:
(a) Two members and an alternate for each member shall be selected from nominees submitted by each of the following groups designated in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section, or from among other qualified persons belonging to such groups:
(1) Those growers who market their almonds through cooperative handlers; and
(2) Those growers who market their almonds through other than cooperative handlers.
(b) Two members and an alternate for each member shall be selected from nominees submitted by each of the following groups designated in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section, or from among other qualified persons belonging to such groups:
(1) Cooperative handlers; and
(2) All handlers, other than cooperative handlers.
(c) One member and an alternate shall be selected from nominees submitted by each of the following groups designated in paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section, or from among other qualified persons belonging to such groups:
(1) The group of cooperative handlers or the group of handlers other than cooperative handlers, whichever received for their account more than 50 percent of the almonds delivered by all growers as determined by December 31 of the then current crop year; and
(2) Those growers whose almonds were marketed through the handler group identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
[61 FR 32920, June 26, 1996]
§ 981.32
Nominations.
(a)
Method.
(1) Each year the terms of office of three of the members elected pursuant to § 981.31(a) and (b) shall expire, except every third year when the term of office for two of those members
shall expire. Nominees for each respective member and alternate member shall be chosen by ballot delivered to the Board. Nominees chosen by the Board in this manner shall be submitted by the Board to the Secretary on or before June 1 of each year together with such information as the Secretary may require. If a nomination for any Board member or alternate is not received by the Secretary on or before June 1, the Secretary may select such member or alternate from persons belonging to the group to be represented without nomination. The Board shall mail to all handlers and growers, other than the cooperative(s) of record, the required ballots with all necessary voting information including the names of incumbents willing to accept renomination, and, to such growers, the name of any person proposed for nomination in a petition signed by at least 15 such growers and filed with the Board on or before April 1. Distribution of ballots shall be announced by press release, furnishing pertinent information on balloting, issued by the Board through newspapers and other publications having general circulation in the almond producing areas.
(2) Nominees for the positions described in § 981.31(c) shall be handled in the same manner as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section except that those terms of office shall expire annually.
(3) The Board may recommend, subject to the approval of the Secretary, a change to the nomination method, should the Board determine that a revision is necessary.
(b)
Voting.
(1) Nominees for each member and alternate member position shall be voted upon separately by the group proposing them. The handler or grower group which is determined to be eligible for additional representation pursuant to § 981.31 (e) and (f), respectively, shall nominate such representatives in the same manner prescribed for choosing other nominees.
(2) Each handler may vote for a nominee for each position representing the group to which the handler belongs. Each handler vote shall be weighted by the quantity of almonds (kernel weight basis computed to the nearest whole ton) handled for the handler's own account through March 31 of the crop year in which nominations are made. The nominee for each position shall be the person receiving the highest weighted vote for the position.
(3) Growers who market their almonds through cooperative handlers shall vote through their respective organizations. Each cooperative shall cast a vote for nominees for each position representing the cooperative grower group and such ballots shall be weighted by the number of growers who are members of, or under contract with, such cooperative. The nominee for each position shall be the person receiving the highest weighted vote for that position.
(4) Growers who market their almonds through other than cooperative handlers shall each have one equal vote. The nominees for each position representing such grower group shall be the person receiving the highest number of votes for that position.
[35 FR 11372, July 16, 1970, as amended at 61 FR 32920, June 26, 1996; 84 FR 50716, Sept. 26, 2019; 89 FR 37968, May 7, 2024]
§ 981.33
Selection and term of office.
(a) Members and their respective alternates for positions open on the Board shall be selected by the Secretary from persons nominated pursuant to § 981.32, or, at the discretion of the Secretary, from other qualified persons, for a term of office beginning August 1. Members and alternates shall continue to serve until their respective successors are selected and qualified.
(b) The term of office of members of the Board shall be for a period of three years beginning on August 1 of the years selected except where otherwise provided. However, for the initial eight members of the Board selected pursuant to this section and to paragraphs (a) and (b) of § 981.31, two members shall serve for a term of one year; three members shall serve for a term of two years; and three members shall serve for a term of three years. For the initial terms of office, at the time of nomination under § 981.32, the Board shall make this designation by lot. The term of office for the two members selected under paragraph (c) of § 981.31 shall always be for a period of one year.
(c) Board members may serve for a total of six consecutive years. Members who have served for six consecutive years must leave the Board for at least one year before becoming eligible to serve again. A person who has served less than six consecutive years on the Board may not be nominated to a new three-year term if his or her total consecutive years on the Board at the end of that new term would exceed six years. This limitation on tenure shall not apply to alternate members.
(d) The Board may recommend, subject to approval of the Secretary, revisions to the start date for the term of office of members of the Board.
[61 FR 32920, June 26, 1996, as amended at 84 FR 50716, Sept. 26, 2019; 88 FR 82235, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 981.34
Qualification and acceptance.
(a) Any person to be selected as a member or alternate of the Board shall, prior to such selection, qualify by providing such background information as necessary and by advising the Secretary that he/she agrees to serve in the position for which nominated. Grower members and alternates shall be growers or employees of growers, and handler members and alternates shall be handlers or employees of handlers. In the event any member or alternate ceases to be qualified for the position for which selected, that position shall be deemed vacant.
(b) The Board, with approval of the Secretary, may establish additional eligibility requirements for grower members on the Board.
[61 FR 32921, June 26, 1996]
§ 981.35
Alternates.
An alternate for a member for the Board shall act in the place and stead of such member (a) in his absence, or (b) in the event of his death, removal, resignation or disqualification, until a successor for his unexpired term has been selected and has qualified.
§ 981.36
Vacancy.
To fill any vacancy occasioned by the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any member or alternate of the Board, a successor for his unexpired term shall be selected by the Secretary after consideration of recommendations which may be submitted by members of the group for which such vacancy exists, unless such selection is deemed unnecessary by the Secretary.
§ 981.37
Expenses.
The members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but shall be allowed their necessary expenses.
§ 981.38
Powers.
The Board shall have the following powers:
(a) To administer the provisions of this part in accordance with its terms;
(b) To make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of this part;
(c) To receive, investigate and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of this part; and
(d) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this part.
§ 981.39
Duties.
The Board shall have, among other things, the following duties:
(a) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any handler or grower;
(b) To keep minute books and records which will clearly reflect all of its acts and transactions, and such minute books and records shall be subject to examination by the Secretary at any time;
(c) To investigate the growing, shipping, and marketing conditions with respect to almonds and to assemble data in connection therewith;
(d) To furnish to the Secretary such available information as may be deemed pertinent or as he may request;
(e) To appoint such employees as it may deem necessary and to determine the salaries, define the duties and fix the bonds of such employees; and
(f) To cause the books of the Board to be audited by one or more competent certified public accountants at least once for each crop year, and at such other times as the Board may deem necessary or as the Secretary may request; and the report of each such audit shall show, among other things, the receipt and expenditure of funds pursuant hereto: and to file with the
Secretary three copies of all audit reports made.
§ 981.40
Procedure.
(a)
Organization and rules.
The members of the Board shall select a chairman from their membership. The Board shall select such other officers and adopt such rules for the conduct of its business as it may deem advisable. The Board shall give to the Secretary or his designated agent and representatives the same notice of meetings of the Board as is given to members of the Board.
(b)
Quorum.
All decisions of the Board, except where otherwise specifically provided, shall be by a majority vote of the members present. The presence of six members shall be required to constitute a quorum.
(c)
Voting by mail, telegram, fax or other electronic means.
The Board may vote by mail, telegram, fax or other electronic means upon written notice to all members, or alternates acting in their place, including in the notice a statement of a reasonable time, not to exceed 10 days, in which a vote by mail, telegram, fax or other electronic means must be received by the Board for counting. Voting by mail, telegram, fax or other electronic means shall not be permitted at any assembled meeting of the Board. When a proposition is submitted for vote by mail, telegram, fax or other electronic means, at least eight members of the Board must vote in favor of its passage or the proposition shall be defeated.
(d)
Right of the Secretary.
The members of the Board (including successors or alternates), and any agent or employee appointed or employed by the Board, shall be subject to removal or suspension by the Secretary at any time. Each and every order, regulation, decision, determination, or other act of the Board shall be subject to the continuing right of the Secretary to disapprove of the same at any time, and, upon such disapproval, shall be deemed null and void except as to acts done in reliance thereon or in compliance therewith.
(e)
Additional voting requirements.
Adoption of recommendations by the Board with respect to projects pursuant to § 981.41 involving production research, marketing research and development projects, and marketing promotion including paid advertising and crediting the pro rata expense assessment obligation of handlers with such portion of their direct expenditures for marketing promotion including paid advertising, shall require at least seven affirmative votes.
[35 FR 11372, July 16, 1970, as amended at 37 FR 3984, Feb. 15, 1972; 61 FR 32921, June 26, 1996]

# Research
§ 981.41
Research and development.
(a)
General.
The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish or provide for the establishment of projects involving production research, marketing research and development projects, and marketing promotion including paid advertising, designed to assist, improve, or promote the marketing, distribution, consumption or efficient production of almonds. The Board may also provide for crediting the pro rata expense assessment obligations of a handler with such portion of his direct expenditure for such marketing promotion including paid advertising as may be authorized. The expenses of such projects shall be paid from funds collected pursuant to § 981.81(a) or credited pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Authorization.
If, on the basis of a Board recommendation pursuant to § 981.40(e) with respect to projects pursuant to this section, and appertaining rules and regulations established by the Secretary on recommendation of the Board, and other available information, the Secretary concurs that such activities should be permitted, he shall authorize such activities.
(c)
Creditable expenditures.
The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may provide for crediting all or any portion of a handler's direct expenditures for marketing promotion including paid advertising, that promotes the sale of almonds, almond products or their uses. No handler shall receive credit for any allowable direct expenditures that would exceed the total of his
assessment obligation which is attributable to that portion of his assessment designated for marketing promotion including paid advertising. Such expenditures may include, but are not limited to, money spent for advertising space or time in newspaper, magazines, radio, television, transit, and outdoor media, including the actual standard agency commission costs not to exceed 15 percent.
(d)
Promotion guidelines.
All marketing promotion activity engaged in by the Board, including paid advertising, shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
(1) No marketing promotion, including paid advertising shall refer to any private brand, private trademark or private trade name;
(2) No promotion or advertising shall disparage the quality, use, value, or sale of like or any other agricultural commodity or product, and no false or unwarranted claims shall be made in connection with the product;
(3) No promotion or advertising shall be undertaken without reason to believe that returns to producers will be improved by such activity; and
(4) Upon conclusion of each activity, but at least annually, the Board shall summarize and report the results of such activity to its members and to the Secretary.
(e)
Rules and regulations.
Before any project involving marketing promotion, including paid advertising and the crediting of the pro rata expense assessment obligation of handlers is undertaken pursuant to this section, the Secretary, after recommendation by the Board, shall prescribe appropriate rules and regulations as are necessary to effectively regulate such activity.
[37 FR 3984, Feb. 25, 1972, as amended at 61 FR 32921, June 26, 1996; 89 FR 37968, May 7, 2024]

# Quality Control
§ 981.42
Quality control.
(a)
Incoming.
Except as provided in this paragraph, each handler shall cause to be determined, through the inspection agency, and at handler expense, the percent of inedible kernels in each variety received by him and shall report the determination to the Board. The quantity of inedible kernels in each variety in excess of two percent of the kernel weight received, shall constitute a weight obligation to be accumulated in the course of processing and shall be delivered to the Board, or Board approved accepted users. The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may change this percentage for any crop year, may authorize additional outlets, may exempt bleaching stock from inedible kernel determination or obligation and may establish rules and regulations necessary and incidental to the administration of this provision, including the method of determining inedible kernel content and satisfaction of the disposition obligation. The Board for good cause may waive portions of obligations for those handlers not generating inedible material from such sources as blanching or manufacturing.
(b)
Outgoing.
For any crop year the Board may establish, with the approval of the Secretary, such minimum quality and inspection requirements applicable to almonds to be handled or to be processed into manufactured products, as will contribute to orderly marketing or be in the public interest. In such crop year, no handler shall handle or process almonds into manufactured items or products unless they meet the applicable requirements as evidenced by certification acceptable to the Board. The Board may, with the approval of the Secretary, establish different outgoing quality requirements for different markets. The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish rules and regulations necessary and incidental to the administration of this provision.
[41 FR 26853, June 30, 1976, as amended at 41 FR 53651, Dec. 8, 1976; 73 FR 45156, Aug. 4, 2008; 89 FR 37968, May 7, 2024]
§ 981.43
Marking or labeling of containers.
The Board may, with the approval of the Secretary, establish regulations to require handlers to mark or label their containers that are used in packaging or handling of bulk almonds. For purposes of this section,
container
means a box, bin, bag, carton, or any other type
of receptacle used in the packaging or handling of bulk almonds.
[73 FR 45156, Aug. 4, 2008]

# Volume Regulation
§ 981.45
General.
In order to effectuate the declared policy of the act, no handler shall handle almonds except in accordance with the terms and conditions of this part.
§ 981.46
Withholding reserve.
When a reserve percentage has been fixed for any crop year, as hereinafter provided, no handler shall handle almonds except on condition that he comply with the requirements in respect to withholding reserve almonds and the prescribed disposition thereof.
§ 981.47
Method of establishing salable and reserve percentages.
Whenever the Secretary finds, from the recommendations and supporting information supplied by the Board or from any other available information, that to designate the percentages of almonds during any crop year which shall be salable almonds and reserve almonds would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act, he shall designate such percentages. Except as provided in § 981.50 the salable and reserve percentages shall each be applied to the kernel weight of almonds received by a handler for his own account during the crop year. In establishing such salable and reserve percentages, the Secretary shall give consideration to the ratio of estimated trade demand (domestic plus export, less the handler carryover available to satisfy trade demand plus the desirable handler carryover at the end of the crop year) to the estimated production of marketable almonds (all expressed in terms of kernel weight) or the allocation quantity (marketable production plus almonds diverted to oil or feed when eligible for reserve satisfaction) whichever is applicable; the recommendation submitted to him by the Board; and such other information as he deems appropriate. The total of the salable and reserve percentages established each crop year shall equal 100 percent.
[41 FR 26853, June 30, 1976, as amended at 61 FR 32921, June 26, 1996]
§ 981.48
Increase of salable percentage.
Upon request filed prior to May 15 by the Board or, if the Board should fail to request, by two or more handlers who have handled at least 15 percent of all almonds handled in the preceding crop year, and after findings of fact (based upon a revision of the estimates required under § 981.49 and other pertinent information) that the quantity of salable almonds is not sufficient to satisfy trade demand and desirable carryover requirements for the crop year, the Secretary may increase the salable percentage. Such findings shall be made in the manner specified in § 981.47.
§ 981.49
Board estimates and recommendations.
To aid the Secretary in fixing the salable and reserve percentages, the Board shall furnish to the Secretary, not later than September 1, the following estimates (kernel weight basis) and recommendations for the crop year, each of which, or any later revisions thereof, shall be adopted by the affirmative vote of at least six members:
(a) The quantity of marketable almonds to be produced;
(b) The estimated handler carryover and the estimated reserve inventory as of July 31;
(c) The desirable handler carryover and the probable reserve inventory at the end of the crop year;
(d) The trade demand, taking into consideration anticipated imports, economic conditions and the anticipated market price (within the limitations of the act); and
(e) The recommended salable and reserve percentages to be established.
The Board shall also furnish to the Secretary a complete report of the proceedings of the Board meeting at which the recommended salable and reserve percentages were considered. If, for any reason, the Board fails to make these estimates or to recommend to the Secretary salable and reserve percentages
as required hereby, reports representing the views of members with respect to such matters may be submitted to the Secretary who may act on the basis of such reports or other information available to him.
[35 FR 11372, July 16, 1970, as amended at 41 FR 26853, June 30, 1976; 61 FR 32921, June 26, 1996; 89 FR 37968, May 7, 2024]
§ 981.50
Reserve obligation.
Whenever salable and reserve percentages are in effect for a crop year, each handler shall withhold from handling a quantity of almonds having a kernel weight equal to the reserve percentage of the kernel weight of all almonds such handler receives for his own account during the crop year:
Provided,
That, any quantity of almonds delivered to outlets such as poultry or animal feed or crushing into oil, in a manner permitting accountability to the Board, shall not be included in such receipts. The quantity of almonds hereby required to be withheld from handling shall constitute, and may be referred to as the “reserve” or “reserve obligation” of a handler. The almonds handled as salable almonds by any handler, in accordance with the provisions of this part, shall be deemed to be that handler's quota fixed by the Secretary within the meaning of section 8a(5) of the act.
[41 FR 26853, June 30, 1976]
§ 981.51
Requirements for reserve.
Each handler may satisfy his reserve obligation with such almonds specified in the terms of the agency agreement authorized in § 981.67, including all applicable inspection and certification requirements. Any handler who does not become an agent may receive credit by similarly delivering almonds to the Board or its designees. These requirements may be established by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, and from time to time so modified, and may include grade requirements for reserve almonds delivered to human consumption outlets.
[41 FR 26853, June 30, 1976]
§ 981.52
Holding requirement and delivery.
Each handler shall, at all times, hold in his possession or under his control, in proper storage for the account of the Board, the quantity of almonds necessary to meet his reserve obligation less: (a) Any quantity which was disposed of by him pursuant to § 981.67; and (b) any quantity for which he is otherwise relieved by the Board of responsibility to so hold almonds. Upon demand of the Board reserve almonds shall be delivered to the Board f.o.b. handler's warehouse or point of storage, except that the Board shall not make such demand upon a handler with respect to reserve almonds for which he has agreed to undertake disposition pursuant to § 981.67. Any handler who does not act as agent for the Board in the disposition of reserve almonds shall be subject to the applicable inspection and certification requirements prescribed by the Board pursuant to § 981.67.
[41 FR 26853, June 30, 1976]
§ 981.54
Payment to handlers for services rendered.
The Board may pay handlers for necessary services rendered by them in connection with almonds eventually disposed of directly by the Board as reserve including but not limited to storing, shelling, sorting, bleaching, grading, packaging, fumigating, and other services in accordance with such schedule of payments and under such conditions as may be established by the Secretary after recommendation of the Board.
§ 981.55
Interhandler transfers.
(a) Any handler may, upon notice to and under the supervision and direction of the Board, transfer almonds or reserve credits to another handler. Any such transfers shall be accounted for in such manner that the reserve obligation and assessments on the combined transactions of the participating handlers shall be fully met and such reserve withholding obligation and assessments may be divided between such handlers in accordance with their arrangements subject to approval of the Board.
(b) When salable and reserve percentages are in effect, any handler may transfer reserve withholding obligation to other handlers. Terms and conditions implementing this provision must be recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
[35 FR 11372, July 16, 1970, as amended at 61 FR 32921, June 26, 1996]
§ 981.56
Assistance of Board in accounting for reserve.
The Board, on written request, may assist handlers in accounting for their reserve obligations and may aid any handler in acquiring almonds to meet any deficiency in his reserve.
§ 981.57
Application of salable and reserve percentages after end of crop year.
The salable and reserve percentages established for any crop year shall continue in effect with respect to all almonds for which the reserve obligation has not been previously met, which are received for his own account or handled by any handler after the end of such crop year and before salable and reserve percentages are established for the succeeding crop year. After such percentages are established for the new crop year, the withholding requirements for all such almonds theretofore received for his own account or handled during that crop year shall be adjusted to the newly established percentages.
§ 981.59
Adjustment upon increase of salable percentage.
(a) Upon any increase in the salable percentage and corresponding decrease in the reserve percentage, the reserve obligation of each handler for the entire crop year to the effective date of such action shall be computed in accordance with such revised salable and reserve percentages. From the reserve almonds that may have been withheld by him and not yet disposed of, any handler authorized to act and acting as agent of the Board in disposing of reserve pursuant to § 981.66 shall be permitted to select, under the supervision and direction of the Board, the particular reserve almonds to be restored to his salable percentage, and such restoration shall be deemed to fulfill the obligation of the Board with respect to such increase.
(b) In the case of handlers who have not been authorized to dispose of their own reserves, and handlers who have terminated their agencies to dispose of their own reserves, prior to an increase in the salable percentage, insofar as practicable each such handler shall be permitted to select almonds from his own reserve to be restored to his salable quantity. In the event there are not sufficient reserve almonds held by the Board at the time the salable percentage is increased, to make full restoration, as represented by the increase in the salable percentage, to all such handlers, the restoration to the salable quantities of the respective handlers shall be pro rata on the basis of certified kernel weight poundage of reserve contributed by said handlers during the crop year to the date of increase of the salable percentage:
Provided,
That restoration shall be made in a manner that will result, to the extent practicable, in a comparable percentage of reserve disposition for each such handler and that no handler shall receive almonds in excess of his contribution. Such restoration to the salable quantity shall be deemed to fulfill the obligation of the Board with respect to the increase in the salable percentage.
[35 FR 11372, July 16, 1970, as amended at 89 FR 37968, May 7, 2024]
§ 981.60
Determination of kernel weight.
(a)
Almonds for which settlement is made on kernel weight.
All lots of almonds, whether shelled or unshelled, for which settlement is made on the basis of kernel weight shall be included in the total kernel weight for any handler at the settlement weight.
(b)
Almonds for which settlement is made on unshelled weight.
The settlement weight for unshelled almonds shall be determined on the basis of representative samples of unshelled almonds reduced to shelled weight.
[35 FR 11372, July 16, 1970, as amended at 61 FR 32921, June 26, 1996]
§ 981.61
Redetermination of kernel weight.
The Board, on the basis of reports by handlers, shall redetermine the kernel weight of almonds received by each handler for his own account during each crop year through each of the following dates: December 31, March 31, and June 30. Such redetermined kernel weight for each handler shall be the basis for computing his reserve obligation for the crop year through such dates, except that adjustment shall be made for almonds on which the obligation has been assumed by another handler. The redetermined kernel weight of each handler's receipts, as of any date during the crop year, shall be his carryover as of that date plus the weight of almonds delivered or used in products minus the carryover at the beginning of the crop year, the weight on which another handler has assumed the obligations, and the weight delivered to exempt outlets. Weights used in such computations for various classifications of almonds shall be:
(a) For unshelled almonds, the kernel weight based on representative samples reduced to shelled weight;
(b) For shelled almonds, the net weight; and
(c) For shelled almonds used in production of almond products, the net weight of such almonds.
[41 FR 26853, June 30, 1976, as amended at 61 FR 32921, June 26, 1996; 88 FR 82235, Nov. 24, 2023]

# Disposition of Reserve
§ 981.65
Prohibition on the use or disposition of reserve almonds.
Except as provided in §§ 981.66 and 981.67, almonds that are withheld as reserve pursuant to the requirements of § 981.50 or are creditable in satisfaction of a reserve withholding obligation thereunder, shall not be used or disposed of by any handler or any other person.
§ 981.66
Conditions governing disposition of reserve.
(a)
General.
The Board shall have power and authority to sell or dispose of any and all reserve almonds withheld upon the best terms and at the highest return obtainable consistent with the ultimate complete disposition of reserve, subject to all conditions of this section.
(b)
Exclusion from salable normal trade channels.
No reserve almonds shall be sold in the United States, Puerto Rico, and the Canal Zone other than to governmental agencies or to charitable institutions for charitable purposes, except for diversion into almond oil, almond butter, poultry or animal feed, or into other channels which the Board finds are noncompetitive with existing normal markets for almonds, and with proper safeguards in each case to prevent such almonds thereafter entering the channels of trade in such normal markets.
(c)
Disposition after December 31.
Any reserve almonds remaining unsold as of December 31 shall be disposed of by the Board as soon as practicable through the most readily available reserve outlets. The date of December 31 herein specified may be extended to a later date by the Secretary, upon recommendation of the Board or other information.
(d)
Expenses.
Direct expenses incurred by the Board in the maintenance and disposition of reserve almonds shall be charged against the proceeds of sales of such almonds.
(e)
Distribution of proceeds.
Net proceeds from the disposition of reserve almonds by the Board shall be distributed to each handler in proportion to his relative share of such disposition in terms of creditable reserve kernel weight pursuant to § 981.51 or such other basis as the Board may adopt with the approval of the Secretary.
[35 FR 11372, July 16, 1970, as amended at 37 FR 3984, Feb. 25, 1972; 41 FR 26854, June 30, 1976; 61 FR 32921, June 26, 1996]
§ 981.67
Disposition by handler.
Upon request of a handler, made prior to the delivery by him of any reserve to the Board in any crop year, the Board shall authorize such handler to act as agent of the Board, upon such reasonable terms and conditions, including inspection and certification requirements, as the Board may specify and subject to the conditions of § 981.66 in disposing of the reserve withheld from handling by such handler for that
crop year. Any handler who is authorized to dispose of his reserve may, through arrangement with another handler dispose of such reserve through such other handler or, in lieu of disposition, may acquire credits for reserve disposition from another handler. In the first instance, the second handler shall also be subject to the conditions of § 981.66. It shall be the obligation of any handler authorized to dispose of such reserve to effect disposition thereof in accordance with all applicable requirements and conditions. The proceeds of such disposition shall be retained by the handler making the disposition, except that, in case he disposes of the reserve of another handler, the proceeds from that disposition shall be divided between the two handlers on the basis of a mutual agreement. Such authorization shall expire as of December 31 of the next crop year, and any reserve then remaining undisposed of by the handler shall be returned to the Board. If the date of December 31 specified in § 981.66(e) is extended, the date of December 31 shall be extended correspondingly. Any handler who has been authorized to act as agent of the Board in disposing of his reserve may terminate such agency as of April 1 of the particular crop year by giving written notice to the Board to that effect not later than the previous March 20, in which event such handler shall return to the Board, for disposition by it, all reserve almonds remaining in his possession. In case a handler does not terminate his agency as of April 1, he shall be required to continue to serve as such agent until December 31 of the next crop year. The Board shall not terminate such an agency prior to December 31 unless the agent violates the terms and conditions specified by the Board or other provisions of the order. During the period of such agency the Board, as principal, shall not dispose of the reserve withheld from handling by said agent. The Board, with the approval of the Secretary may prescribe such rules and regulations as are necessary to regulate disposition of reserve almonds including methods for crediting as reserve any salable almonds sold and delivered to reserve outlets.
[35 FR 11372, July 16, 1970, as amended at 61 FR 32921, June 26, 1996]

# Records and Reports
§ 981.70
Records and verification.
Each handler shall keep records which will clearly show the details of his or her receipts of almonds, withholdings, sales, shipments, inventories, reserve disposition, advertising and promotion activities, as well as other pertinent information regarding his or her operation pursuant to the provisions of this part:
Provided,
that, such records shall be kept in the State of California. Such records shall be retained by the handler for 2 years after the end of the crop year to which they apply. Each handler's premises shall be accessible to authorized representatives of the Board and the Secretary for examination and audit of the aforesaid records and for inspection and observation of almonds. The Board shall make such checks of almonds or audits of each handler's records as it deems appropriate or are requested by the Secretary to ensure that accurate information as required in this part is being furnished by handlers.
[35 FR 11372, July 16, 1970, as amended at 37 FR 3984, Feb. 25, 1972; 61 FR 32921, June 26, 1996; 88 FR 82235, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 981.71
Record of receipts.
For the purpose of establishing the reserve obligation and furnishing statistical information to the Board necessary for the conduct of its operations, each handler, on receiving almonds for his own account, shall issue to the person from whom so received a receipt therefor. At least two duplicates thereof shall be made at the time of issuance, one of which shall be retained by the handler as a part of his records and the other submitted to the Board as hereinafter provided. Such receipts shall be serially numbered and shall accurately show for each lot received, the identity of the handler, the name and address of the person from whom received, the number of containers in the lot, the variety, whether shelled or unshelled, and the settlement weight for each such variety. The
character and amount of all adjustments deducted from the gross weight shall be shown with the gross weight on the receipt issued by the handler.

# Effective Date Note:
At 40 FR 4416, Jan. 30, 1975, § 981.71 was suspended indefinitely.
§ 981.72
Reports of receipts.
Each handler receiving almonds for his own account shall tabulate such receipts by varieties and shall submit reports thereof to the Board in such form and at such intervals as the Board may prescribe for all receipts issued by him. Such reports shall be accompanied by duplicate copies of the receipts issued pursuant to the provisions of § 981.71 for all almonds included in such report. The Board, after checking such reports in such manner as it deems desirable, shall determine in the manner specified in § 981.60 the kernel weight of the almonds so received.

# Effective Date Note:
At 40 FR 4416, Jan. 30, 1975, in § 981.72, the second sentence was suspended indefinitely.
§ 981.73
Periodic reports.
On or before January 15, and April 15, and August 15 of each crop year, each handler shall file with the Board a written report, certified to the Board and to the Secretary by such handler as to its completeness and correctness, showing as of the close of business on December 31, March 31, and July 31, respectively, such information as may be prescribed by the Board for use in redetermination of kernel weight and marketing policy considerations.
[35 FR 11372, July 16, 1970, as amended at 61 FR 32922, June 26, 1996]
§ 981.74
Other reports.
Upon the request of the Board, made with the approval of the Secretary, every handler shall furnish to the Board in such manner and at such times as it prescribes (in addition to such other reports as are specifically provided for in this part) such other information as will enable the Board to perform its duties and exercise its powers hereunder.
§ 981.75
Confidential nature of records and reports.
All information contained in handler records made available to the Board or the Secretary, or in reports to the Board, constituting a trade secret or disclosing the trade position, financial condition, or business operations of any handler shall be considered as confidential information. Such information received by the Board, shall be kept in the custody and under the control of one or more employees of the Board, who shall disclose such information to no person except the Secretary.
§ 981.76
Handler list of growers.
No later than December 31 of each crop year, each handler other than a cooperative handler (hereinafter, referred to as independent handler) governed by this subpart shall, upon request, submit to the Board a complete list of growers who have delivered almonds to such independent handler during that crop year.
[61 FR 32921, June 26, 1996]

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 981.80
Expenses.
The Board is authorized to incur such expenses as the Secretary may find are reasonable and likely to be incurred by it during each crop year, for the maintenance and functioning of the Board, including the accumulation and maintenance of an operating reserve fund, and for such purposes as the Secretary may, pursuant to the provisions of this subpart, determine to be appropriate. The recommendation of the Board as to the expenses for each such year, together with all data supporting such recommendation, shall be submitted to the Secretary on or before August 1 of the crop year in connection with which such recommendation is made.
[35 FR 11372, July 16, 1970, as amended at 37 FR 3984, Feb. 25, 1972]
§ 981.81
Assessment.
(a)
Requirement for payment.
Each handler shall pay to the Board on demand by the Board, from time to time, such sum less any amounts credited pursuant to § 981.41, based on such rate per pound of almonds, kernel weight
basis, received by him for his own account (except as to receipts from other handlers on which assessments have been paid) as the Secretary finds is necessary to provide funds to meet the authorized board expenses and the operating reserve requirements, and establishes for the crop year. Upon redetermination of the kernel weight of almonds received by handlers for their own account as provided in § 981.61, such redetermined kernel weight for each handler, adjusted for receipts on which assessments have been paid, shall be the basis upon which he shall pay assessments. At any time during or after a crop year, the Secretary may increase the rate of assessments to apply to all such almonds during such crop year to secure sufficient funds to cover the expenses authorized by § 981.80 or by any later finding by the Secretary relative to the expenses of the Board, and such additional assessments shall be paid to the Board by each handler on demand. The payment of assessments for the maintenance and functioning of the Board may be required under this part throughout the period it is in effect irrespective of whether particular provisions thereof are suspended or become inoperative.
(b)
Refunds.
Any money collected as assessments for either the administrative (maintenance and functioning) or research activities of the Board and not used for the expenses of the applicable crop year, may be used in paying the Board's expenses of the first four months of the succeeding crop year. No later than the fifth month the amount not expended from assessments collected for administrative-research in the previous crop year shall be retained in the operating reserve fund. Any amounts, not credited pursuant to § 981.41 for a crop year may be used by the Board for its marketing promotion expenses of the succeeding crop year, and any unexpended portion of those amounts at the end of that crop year shall be retained in the operating reserve fund. Any funds of the operating reserve fund in excess of the level authorized pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section shall be refunded to handlers or used to reduce the assessment rate of the subsequent crop year, as the Board may determine. Each handler's share of a refund shall be the amount by which his payment of assessments exceeds his pro rata share of the two major classifications of Board expenses. For the purpose of computing any refund from the marketing promotion portion, each handler's payment of assessments shall include any amount credited to the handler pursuant to § 981.41. In lieu of a refund, each handler may have the amount due him credited to his assessment obligation of the crop year in which the amount would be refunded.
(c)
Reserves.
The Board may maintain an operating reserve fund which shall not exceed approximately six-months' expenses or such lower amount as the Board may establish with the approval of the Secretary:
Provided,
That this limitation shall not restrict the temporary retention of excess funds for the purpose of stabilizing or reducing the assessment rate of a crop year. The amount in each portion shall not exceed approximately six-months' budget for the activity area or such lower amount as the Board may establish with the approval of the Secretary:
Provided,
That this limitation shall not restrict the temporary retention of excess funds for the purpose of stabilizing or reducing the assessment rate of a crop year. To the extent that funds from current crop year assessments are inadequate, funds in the operating reserve may be used for the authorized activities of the crop year. Funds so used, and not exceeding the six-month limitation, shall be replaced to the extent practicable from assessments subsequently collected for the crop year.
(d)
Disposition of funds upon termination.
Any money collected from assessments hereunder and remaining unexpended in possession of the Board upon the termination of this part shall be distributed in such manner as the Secretary may direct.
(e) Any assessment not paid by a handler within a period of time prescribed by the Board may be subject to an interest or late payment charge or both. The period of time, rate of interest and late payment charge shall be as recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary. Subsequent to such approval, all assessments not paid within the prescribed period of time
shall be subject to an interest or late payment charge or both.
[35 FR 11372, July 16, 1970, as amended at 37 FR 3984, Feb. 25, 1972; 41 FR 26854, June 30, 1976; 61 FR 32921, June 26, 1996; 89 FR 37968, May 7, 2024]

# Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 981.85
Personal liability.
No member or alternate member of the Board, or any employee or agent thereof, shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any handler or any other person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts either of commission or omission, as such member, alternate member, agent, or employee, except for acts of dishonesty.
§ 981.86
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid, or the applicability thereof to any person, circumstance, or thing is held invalid, the validity of the remainder hereof or the applicability thereof to any other person, circumstance, or thing shall not be affected thereby.
§ 981.87
Derogation.
Nothing contained in this subpart is, or shall be construed to be, in derogation or in modification of the rights of the Secretary or of the United States to exercise any powers granted by the act or otherwise, or, in accordance with such powers, to act in the premises whenever such action is deemed advisable.
§ 981.88
Duration of immunities.
The benefits, privileges, and immunities conferred upon any person by virtue of this subpart shall cease upon its termination except with respect to acts done under and during its existence.
§ 981.89
Agents.
The Secretary may, by a designation in writing, name any person, including any officer or employee of the United States Government, or name any bureau or division of the United States Department of Agriculture, to act as his agent or representative in connection with any of the provisions of this subpart.
§ 981.90
Effective time, suspension, or termination.
(a)
Effective time.
The provisions of this subpart, as well as any amendments to this subpart, shall become effective at such time as the Secretary may declare, and shall continue in force until terminated or suspended in one of the ways hereinafter specified in this section.
(b)
Suspension or termination
—(1)
Failure to effectuate policy of act.
The Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operation of any or all of the provisions of this subpart, whenever he finds that such provisions do not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.
(2) The Secretary shall conduct a referendum as soon as practical after the end of the fiscal year ending two years after implementation of this amendment, and at such time every fifth year thereafter, to ascertain whether continuation of the order is favored by growers who have been engaged in the production of almonds for market within the State of California during the current crop year.
(3)
When favored by growers.
The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this subpart at the end of any crop year whenever he finds that such termination is favored by a majority of the growers of almonds who during the crop year have been engaged in the production for market of almonds in the State of California:
Provided,
That such majority have during such period produced for market more than 50 percent of the volume of such almonds produced for market within said State; but such termination shall be effected only if announced on or before July 1 of the then current crop year.
(4)
If enabling legislation is terminated.
The provisions of this subpart shall, in any event, terminate whenever the provisions of the act authorizing them cease to be in effect.
(c)
Proceedings after termination
—(1)
Designation of trustees.
Upon the termination of the provisions of this subpart, the members of the Board then functioning shall continue as joint trustees, for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Board, of all funds
and property then in the possession or under the control of the Board, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered at the time of such termination. Action by said trusteeship shall require the concurrence of a majority of the said trustees.
(2)
Duties of trustees.
Said trustees shall continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary; shall, from time to time, account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Board and the joint trustees, to such person as the Secretary may direct; and shall, upon request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such person full title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims vested in the Board or the joint trustees pursuant thereto.
(3)
Obligations of persons other than board members and trustees.
Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered by the Board or its members, pursuant to this section, shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the members of the said Board and upon the said joint trustees.
[35 FR 11372, July 16, 1970, as amended at 61 FR 32921, June 26, 1996]
§ 981.91
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any regulation issued pursuant to this subpart, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not (a) affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or any regulation issued under this subpart, or (b) release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or of any regulation issued under this subpart, or (c) affect or impair any rights or remedies of the Secretary or of any other person, with respect to any such violation.
§ 981.92
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed, from time to time, by any person or by the Board.

# Subpart B—Assessment Rates
§ 981.343
Assessment rate.
For the period August 1, 2016, through July 31, 2019, the assessment rate shall be $0.04 per pound for California almonds. Of the $0.04 assessment rate, 60 percent per assessable pound is available for handler credit-back. On and after August 1, 2019, an assessment rate of $0.03 per pound is established for California almonds. Of the $0.03 assessment rate, 60 percent per assessable pound is available for handler credit-back.
[81 FR 92564, Dec. 20, 2016]

# Subpart C—Administrative Requirements
§ 981.401
Adjusted kernel weight.
(a)
Definition. Adjusted kernel weight
shall mean the actual gross weight of any lot of almonds: Less weight of containers; less moisture of kernels in excess of five percent; less shells, if applicable; less processing loss of one percent for deliveries with less than 95 percent kernels; less trash or other foreign material. The adjusted kernel weight shall be determined by sampling certified by the inspection agency.
(b)
Computation.
The computation of adjusted kernel weight shall be in the manner shown in the following examples. The examples are based on the analysis of a 1,000 gram sample taken from a lot of almonds weighing 10,000 pounds with less than 95 percent kernels, and a 1,000 gram sample taken from a lot of almonds weighing 10,000 pounds with 95 percent or more kernels. The first computation example is for the lot with less than 95 percent kernels containing the following: Edible kernels, 530 grams; inedible kernels, 120 grams; foreign material, 350 grams, and moisture content of kernels, seven percent. Excess moisture is two percent. The second computation example is for the lot with 95 percent or more kernels containing the following: Edible kernels, 840 grams; inedible kernels, 120 grams; foreign material, 40 grams; and moisture content of
kernels, seven percent. Excess moisture is two percent. The example computations are as follows:
Computation number 1
Deliveries with less than
95 percent kernels
Percent of sample
Weight
(pounds)
Computation number 2
Deliveries with 95 percent
or more kernels
Percent of sample
Weight
(pounds)
1. Actual gross weight of delivery
10,000
10,000
2. Percent of edible kernel weight
53.000
84.000
3. Less weight loss in processing
1
1.000
0.000
4. Less excess moisture of edible kernels (excess moisture × line 2)
1.060
1.680
5. Net percent shell out (line 2−lines 3 and 4)
50.940
82.320
6. Net edible kernels (line 5 × line 1)
5,094
8,232
7. Percent of inedible kernels (from sample)
12.000
12.000
8. Less excess moisture of inedible kernels (excess moisture from sample × line 7)
0.240
0.240
9. Net percent inedible kernels (line 7−line 8)
11.760
11.760
10. Total inedible kernels (line 9 × line 1)
1,176
1,176
11. Adjusted kernel weight (line 6 + line 10)
6,270
9,408
1
Only applies to deliveries with less than 95 percent kernels.
(c)
Computation adjustments.
If applicable, adjustments shall be made by rounding such that the sample computation percentages total equals 100 percent. Rounding adjustments shall be made as follows: First adjust the foreign material percentage; if there is no foreign material in the sample, then adjust the excess moisture percentage; or if there is no foreign material or excess moisture in the sample, adjust the inedible kernels percentage.
[45 FR 68630, Oct. 16, 1980, as amended at 61 FR 42991, Aug. 20, 1996; 83 FR 28525, June 20, 2018]
§ 981.408
Inedible kernel.
Pursuant to § 981.8, the definition of inedible kernel is modified to mean a kernel, piece, or particle of almond kernel with any defect scored as serious damage, or damage due to mold, gum, shrivel, or brown spot, as defined in the United States Standards for Shelled Almonds, or which has embedded dirt or other foreign material not easily removed by washing: Provided, That the presence of web or frass shall not be considered serious damage for the purposes of determining inedible kernels, pieces, or particles of almond kernels.
[59 FR 39419, Aug. 3, 1994]
§ 981.413
Roadside stand exemption.
The term
at retail at a roadside stand
as used in § 981.13 shall be defined to mean sales for home use and not for resale which are not in excess of 100 pounds net kernel weight to any one customer per day. Sales of almonds at certified farmers' markets in compliance with section 1392 of the regulations of the California Department of Food and Agriculture shall be construed as “roadside” sales for the purpose of § 981.13 where these conditions are met.
[50 FR 30264, July 25, 1985]
§ 981.441
Credit for market promotion activities, including paid advertising.
(a) In order for a handler to receive credit for his/her own promotional activities from his/her pro rata portion of advertising assessment payments, pursuant to § 981.41(c), the Board must determine that such expenditures meet the applicable requirements of this section. Credit will be granted either in the form of a payment from the Board, or as an offset to that portion of the assessment if activities are conducted and documented to the satisfaction of the Board at least 2 weeks prior to the Board's first and second assessment billings, and at least 3 weeks prior to the Board's third and fourth assessment billings in a crop year. Credit,
hereinafter termed “Credit-Back”, will be granted in an amount not to exceed 66
2/3
percent of a handler's proven expenditures for qualified activities.
(b) The portion of the handler assessment for which credit may be received under this section will be billed, and is due and payable, at the same time as the portion of the handler assessment used for the Board's administrative expenses, unless the handler(s) conduct and document activities at least 2 weeks prior to the first and second assessment billings and 3 weeks prior to the third and fourth assessment billings. If the handler(s) conduct activities and submit documentation according to applicable provisions in this section, their advertising assessment obligation will be reduced according to the amount of proven activities approved by the Board.
(c) The Board shall grant Credit-Back for qualifying activities only to the handler who performed such activities and who filed a claim for Credit-Back in accordance with this section.
(d) Credit-Back shall be granted only for qualified promotional activities which are conducted and completed during the crop year for which Credit-Back is requested.
(e) The following requirements shall apply to Credit-Back for all promotional activities:
(1) Credit-Back granted by the Board shall be that which is appropriate when compared to accepted professional practices and rates for the type of activity conducted. In the case of claims for Credit-Back activities not covered by specific and established criteria, the Board shall grant the claim if it is consistent with practices and rates for similar activities. To this end, the Board may issue guidelines for qualifying activities from time to time as warranted. For activities in markets other than the United States and Canada, paragraph (e)(5) of this section shall also apply.
(2) The clear and evident purpose of each activity shall be to promote the sale, consumption or use of California almonds, and nothing therein shall detract from this purpose.
(3) No Credit-Back will be given for advertising placed in publications that target the farming or grower trade. No Credit-Back shall be given for any outdoor advertising in California almond growing counties with more than 1,000 bearing acres:
Provided,
That outdoor advertising in these counties which specifically directs consumers to a handler-operated outlet offering direct purchase of almonds will be eligible for Credit-Back.
(4) Credit-Back shall be granted for those qualified activities specified below, except that Credit-Back will not be allowed in any case for travel expenses, or for any promotional activities that result in price discounting.
(i)
Paid advertising directed to end-users, trade or industrial users.
Credit-Back shall be granted for money spent on paid advertising space or time including, but not limited to, newspapers, magazines, radio, television, transit and outdoor media, and including the standard agency commission costs not to exceed 15 percent of gross.
(ii)
Other market promotion activities.
Credit-Back shall be granted for market promotion other than paid advertising, for the following activities:
(A) Marketing research (except pre-testing and test-marketing of paid advertising);
(B) Trade and consumer product publicity:
Provided,
That no Credit-Back shall be given for related fees charged by an advertising or public relations agency;
(C) Printing costs for promotional material;
(D) Direct mail printing and distribution;
(E) Retail in-store demonstrations;
(F) Point-of-sale materials (not including packaging);
(G) Sales and marketing presentation kits;
(H) Trade fairs and exhibits;
(I) 50/50 advertising with retailers;
(J) Couponing (printing, distribution, and handling costs only); and
(K) Development and use of web-site on the Internet for advertising and public relations purposes, including E-commerce (mail ordering through the Internet):
Provided,
That Credit-Back shall be limited to $20,000 per year for such activities, and no credit shall be given for costs for E-commerce administration, Extranet (restricted Web sites within the Internet), Intranet
(inter-office communication network), or portions of a web-site that target the farming or grower trade.
(iii) For any qualified activity involving joint participation by a handler and a manufacturer or seller of a complementary product(s), or a handler selling multiple complementary products, including other nuts, with such activity including the handler's name or brand, or the words “California Almonds”, the amount allowed for Credit-Back claim shall reflect that portion of the activity represented by almonds, or the handler's actual payment, whichever is less.
(iv) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (e)(4)(v) of this section, when products containing almonds are promoted, the amount allowed for Credit-Back shall reflect that portion of the product weight represented by almonds, or the handler's actual payment, whichever is less:
Provided,
That, except for mixed nut products, the amount of Credit-Back for qualified promotional activities for products containing almonds shall be granted at 66
2/3
percent of proven expenditures, if the product is owned or distributed by the handler and such ownership or distributorship is stated on the package:
Provided Further,
That to receive any level of credit, the product must display the handler's name, the handler's brand, or the words “California Almonds” on the primary, face label.
(5) Credit-Back for promotional activities in a foreign market shall be granted at 66
2/3
percent of a handler's unreimbursed expenditures for qualified activities in any foreign market, if the handler is promoting pursuant to a contract with the Foreign Agricultural Service, USDA (FAS) and/or the California Department of Food and Agriculture (CDFA). Such activities must also meet the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1), (2), (3), (4), and (6) of this section. Unless the Board is administering the foreign marketing program, such activities shall not be eligible for Credit-Back unless the handler certifies that he/she was not and will not be reimbursed by either FAS or the CDFA for the amount claimed for Credit-Back, and has on record with the Board all claims for reimbursement made to FAS and/or the CDFA. Foreign market expenses paid by third parties as part of a handler's contract with FAS or CDFA will not be eligible for Credit-Back.
(6) A handler must file claims with the Board to obtain Credit-Back for promotional expenditures, as follows:
(i) All claims submitted to the Board for any qualified activity must include:
(A) A description of the activity and when and where it was conducted;
(B) Copies of all invoices from suppliers or agencies;
(C) Copies of all canceled checks issued by the handler in payment of these invoices; and
(D) An actual sample, picture or other physical evidence of the activity.
(ii) Handlers may receive credit against their assessment obligation up to the advertising amount of the assessment installment due:
Provided,
That handlers submit the required documentation for a qualified activity at least 2 weeks prior to the mailing of the Board's first and second assessment notices, and at least 3 weeks prior to the mailing of the Board's third and fourth assessment notices in a crop year. In all other instances, handlers must remit the advertising assessment to the Board when billed, and a refund will be issued to the extent of proven, qualified activities.
(iii) Checks from the Board in payment of approved Credit-Back claims will be mailed to handlers on February 15, April 15, June 15, and 30 days after submission of final claims for the crop year pursuant to paragraph (e)(6)(iv) of this section. To receive payment on these dates, handler claims must be submitted, with all required elements, at least one month prior to the payment date. A handler can receive Credit-Back for his/her allowable direct expenditures only up to the amount of that portion of the handler's assessment designated for marketing promotion, including paid advertising.
(iv) A statement of the Credit-Back commitments outstanding as of the close of a crop year must be submitted in full to the Board within 15 days after the close of that crop year. Final claims pertaining to such commitments outstanding must be submitted with all required elements within 76 days after the close of that crop year.
All other final claims for which no statement of Credit-Back commitments outstanding has been filed must be submitted by August 15 of that calendar year.
(f)
Appeals.
If a determination is made by the Board staff that a particular promotional activity is not eligible for Credit-Back because it does not meet the criteria specified herein, or for any other reason, the affected handler may request the Public Relations and Advertising Committee to review the Board staff's decision. If the affected handler disagrees with the decision of the Public Relations and Advertising Committee, the handler may request that the Board review the Committee decision. If the handler disagrees with the decision of the Board, the handler, through the Board, may request that the Secretary review the Board's decision. Handlers have the right to request anonymity in the review of their appeal. The Secretary maintains the right to review any decisions made by the aforementioned bodies at his/her discretion.
[59 FR 35233, July 11, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 41028, July 29, 1999; 64 FR 58766, Nov. 1, 1999; 70 FR 36818, June 27, 2005]
§ 981.442
Quality control.
(a)
Incoming.
Pursuant to § 981.42(a), the quantity of inedible kernels in each variety of almonds received by a handler, including almonds of his own production, shall be determined and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph.
(1)
Sampling.
Each handler shall cause a representative sample of almonds to be drawn from each lot of any variety received from any incoming source. The sample shall be drawn before inedible kernels are removed from the lot after hulling/shelling, or before the lot is processed or stored by the handler. For receipts at premises with mechanical sampling equipment and under contracts providing for payment by the handler to the grower for sound meat content, samples shall be drawn by the handler in a manner acceptable to the Board and the inspection agency. The inspection agency shall make periodic checks of the mechanical sampling procedures. For all other receipts, including but not limited to field examination and purchase receipts, accumulations purchased for cash at the handler's door or from an accumulator, or almonds of the handler's own production, sampling shall be conducted or monitored by the inspection agency in a manner acceptable to the Board. All samples shall be bagged and identified in a manner acceptable to the Board and the inspection agency.
(2)
Variety.
For the purpose of classifying receipts by variety to determine a handler's disposition obligation, “variety” shall mean that variety of almonds which constitutes at least 90 percent of the lot:
Provided,
That lots containing a combination of Butte and Padre varieties only, shall be classified as “Butte-Padre”, regardless of the percentage of each variety in the lot. If no variety constitutes at least 90 percent of the almonds in a lot, the lot shall be classified as “mixed”:
Provided further,
That if the variety or varieties of almonds in a lot are not identified, the lot shall be classified as “mixed”, regardless of the percentage of each variety in a lot.
(3)
Analysis of sample.
Each sample shall be analyzed by or under the surveillance of the inspection agency to determine the kernel content and the proportion of inedible kernels in the sample. The inspection agency shall prepare a report for each handler showing, by variety, the total adjusted kernel weight received by handler, the inedible kernel weight and any other information as the Board may prescribe. The report shall cover the handler's daily receipt or the handler's total receipts during a period not exceeding one week, and shall be submitted by the inspection agency to the Board and the handler.
(4)
Disposition obligation.
(i) The weight of inedible kernels in excess of 2 percent of kernel weight reported to the Board of any variety received by a handler shall constitute that handler's disposition obligation. For any almonds sold inshell, the weight may be reported to the Board and the disposition obligation for that variety reduced proportionately.
(ii) If a sufficient sample is not available for any lot of almonds, the handler may establish and substantiate, to the satisfaction of the Board, the received
weight, the edible and inedible kernel weights, and the adjusted kernel weight by providing sufficient information as the Board may prescribe. If the handler is only able to establish and substantiate the approximate received weight, an inedible disposition obligation of 10 percent of such received weight may be applied, upon agreement between the Board and the handler.
(5)
Meeting the disposition obligation.
Each handler shall meet its disposition obligation by delivering packer pickouts, kernels rejected in blanching, pieces of kernels, meal accumulated in manufacturing, or other material, to Board-approved accepted users, which can include, but are not limited to, crushers, feed manufacturers, feeders, or dealers in nut wastes, located within the production area. Inedible kernels, foreign material, and other defects sorted from edible kernels by off-site cleaning facilities may be used towards that handler's disposition obligation or destroyed. Handlers shall notify the Board at least 72 hours prior to delivery of product to an off-site cleaning facility or accepted user location:
Provided,
That the Board or its employees may lessen this notification time whenever it determines that the 72-hour requirement is impracticable. The Board may supervise deliveries at its option. In the case of a handler having an annual total obligation of less than 1,000 pounds, delivery may be to the Board in lieu of an accepted user, in which case the Board would certify the disposition lot and report the results to the USDA. For dispositions by handlers with mechanical sampling equipment, samples may be drawn by the handler in a manner acceptable to the Board and the inspection agency. For all other dispositions, samples shall be drawn by or under supervision of the inspection agency. Upon approval by the Board and the inspection agency, sampling may be accomplished at the accepted user's destination. The edible and inedible almond meat content of each delivery shall be determined by the inspection agency and reported by the inspection agency to the Board and the handler. The handler's disposition obligation will be credited upon satisfactory completion of ABC Form 8. ABC Form 8, Part A, is filled out by the handler, and Part B by the accepted user. At least 50-percent of a handler's total crop year inedible disposition obligation shall be satisfied with dispositions consisting of inedible kernels as defined in § 981.408:
Provided,
That this 50 percent requirement shall not apply to handlers with total annual obligations of less than 1,000 pounds. Each handler's disposition obligation shall be satisfied when the almond meat content of the material delivered to accepted users equals the disposition obligation, but no later than September 30 succeeding the crop year in which the obligation was incurred. Almond meal can be used for meeting the non-inedible portion of the obligation. Meal content shall be determined in a manner acceptable to the Board.
(6)
Inedible almonds unfit for processing.
All lots received from growers as “inedible almonds unfit for processing,” shall be exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) (1) and (3) of this section, but shall be disposed of in their entirety (other than as pickouts), as provided in paragraph (a)(5) of this section. Disposition of these lots shall not be credited toward the disposition obligation of paragraph (a)(4) of this section. If a grower sells or ships inedible almonds to a person other than a handler, the grower thereby becomes a handler and subject to all the requirements of this paragraph.
(7)
Accepted users.
An accepted user's eligibility shall be subject to the following criteria:
(i) Annual completion of an application with the Board for accepted user status;
(ii) Annual submission of a business data sheet to the Board;
(iii) Annual submission of an Accepted User Plan (Form ABC 30) to the Board by July 31 of each year;
(iv) The accurate and prompt submission of Form ABC 8, Part B, to the Board for each lot of almonds received. Each lot of inedible almonds received must be documented by a public weighmaster weight certificate issued at the request of the accepted user at the time of receipt of the lot. Weighmaster weight certificates must be submitted to the Board within 10 business days of issuance;
(v) Disposal of inedible almond material within 6 months of receipt; and
(vi) Disposal of inedible almond material received with no transfer of the material between accepted users.
(vii) The Board may deny or revoke accepted user status at any time if the applicant or accepted user fails to meet the terms and conditions of § 981.442, or if the applicant or accepted user fails to meet the terms and conditions set forth in the accepted user application (Form ABC 34).
(viii) The eligibility of accepted users shall be reviewed annually by the Board. Handlers will not receive credit towards their disposition obligations pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section for inedible lots where the difference between the weight of the lot reported by the inspection agency on Form ABC 8 and the weight of the lot reported on the public weighmaster weight certificate exceeds 2.0 percent.
(b)
Outgoing.
Pursuant to § 981.42(b), and except as provided in § 981.13 and in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, handlers shall subject their almonds to a treatment process or processes prior to shipment to reduce potential
Salmonella
bacteria contamination in accordance with the provisions of this section. Temporary transfer by a handler to an off-site cleaning facility is not considered a shipment under this section. Handlers may utilize off-site cleaning facilities within the production area, on record with the Board, to provide sorting services to separate inedible kernels, foreign material, and other defects from edible kernels. Product sent by a handler to an off-site cleaning facility is considered a temporary transfer, with ownership maintained by the handler, and accountability required for all product fractions and handler obligations pursuant to § 981.42.
(1)
Treatment process.
Treatment processes shall utilize technologies that have been determined to achieve in total a minimum 4-log reduction of
Salmonella
bacteria in almonds, pursuant to a letter of determination issued by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), or acceptance by a scientific review panel as identified by the Board (Technical Expert Review Panel or “TERP”). Such panel shall be approved at least annually by the Board prior to the beginning of each crop year, or as needed during the crop year.
(2)
On-site versus off-site treatment.
Handlers shall subject almonds to a treatment process or processes prior to shipment either at their handling facility (on-site) or a custom processor (defined as a Board-approved off-site treatment facility located within the production area subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)(4)(v) of this section). Transportation of almonds by a handler to a custom processor shall not be deemed a shipment. A handler with an on-site treatment process or processes may use such facility to act as a custom processor for other handlers.
(3)
Validation by process authorities.
Handlers shall only use, or transport their almonds to off-site treatment facilities that use treatment processes that have been validated by a Board-approved process authority. Treatment technology and equipment that have been modified to a point where operating parameters such as time, temperature, or volume change, shall be revalidated.
(i) Validation means that the treatment technology and equipment have been demonstrated to achieve in total a minimum 4-log reduction of
Salmonella
bacteria in almonds. Validation data prepared by a Board-approved process authority must be submitted to the Board, and accepted by the TERP, for each piece of equipment used to treat almonds prior to its use under the program.
(ii) A process authority is a person that has expert knowledge of appropriate processes for the treatment of almonds as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and meets the following criteria:
(A) Knowledge about the equipment used for the treatment process;
(B) Experience in conducting appropriate studies to determine the ability of the equipment to deliver the appropriate treatment (such as heat penetration or heat distribution); and
(C) Able to determine that sufficient data has been gathered to identify the critical factors needed to ensure the quality of the final product.
(iii) Process authorities may be employees of the entity for which they are
conducting validation. The Board shall provide process authorities specific protocols and parameters for treatment processes that are FDA determined or TERP accepted.
(iv) Process authorities must submit an initial application to the Board on ABC Form No. 51, “Application for Process Authority for Almonds,” and be approved by the TERP. Should the applicant disagree with the TERP's decision concerning approval, the applicant may appeal the decision in writing to the Board, and ultimately to USDA. For subsequent crop years, approved applicants with no changes to their initial application must send the Board a letter, signed and dated, indicating that there are no changes to the application the Board has on file.
(v) The TERP, in coordination with the Board, may revoke any approval for cause. The Board shall notify the process authority in writing of the reasons for revoking the approval. Should the process authority disagree with the decision, they may appeal the decision in writing to the Board, and ultimately to USDA. A process authority whose approval has been revoked must submit a new application to the TERP and await approval.
(4)
Compliance and verification.
In accordance with the requirements of this paragraph, handlers shall utilize either an on-site verification program (traditional), or an audit-based verification program to ensure that their almonds have been subjected to a treatment process to reduce
Salmonella
bacteria prior to shipment. Each handler may decide which verification program would be the most cost-effective for his or her operation.
(i) By May 31, each handler shall submit to the Board a Handler Treatment Plan (Treatment Plan) for the upcoming crop year. A Treatment Plan shall describe how a handler plans to treat his or her almonds and must address specific parameters as outlined by the Board for the handler to ship almonds. Such plan shall be reviewed by the Board, in conjunction with the inspection agency, to ensure it is complete and can be verified, and be approved by the Board. Almonds sent by a handler for treatment at a custom processing facility affiliated with another handler shall be subject to the approved Treatment Plan utilized at that facility. Handlers shall follow their own approved Treatment Plans for almonds sent to custom processors that are not affiliated with another handler.
(ii) Handlers utilizing an on-site verification program shall cause the inspection agency to verify that their Treatment Plans have been followed, and that their almonds have been subjected to a treatment process that has been validated by a Board-approved process authority. Such handlers shall submit, or cause to be submitted, a verification report to the Board. The inspection agency must physically observe the treatment process to issue such report.
(iii) Handlers utilizing an audit-based verification program shall be subject to periodic audits conducted by the inspection agency. The inspection agency shall provide copies of the audit report to the Board. Handlers who do not comply with an audit-based verification program shall be required to revert to an on-site verification program.
(iv) Interhandler transfers of almonds may or may not be treated prior to transfer. Handlers receiving untreated almonds from another handler shall be responsible for treating the product. Handlers receiving treated almonds from another handler must have procedures outlined in their Treatment Plan addressing how the integrity of the treated almonds will be maintained. In all instances involving interhandler transfers, the receiving handler shall be responsible for ensuring that the almonds are treated prior to shipment and maintaining documentation to that effect.
(v) Custom processors shall provide access to the inspection agency and Board staff for verification of treatment and review of treatment records. Custom processors shall utilize technologies that have been determined to achieve, in total, a minimum 4-log reduction of Salmonella bacteria in almonds, pursuant to a letter of determination issued by FDA or accepted by the TERP. Custom processors must submit a Custom Processor Application, ABC Form 55, to the Board annually by July 31. A custom processor
who submits a timely application, and utilizes a treatment process or processes that has been validated by a Board-approved process authority and approved by the Board in conjunction with the TERP, shall be approved by the Board for handler use. The Board may revoke any such approval for cause. The Board shall notify the custom processor of the reasons for revoking the approval. Should the custom processor disagree with the Board's decision, it may appeal the decision in writing to USDA. Handlers may treat their almonds only at custom processor treatment facilities that have been approved by the Board.
(5)
Records.
Handlers shall maintain records and documentation that will be subject to audit by the Board for the purpose of verifying compliance with this section. Records must be maintained for two full years following the end of the crop year, and must identify lots from the point of treatment forward to the point of shipment by the handler. Lot identification shall also provide the ability to differentiate treated from untreated product. Off-site treatment facilities that do not handle almonds pursuant to § 981.16, shall maintain treatment records for 2 full years following the end of a crop year and make such records available to the Board.
(6)
Exemptions.
Handlers may ship untreated almonds under the following conditions. For purposes of this section, container means a box, bin, bag, carton, or any other type of receptacle used in the packaging of bulk almonds.
(i) Handlers may ship untreated almonds for further processing directly to manufacturers located within the U.S., Canada, or Mexico. This program shall be termed the Direct Verifiable (DV) program. Handlers may only ship untreated almonds to manufacturers who have submitted ABC Form No. 52, “Application for Direct Verifiable (DV) Program for Further Processing of Untreated Almonds,” and have been approved by the Board. Such almonds must be shipped directly to approved manufacturing locations, as specified on Form No. 52. Such manufacturers (DV Users) must submit an initial Form No. 52 to the Board for review and approval in conjunction with the TERP. Should the applicant disagree with the Board's decision concerning approval, it may appeal the decision in writing to the Board, and ultimately to USDA. For subsequent crop years, approved DV Users with no changes to their initial application must send the Board a letter, signed and dated, indicating that there are no changes to the application the Board has on file. Approved DV Users desiring to make changes to their approved application must resubmit Form No. 52 to the Board for approval. The TERP, in coordination with the Board, may revoke any approval for cause. The Board shall notify the DV User in writing of the reasons for revoking the approval. Should the DV User disagree with the decision, it may appeal the decision in writing to the Board, and ultimately to USDA. A DV User whose approval has been revoked must submit a new application to the Board and await approval. The Board shall issue a DV User code to an approved DV User. Handlers must reference such code in all documentation accompanying the lot and identify each container of such almonds with the term “unpasteurized.” Such lettering shall be on one outside principal display panel, at least
1/2
inch in height, clear and legible. If a third party is involved in the transaction, the handler must provide sufficient documentation to the Board to track the shipment from the handler's facility to the approved DV User. While a third party may be involved in such transactions, shipments to a third party and then to a manufacturing location are not permitted under the DV program. Approved DV Users shall:
(A) Subject such almonds to a treatment process or processes using technologies that achieve in total a minimum 4-log reduction of
Salmonella
bacteria as determined by the FDA or established by a process authority accepted by the TERP, in accordance with and subject to the provisions and procedures of paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Establish means that the treatment process and protocol have been evaluated to ensure the technology's ability to deliver a lethal
treatment for
Salmonella
bacteria in almonds to achieve a minimum 4-log reduction;
(B) Identify the manufacturing locations where treatment will occur;
(C) Have their treatment technology and equipment validated by a Board approved process authority and accepted by the TERP. Documentation must be provided with their DV application to verify that their treatment technology and equipment have been validated by a Board-approved process authority. Such documentation shall be sufficient to demonstrate that the treatment processes and equipment achieve a 4-log reduction in
Salmonella
bacteria. Treatment technology and equipment that have been modified to a point where operating parameters such as time, temperature, or volume change, shall be revalidated;
(D) Have their technology and procedures verified by a Board-approved DV auditor to ensure they are being applied appropriately. A DV auditor may not be an employee of the manufacturer that they are auditing. A DV auditor may not be the same individual who conducted the process validation accepted by the TERP for the equipment being audited. DV auditors must submit a report to the Board after conducting each audit. DV auditors must submit an initial application to the Board on ABC Form No. 53, “Application for Direct Verifiable (DV) Program Auditors,” and be approved by the Board in coordination with the TERP. Should the applicant disagree with the decision concerning approval, they may appeal the decision in writing to the Board, and ultimately to USDA. For subsequent crop years, approved DV auditors with no changes to their initial application must send the Board a letter, signed and dated, indicating that there are no changes to the application the Board has on file. Approved DV auditors whose status has changed must submit a new application. The Board, in coordination with the TERP, may revoke any approval for cause. The Board shall notify the DV auditor in writing of the reasons for revoking the approval. Should the DV auditor disagree with the decision to revoke, it may appeal the decision in writing to the Board, and ultimately to USDA. A DV auditor whose approval has been revoked must submit a new application to the Board and await approval;
(E) Maintain all records regarding validation and verification of treatment methods, processing, and product traceability. Such records shall be retained for two years and shall be made available for review by the Board; and,
(F) Ship any almonds which will not be treated to a handler, to another approved DV user, to locations outside the U.S., Canada, and Mexico (containers must remain identified with the term “unpasteurized”), as specified in § 981.442(b)(6)(i), or dispose of such almonds in non-edible channels.
(ii) Handlers may ship untreated almonds directly or through a third party to locations outside the U.S., Canada, and Mexico, provided that each container of such almonds is identified with the term “unpasteurized.” Such lettering shall be on one outside principal display panel, at least
1/2
inch in height, clear and legible. If a third party is involved in the transaction, the handler must provide sufficient documentation to the Board to track the shipment from the handler's facility to the importer in the foreign country.
(7)
Other restrictions.
The provisions of this section do not supersede any restrictions or prohibitions regarding almonds grown in California under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or any other applicable laws or regulations or the need to comply with applicable food and sanitary regulations of city, county, State or Federal agencies.
[42 FR 3160, Jan. 17, 1977]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 981.442, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 981.450
Exempt dispositions.
As provided in § 981.50, any handler disposing of almonds for crushing into oil, or for animal feed, may have the kernel weight of these almonds excluded from their program obligations, so long as:
(a) The handler qualifies as, or delivers such almonds to, a Board-approved accepted user;
(b) Each delivery is made directly to the accepted user by June 30 of each crop year; and
(c) Each delivery is certified to the Board by the handler on ABC Form 8.
[88 FR 67627, Oct. 2, 2023]
§ 981.455
Interhandler transfers.
(a)
Transfers of almonds.
Interhandler transfers of almonds pursuant to § 981.55 shall be reported to the Board on ABC Form 7. The report shall contain the following information:
(1) Date of transfer;
(2) The names, and plant locations of both the transferring and receiving handlers;
(3) The variety of almonds transferred;
(4) Whether the almonds are shelled or unshelled;
(5) The name of the handler assuming reserve and assessment obligations on the almonds transferred;
(6) Whether the almonds had been treated to achieve a 4-log reduction in
Salmonella
bacteria, pursuant to § 981.442(b); and
(7) A unique handler identification number for each lot.
(b)
Transfers of reserve credits.
A handler may transfer reserve credits to another handler after having filed with the Board, in accordance with § 981.474, a completed ABC Form 13/14 covering the almonds to be diverted to a noncompetitive outlet and all the documentation applicable thereto. Such a transfer does not relieve the transferring handler of any reserve obligations for the applicable crop year. The transferred credit shall not exceed the quantity needed by the receiving handler to cover that handler's reserve obligation. The Board shall complete the transfer upon receipt of an ABC Form 11 executed by both handlers. No transfer of reserve credits shall be made to satisfy a handler's inedible disposition obligation incurred pursuant to § 981.42(a).
(c)
Transfers of reserve withholding obligation.
A handler may transfer reserve withholding obligation to other handlers pursuant to § 981.55 after having filed with the Board an ABC Form 11 executed by both handlers. The Board shall approve the transfer upon receipt of the properly completed form.
(d) Transfer of inedible obligation may be made, with the approval of the Board, only when the inedible kernels are physically transferred with the entire lot of almonds. The transfer of the lot shall be reported on ABC Form 9, showing date of transfer and, for the transferring handler, the (1) original inspection certificate number, (2) total weight shown on the certificate, and (3) weight of inedible kernels shown on the certificate. For the receiving handler, ABC Form 9 shall show the (1) new inspection certificate number, (2) total weight shown on the certificate, and (3) weight of inedible kernels shown on the certificate. ABC Form 9 shall be signed by both, the transferring handler and the receiving handler, and submitted by the receiving handler to the Board for approval.
[42 FR 19322, Apr. 13, 1977, as amended at 44 FR 30076, May 24, 1979; 56 FR 19794, Apr. 30, 1991; 62 FR 56051, Oct. 29, 1997; 72 FR 51992, Sept. 12, 2007]
§ 981.466
Almond butter.
Almond butter as used in § 981.66(c) is hereby defined as a comminuted food product prepared by grinding shelled or blanched almonds into a homogeneous plastic or semiplastic mass or liquid having very few particles larger than
1/16
inch in any dimension. To produce chunky style almond butter, almond chunks or pieces may be added up to a maximum of 25 percent by weight of the finished product. The size of the almond pieces used to make chunky style almond butter may not exceed
5/16
inch in any dimension.
[48 FR 11250, Mar. 17, 1983]

# At 88 FR 67627, Oct. 2, 2023, §§981.466 was stayed indefinitely.
§ 981.467
Disposition in reserve outlets by handlers.
(a)
Agents of Board.
Beginning with August 1 of any crop year, a handler may become an agent of the Board pursuant to § 981.67 for the purpose of disposing of reserve almonds of such crop year, in the authorized outlets. The agency shall be established upon a handler executing a reserve agreement (ABC Form 12) ABC, applicable to diversion, containing terms and conditions specified by the Board.
(b)
Reserve credit.
Credit in satisfaction of a reserve obligation shall not exceed the accrued reserve obligation derived by applying the reserve percentage to the quanity of almonds received by a handler for his own account during the crop year. Disposition by an agent of the Board in eligible reserve outlets within a crop year in excess of his reserve obligation shall be held to be a disposition of salable almonds. Whenever such disposition has been inspected and certified, if required, and has complied with the terms, conditions, and documentation applicable to disposition of reserve almonds as determined by the Board, the disposition may be credited against any reserve obligation subsequently incurred by the handler during that crop year, or the disposition may be credited pursuant to § 981.455(b) against the reserve obligation of another handler.
(c)
Minimum prices.
Minimum prices shall apply to 1990-91 crop year reserve almonds diverted to almond butter, natural almond paste, foil packets for sales to airlines, and sales to government agencies, including federal and state school lunch programs. Prices are F.O.B. handlers plant. The prices may contain a maximum of two percent brokerage commission. No cash discounts are allowed. The prices are as follows for various grades or categories of almonds:
Grade or category
Price per pound
U.S. Select Sheller Run or better, unblanched
75 cents.
U.S. Standard Sheller Run, unblanched
74 cents.
U.S. No. 1 Whole and Broken, unblanched
73 cents.
U.S. No. 1 Pieces, unblanched
73 cents.
U.S. No. 1 Pieces or better, unblanched, to be used for almond butter manufactured in the 48 contiguous states and shipped to EEC countries
60 cents.
Blanched made from U.S. No. 1 Pieces or better
95 cents.
Blanched made from U.S. No. 1 Pieces or better to be used for almond butter manufactured in the 48 continguous states and shipped to EEC countries
82 cents.
(d) For the 1990-91 crop year only, the reserve disposition obligation date is extended until September 1, 1992, and the date for submitting documentation verifying reserve dispositions is extended to December 1, 1992.
[42 FR 19322, Apr. 13, 1977, as amended at 56 FR 10508, Mar. 13, 1991; 56 FR 51150, Oct. 10, 1991; 57 FR 27353, June 19, 1992; 61 FR 32922, June 26, 1996]

# Editorial Note:
At 88 FR 82235, Nov. 24, 2023, § 981.467 was amended; however, the amendments could not be incorporated because the section was stayed indefinitely at 88 FR 67627, Oct. 2, 2023.

# At 88 FR 67627, Oct. 2, 2023, §§981.467 was stayed indefinitely.
§ 981.472
Report of almonds received.
(a) Each handler shall report to the Board, on or before the 5th calendar day of each month, on ABC Form 1, the total adjusted kernel weight of almonds, by variety, received by it for its own account for the preceding month.
(b) [Reserved]
[58 FR 34696, June 29, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 32922, June 26, 1996; 62 FR 37488, July 14, 1997; 64 FR 18802, Apr. 16, 1999]
§ 981.473
Redetermination reports.
Each handler shall furnish for use by the Board in redetermination of the kernel weight of almonds received for his own account and for marketing policy considerations, the information listed and described in this section. Such information shall be reported within the applicable times specified in § 981.73 on forms provided by the Board.
(a)
Handler carryover.
Report the weight of all almonds, whether unshelled or shelled, wherever located, held by the handler for the handler's own account, whether or not sold.
(b)
Delivered sales.
Report the weight of salable almonds sold and delivered (shipments), showing the weight, and whether unshelled or shelled, including those disposed of pursuant to the requirements for reserve disposition, or used in almond products.
(c)
Transfers.
A report of almonds transferred to another handler showing the weight of each lot transferred, whether unshelled or shelled.
(d)
Remaining inedible obligation.
Report the quantity of almonds the handler intends to deliver to Board approved outlets to meet the disposition obligation pursuant to § 981.42(a).
[42 FR 19322, Apr. 13, 1977, as amended at 42 FR 56488, Oct. 26, 1977; 58 FR 34696, June 29, 1993]
§ 981.474
Other reports.
(a)
Report of shipments and commitments.
Each handler shall report on ABC Form 25-1 all shipments of almonds, inshell, shelled, and products by classification (domestic and export by countries of destination); and on ABC Form 25-2 all commitments (almonds not shipped, but sold or otherwise obligated) whether domestic contract, export contract, or non-contract. If the destination of any export is unknown to the handler, such handler shall have the broker/exporter furnish this information to the Board. In support of this report, the handler shall keep invoices on the shipments, or such other documentation as may be acceptable to the Board. The reports shall be received by the Board within five calendar days after the close of each month of the crop year.
(b)
Reserve reports.
In any crop year when reserve almonds are diverted to noncompetitive outlets, such handler shall report such handler's intentions to divert on ABC Form 13 and the completion of diversion on ABC Form 14. Upon notice to all handlers, the Board may waive the requirements to file ABC Form 13 for diversion of almonds to noncompetitive outlets which are acceptable to the Board.
(c)
Handler information reports.
Each handler shall file no later than September 1 of each year ABC Form 42, a Handler Information Sheet, listing the handler's name, address, phone number, ownership or corporate information and acknowledging receipt of marketing order program information.
[50 FR 47709, Nov. 20, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 9763, Mar. 21, 1986; 54 FR 5409, Feb. 3, 1989; 58 FR 34696, June 29, 1993]
§ 981.481
Interest and late payment charges.
(a) Pursuant to § 981.81(e), the Board shall impose an interest charge on any handler whose assessment payment has not been received in the Board's office within 30 days of the invoice date shown on the handler's statement, unless an envelope containing the payment has been legibly postmarked by the U.S. Postal Service or some other verifiable delivery tracking system as having been remitted within 30 days of the invoice date. The interest charge shall be a rate of one and one-half percent per month and shall be applied to the unpaid assessment balance for the number of days all or any part of the unpaid balance is delinquent beyond the 30-day payment period.
(b) In addition to the interest charge specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the Board shall impose a late payment charge on any handler whose payment has not been received in the Board's office within 60 days of the invoice date, unless an envelope containing the payment has been legibly postmarked by the U.S. Postal Service or some other verifiable delivery tracking system as having been remitted within 60 days of the invoice date. The late payment charge shall be 10 percent of the unpaid balance.
[88 FR 67267, Oct. 2, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 82235, Nov. 24, 2023]
Pt. 982

# PART 982—HAZELNUTS GROWN IN OREGON AND WASHINGTON

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Definitions
Sec.
982.1
Secretary.
982.2
Act.
982.3
Person.
982.4
Hazelnuts.
982.5
Area of production.
982.6
Grower.
982.7
To handle.
982.8
Handler.
982.11
Pack.
982.12
Merchantable hazelnuts.
982.13
Substandard hazelnuts.
982.14
Restricted hazelnuts.
982.15
Inshell handler carryover.
982.16
Inshell trade acquisitions.
982.17
Marketing year.
982.18
Board.
982.19
Disappearance.
982.20
Part and subpart.

# Hazelnut Marketing Board
982.30
Establishment and membership.
982.31
Grower districts.
982.32
Initial members and nomination of successor members.
982.33
Selection and term of office.
982.34
Qualification.
982.35
Vacancy.
982.36
Alternates.
982.37
Procedure.
982.38
Powers.
982.39
Duties.

# Marketing Policy
982.40
Marketing policy and volume regulation.
982.41
Free and restricted percentages.

# Grade, Size, and Quality Regulation
982.45
Establishment of grade, size, and quality regulations.
982.46
Inspection and certification.

# Control of Distribution
982.50
Restricted obligation.
982.51
Restricted credit for ungraded inshell hazelnuts and for shelled hazelnuts.
982.52
Disposition of restricted hazelnuts.
982.53
Substandard hazelnuts.
982.54
Deferment of restricted obligation.
982.55
Exchange of certified merchantable hazelnuts withheld.
982.56
Interhandler transfers.
982.57
Exemptions.

# Market Development
982.58
Research, promotion, and market development.

# Expenses and Assessments
982.60
Expenses.
982.61
Assessments.
982.62
Accounting.
982.63
Contributions.

# Records and Reports
982.64
Creditable promotion and advertising reports.
982.65
Carryover reports.
982.66
Shipment reports.
982.67
Reports of disposition of restricted hazelnuts.
982.68
Other reports.
982.69
Verification of reports.
982.70
Confidential information.
982.71
Records.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
982.80
Right of the Secretary.
982.81
Personal liability.
982.82
Separability.
982.83
Derogation.
982.84
Duration of immunities.
982.85
Agents.
982.86
Effective time, termination or suspension.
982.87
Effect of termination or amendment.
982.88
Amendments.

# Subpart B—Grade and Size Requirements
982.101
Grade requirements for shelled hazelnuts.
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Assessment Rates
982.340
Assessment rate.

# Subpart E—Administrative Requirements
982.446
Inspection documentation.
982.450
Application of restricted obligation.
982.452
Disposition of restricted hazelnuts.
982.453
Disposition of substandard hazelnuts.
982.454
Sureties acceptable to the Board.
982.455
Exchange of certified merchantable hazelnuts withheld.
982.456
Interhandler transfers.
982.460
Transfer of excess restricted credits.
982.461
Late payment and interest charges.
982.466
Reports of inshell hazelnuts handled, shelled and withheld.
982.467
Report of receipts and dispositions of hazelnuts grown outside the United States.
982.468
Report of hazelnut receipts, disposition, and inventory.
982.471
Records.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 601-674.

# Source:
24 FR 6185, Aug. 1, 1959, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 982 appear at 61 FR 17559, Apr. 22, 1996.

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Definitions
§ 982.1
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any other officer or employee of the United States Department of Agriculture who is, or who may be, authorized to perform the duties of the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States.
§ 982.2
Act.
Act
means Public Act No. 10, 73d Congress, as amended and as reenacted and amended by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 601
et seq.;
48 Stat. 31, as amended).
§ 982.3
Person.
Person
means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other business unit.
§ 982.4
Hazelnuts.
Hazelnuts
means hazelnuts or filberts produced in the States of Oregon and Washington from trees of the genus Corylus.
[61 FR 17559, Apr. 22, 1996]
§ 982.5
Area of production.
Area of production
means the States of Oregon and Washington.
§ 982.6
Grower.
Grower
is synonymous with
producer
and means any person engaged, in a proprietary capacity, in the commercial production of hazelnuts.
§ 982.7
To handle.
To handle
means to sell, consign, transport or ship (except as a common carrier of hazelnuts owned by another person), or in any other way to put hazelnuts, inshell or shelled, into the channels of trade either within the area of production or from such area to points outside thereof:
Provided,
That sales or deliveries by growers to handlers within the area of production or authorized disposition of restricted hazelnuts and substandard hazelnuts shall not be considered as handling.
§ 982.8
Handler.
Handler
means any person who handles hazelnuts.
§ 982.11
Pack.
Pack
means a specific commercial classification according to size, internal quality, and external appearance and condition of hazelnuts packed in accordance with any of the pack specifications prescribed pursuant to § 982.45.
§ 982.12
Merchantable hazelnuts.
Merchantable hazelnuts
means inshell hazelnuts that meet the grade, size, and quality regulations in effect pursuant to § 982.45 and are likely to be available for handling as inshell hazelnuts.
[83 FR 52949, Oct. 19, 2018]
§ 982.13
Substandard hazelnuts.
Substandard hazelnuts
means hazelnuts, inshell or shelled, that do not meet the minimum standards effective pursuant to § 982.45.
§ 982.14
Restricted hazelnuts.
Restricted hazelnuts
means inshell hazelnuts withheld in satisfaction of a restricted obligation.
§ 982.15
Inshell handler carryover.
Inshell handler carryover
as of any given date means all inshell hazelnuts (except restricted hazelnuts) wherever located then held by handlers or for their accounts, whether or not sold, including certified merchantable hazelnuts and the estimated merchantable content of those uncertified hazelnuts then held by handlers which are intended for handling as inshell hazelnuts.
§ 982.16
Inshell trade acquisitions.
Inshell trade acquisitions
means the quantity of inshell hazelnuts acquired by the trade from all handlers during a marketing year for distribution in the continental United States and such other distribution areas as may be recommended by the Board and established by the Secretary.
[61 FR 17559, Apr. 22, 1996]
§ 982.17
Marketing year.
Marketing year
means the 12 months from July 1 to the following June 30, both inclusive, or such other period of time as may be recommended by the Board and established by the Secretary.
[51 FR 29546, Aug. 19, 1986]
§ 982.18
Board.
Board
means the Hazelnut Marketing Board established pursuant to § 982.30.
[46 FR 26038, May 11, 1981]
§ 982.19
Disappearance.
Disappearance
means the difference between orchard-run production and the available supply of merchantable
hazelnuts and merchantable equivalent of shelled hazelnuts.
[46 FR 26038, May 11, 1981]
§ 982.20
Part and subpart.
Part
means the order, as amended, regulating the handling of hazelnuts grown in Oregon and Washington, and all rules, regulations, and supplementary orders issued thereunder. This order, as amended, regulating the handling of hazelnuts grown in Oregon and Washington shall be a
subpart
of such part.
[24 FR 6185, Aug. 1, 1959. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, and further redesignated at 46 FR 26038, May 11, 1981]

# Hazelnut Marketing Board
§ 982.30
Establishment and membership.
(a) There is hereby established a Hazelnut Marketing Board consisting of 10 members, each of whom shall have an alternate member, to administer the terms and provisions of this part. Each member and alternate shall meet the same eligibility qualifications. The 10 member positions shall be allocated as follows:
(b) Four of the members shall represent handlers, as follows:
(1) One member shall be nominated by the handler who handled the largest volume of hazelnuts during the two marketing years preceding the marketing year in which nominations are made;
(2) One member shall be nominated by the handler who handled the second largest volume of hazelnuts during the two marketing years preceding the marketing year in which nominations are made;
(3) One member shall be nominated by the handler who handled the third largest volume of hazelnuts during the two marketing years preceding the marketing year in which nominations are made;
(4) The fourth handler member shall be nominated by and represent all other handlers.
(c) Five members shall represent growers and shall be nominated for the districts designated in or established pursuant to § 982.31. One grower member shall represent each of the five grower districts unless changes are made pursuant to § 982.31(b).
(d) One member shall be a public member who is neither a grower nor a handler.
(e) The Secretary, or the Board with the approval of the Secretary, may revise the handler representation on the Board if the Board ceases to be representative of the industry.
[51 FR 29546, Aug. 19, 1986, as amended at 61 FR 17559, Apr. 22, 1996]
§ 982.31
Grower districts.
(a) For the purpose of nominating grower members and alternate members, the following districts within the production area are hereby established:
(1) District 1—The State of Washington, and Clackamas and Multnomah Counties in Oregon.
(2) District 2—Marion and Polk Counties in Oregon.
(3) District 3—Linn, Lane, and Benton Counties in Oregon.
(4) District 4—Yamhill County in Oregon.
(5) District 5—All other Oregon counties within the production area.
(b) The Secretary, upon the recommendation of the Board, may reestablish districts within the production area and may reapportion grower membership among the various districts:
Provided,
That in recommending any such changes, the Board shall give consideration to (1) the relative importance of production in each district and the number of growers in each district; (2) the geographic location of districts as they would affect the efficiency of administering this part; and (3) other relevant factors.
[51 FR 29547, Aug. 19, 1986]
§ 982.32
Initial members and nomination of successor members.
(a) Members and alternate members of the Board serving immediately prior to the effective date of this amended subpart shall continue to serve on the Board until their respective successors have been selected.
(b) Nominations for successor handler members and alternate members specified in § 982.30(b) (1) through (3) shall be made by the largest, second
largest, and third largest handler determined according to the tonnage of certified merchantable hazelnuts and, when shelled hazelnut grade and size regulations are in effect, the inshell equivalent of certified shelled hazelnuts (computed to the nearest whole ton) recorded by the Board as handled by each such handler during the two marketing years preceding the marketing year in which nominations are made.
(c) Nominations for successor handler member and alternate handler member positions specified in § 982.30(b)(4) shall be made by the handlers in that category by mail ballot. All votes cast shall be weighted according to the tonnage of certified merchantable hazelnuts and, when shelled hazelnut grade and size regulations are in effect, the inshell equivalent of certified shelled hazelnuts (computed to the nearest whole ton) recorded by the Board as handled by each handler during the two marketing years preceding the marketing year in which nominations are made. If less than one ton is recorded for any such handler, the vote shall be weighted as one ton. Voting will be by position, and each eligible handler can vote for a member and an alternate member. The person receiving the highest number of weighted votes for each position shall be the nominee for that respective position.
(d) For the purposes of nominating and voting for handler members and alternates, the tonnage of hazelnuts shall be credited to the handler responsible under the order for the payment of assessments of those hazelnuts.
(e) Nominees to successor grower member and alternate member positions shall be submitted to the Secretary after the Board conducts balloting of growers, or officers or employees of growers, in the grower districts according to the following procedure: Names of the candidates to be shown on the ballot for a particular district may be submitted to the Board on petitions signed by not less than 10 growers on record with the Board as growers being in that district; each grower may sign only as many petitions as there are persons to be nominated within that district. If such petitions fail to result in submission of at least two names for a district, the Board shall request County Agricultural Extension Agents in that district to recommend one or more eligible growers to be included on the ballot. Ballots, accompanied by the names of all such candidates, with spaces to indicate voters' choices and spaces for write-in candidates, together with voting instructions, shall be mailed to all growers who are on record with the Board. The person receiving the highest number of votes shall be the member nominee for that district, and the person receiving the second highest number of votes shall be the alternate member. The Board shall recommend one candidate in case of a tie vote.
(f) Nominations received in the foregoing manner by the Board for all handler and grower member and alternate member positions shall be certified and sent to the Secretary at least 60 days prior to the beginning of each two-year term of office, together with all necessary data and other information deemed by the Board to be pertinent or requested by the Secretary. If nominations are not made within the time and manner specified in this subpart, the Secretary may, without regard to nominations, select the Board members and alternates on the basis of the representation provided for in this subpart.
(g) The members of the Board shall nominate the public member and alternate public member at the first meeting following the selection of members for a new term of office.
(h) The Board with the approval of the Secretary shall issue rules and regulations necessary to carry out the provisions of this section or to change the procedures in this section in the event they are no longer practical.
[51 FR 29547, Aug. 19, 1986, as amended at 61 FR 17559, Apr. 22, 1996]
§ 982.33
Selection and term of office.
(a)
Selection.
Members and their respective alternates shall be selected by the Secretary from nominees submitted by the Board or from among other qualified persons.
(b)
Term of office.
The term of office of Board members and their alternates shall be for two years beginning on July 1 and ending on June 30, but they
shall serve until their respective successors are selected and have qualified:
Provided,
That no member shall serve more than three consecutive two-year terms as member and no alternate member shall serve more than three consecutive two-year terms as alternate unless specifically exempted by the Secretary. Nomination elections for all Board grower and handler member and alternate positions shall be held every two years.
(c) The members on the Board shall continue to serve until the new members and alternates have been selected and have qualified.
[51 FR 29547, Aug. 19, 1986, as amended at 61 FR 17559, Apr. 22, 1996; 88 FR 82235, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 982.34
Qualification.
(a) Any person prior to selection as a member or an alternate member of the Board shall qualify by filing with the Secretary a written acceptance of willingness to serve on the Board.
(b) Each grower member and alternate shall be, at the time of selection and during the term of office, a grower or an officer, employee, or agent of a grower in the district for which nominated.
(c) Each handler member and alternate shall be, at the time of selection and during the term of office, a handler or an officer, employee, or agent of a handler.
(d) Any member or alternate member who at the time of selection was a member (or employed by or an agent of a member) of the group which nominated that person shall, upon ceasing to be such, become disqualified to serve further and that position shall be deemed vacant. In the event any grower member or alternate member of the Board handles hazelnuts produced by other growers or becomes an employee or agent of a handler, that person shall be disqualified to continue to serve on the Board in that capacity.
(e) No person nominated to serve as a public member or alternate member shall have a financial interest in any hazelnut growing or handling operation.
(f) The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may issue rules and regulations covering matters of qualifications for members or alternate members.
[51 FR 29547, Aug. 19, 1986]
§ 982.35
Vacancy.
To fill any vacancy occasioned by the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any member or alternate of the Board, a successor for his unexpired term shall be nominated and selected in the manner provided in §§ 982.32 and 982.33, so far as applicable, unless selection is deemed unnecessary by the Secretary.
§ 982.36
Alternates.
An alternate for a member of the Board shall act in the place of the member during such member's absence or, upon the member's death, removal, resignation, or disqualification, until a successor for that member's term has been selected and has qualified.
[51 FR 29548, Aug. 19, 1986]
§ 982.37
Procedure.
(a) Seven members of the Board shall constitute a quorum at an assembled meeting of the Board, and any action of the Board shall require the concurring vote of at least six members. At any assembled meeting, all votes shall be cast in person.
(b) The Board may vote by mail, telephone, telegraph, or other means of communication:
Provided,
That any votes (except mail votes) so cast shall be confirmed at the next regularly scheduled meeting. When any proposition is submitted for voting by any such method, its adoption shall require 10 concurring votes.
(c) The members of the Board and their alternates shall serve without compensation, but members and alternates acting as members shall be allowed their necessary expenses:
Provided,
That the Board may request the attendance of one or more alternates not acting as members at any meeting of the Board, and such alternates may be allowed their necessary expenses.
[26 FR 6185, Aug. 1, 1959. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 51 FR 29548, Aug. 19, 1986; 61 FR 17559, Apr. 22, 1996]
§ 982.38
Powers.
The Board shall have the following powers:
(a) To administer the provisions of this subpart in accordance with its terms;
(b) To make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of this subpart;
(c) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of this subpart;
(d) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this subpart.
§ 982.39
Duties.
The Board shall have among others the following duties:
(a) To select from among its members such officers and adopt rules or bylaws for the conduct of its meetings as it deems advisable;
(b) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any handler or grower;
(c) To keep minute books and records which will clearly reflect all of its acts and transactions, and such books and records shall be available for examination by the Secretary at any time;
(d) To furnish to the Secretary such available information as he may request;
(e) To appoint such employees as it deems necessary and determine the salaries, define the duties and fix the bonds of such employees;
(f) To cause the books of the Board to be audited by one or more public accountants approved by the Board at least once for each marketing year and at such other times as the Board deems necessary or as the Secretary may request, and to file with the Secretary reports of all audits made;
(g) To investigate the growing, shipping and marketing conditions with respect to hazelnuts, and assemble data in connection therewith;
(h) To give the Secretary the same notice of the meetings of the Board as is given to its members; and
(i) To furnish to the Secretary a report of the proceedings of each meeting of the Board held for the purpose of making marketing policy recommendations.
[24 FR 6185, Aug. 1, 1959, as amended at 46 FR 26039, May 11, 1981; 61 FR 17559, Apr. 22, 1996]

# Marketing Policy
§ 982.40
Marketing policy and volume regulation.
(a)
General.
As provided in this section, prior to September 20 of each marketing year, the Board may hold meetings for the purpose of computing its marketing policy for that year and shall do so for the purpose of submitting any recommendations on its policy to the Secretary. The Board may designate one of its employees to compute and announce the preliminary computed free and restricted percentages.
(b)
Inshell trade demand.
If the Board determines that volume regulation would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act, it shall compute and announce an inshell trade demand for that year prior to September 20. The inshell trade demand shall equal the average of the preceding three years' trade acquisitions of inshell hazelnuts:
Provided,
That the Board may increase such average by no more than 25 percent if market conditions justify such an increase. If the trade acquisitions during any or all of these years were abnormal because of crop or marketing conditions, the Board may use a prior year or years in determining the three-year average.
(c)
Inshell allocation
—(1)
Preliminary computed percentages.
Prior to September 20 of a marketing year, the Board shall compute and announce preliminary computed free and restricted percentages for that year, to release 80 percent of the inshell trade demand for that year. The preliminary computed free percentage shall be computed by multiplying that trade demand, adjusted by the declared carryin, by 80 percent, and by dividing that amount by the Board's estimate of orchard-run production less the average disappearance during the preceding three years, plus the undeclared carryin. The difference between 100 percent and the preliminary free percentage shall be the preliminary computed restricted percentage. At the same time, the
Board may announce the portion of the restricted supply that may be shelled or exported, and the remainder of that supply to be disposed of in outlets approved by the Board pursuant to § 982.52.
(2)
Interim final and final percentages.
On or before November 15, the Board shall meet to recommend to the Secretary the interim final and final free and restricted percentages, including the portion of the restricted supply that may be shelled or exported. The interim final percentages shall release 100 percent of the inshell trade demand previously computed by the Board for the marketing year. The final free and restricted percentages may release an additional 15 percent of the average of the preceding three years' trade acquisitions of inshell hazelnuts for desirable carryout. If the trade acquisitions during any or all of these years were abnormal, the Board may use a prior year or years in determining this three-year average. The final free and restricted percentages shall become effective 30 days prior to the end of the marketing year, or earlier as may be recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary. The recommendations to the Secretary shall include the following:
(i) The estimated tonnage of merchantable hazelnuts expected to be produced during the marketing year.
(ii) The estimated tonnage of inshell hazelnuts held by handlers on the first day of the marketing year which may be available for handling as inshell hazelnuts thereafter.
(iii) Any other pertinent factors bearing on the marketing of hazelnuts during the marketing year.
Whenever the Secretary finds, on the basis of the recommendation of the Board or other available information that, to establish the interim final and final free and restricted percentages would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act, the Secretary shall establish such percentages.
(d)
Grade, size, and quality regulations.
Prior to September 20, the Board may consider grade, size, and quality regulations in effect and may recommend modifications thereof to the Secretary.
(e)
Revision of marketing policy.
At any time prior to February 15 of the marketing year, the Board may recommend to the Secretary revisions in the marketing policy for that year:
Provided,
That in no event shall any such recommendation provide for free and restricted percentages based on an inshell trade demand which is more than 125 percent of the average of the preceding three years' trade acquisitions computed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section for that marketing year. At any time during the period December 1 through February 10 at the request of two or more handlers, who during the preceding marketing year handled at least 10 percent of all hazelnuts handled, the Board shall meet to determine whether the marketing policy should be revised.
[51 FR 29548, Aug. 19, 1986, as amended at 61 FR 17560, Apr. 22, 1996; 83 FR 52949, Oct. 19, 2018]
§ 982.41
Free and restricted percentages.
The free and restricted percentages computed by the Board or established by the Secretary pursuant to § 982.40 shall apply to all merchantable hazelnuts handled during the current marketing year. Until the preliminary computed free and restricted percentages are computed by the Board for the current marketing year, the percentages in effect at the end of the previous marketing year shall be applicable.
[51 FR 29548, Aug. 19, 1986]

# Grade, Size, and Quality Regulation
§ 982.45
Establishment of grade, size, and quality regulations.
(a)
Minimum standards.
No handler shall handle any inshell or shelled hazelnuts unless such inshell hazelnuts meet requirements of Oregon No. 1 grade and medium size (as defined in the Oregon Grade Standards Hazelnuts In Shell), and such shelled hazelnuts meet such requirements as are established by the Secretary on the basis of a recommendation of the Board, except as may be otherwise provided in § 982.57. These minimum standards may be modified by the Secretary on the basis of a recommendation of the Board or other information whenever he finds that such modification would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the
act. Such minimum standards and the provisions of this part relating to the administration thereof shall continue in effect irrespective of whether the season average price of hazelnuts is above the parity level specified in section 2(1) of the act.
(b)
Additional grade and size regulations.
When the season average price of hazelnuts is not determined to be above parity, the Secretary may establish additional grade and size regulations for inshell hazelnuts in the form of a more restrictive minimum standard than that specified in paragraph (a) of this section, or pack specifications as to grades and sizes that may be handled, if he finds, on the basis of a recommendation of the Board or other information, that such regulations would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.
(c)
Quality regulations.
For any marketing year, the Board may establish, with the approval of the Secretary, such minimum quality and inspection requirements applicable to hazelnuts to facilitate the reduction of pathogens as will contribute to orderly marketing or will be in the public interest. In such marketing year, no handler shall handle hazelnuts unless they meet applicable minimum quality and inspection requirements as evidenced by certification acceptable to the Board.
(d)
Different regulations for different markets.
The Board may, with the approval of the Secretary, recommend different outgoing quality requirements for different markets. The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish rules and regulations necessary and incidental to the administration of this provision.
[24 FR 6185, Aug. 1, 1959. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 37 FR 589, Jan. 14, 1972; 83 FR 52949, Oct. 19, 2018]
§ 982.46
Inspection and certification.
(a) Before or upon handling any hazelnuts, or before any inshell or shelled hazelnuts are credited (under § 982.50 or § 982.51) in satisfaction of a restricted obligation, each handler shall, at his own expense, cause such hazelnuts to be inspected and certified by the Federal-State Inspection Service as meeting the then effective grade and size regulations or, if inshell or shelled hazelnuts are withheld under § 982.51, the applicable requirements specified in that section. The handler obtaining such inspection of hazelnuts shall cause a copy of the certificate issued by such inspection service applicable to such hazelnuts to be furnished to the Board.
(b) All hazelnuts so inspected and certified shall be identified as prescribed by the Board. Such identification shall be affixed to the hazelnut containers by the handler under direction and supervision of the Board or the Federal-State Inspection Service, and shall not be removed or altered by any person except as directed by the Board.
(c) Whenever the Board determines that the length of time in storage and conditions of storage of any lot of certified merchantable hazelnuts have been or are such as to normally cause deterioration, it may require that such lot of hazelnuts be reinspected at the handler's expense prior to handling.
(d) Whenever quality regulations are in effect pursuant to § 982.45, each handler shall certify that all product to be handled or credited in satisfaction of a restricted obligation meets the quality regulations as prescribed.
[40 FR 53227, Nov. 17, 1975, as amended at 61 FR 17560, Apr. 22, 1996; 83 FR 52949, Oct. 19, 2018]

# Control of Distribution
§ 982.50
Restricted obligation.
(a) No handler shall handle inshell hazelnuts unless prior to or upon shipment thereof, he: (1) Has withheld from handling a quantity, by weight, of certified merchantable hazelnuts determined by dividing the quantity handled, or to be handled, by the applicable free percentage and multiplying the quotient by the restricted percentage; (2) has withheld from handling an equivalent quantity of creditable ungraded inshell hazelnuts under § 982.51(a); or (3) has under § 982.51(b), declared in lieu of a quantity of certified merchantable hazelnuts, under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the equivalent quantity, by weight as determined under that section, of shelled hazelnuts certified as meeting the standards in effect for Oregon No. 1
grade for shelled hazelnuts as contained in Oregon Grade Standards for Hazelnut Kernels or such other standards as may be recommended by the Board and established by the Secretary. Any handler who intends to withhold shelled hazelnuts in satisfaction of a restricted obligation must make such declaration to the Board prior to shelling any such hazelnuts. Withholding may be temporarily deferred under the bonding provisions in § 982.54. The quantity of hazelnuts required to be withheld shall be the restricted obligation. Certified merchantable hazelnuts handled in accordance with this subpart shall be deemed to be the handler's quota fixed by the Secretary within the meaning of section 8a(5) of the Act.
(b) Inshell hazelnuts withheld by a handler in satisfaction of his restricted obligation shall not be handled and shall be held by him subject to examination by and accounting control of, the Board until disposed of pursuant to this part.
(c) A handler having certified merchantable hazelnuts which have not been handled at the end of a marketing year may elect to have those hazelnuts bear the restricted and assessment obligations of that year or of the marketing year in which handled. The Board shall establish such procedures as are necessary to facilitate the administration of this option among handlers.
(d) Whenever the restricted percentage for a marketing year is reduced, each handler's restricted obligation shall be reduced to conform with the new restricted percentage. Any handler who, upon such reduction, is withholding restricted hazelnuts in excess of his new restricted obligation may have the excess freed from withholding by complying with such procedures as the Board may require to insure identification of the remaining hazelnuts withheld.
[40 FR 53227, Nov. 17, 1975, as amended at 46 FR 26039, May 11, 1981]
§ 982.51
Restricted credit for ungraded inshell hazelnuts and for shelled hazelnuts.
(a) A handler may withhold ungraded inshell hazelnuts in lieu of certified merchantable hazelnuts in satisfaction of that handler's restricted obligations, and the weight on which credit may be received shall be the shelled hazelnut equivalent weight as inspected by the Federal-State Inspection Service multiplied by 2.5. Any lot of ungraded hazelnuts not meeting the moisture requirements for certified merchantable hazelnuts shall not be eligible for credit. All determinations as to the shelled hazelnut equivalent weight shall be made by the Federal-State Inspection Service at the handler's expense. Hazelnuts so withheld shall be subject to the applicable requirements of § 982.50. The weight of all such lots for which a handler has received credit shall be adjusted by the Board when the lots are handled or disposed of so that the creditable weight is equal to the amount of certified merchantable inshell hazelnuts or certified shelled hazelnuts that are subsequently handled or disposed of from those lots. If this adjustment causes the handler to no longer be in satisfaction of that handler's restricted obligation as required by § 982.50, the deficiency shall be satisfied in the subsequent marketing year. If this adjustment results in a handler disposing of, in restricted outlets, a quantity in excess of that handler's restricted obligation, such excess shall not be credited to such handler's restricted obligation during the subsequent marketing year.
(b) A handler may withhold, in accordance with § 982.50(a), certified shelled hazelnuts in lieu of merchantable hazelnuts in satisfaction of such handler's restricted obligation, subject to such terms and conditions as are recommended by the Board and established by the Secretary. The inshell equivalent of such hazelnuts shall be determined by multiplying the weight of the shelled hazelnuts by 2.5.
(c) The Secretary upon recommendation of the Board and other available data may modify these procedures, change the conversion factors, and specify factors for conversion for different varieties of hazelnuts.
[51 FR 29548, Aug. 19, 1986, as amended at 61 FR 17560, Apr. 22, 1996]
§ 982.52
Disposition of restricted hazelnuts.
Hazelnuts withheld from handling as inshell hazelnuts pursuant to §§ 982.50 and 982.51 may be disposed of as follows:
(a)
Shelling.
Any handler may dispose of such hazelnuts by shelling them under the direction or supervision of the Board or by delivering them to an authorized sheller. Any person who desires to become an authorized sheller in any marketing year may submit written application during such year to the Board. Such application shall be granted only upon condition that the applicant agrees:
(1) To use such restricted hazelnuts as he may receive for no purpose other than shelling;
(2) To dispose of or deliver such restricted hazelnuts, as inshell hazelnuts, to no one other than another authorized sheller;
(3) To comply fully with all laws and regulations applicable to shelling of hazelnuts; and
(4) To make such reports, certified to the Board and to the Secretary as to their correctness, as the Board may require.
(b)
Export.
Sales of certified merchantable restricted hazelnuts for shipment to destinations outside the continental United States and such other distribution areas as may be recommended by the Board and established by the Secretary shall be made only by the Board. Any handler desiring to export any part or all of that handler's certified merchantable restricted hazelnuts shall deliver to the Board the certified merchantable restricted hazelnuts to be exported, but the Board shall be obligated to sell in export only such quantities for which it may be able to find satisfactory export outlets. Any hazelnuts so delivered for export which the Board is unable to export shall be returned to the handler delivering them. Sales for export shall be made by the Board only on execution of an agreement to prevent exportation into the area designated in § 982.16. A handler may be permitted to act as an agent of the Board, upon such terms and conditions as the Board may specify, in negotiating export sales, and when so acting shall be entitled to receive a selling commission as authorized by the Board. The proceeds of all export sales, after deducting all expenses actually and necessarily incurred, shall be paid to the handler whose certified merchantable restricted hazelnuts are so sold by the Board.
(c)
Other outlets.
In addition to the dispositions authorized in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Board may designate such other outlets into which such hazelnuts may be disposed which it determines are noncompetitive with normal market outlets for inshell hazelnuts. Such dispositions shall be made under the direction or supervision of the Board.
(d)
Restricted credits.
During any marketing year, handlers who dispose of a quantity of eligible hazelnuts in restricted outlets in excess of their restricted obligations, may transfer such excess credits to another handler or handlers. Upon a handler's written request to the Board during a marketing year, the Board shall transfer any or all of such excess restricted credits to such other handler or handlers that the handler may designate. The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, shall establish rules and regulations for the transfer of excess restricted credits.
[40 FR 53227, Nov. 17, 1975, as amended at 51 FR 29549, Aug. 19, 1986; 61 FR 17560, Apr. 22, 1996]
§ 982.53
Substandard hazelnuts.
The Board shall, with the approval of the Secretary, establish such reporting and disposition procedures as it deems necessary to ensure that hazelnuts which do not meet the effective inshell or shelled hazelnut minimum standards do not enter normal market outlets for certified hazelnuts.
[24 FR 6185, Aug. 1, 1959. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 88 FR 82235, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 982.54
Deferment of restricted obligation.
(a)
Bonding.
Compliance by any handler with the requirements of § 982.50 when restricted hazelnuts may be withheld shall be temporarily deferred to any date requested by the handler, but not later than 60 days prior to the end
of the marketing year. Such deferment shall be conditioned upon the voluntary execution and delivery by the handler to the Board of a written undertaking before beginning to handle merchantable hazelnuts during the marketing year. Such written undertaking shall be secured by a bond or bonds with a surety or sureties acceptable to the Board that on or prior to such date the handler will have fully satisfied the restricted obligation required by § 982.50, subject to any adjustment pursuant to § 982.51.
(b)
Bonding requirement.
Such bond or bonds shall, at all times during their effective period, be in such amounts that the aggregate thereof shall be no less than the total bonding value of the handler's deferred restricted obligation. The bonding value shall be the deferred restricted obligation poundage multiplied by the applicable bonding rate. The cost of such bond or bonds shall be borne by the handler filing same.
(c)
Bonding rate.
Said bonding rate shall be an amount per pound as established by the Board. Such bonding rate shall be based on the estimated value of restricted credits for the current marketing year. Until bonding rates for a marketing year are fixed, the rates in effect for the preceding marketing year shall continue in effect. The Board should make any necessary adjustments once such new rates are fixed.
(d)
Restricted credit purchases.
Any sums collected through default of a handler on the handler's bond shall be used by the Board to purchase restricted credits from handlers, who have such restricted credits in excess of their needs, and are willing to part with them. The Board shall at all times purchase the lowest priced restricted credits offered, and the purchases shall be made from the various handlers as nearly as practicable in proportion to the quantity of their respective offerings of the restricted credits to be purchased.
(e)
Unexpended sums.
Any unexpended sums which have been collected by the Board through default of a handler on the handler's bond, remaining in the possession of the Board at the end of a marketing year, shall be used to reimburse the Board for its expenses, including administrative and other costs incurred in the collection of such sums, and in the purchase of restricted credits as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.
(f)
Transfer of restricted credit purchases.
Restricted credits purchased as provided for in this section shall be turned over to those handlers who have defaulted on their bonds for liquidation of their restricted obligation. The quantity delivered to each handler shall be that quantity represented by sums collected through default.
(g)
Collection upon bonds.
Collection upon any defaulted bond shall be deemed a satisfaction of the restricted obligation represented by the collection.
[40 FR 53228, Nov. 17, 1975, as amended at 46 FR 26039, May 11, 1981; 51 FR 29549, Aug. 19, 1986; 61 FR 17560, Apr. 22, 1996]
§ 982.55
Exchange of certified merchantable hazelnuts withheld.
Any handler who has withheld from handling certified merchantable hazelnuts pursuant to the requirements of § 982.50 may exchange therefor an equal quantity, by weight, of other certified merchantable hazelnuts. Any such exchange shall be made under the direction or supervision of the Board.
§ 982.56
Interhandler transfers.
Within the area of production, interhandler transfers of hazelnuts may be made as follows:
(a) Uncertified inshell hazelnuts may be sold or delivered by one handler to another for packing or shelling, and the receiving handler shall be responsible for compliance with the regulations effective pursuant to this part with respect to such hazelnuts.
(b) Restricted hazelnuts withheld by a handler may be sold or delivered to another handler for shelling, export, or other authorized outlet subject to the disposition requirements set forth in § 982.52.
(c) Certified hazelnuts other than restricted hazelnuts may be sold or delivered by one handler to another and the transferring handler shall be responsible for compliance with the requirements effective pursuant to this part, unless specified and agreed upon in
writing by both handlers that the receiving handler shall be responsible for such compliance and a copy of such agreement is furnished to the Board.
(d) The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, shall establish procedures, including necessary reports, for such transfers.
§ 982.57
Exemptions.
(a)
General.
The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish such rules, regulations, and safeguards that exempt from any or all requirements pursuant to this part such quantities of hazelnuts or types of shipments as do not interfere with the volume and quality control objectives of this part, and shall require such reports, certifications, or other conditions as are necessary to ensure that such hazelnuts are handled or used only as authorized.
(b)
Sales by growers direct to consumers.
Any hazelnut grower may sell hazelnuts of such grower's own production free of the regulatory and assessment provisions of this part if such grower sells such hazelnuts in the area of production directly to end users at such grower's ranch or orchard or at roadside stands and farmers' markets. The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish such rules, regulations, and safeguards and require such reports, certifications, and other conditions, as are necessary to ensure that such hazelnuts are disposed of only as authorized. Mail order sales are not exempt sales under this part.
[51 FR 29549, Aug. 19, 1986, as amended at 61 FR 17560, Apr. 22, 1996]

# Market Development
§ 982.58
Research, promotion, and market development.
(a)
General.
The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish or provide for the establishment of projects involving production research, marketing research and development, and marketing promotion, including paid advertising, designed to assist, improve, or promote the marketing, distribution, consumption, or efficient production of hazelnuts. The Board may also provide for crediting the pro rata expense assessment obligations of a handler with such portion of such handler's direct expenditures for such marketing promotion including paid advertising as may be authorized. The expenses of such projects shall be paid from funds collected pursuant to § 982.61, § 982.63, or credited pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Creditable expenditures.
The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may provide for crediting all or any portion of a handler's direct expenditures for marketing promotion including paid advertising, that promotes the sale of hazelnuts, hazelnut products, or their uses. No handler shall receive credit for any allowable direct expenditures that would exceed the total of the handler's assessment obligation which is attributable to that portion of the handler's assessment designated for marketing promotion including paid advertising.
(c)
Rules and regulations.
Before any projects involving marketing promotion, including paid advertising and the crediting of the pro rata expense assessment obligation of handlers is undertaken pursuant to this section, the Secretary, after recommendation by the Board, shall prescribe appropriate rules and regulations as are necessary to effectively administer such projects.
[51 FR 29549, Aug. 19, 1986, as amended at 61 FR 17560, Apr. 22, 1996]

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 982.60
Expenses.
The Board is authorized to incur such expenses including maintenance of an operating reserve fund as the Secretary may find are reasonable and likely to be incurred by it during each marketing year, for the maintenance and functioning of the Board and for such purposes as the Secretary may, pursuant to the provisions of this subpart, determine to be appropriate. The recommendation of the Board as to the expenses and size of the operating reserve for each such marketing year, together with all data supporting such recommendations, shall be submitted to the Secretary at the beginning of the fiscal year in connection with which such recommendation is made. The funds to cover such expenses shall be
acquired by levying assessments as provided in § 982.61.
§ 982.61
Assessments.
(a) For each marketing year, the Secretary shall fix an assessment rate per pound of hazelnuts handled and withheld, including the creditable weight of ungraded restricted hazelnuts withheld pursuant to § 982.51 and, when subject to regulation pursuant to § 982.45, the inshell equivalent of shelled hazelnuts certified which are produced from other than restricted hazelnuts that will provide sufficient funds to meet the authorized expenses and reserve requirements of the Board. At any time during or after a marketing year when he determines, on the basis of a Board recommendation or other information, that a different rate is necessary, the Secretary may modify the assessment rate and the new rate shall be applicable to all such hazelnuts. Each handler shall pay to the Board on demand, assessments on all such assessable hazelnuts at the rate fixed by the Secretary, less any amounts credited pursuant to § 982.58. The Board shall impose a late payment charge on any handler who fails to pay his assessment within the time prescribed by the Board. In the event the handler thereafter fails to pay the amount outstanding, including the late payment charge, within the prescribed time, the Board shall impose an additional charge in the form of interest on such outstanding amount. The rate of such charges shall be prescribed by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.
(b) In order to provide funds for the administration of the provisions of this part during the first part of a fiscal period before sufficient operating income is available from assessments on the current year's shipments, the Board may accept the payment of assessments in advance, and may also borrow money for such purpose. Further, payment discounts may be authorized by the Board upon the approval of the Secretary to handlers making such advance assessment payments.
[24 FR 6185, Aug. 1, 1959. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 37 FR 589, Jan. 14, 1972; 51 FR 29550, Aug. 19, 1986; 61 FR 17560, Apr. 22, 1996]
§ 982.62
Accounting.
(a)
Operating reserve.
The Board with the approval of the Secretary may establish and maintain an operating monetary reserve in an amount not to exceed approximately one marketing year's operational expenses or such lower limits as the Board with the approval of the Secretary may establish.
(b)
Refunds.
At the end of a marketing year funds in excess of the marketing year's expenses and reserve requirements shall be refunded to handlers from whom collected and each handler's share of such excess funds shall be the amount of assessments the handler paid in excess of the handler's pro rata share of expenses of the Board. However, excess funds may be maintained and used by the Board until December 1 following the end of any such marketing year:
Provided,
That the Board shall refund to each handler upon request, or credit to the handler's account with the Board, the handler's share of such excess prior to January 1.
(c)
Termination.
Upon termination of this subpart any money remaining unexpended in possession of the Board shall be distributed in such manner as the Secretary may direct:
Provided,
That to the extent practical, such funds shall be returned pro rata to the persons from whom such funds were collected.
[24 FR 6185, Aug. 1, 1959, as amended at 46 FR 26040, May 11, 1981]
§ 982.63
Contributions.
The Board may accept voluntary contributions but these shall only be used to pay expenses incurred pursuant to § 982.58. Furthermore, such contributions shall be free from any encumbrances by the donor and the Board shall retain complete control of their use.
[61 FR 17560, Apr. 22, 1996]

# Records and Reports
§ 982.64
Creditable promotion and advertising reports.
Each handler shall file such reports of creditable promotion including paid advertising conducted pursuant to
§ 982.58 as recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
[51 FR 29550, Aug. 19, 1986]
§ 982.65
Carryover reports.
As of January 1, May 1, and August 1, or such other dates as the Board may recommend and the Secretary approve, each handler shall report within 10 days to the Board the handler's inventory of inshell and shelled hazelnuts. Such reports shall be certified to the Board and the Secretary as to their accuracy and completeness and shall show, among other items, the following: (a) Certified merchantable hazelnuts on which the restricted obligation has been met; (b) merchantable hazelnuts on which the restricted obligation has not been met; (c) the merchantable equivalent of any hazelnuts intended for handling as inshell hazelnuts; and (d) restricted hazelnuts withheld.
[46 FR 26040, May 11, 1981]
§ 982.66
Shipment reports.
Each handler shall report to the Board the respective quantities of inshell and shelled hazelnuts handled by him during such periods and in such manner as are prescribed by the Board with the approval of the Secretary.
§ 982.67
Reports of disposition of restricted hazelnuts.
(a) Each handler, before he disposes of any quantity of restricted hazelnuts held by him, shall file with the Board a report of his intention to dispose of such quantity of restricted hazelnuts. This report shall be filed not less than five days prior to the date on which the restricted hazelnuts are disposed of, unless the five-day period is expressly waived by the Board.
(b) Each handler, within 15 days after the disposition of any quantity of restricted hazelnuts, shall file with the Board a report of the actual disposition of such quantity of restricted hazelnuts. Such reports shall be certified to the Board and to the Secretary as to their correctness and accuracy.
(c) All reports required by this section shall show the quantity, pack, and location of the hazelnuts covered by such reports; the applicable handler's storage lot and inspection certificate numbers; and the disposition of the restricted hazelnuts which is intended or which has been accomplished.
§ 982.68
Other reports.
Each handler shall furnish to the Board such other reports as the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may require to enable it to exercise its powers and to perform its duties.
§ 982.69
Verification of reports.
For the purpose of checking and verifying reports submitted by handlers, the Secretary and the Board, through its duly authorized agents, shall have access to each handler's premises at any time during reasonable business hours and shall be permitted to inspect any hazelnuts held by such handler and all records of the handler with respect to hazelnuts held or disposed of by such handler and all records of the handler with respect to promotion and advertising activities conducted pursuant to § 982.58. Each handler shall furnish all labor necessary to facilitate such inspections as the Secretary or the Board may make of such handler's holdings of any hazelnuts. Each handler shall store hazelnuts in such manner as to facilitate inspection, and shall maintain adequate storage records which will permit accurate identification of all such hazelnuts held.
[24 FR 6185, Aug. 1, 1959. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 37 FR 589, Jan. 14, 1972; 51 FR 29550, Aug. 19, 1986]
§ 982.70
Confidential information.
All reports and records furnished or submitted by handlers to the Board, which include data or information constituting a trade secret or disclosing of the trade position, financial condition, or business operations of the particular handler from whom received, shall be kept in the custody and under the control of one or more employees of the Board, and shall be disclosed to no person except the Secretary.
§ 982.71
Records.
Each handler shall maintain such records of hazelnuts received, held, and disposed of by the handler, and such
records detailing such handler's promotion and advertising activities, as may be prescribed by the Board in order to perform its function under this part. Such records shall be retained and be available for examination by authorized representatives of the Board or the Secretary for a period of two years after the end of the marketing year in which the transactions occurred.
[40 FR 53228, Nov. 17, 1975, as amended at 51 FR 29550, Aug. 19, 1986]

# Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 982.80
Right of the Secretary.
The members of the Board (including successors, alternates, or other persons selected by the Secretary), and any agent or employee appointed or employed by the Board, shall be subject to removal or suspension by the Secretary, in his discretion, at any time. Each and every order, regulation, decision, determination, or other act of the Board shall be subject to the continuing right of the Secretary to disapprove of the same at any time, and, upon such disapproval, shall be deemed null and void except as to acts done in reliance thereon or in compliance therewith.
§ 982.81
Personal liability.
No member or alternate member of the Board, or any employee or agent thereof, shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any handler or any other person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts either of commission or omission, as such member, alternate member, agent or employee, except for acts of dishonesty.
§ 982.82
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid, or the applicability thereof to any person, circumstance, or thing is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart or the applicability thereof to any other person, circumstance, or thing shall not be affected thereby.
§ 982.83
Derogation.
Nothing contained in this subpart is, or shall be construed to be, in derogation or in modification of the rights of the Secretary or of the United States to exercise any powers granted by the act or otherwise, or, in accordance with such powers, to act in the premises whenever such action is deemed advisable.
§ 982.84
Duration of immunities.
The benefits, privileges, and immunities conferred upon any person by virtue of this subpart shall cease upon the termination of this subpart, except with respect to acts done under and during the existence of this subpart.
§ 982.85
Agents.
The Secretary may, by a designation in writing, name any person, including any officer or employee of the United States Department of Agriculture, to act as his agent or representative in connection with any of the provisions of this subpart.
§ 982.86
Effective time, termination or suspension.
(a)
Effective time.
The provisions of this subpart, as well as any amendments to this subpart, shall become effective at such time as the Secretary may declare, and shall continue in force until terminated or suspended in one of the ways specified in this section.
(b)
Suspension or termination.
(1) The Secretary may, at any time, terminate the provisions of this subpart by giving at least one day's notice by means of a press release or in any other manner which he may determine.
(2) The Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operation of any or all of the provisions of this subpart whenever he finds that such provisions do not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.
(3)
Referendum.
The Board shall recommend to the Secretary during the first half of every 10-year period starting January 1, 1990, that a referendum be conducted to ascertain whether continuance of this subpart is favored by the producers.
(4) The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this subpart at the end of
any marketing year whenever the Secretary finds that such termination is favored by a majority of the producers of hazelnuts who during the preceding marketing year have been engaged in the production for marketing of hazelnuts in the States of Oregon and Washington:
Provided,
That such majority have during such period produced for market more than 50 percent of the volume of such hazelnuts produced for market within said States; but such termination shall be effected only if announced 30 days or more before the end of the then current marketing year.
(5) The provisions of this subpart shall, in any event, terminate whenever the provisions of the act authorizing them cease to be in effect.
(c)
Proceedings after termination.
(1) Upon the termination of the provisions of this subpart, the members of the Board then functioning shall continue as joint trustees, for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Board, of all funds and property then in the possession or under the control of the Board, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered at the time of such termination. Action by said trusteeship shall require the concurrence of a majority of the said trustees.
(2) Said trustees shall continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary; shall, from time to time, account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Board and the joint trustees, to such person as the Secretary may direct; and shall, upon the request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such person full title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims vested in the Board or the joint trustees pursuant to this subpart.
(3) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered by the Board or its members, pursuant to this section shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the members of the said Board and upon said joint trustees.
[24 FR 6185, Aug. 1, 1959. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 46 FR 26040, May 11, 1981; 51 FR 29550, Aug. 19, 1986]
§ 982.87
Effect of termination or amendment.
(a) Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any regulation issued pursuant to this subpart, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not (1) affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or any regulation issued under this subpart, or (2) release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or of any regulation issued under this subpart, or (3) affect or impair any right or remedies of the Secretary or of any other person, with respect to any such violation.
(b) All rules and regulations in this part which are in effect immediately prior to this amendment of this subpart and not inconsistent with such amendment shall continue in effect until otherwise prescribed pursuant to this subpart.
§ 982.88
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed, from time to time, by any person or by the Board.

# Subpart B—Grade and Size Requirements
§ 982.101
Grade requirements for shelled hazelnuts.
(a) Pursuant to § 982.45(a), no handler shall handle any shelled hazelnuts unless such hazelnuts meet the grade requirements for shelled hazelnuts as contained in exhibit A of this section.
(b) Pursuant to §§ 982.50(a) and 982.51(b), a handler may declare and withhold shelled hazelnuts in lieu of merchantable hazelnuts in satisfaction of the handler's restricted obligation. Shelled hazelnuts so declared and withheld shall, in lieu of the standards prescribed in § 982.50(a)(3), meet the grade requirements contained in exhibit A of this section.

# Exhibit A

# Grade Requirements for Shelled Hazelnuts
Hazelnut kernels or portions of hazelnut kernels shall meet the following requirements:
(1) Well dried and clean;
(2) Free from foreign material, mold, rancidity, decay or insect injury; and
(3) Free from serious damage caused by serious shriveling, or other means.

# Tolerances
In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling the following tolerances, by weight, are permitted as specified:
(1) For Foreign Material: 0.02 of one percent, for foreign material.
(2) For Defects: Five percent for kernels or portions of kernels which are below the requirements of this grade, including not more than the following: Two percent for mold, rancidity, decay or insect injury:
Provided,
That not more than one percent shall be for mold, rancidity, or insect injury.

# Definitions
(1)
Well dried
means that the kernels are firm and crisp, not containing more than 6 percent moisture.
(2)
Clean
means practically free from plainly visible adhering dirt or other foreign material.
(3)
Foreign material
means any substance other than the hazelnut kernels, or portions of kernels. (Loose skins, pellicles or corky tissue which have become separated from the kernels shall not be considered as foreign material, provided that this material does not exceed .02 of one percent by weight.)
(4)
Serious damage
means any specific defect described in this section, or any equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, or any other defects, or any combination of defects, which seriously detracts from the appearance or the edible or marketing quality of the individual portion of the kernel or of the lot as a whole. The following defects shall be considered as serious damage.
(i)
Serious shriveling
means when the kernel is seriously shrunken, wrinkled and tough.
(ii)
Mold
means that there is a visible growth of mold either on the outside or inside of the kernel.
(iii)
Rancidity
means that the kernel is noticeably rancid to the taste. An oily appearance of the flesh does not necessarily indicate a rancid condition.
(iv)
Decay
means that any portion of the kernel is decomposed.
(v)
Insect injury
means that the insect, frass or web is present, or the kernel or portion of kernel show definite evidence of insect feeding.
[47 FR 12611, Mar. 24, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 34015, July 27, 1983]
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Assessment Rates
§ 982.340
Assessment rate.
On and after July 1, 2023, an assessment rate of $0.005 per pound is established for Oregon and Washington hazelnuts.
[89 FR 15957, Mar. 6, 2024]

# Subpart E—Administrative Requirements

# Source:
26 FR 4191, May 16, 1961, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961.
§ 982.446
Inspection documentation.
Pursuant to § 982.46(b), handlers are required to use the following identification on bags and cartons of 25 pounds or larger capacity which contain certified hazelnuts:
(a) The words “This Produce Inspected and Certified Per Federal Marketing Order No. 982” shall be contained within an outline of the combined States of Oregon and Washington; and
(b) This identification shall be printed on the upper right quarter of the printed side of a bag; or
(c) This identification shall be printed on the upper right quarter of one of the side panels of a carton.
[54 FR 46720, Nov. 7, 1989]
§ 982.450
Application of restricted obligation.
(a) Each handler required to withhold restricted hazelnuts pursuant to § 982.50 or § 982.51 shall hold such hazelnuts separate from all other hazelnuts and shall maintain the identity of each lot so withheld. The restricted product withheld must be reported to the Board on F/H Form 1d, Restricted Inshell Certified.
(b) Each handler making the election pursuant to § 982.50(c) in connection with certified merchantable hazelnuts
which have not been handled, shall thereupon give written notification to the Board on F/H Form 4 of the particular election and of the weight and identity of the hazelnuts involved.
(c) Pursuant to § 982.50(d), a handler may withdraw from withholding restricted hazelnuts in excess of such handler's restricted obligation upon advising the Board of the weight and lot identity of the hazelnuts to be withdrawn. When the quantity of restricted hazelnuts to be withdrawn from withholding consists of a part of a lot of ungraded hazelnuts, no part of such lot shall be withdrawn unless the remainder of such lot is reinspected and meets the requirements of § 982.51. Handlers will use F/H Form 1d prior to the end of the marketing year or F/H Form 7 after the end of the marketing year, when reporting the withdrawal of restricted hazelnuts from withholding status.
[54 FR 46720, Nov. 7, 1989]
§ 982.452
Disposition of restricted hazelnuts.
(a)
Shelling.
(1) Any person desiring to shell restricted hazelnuts during a fiscal year may do so upon being designated by the Board as an authorized sheller for such year. Application for such designation shall be made in duplicate on F/H Form B and include, in addition to the conditions specified in § 982.52(a), the following: (i) The location of the applicant's shelling operation; (ii) the number of years such person has operated a hazelnut shelling plant; and (iii) the daily (8-hour) shelling capacity of the plant. Designation of an authorized sheller shall be effected by the board manager signing the application form and returning a signed copy of the form to the applicant. Each such designation shall continue in effect during the particular fiscal year so long as the authorized sheller is in compliance with the requirements and conditions pursuant to § 982.52 applicable to authorized shellers.
(2) When an authorized sheller completes the shelling of a lot of restricted hazelnuts, the sheller shall submit a report thereon to the Board on F/H Form 7 showing:
(i) The date shelling was completed;
(ii) The inspection certificate or lot number;
(iii) The quantity shelled;
(iv) The weight of the kernels produced; and
(v) The location where restricted hazelnuts were held immediately prior to shelling.
(b)
Exports.
Any handler who desires to act as agent of the Board in negotiating export sales of certified merchantable restricted hazelnuts may do so upon the execution of an “Export Agreement”, F/H Form A, wherein the handler agrees, among other things, to negotiate such export sales at not less than such price as the Board may prescribe, and in conformity to and compliance with the other terms and conditions of the Export Agreement including those set forth in § 982.52(b).
(c)
Other authorized outlets.
Under the direction or supervision of the Board, a handler may dispose of restricted hazelnuts for charitable purposes and for promoting the consumption of hazelnuts on behalf of the hazelnut industry in general. The report required under § 982.67(b) following each such disposition shall be accompanied by a certification by the person receiving such hazelnuts from the handler that they will be used for charitable or promotional purposes, as authorized.
[26 FR 4191, May 16, 1961. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1960, as amended at 54 FR 46721, Nov. 7, 1989]
§ 982.453
Disposition of substandard hazelnuts.
The Board shall maintain a list of approved users who are crushers, livestock feed manufacturers, or livestock feeders, and of the locations of the facilities to which substandard hazelnuts may be shipped. Users interested in purchasing substandard hazelnuts or hazelnut waste must make prior application to the Board on F/H Form D to be included on the approved list of such users. Each handler who disposes of substandard hazelnuts to an approved user shall, upon shipment, report to the Board on F/H Form D1 the quantities disposed of or shipped. Substandard hazelnuts disposed of to an approved user may only be shipped directly to an approved location where the crushing, feed manufacture, or
feeding is to take place. The Board may deny approval to any user application, or may remove any user from the approved list when such denial or removal is deemed necessary to ensure control over disposition of substandard hazelnuts. This may occur if the Board determines that substandard hazelnuts are not properly shipped to, or utilized at, approved facilities, in compliance with this requirement. F/H Form D includes the location and description of the disposal facilities to be used as well as a certification to the Board and the Secretary of Agriculture that the applicant will:
(a) Crush, manufacture feed, or feed to livestock such hazelnuts at the location;
(b) Use such hazelnuts for no other purpose than for crushing into oil, manufacturing into livestock feed, or livestock feeding;
(c) Permit such inspection of premises and of hazelnuts received and held, and such examination of books and records covering hazelnut transactions as the Board may require;
(d) Keep a record of receipts, holdings, and use of substandard hazelnuts available for examination by authorized representatives of the Board and the U.S. Department of Agriculture for a period of two years after the end of the marketing year in which the recorded transactions are completed; and
(e) Make such reports, certified to the Board and the Secretary of Agriculture as to their correctness, as the Board with the approval of the Secretary may require.
[54 FR 24328, June 7, 1989]
§ 982.454
Sureties acceptable to the Board.
Bonds secured by cash, cashier's or certified checks, or by assets that are entirely separate and apart from the handler named in the bond may be accepted by the Board pursuant to § 982.54(a). As a condition of accepting any surety, the Board may require such financial statements or other information relating to the ability of such surety to guarantee a handler's bond as it deems necessary. Handlers are also required to submit F/H Form C to the Board to document the handler's execution of a bond.
[54 FR 46721, Nov. 7, 1989]
§ 982.455
Exchange of certified merchantable hazelnuts withheld.
Each handler desiring to exchange hazelnuts pursuant to § 982.55 shall prior thereto file a written notification with the Board setting forth for the respective quantities of hazelnuts involved in the exchange, the inspection certificate numbers, quantities, locations, and applicable lot numbers.
[54 FR 46721, Nov. 7, 1989]
§ 982.456
Interhandler transfers.
Each interhandler transfer of hazelnuts pursuant to § 982.56 (a) and (c) may be made upon notification to the Board in triplicate by the receiving handler on F/H Form 2 signed by both the transferring handler and the receiving handler which shall include the following information:
(a) Date of transfer;
(b) Names of the transferring and receiving handlers;
(c) Locations between which the hazelnuts were transferred;
(d) Whether uncertified inshell or certified merchantable;
(e) Net weight of the hazelnuts transferred, by size and variety;
(f) The inspection certificate, or lot number covering the hazelnuts; and
(g) If certified merchantable, the name of the handler responsible for compliance with the applicable requirements pursuant to this part relating to such hazelnuts.
[54 FR 46721, Nov. 7, 1989]
§ 982.460
Transfer of excess restricted credits.
(a)
Notification.
Each handler having excess restricted credits who wants to transfer all or a portion thereof to another handler or handlers, may notify the Board accordingly. The Board shall make available to all handlers such information on a weekly basis.
(b)
Application.
Each handler who has excess restricted credits and desires to transfer them to another handler, may submit such request to the Board on F/H Form 3. This form shall include:
(1) The name and signature of the handler requesting the transfer;
(2) The name and signature of the designated handler to whom the transfer is to be made;
(3) The amount of excess restricted credits to be transferred; and
(4) Such other information as may be needed by the Board to enable the Board to effect the requested transfer of the excess restricted credits.
(c)
Transfer.
The Board shall transfer the requested amount of the excess restricted credits from one handler to a designated handler upon receipt of a completed F/H Form 3 together with such information as may be required by this section.
[37 FR 3630, Feb. 18, 1972, as amended at 54 FR 46721, Nov. 7, 1989]
§ 982.461
Late payment and interest charges.
The Board shall impose a late payment charge on any handler failing to pay his assessment within 30 days of the billing date shown on the handler's assessment statement received from the Board. Such amount shall be shown on the statement as the “Assessment Due”. The late payment charge shall be 5 percent of the unpaid balance of that amount. In the event the handler fails to pay the delinquent amount, including the late payment charge, within 60 days following the billing date, an additional 1 percent interest charge shall be applied monthly thereafter to the unpaid balance, including any accumulated interest. Any amount paid by a handler as assessments, including any charges imposed pursuant to this paragraph, shall be credited when the payment is received in the Board's office.
[38 FR 5151, Feb. 26, 1973]
§ 982.466
Reports of inshell hazelnuts handled, shelled and withheld.
Each handler shall report to the Board monthly on F/H Form 1 and F/H Forms 1a through 1e, as applicable, the quantities of inshell hazelnuts handled or withheld for restricted use and all product shelled and certified since the last report. All reports shall be submitted to include transactions through the end of each month, or other reporting periods established by the Board, and are due in the Board office on the tenth day following the end of the reporting period. The quantities of inshell hazelnuts handled shall be reported by size. The respective quantities of merchantable or ungraded hazelnuts withheld as restricted product shall be reported separately, and with respect to hazelnuts certified for shelling, or certified kernels withheld, the kernel weight and inshell equivalent weight shall be reported separately by size.
[54 FR 46721, Nov. 7, 1989]
§ 982.467
Report of receipts and dispositions of hazelnuts grown outside the United States.
Each handler who receives hazelnuts grown outside the United States shall report to the Board monthly on
F/H Form 1f
the receipt and disposition of such hazelnuts. All reports submitted shall include transactions through the end of each month, or other reporting periods established by the Board, and are due in the Board office on the tenth day following the end of the reporting period. The report shall include the quantity of such hazelnuts received, the country of origin for such hazelnuts, inspection certificate number, whether such hazelnuts are inshell or kernels, the disposition outlet, and shipment date of such hazelnuts. With each report, the handler shall submit copies of the applicable inspection certificates.
[67 FR 5445, Feb. 6, 2002]
§ 982.468
Report of hazelnut receipts, disposition, and inventory.
On or before January 15 and July 15, or any other date requested by the Board with the approval of the Secretary, each handler shall:
(a) Report to the Board on F/H Form 6 such handler's receipts and disposition of inshell hazelnuts and production of hazelnut kernels during the respective preceding six-month period of July 1 to December 31, and the preceding 12-month period of July 1 to June 30; and
(b) Report to the Board on F/H Form 5 such handler's inventory of hazelnuts
as of January 1 and July 1, respectively, showing the quantities of inshell hazelnuts separately in terms of certified merchantable, graded uncertified merchantable, restricted, and ungraded. The certified merchantable hazelnuts shall be reported on the basis of whether located within or outside the production area and whether or not the restricted obligation has been met.
[54 FR 46721, Nov. 7, 1989]
§ 982.471
Records.
Each handler shall maintain complete and accurate records showing the receipt, shipment and sale of all hazelnuts handled, used or otherwise disposed of and shall retain such records for the two-year period prescribed in § 982.71. Handlers shall also maintain a current record of all hazelnuts held in inventory.
[54 FR 46721, Nov. 7, 1989]
Pt. 983

# PART 983—PISTACHIOS GROWN IN CALIFORNIA, ARIZONA, AND NEW MEXICO

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Definitions
Sec.
983.1
Accredited laboratory.
983.2
Act.
983.3
Affiliation.
983.4
Aflatoxin.
983.5
Aflatoxin inspection certificate.
983.6
Assessed weight.
983.7
Certified pistachios.
983.8
Committee.
983.9
Confidential data or information.
983.10
Department or USDA.
983.11
Districts.
983.12
Domestic shipments.
983.14
Handle.
983.15
Handler.
983.16
Inshell pistachios.
983.17
Inspector.
983.18
Lot.
983.20
Part and subpart.
983.21
Person.
983.22
Pistachios.
983.23
Processing.
983.24
Producer.
983.25
Production area.
983.26
Production year.
983.27
Proprietary capacity.
983.28
Secretary.
983.29
Shelled pistachios.
983.30
Substandard pistachios.

# Administrative Committee
983.41
Establishment and membership.
983.42
Initial members and nomination of successor members.
983.43
Procedure.
983.44
Powers.
983.45
Duties.

# Research
983.46
Research.

# Marketing Policy
983.47
Marketing policy.

# Regulations
983.50
Aflatoxin levels.
983.51
Quality regulations.
983.51
Failed lots/rework procedure.
983.53
Testing of minimal quantities.
983.54
Commingling.
983.55
Reinspection.
983.56
Inspection, certification and identification.
983.57
Substandard pistachios.
983.58
Interhandler transfers.
983.59
Modification or suspension of regulations.

# Reports, Books and Records
983.64
Reports.
983.65
Confidential information.
983.66
Records.
983.67
Random verification audits.
983.68
Verification of reports.

# Expenses and Assessments
983.70
Expenses.
983.71
Assessments.
983.72
Contributions.
983.73
Delinquent assessments.
983.74
Accounting.
983.75
Implementation and amendments.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
983.80
Compliance.
983.81
Right of the Secretary.
983.82
Personal liability.
983.83
Separability.
983.84
Derogation.
983.85
Duration of immunities.
983.86
Agents.
983.87
Effective time.
983.88
Suspension or termination.
983.89
Termination.
983.90
Procedure upon termination.
983.91
Effect of termination or amendment.
983.92
Exemption.

# Subpart B—Administrative Requirements
983.150
Aflatoxin regulations.
983.152
Failed lots/rework procedure.
983.155
Reinspection.
983.164
Reports.

# Subpart C—Assessment Rate
983.253
Assessment rate.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 601-674.

# Source:
69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Definitions
§ 983.1
Accredited laboratory.
An
accredited laboratory
is a laboratory that has been approved or accredited by the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
[74 FR 56539, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.2
Act.
Act
means Public Act No. 10, 73rd Congress (May 12, 1933), as amended and as re-enacted and amended by the Agricultural Marketing Order Act of 1937, as amended (48 Stat. 31, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
).
§ 983.3
Affiliation.
Affiliation.
This term normally appears as “affiliate of”, or “affiliated with”, and means a person such as a producer or handler who is: A producer or handler that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, owns or controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with the producer or handler specified; or a producer or handler that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, is connected in a proprietary capacity, or shares the ownership or control of the specified producer or handler with one or more other producers or handlers. As used in this part, the term “control” (including the terms “controlling”, “controlled by”, and “under the common control with”) means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a handler or a producer, whether through voting securities, membership in a cooperative, by contract or otherwise.
§ 983.4
Aflatoxin.
Aflatoxin
is one of a group of mycotoxins produced by the molds
Aspergillus flavus
and
Aspergillus parasiticus.
Aflatoxins are naturally occurring compounds produced by molds, which can be spread in improperly processed and stored nuts, dried fruits and grains.
§ 983.5
Aflatoxin inspection certificate.
Aflatoxin inspection certificate
is a certificate issued by an accredited laboratory or by a USDA laboratory.
§ 983.6
Assessed weight.
Assessed weight
means pounds of inshell pistachios, with the weight computed at 5 percent moisture, received for processing by a handler within each production year:
Provided,
That for loose kernels, the actual weight shall be multiplied by two to obtain an inshell weight;
Provided further,
That the assessed weight may be based upon quality requirements for inshell pistachios that may be recommended by the Committee and approved by the Secretary.
[74 FR 56539, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.7
Certified pistachios.
Certified pistachios
are those that meet the inspection and certification requirements under this part.
[74 FR 56539, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.8
Committee.
Committee
means the Administrative Committee for Pistachios established pursuant to § 983.41.
[74 FR 56539, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.9
Confidential data or information.
Confidential data or information
submitted to the committee consists of data or information constituting a trade secret or disclosure of the trade position, financial condition, or business operations of a particular entity or its customers.
§ 983.10
Department or USDA.
Department or USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
§ 983.11
Districts.
(a)
Districts
shall consist of the following:
(1)
District 1
consists of Tulare, Kern, San Bernardino, San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, Ventura, Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside, San Diego, and Imperial Counties of California.
(2)
District 2
consists of Kings, Fresno, Madera, and Merced Counties of California.
(3)
District 3
consists of all counties in California where pistachios are produced that are not included in Districts 1 and 2.
(4)
District 4
consists of the States of Arizona and New Mexico.
(b) With the approval of the Secretary, the boundaries of any district may be changed by the committee to ensure proper representation. The boundaries need not coincide with county lines.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004, as amended at 72 FR 69141, Dec. 7, 2007; 74 FR 56539, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.12
Domestic shipments.
Domestic shipments
means shipments to the fifty states of the United States or to territories of the United States and the District of Columbia.
§ 983.14
Handle.
Handle
means to engage in:
(a) Receiving pistachios;
(b) Hulling and drying pistachios;
(c) Further preparing pistachios by sorting, sizing, shelling, roasting, cleaning, salting, and/or packaging for marketing in or transporting to any and all markets in the current of interstate or foreign commerce; and/or
(d) Placing pistachios into the current of commerce from within the production area to points outside thereof:
Provided,
however, that transportation within the production area between handlers and from the orchard to the processing facility is not handling.
§ 983.15
Handler.
Handler
means any person who handles pistachios.
§ 983.16
Inshell pistachios.
Inshell pistachios
means pistachios that have a shell that has not been removed.
§ 983.17
Inspector.
Inspector
means any inspector authorized by the USDA to inspect pistachios.
§ 983.18
Lot.
Lot
means any quantity of pistachios that is submitted for testing purposes under this part.
§ 983.20
Part and subpart.
Part
means the order regulating the handling of pistachios grown in the States of California, Arizona and New Mexico, and all the rules, regulations and supplementary orders issued thereunder. The aforesaid order regulating the handling of pistachios grown in California, Arizona and New Mexico shall be a subpart of such part.
[74 FR 56539, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.21
Person.
Person
means an individual, partnership, limited liability corporation, corporation, trust, association, or any other business unit.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56539, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.22
Pistachios.
Pistachios
means the nuts of the pistachio tree of the genus and species
Pistacia vera
grown in the production area, whether inshell or shelled.
[74 FR 56539, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.23
Processing.
Processing
means hulling and drying pistachios in preparation for market.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56539, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.24
Producer.
Producer
means any person engaged within the production area in a proprietary capacity in the production of pistachios for sale.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56539, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.25
Production area.
Production Area
means the States of California, Arizona, and New Mexico.
[74 FR 56539, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.26
Production year.
Production year
is synonymous with “fiscal period” and means the period beginning on September 1 and ending on August 31 of each year or such other period as may be recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary. Pistachios harvested and received in August of any year shall be applied to the subsequent production year for marketing order purposes.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56539, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.27
Proprietary capacity.
Proprietary capacity
means the capacity or interest of a producer or handler that, either directly or through one or more intermediaries, is a property owner together with all the appurtenant rights of an owner including the right to vote the interest in that capacity as an individual, a shareholder, member of a cooperative, partner, trustee or in any other capacity with respect to any other business unit.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56539, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.28
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or any officer or employee of the United States Department of Agriculture who is, or who may hereafter be, authorized to act in his/her stead.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56539, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.29
Shelled pistachios.
Shelled pistachios
means pistachio kernels, or portions of kernels, after the pistachio shells have been removed.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56539, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.30
Substandard pistachios.
Substandard pistachios
means pistachios, inshell or shelled, which do not meet regulations established pursuant to §§ 983.50 and 983.51.
[74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009]

# Administrative Committee
§ 983.41
Establishment and membership.
There is hereby established an administrative committee for pistachios to administer the terms and provisions of this part. This committee, consisting of twelve (12) member positions, each of whom shall have an alternate, shall be allocated as follows:
(a)
Handlers.
Two of the members shall represent handlers, as follows:
(1) One handler member nominated by one vote for each handler; and
(2) One handler member nominated by voting based on each handler casting one vote for each ton (or portion thereof) of the assessed weight of pistachios processed by such handler during the two production years preceding the production year in which the nominations are made.
(b)
Producers.
Nine members shall represent producers. Producers within the respective districts shall nominate four producers from District 1, three producers from District 2, one producer from District 3, and one producer from District 4. The Secretary, upon recommendation of the committee, may reapportion producer representation among the districts to ensure proper representation.
(c)
Public member.
One member shall be a public member who is neither a producer nor a handler and shall have all the powers, rights and privileges of any other member of the committee. The public member and alternate public member shall be nominated by the committee and selected by the Secretary.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated and amended at 74 FR 56541, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.42
Initial members and nomination of successor members.
Nomination of committee members and alternates shall follow the procedure set forth in this section or as may be changed as recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.
(a)
Initial members.
Nominations for initial producer and handler members shall be conducted by the Secretary by either holding meetings of handlers and producers, or by mail.
(b)
Successor members.
Subsequent to the first nomination of committee members under this part, persons to be nominated to serve on the committee as producer or handler members shall be selected pursuant to nomination procedures that shall be established by the committee with the approval of the Secretary:
Provided,
That:
(1) Any qualified individuals who seek nomination as a producer member shall submit to the committee an intent to seek office in one designated district on such form and with such information as the committee shall designate; ballots, accompanied by the names of all such candidates, with spaces to indicate voters' choices and spaces for write-in candidates, together with voting instructions, shall be mailed to all producers who are on record with the committee within the respective districts; the person(s) receiving the highest number of votes shall be the member nominee(s) for that district, and the person(s) receiving the second highest number of votes shall be the alternate member nominee(s). In case of a tie vote, the nominee shall be selected by a drawing.
(2) Any qualified individuals who seek nomination as a handler member shall submit to the committee an intent to seek office with such information as the committee shall designate; ballots, accompanied by the names of all such candidates, with spaces to indicate voters' choices and spaces for write-in candidates, together with voting instructions, shall be mailed to all handlers who are on record with the committee. For the first handler member seat, the person receiving the highest number of votes shall be the handler member nominee for that seat, and the person receiving the second highest number of votes shall be the alternate member nominee. For the second handler member seat, the person receiving the highest number of votes representing handler volume shall be the handler member nominee for that seat, and the person receiving the second highest number of votes representing handler volume shall be the alternate member nominee. In case of a tie vote, the nominee shall be selected by a drawing.
(c)
Handlers.
Only handlers, including duly authorized officers or employees of handlers, may participate in the nomination of the two handler member nominees and their alternates. Nomination of the two handler members and their alternates shall be as follows:
(1) For one handler member nomination, each handler entity shall be entitled to one vote;
(2) For the second handler member nomination, each handler entity shall be entitled to cast one vote respectively for each ton of assessed weight of pistachios processed by that handler during the two production years preceding the production year in which the nominations are made. For the purposes of nominating handler members and alternates by volume, the assessed weight of pistachios shall be credited to the handler responsible under the order for the payment of assessments of those pistachios. The committee with the approval of the Secretary, may revise the handler representation on the committee if the committee ceases to be representative of the industry.
(d)
Producers.
Only producers, including duly authorized officers or employees of producers, may participate in the nomination of nominees for producer members and their alternates. Each producer shall be entitled to cast only one vote, whether directly or through an authorized officer or employee, for each position to be filled in the district in which the producer produces pistachios. If a producer is engaged in producing pistachios in more than one district, such producer shall select the district in which to participate in the nomination. If a person is both a producer and a handler of pistachios, such person may participate in both producer and handler nominations, provided, however, that a single member may not hold concurrent seats as both a producer and handler.
(e)
Member's affiliation.
Not more than two members and not more than two alternate members shall be persons employed by or affiliated with producers or handlers that are affiliated with the same handler and/or producer. Additionally, only one member and one
alternate in any one district representing producers and only one member and one alternate representing handlers shall be employed by, or affiliated with the same handler and/or producer. No handler, and all of its affiliated handlers, can be represented by more than one handler member.
(f)
Cooperative affiliation.
In the case of a producer cooperative, a producer shall not be deemed to be connected in a proprietary capacity with the cooperative notwithstanding any outstanding retains, contributions or financial indebtedness owed by the cooperative to a producer if the producer has not marketed pistachios through the cooperative during the current and one preceding production year. A cooperative that has as its members one or more other cooperatives that are handlers shall not be considered as a handler for the purpose of nominating or voting under this part.
(g)
Alternate members.
Each member of the committee shall have an alternate member to be nominated in the same manner as the member. Any alternate serving in the same district as a member where both are employed by, or connected in a proprietary capacity with the same corporation, firm, partnership, association, or business organization, shall serve as the alternate to that member. An alternate member, in the absence of the member for whom that alternate is selected shall serve in place of that member on the committee, and shall have and be able to exercise all the rights, privileges, and powers of the member when serving on the committee. In the event of death, removal, resignation, or the disqualification of a member, the alternate shall act as a member on the committee until a successor member is selected and has been qualified.
(h)
Selection by Secretary.
Nominations under paragraph (g) of this section received by the committee for all handler and producer members and alternate member positions shall be certified and sent to the Secretary at least 60 days prior to the beginning of each two-year term of office, together with all necessary data and other information deemed by the committee to be pertinent or requested by the Secretary. From those nominations, the Secretary shall select the ten producer and handler members of the committee and an alternate for each member.
(i)
Acceptance.
Each person to be selected by the Secretary as a member or as an alternate member of the committee shall, prior to such selection, qualify by advising the Secretary that if selected, such person agrees to serve in the position for which that nomination has been made.
(j)
Failure to nominate.
If nominations are not made within the time and manner specified in this part, the Secretary may, without regard to nominations, select the committee members and alternates qualified to serve on the basis of the representation provided for in § 983.41.
(k)
Term of office.
Selected members and alternate members of the committee shall serve for terms of two years:
Provided,
That four of the initially selected producer members and one handler member and their alternates shall, by a drawing, be seated for terms of one year so that approximately half of the memberships' terms expire each year. Each member and alternate member shall continue to serve until a successor is selected and has qualified. The term of office shall begin on July 1st of each year. Committee members and alternates may serve up to four consecutive, two-year terms of office. In no event shall any member or alternate serve more than eight consecutive years on the committee. For purposes of determining when a member or alternate has served four consecutive terms, the accrual of terms shall begin following any period of at least twelve consecutive months out of office.
(l)
Qualifications.
(1) Each producer member and alternate shall be, at the time of selection and during the term of office, a producer or an officer, or employee, of a producer in the district for which nominated.
(2) Each handler member and alternate shall be, at the time of selection and during the term of office, a handler or an officer or employee of a handler.
(3) Any member or alternate member who at the time of selection was employed by or affiliated with the person who is nominated, that member shall, upon termination of that relationship,
become disqualified to serve further as a member and that position shall be deemed vacant.
(4) No person nominated to serve as a public member or alternate public member shall have a financial interest in any pistachio growing or handling operation.
(m)
Vacancy.
Any vacancy on the committee occurring by the failure of any person selected to the committee to qualify as a member or alternate member due to a change in status making the member ineligible to serve, or due to death, removal, or resignation, shall be filled, by a majority vote of the committee for the unexpired portion of the term. However, that person shall fulfill all the qualifications set forth in this part as required for the member whose office that person is to fill. The qualifications of any person to fill a vacancy on the committee shall be certified in writing to the Secretary. The Secretary shall notify the committee if the Secretary determines that any such person is not qualified.
(n) The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may issue rules and regulations implementing §§ 983.41, 983.42 and 983.43.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated and amended at 74 FR 56541, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.43
Procedure.
(a)
Quorum.
A quorum of the committee shall be any seven voting committee members. The vote of a majority of members present at a meeting at which there is a quorum shall constitute the act of the committee:
Provided,
That:
(1) Actions of the committee with respect to the following issues shall require twelve (12) concurring votes of the voting members regarding any recommendation to the Secretary for adoption or change in:
(i) Quality regulation;
(ii) Aflatoxin regulation;
(iii) Research under § 983.46; and
(2) Actions of the committee with respect to the following issues shall require eight (8) concurring votes of the voting members regarding recommendation to the Secretary for adoption or change in:
(i) Inspection programs;
(ii) The establishment of the committee.
(b)
Voting.
Members of the committee may participate in a meeting by attendance in person or through the use of a conference telephone or similar communication equipment, as long as all members participating in such a meeting can communicate with one another. An action required or permitted to be taken by the committee may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the committee shall consent in writing to that action.
(c)
Compensation.
The members of the committee and their alternates shall serve without compensation, but members and alternates acting as members shall be allowed their necessary expenses:
Provided,
That the committee may request the attendance of one or more alternates not acting as members at any meeting of the committee, and such alternates may be allowed their necessary expenses; and,
Provided further,
That the public member and the alternate for the public member may be paid reasonable compensation in addition to necessary expenses.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated and amended at 74 FR 56541, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.44
Powers.
The committee shall have the following powers:
(a) To administer the provisions of this part in accordance with its terms;
(b) To make and adopt bylaws, rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of this part with the approval of the Secretary;
(c) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of this part; and
(d) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this part.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56541, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.45
Duties.
The committee shall have, among others, the following duties:
(a) To adopt bylaws and rules for the conduct of its meetings and the selection of such officers from among its membership, including a chairperson
and vice-chairperson, as may be necessary, and define the duties of such officers; and adopt such other bylaws, regulations and rules as may be necessary to accomplish the purposes of the Act and the efficient administration of this part;
(b) To employ or contract with such persons or agents as the committee deems necessary and to determine the duties and compensation of such persons or agents;
(c) To select such subcommittees as may be necessary;
(d) To submit to the Secretary a budget for each fiscal period, prior to the beginning of such period, including a report explaining the items appearing therein and a recommendation as to the rate of assessments for such period;
(e) To keep minutes, books, and records which will reflect all of the acts and transactions of the committee and which shall be subject to examination by the Secretary;
(f) To prepare periodic statements of the financial operations of the committee and to make copies of each statement available to producers and handlers for examination at the office of the committee;
(g) To cause its financial statements to be audited by a certified public accountant at least once each fiscal year and at such times as the Secretary may request. Such audit shall include an examination of the receipt of assessments and the disbursement of all funds. The committee shall provide the Secretary with a copy of all audits and shall make copies of such audits, after the removal of any confidential individual or handler information that may be contained in them, available for examination at the offices of the committee;
(h) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any producer or handler with respect to the operations of this part;
(i) To investigate and assemble data on the growing, handling, shipping and marketing conditions with respect to pistachios;
(j) To apprise the Secretary of all committee meetings in a timely manner;
(k) To submit to the Secretary such available information as the Secretary may request;
(l) To investigate compliance with the provisions of this part;
(m) To provide, through communication to producers and handlers, information regarding the activities of the committee and to respond to industry inquiries about committee activities;
(n) To oversee the collection of assessments levied under this part;
(o) To borrow such funds, subject to the approval of the Secretary and not to exceed the expected expenses of one fiscal year, as are necessary for administering its responsibilities and obligations under this part.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56541, Nov. 2, 2009]

# Research
§ 983.46
Research.
The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish or provide for the establishment of projects involving research designed to assist or improve the efficient production and postharvest handling of quality pistachios. The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may also establish or provide for the establishment of projects designed to determine the effects of pistachio consumption on human health and nutrition. Pursuant to § 983.43(a), such research projects may only be established with 12 concurring votes of the voting members of the committee. The expenses of such projects shall be paid from funds collected pursuant to §§ 983.71 and 983.72.
[74 FR 56542, Nov. 2, 2009]

# Marketing Policy
§ 983.47
Marketing policy.
Prior to August 1st each year, the committee shall prepare and submit to the Secretary a report setting forth its recommended marketing policy covering quality regulations for the pending crop. In the event it becomes advisable to modify such policy, because of changed crop conditions, the committee shall formulate a new policy and shall submit a report thereon to the Secretary. In developing the marketing policy, the committee shall give
consideration to the production, harvesting, processing and storage conditions of that crop. The committee may also give consideration to current prices being received and the probable general level of prices to be received for pistachios by producers and handlers. Notice of the committee's marketing policy, and of any modifications thereof, shall be given promptly by reasonable publicity, to producers and handlers.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56541, Nov. 2, 2009]

# Regulations
§ 983.50
Aflatoxin regulations.
The committee shall establish, with the approval of the Secretary, such aflatoxin sampling, analysis, and inspection requirements applicable to pistachios to be shipped for domestic human consumption as will contribute to orderly marketing or be in the public interest. The committee may also establish, with the approval of the Secretary, such requirements for pistachios to be shipped for human consumption in export markets. No handler shall ship, for human consumption in domestic, or if applicable, export markets, pistachios that exceed an aflatoxin level established by the committee and approved by the Secretary. All shipments to markets for which requirements have been established must be covered by an aflatoxin inspection certificate. The committee may, with the approval of the Secretary, establish different sampling, analysis, and inspection requirements, and different aflatoxin level requirements, for different markets.
[77 FR 36123, June 18, 2012]
§ 983.51
Quality regulations.
For any production year, the committee may establish, with the approval of the Secretary, such quality and inspection requirements applicable to pistachios shipped for human consumption in domestic or export markets as will contribute to orderly marketing or be in the public interest. In such production year, no handler shall ship pistachios for human consumption in domestic, or if applicable, export markets unless they meet the applicable requirements as evidenced by certification acceptable to the committee. The committee may, with the approval of the Secretary, establish different quality and inspection requirements for different markets.
[77 FR 36123, June 18, 2012]
§ 983.52
Failed lots/rework procedure.
(a)
Substandard pistachios.
Each lot of substandard pistachios may be reworked to meet aflatoxin or quality requirements. The committee may establish, with the Secretary's approval, appropriate rework procedures.
(b)
Failed lot reporting.
If a lot fails to meet the aflatoxin and/or the quality requirements of this part, a failed lot notification report shall be completed and sent to the committee within 10 working days of the test failure. This form must be completed and submitted to the committee each time a lot fails either aflatoxin or quality testing. The accredited laboratories shall send the failed lot notification reports for aflatoxin tests to the committee, and the handler, under the supervision of an inspector, shall send the failed lot notification reports for the lots that do not meet the quality requirements to the committee.
[74 FR 56542, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.53
Testing of minimal quantities.
(a)
Aflatoxin.
Handlers who handle less than 1 million pounds of assessed weight per year have the option of utilizing both of the following methods for testing for aflatoxin:
(1) The handler may have an inspector sample and test his or her entire inventory of hulled and dried pistachios for the aflatoxin certification before further processing.
(2) The handler may segregate receipts into various lots at the handler's discretion and have an inspector sample and test each specific lot. Any lots that are found to have less aflatoxin than the level established by the committee and approved by the Secretary can be certified by an inspector to be negative as to aflatoxin. Any lots that are found to have aflatoxin exceeding the level established by the committee and approved by the Secretary may be
tested after reworking in the same manner as specified in § 983.52.
(b)
Quality.
The committee may, with the approval of the Secretary, establish regulations regarding the testing of minimal quantities of pistachios for quality.
[74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009, as amended at 77 FR 36123, June 18, 2012]
§ 983.54
Commingling.
Certified lots may be commingled with other certified lots, but the commingling of certified and uncertified lots shall cause the loss of certification for the commingled lots.
[74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.55
Reinspection.
The Secretary, upon recommendation of the committee, may establish rules and regulations to establish conditions under which pistachios would be subject to reinspection.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.56
Inspection, certification and identification.
Upon recommendation of the committee and approval of the Secretary, all pistachios that are required to be inspected and certified in accordance with this part shall be identified by appropriate seals, stamps, tags, or other identification to be affixed to the containers by the handler. All inspections shall be at the expense of the handler,
Provided,
That for handlers making shipments from facilities located in an area where inspection costs for inspector travel and shipment of samples for aflatoxin testing would otherwise exceed the average of those same inspection costs for comparable handling operations located in Districts 1 and 2, such handlers may be reimbursed by the committee for the difference between their respective inspection costs and such average, or as otherwise recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary.
[74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.57
Substandard pistachios.
The committee shall, with the approval of the Secretary, establish such reporting and disposition procedures as it deems necessary to ensure that pistachios which do not meet aflatoxin and quality requirements are not shipped for human consumption in those markets for which such requirements exist pursuant to § 983.50 and § 983.51.
[77 FR 36123, June 18, 2012]
§ 983.58
Interhandler transfers.
Within the production area, any handler may transfer pistachios to another handler for additional handling, and any assessments, inspection requirements, aflatoxin testing requirements, and any other marketing order requirements with respect to pistachios so transferred may be assumed by the receiving handler. The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish methods and procedures, including necessary reports, to maintain accurate records for such transfers.
[74 FR 56541, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.59
Modification or suspension of regulations.
(a) In the event that the committee, at any time, finds that by reason of changed conditions, any regulations issued pursuant to §§ 983.50 through 983.58 should be modified or suspended, it shall, pursuant to § 983.43, so recommend to the Secretary.
(b) Whenever the Secretary finds from the recommendations and information submitted by the committee or from other available information, that a regulation should be modified, suspended, or terminated with respect to any or all shipments of pistachios in order to effectuate the declared policy of the Act, the Secretary shall modify or suspend such provisions. If the Secretary finds that a regulation obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act, the Secretary shall suspend or terminate such regulation.
(c) The Secretary, upon recommendation of committee, may issue rules and regulations implementing §§ 983.50 through 983.58.
[74 FR 56541, Nov. 2, 2009]

# Reports, Books and Records
§ 983.64
Reports.
Upon the request of the committee, with the approval of the Secretary, each handler shall furnish such reports and information on such forms as are needed to enable the Secretary and the committee to perform their functions and enforce the regulations under this part. The committee shall provide a uniform report format for the handlers.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56541, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.65
Confidential information.
All reports and records furnished or submitted by handlers to the committee which include confidential data or information constituting a trade secret or disclosing the trade position, financial condition, or business operations of the particular handler or their customers shall be received by, and at all times kept in the custody and under the control of, one or more employees of the committee, who shall disclose such data and information to no person except the Secretary. However, such data or information may be disclosed only with the approval of the Secretary, to the committee when reasonably necessary to enable the committee to carry out its functions under this part.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56541, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.66
Records.
Records of pistachios received, held and shipped by him, as will substantiate any required reports and will show performance under this part will be maintained by each handler for at least three years beyond the crop year of their applicability.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56541, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.67
Random verification audits.
(a) All handlers' pistachio inventory shall be subject to random verification audits by the committee to ensure compliance with the terms of the order, and regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(b) Committee staff or agents of the committee, based on information from the industry or knowledge of possible violations, may make buys of handler product in retail locations. If it is determined that violations of the order have occurred as a result of the buys, the matter will be referred to the Secretary for appropriate action.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56541, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.68
Verification of reports.
For the purpose of checking and verifying reports filed by handlers or the operation of handlers under the provisions of this part, the Secretary and the committee, through their duly authorized agents, shall have access to any premises where pistachios and records relating thereto may be held by any handler and at any time during reasonable business hours, shall be permitted to inspect any pistachios so held by such handler and any and all records of such handler with respect to the acquisition, holding, or disposition of all pistachios which may be held or which may have been shipped by him/her.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56541, Nov. 2, 2009]

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 983.70
Expenses.
The committee is authorized to incur such expenses as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by it during each production year for the maintenance and functioning of the committee and for such other purposes as the Secretary may, pursuant to the provisions of this part, determine to be appropriate.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56541, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.71
Assessments.
(a) Each handler who receives pistachios for processing in each production year, except as provided in § 983.58, shall pay the committee on demand, an assessment based on the
pro rata
share of the expenses authorized by the Secretary for that year attributable to the assessed weight of pistachios received by that handler in that year.
(b) The committee, prior to the beginning of each production year, shall
recommend and the Secretary shall set the assessment for the following production year, which shall not exceed one-half of one percent of the average price received by producers in the preceding production year. The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may revise the assessment if it determines, based on information including crop size and value, that the action is necessary, and if the revision does not exceed the assessment limitation specified in this section and is made prior to the final billing of the assessment.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated and amended at 74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.72
Contributions.
The committee may accept voluntary contributions but these shall only be used to pay for committee expenses unless specified in support of research under § 983.46. Furthermore, research contributions shall be free of additional encumbrances by the donor and the committee shall retain complete control of their use.
[74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.73
Delinquent assessments.
Any handler who fails to pay any assessment within the time required by the committee, shall pay to the committee a late payment charge of 10 percent of the amount of the assessment determined to be past due and, in addition, interest on the unpaid balance at the rate of one and one-half percent per month. The late payment and interest charges may be modified by the Secretary upon recommendation of the committee.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.74
Accounting.
(a) If, at the end of a production year, the assessments collected are in excess of expenses incurred, such excess shall be accounted for in accordance with one of the following:
(1) If such excess is not retained in a reserve, as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, it shall be refunded proportionately to the persons from whom it was collected in accordance with § 983.71:
Provided,
That any sum paid by a person in excess of his/her
pro rata
share of the expenses during any production year may be applied by the committee at the end of such production year as credit for such person, toward the committee's fiscal operations of the following production year;
(2) The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may carry over such excess into subsequent production years as a reserve:
Provided,
That funds already in the reserve do not exceed approximately two production years' budgeted expenses. In the event that funds exceed two production years' budgeted expenses, future assessments will be reduced to bring the reserves to an amount that is less than or equal to two production years' budgeted expenses. Such reserve funds may be used:
(i) To defray expenses, during any production year, prior to the time assessment income is sufficient to cover such expenses;
(ii) To cover deficits incurred during any production year when assessment income is less than expenses;
(iii) To defray expenses incurred during any period when any or all provisions of this part are suspended; and
(iv) To cover necessary expenses of liquidation in the event of termination of this part. Upon such termination, any funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be disposed of in such manner as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate:
Provided,
That to the extent practical, such funds shall be returned
pro rata
to the persons from whom such funds were collected.
(b) All funds received by the committee pursuant to the provisions of this part shall be used solely for the purpose specified in this part and shall be accounted for in the manner provided in this part. The Secretary may at any time require the committee and its members to account for all receipts and disbursements.
(c) Upon the removal or expiration of the term of office of any member of the committee, such member shall account for all receipts and disbursements for which that member was personally responsible, deliver all committee property and funds in the possession of such member to the committee, and execute
such assignments and other instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to vest in the committee full title to all of the committee property, funds, and claims vested in such member pursuant to this part.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated and amended at 74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.75
Implementation and amendments.
The Secretary, upon the recommendation of a majority of the committee, may issue rules and regulations implementing or modifying §§ 983.64 through 983.74 inclusive.
[74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009]

# Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 983.80
Compliance.
Except as provided in this part, no handler shall handle pistachios, the handling of which has been prohibited or otherwise limited by the Secretary in accordance with provisions of this part; and no handler shall handle pistachios except in conformity to the provision of this part.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.81
Right of the Secretary.
The members of the committee (including successors or alternates) and any agent or employee appointed or employed by the committee, shall be subject to removal or suspension at the discretion of the Secretary, at any time. Each and every decision, determination, or other act of the committee shall be subject to the continuing right of the Secretary to disapprove of the same at any time, and upon such disapproval, shall be deemed null and void.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.82
Personal liability.
No member or alternate member of the committee, nor any employee, representative, or agent of the committee shall be held personally responsible to any handler, either individually, or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any person, for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member, alternate member, employee, representative, or agent, except for acts of dishonesty, willful misconduct, or gross negligence.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.83
Separability.
If any provision of this part is declared invalid, or the applicability thereof to any person, circumstance, or thing is held invalid, the validity of the remainder, or the applicability thereof to any other person, circumstance, or thing, shall not be affected thereby.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.84
Derogation.
Nothing contained in this part is, or shall be construed to be, in derogation or in modification of the rights of the Secretary or of the United States to exercise any powers granted by the Act or otherwise, or, in accordance with such powers, to act in the premises whenever such action is deemed advisable.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.85
Duration of immunities.
The benefits, privileges, and immunities conferred upon any person by virtue of this part shall cease upon its termination, except with respect to acts done under and during the existence thereof.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.86
Agents.
The Secretary may, by a designation in writing, name any person, including any officer or employee of the United States Government, or name any service, division or branch in the United States Department of Agriculture, to act as agent or representative of the Secretary in connection with any of the provisions of this part.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.87
Effective time.
The provisions of this part, as well as any amendments, shall become effective at such time as the Secretary may declare, and shall continue in force until terminated or suspended in one of the ways specified in § 983.88 or § 983.89.
[74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.88
Suspension or termination.
The Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operation of any or all of the provisions of this part, whenever he/she finds that such provisions do not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.89
Termination.
(a) The Secretary may at any time terminate the provisions of this part.
(b) The Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operations of any or all of the provisions of this part whenever it is found that such provisions do not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act.
(c) The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this part at the end of any fiscal period whenever it is found that such termination is favored by a majority of producers who, during a representative period, have been engaged in the production of pistachios:
Provided,
That such majority has, during such representative period, produced for market more than fifty percent of the volume of such pistachios produced for market, but such termination shall be announced at least 90 days before the end of the current fiscal period.
(d) Within six years of the effective date of this part the Secretary shall conduct a referendum to ascertain whether continuance of this part is favored by producers. Subsequent referenda to ascertain continuance shall be conducted every six years thereafter. The Secretary may terminate the provisions of this part at the end of any fiscal period in which the Secretary has found that continuance of this part is not favored by a two thirds (
2/3
) majority of voting producers, or a two thirds (
2/3
) majority of volume represented thereby, who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production for market of pistachios in the production area. Such termination shall be announced on or before the end of the production year.
(e) The provisions of this part shall, in any event, terminate whenever the provisions of the Act authorizing them cease.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.90
Procedure upon termination.
Upon the termination of this part, the members of the committee then functioning shall continue as joint trustees, for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the committee. Action by such trustees shall require the concurrence of a majority of said trustees. Such trustees shall continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary, and shall account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the committee and the joint trustees, to such persons as the Secretary may direct; and shall upon the request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such person full title and right to all the funds, properties, and claims vested in the committee or the joint trustees, pursuant to this part. Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered by the committee or the joint trustees, pursuant to this section, shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the members of said committee and upon said joint trustees.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2002. Redesignated at 74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.91
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this part or of any regulation issued pursuant thereto, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter
arise, in connection with any provisions of this part or any regulation issued there under,
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this part or any regulation issued there under, or
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the Secretary, or of any other persons, with respect to such violation.
[69 FR 17850, Apr. 4, 2004. Redesignated at 74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.92
Exemption.
Any handler may handle pistachios within the production area free of the requirements in §§ 983.50 through 983.58 and § 983.71 if such pistachios are handled in quantities not exceeding 5,000 dried pounds during any production year. The Secretary, upon recommendation of the committee, may issue rules and regulations changing the 5,000-pound quantity applicable to this exemption.
[74 FR 56540, Nov. 2, 2009, as amended at 88 FR 82235, Nov. 24, 2023]

# Subpart B—Administrative Requirements
§ 983.150
Aflatoxin regulations.
(a)
Maximum level.
No handler shall ship for domestic human consumption, pistachios that exceed an aflatoxin level of 15 ppb. All shipments must also be covered by an aflatoxin inspection certificate. Pistachios that fail to meet the aflatoxin requirements shall be disposed in such manner as described in Failed lots/rework procedure of this part.
(b)
Change in level.
The committee may recommend to the Secretary changes in the aflatoxin level specified in this section. If the Secretary finds, on the basis of such recommendation or other information, that such an adjustment of the aflatoxin level would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act, such change shall be made accordingly.
(c)
Transfers between handlers.
Transfers between handlers within the production area are exempt from the aflatoxin regulation of this section.
(d)
Aflatoxin testing procedures.
To obtain an aflatoxin inspection certificate, each lot to be certified shall be uniquely identified, be traceable from testing through shipment by the handler, and be subjected to the following:
(1)
Samples for testing.
Prior to testing, each handler shall cause a representative sample to be drawn from each lot (“lot samples”) of sufficient weight to comply with Tables 1 and 2 of this section.
(i) At premises with mechanical sampling equipment (auto-samplers) approved by the USDA Federal-State Inspection Service, samples shall be drawn by the handler in a manner acceptable to the Committee and the USDA Federal-State Inspection Service.
(ii) At premises without mechanical sampling equipment, sampling shall be conducted by or under the supervision of an inspector, or as approved under an alternative USDA-recognized inspection program.
(2)
Test samples for aflatoxin.
Prior to submission of samples to an accredited laboratory for aflatoxin analysis, one sample (“test sample”) shall be created from the pistachios designated for aflatoxin testing in compliance with Tables 1 and 2 of this paragraph for inshell and kernel pistachio lots that weigh up to and including 4,400 pounds. For lot sizes larger than 4,400 pounds, two samples (“test samples”) shall be created equally from the pistachios designated for aflatoxin testing in compliance with the requirements to Tables 1 and 2 of this paragraph. The test samples shall be prepared by, or under the supervision of an inspector, or as approved under an alternative USDA-recognized inspection program. The test samples shall be designated by an inspector as Test Sample #1 and Test Sample #2. Each sample shall be placed in a suitable container, with the lot number clearly identified, and then submitted to an accredited laboratory. The gross weight of the inshell lot sample for aflatoxin testing and the minimum number of incremental samples required are shown in Table 1 of this paragraph. The gross weight of the kernel lot sample for aflatoxin testing and the minimum number of incremental samples required is shown in the Table 2 of this paragraph.
Table 1 to § 983.150(
d
)(2)—Inshell Pistachio Lot Sampling Increments for Aflatoxin Certification
Lot weight
(lbs.)
Minimum number
of incremental
samples for the
lot sample
Total weight of
lot sample
(kilograms)
Weight of test
sample
(kilograms)
220 or less
10
2.0
2.0
221-440
15
3.0
3.0
441-1,100
20
4.0
4.0
1,101-2,200
30
6.0
6.0
2,201-4,400
40
8.0
8.0
4,401-11,000
60
12.0
6.0
11,001-22,000
80
16.0
8.0
22,001-150,000
100
20.0
10.0
Table 2 to § 983.150(
d
)(2)—Shelled Pistachio Kernel Lot Sampling Increments for Aflatoxin Certification
Lot weight
(lbs.)
Minimum number
of incremental
samples for the
lot sample
Total weight of
lot sample
(kilograms)
Weight of test
sample
(kilograms)
220 or less
10
1.0
1.0
221-440
15
1.5
1.5
441-1,100
20
2.0
2.0
1,101-2,200
30
3.0
3.0
2,201-4,400
40
4.0
4.0
4,401-11,000
60
6.0
3.0
11,001-22,000
80
8.0
4.0
22,001-150,000
100
10.0
5.0
(3)
Testing of pistachios.
Test samples shall be received and logged by an accredited laboratory and each test sample shall be prepared and analyzed using High Pressure Liquid Chromatography (HPLC), Vicam Method (Aflatest), or other methods as recommended by not fewer than eight members of the committee and approved by the Secretary. The aflatoxin level shall be calculated on a kernel weight basis.
(4)
Certification of lots “negative” as to aflatoxin.
(i) Lots which require a single test sample will be certified as “negative” on the aflatoxin certificate if the sample has an aflatoxin level at or below 15 ppb. If the aflatoxin level is above 15 ppb, the lot fails and the accredited laboratory shall fill out a failed lot notification report as specified in §§ 983.52 and 983.152.
(ii) Lots which require two test samples will be certified as “negative” on the aflatoxin inspection certificate if Test Sample #1 has an aflatoxin level at or below 10 ppb. If the aflatoxin level of Test Sample #1 is above 20 ppb, the lot fails and the accredited laboratory shall fill out a failed lot notification report as specified in §§ 983.52 and 983.152. If the aflatoxin level of Test Sample #1 is above 10 ppb and at or below 20 ppb, the accredited laboratory may at the handler's discretion analyze Test Sample #2 and the test results of Test Samples #1 and #2 will be averaged. Alternately, the handler may elect to withdraw the lot from testing, rework the lot, and resubmit it for testing after reworking. If the handler directs the laboratory to proceed with the analysis of Test Sample #2, a lot will be certified as negative to aflatoxin and the laboratory shall issue an aflatoxin inspection certificate if the averaged results of Test Sample #1 and Test Sample #2 is at or below 15 ppb. If the averaged aflatoxin level of Test Samples #1 and #2 is above 15 ppb, the lot fails and the accredited laboratory shall fill out a failed lot notification report as specified in §§ 983.52 and 983.152.
(iii) The accredited laboratory shall send a copy of the failed lot notification report to the Committee and to the failed lot's owner within 10 working days of any failure described in this
section. If the lot is certified as negative as described in this section, the aflatoxin inspection certificate shall certify the lot using a certification form identifying each lot by weight, grade, and date. The certification expires for the lot or remainder of the lot after 12 months.
(5)
Certification of aflatoxin levels.
Each accredited laboratory shall complete aflatoxin testing and reporting and shall certify that every lot of pistachios shipped domestically does not exceed the aflatoxin levels as required in paragraph (a) of this section or as provided under § 983.50. Each handler shall keep a record of each test, along with a record of final shipping disposition. These records must be maintained for three years beyond the production year of their applicability, and are subject to audit by the Secretary or the committee at any time.
(6)
Test samples that are not used for analysis.
If a handler does not elect to use Test Sample #2 for certification purposes, the handler may request that the laboratory return it to the handler.
[74 FR 56530, Nov. 2, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 43048, July 23, 2010; 79 FR 37932, July 3, 2014]
§ 983.152
Failed lots/rework procedure.
(a)
Inshell rework procedure for aflatoxin.
If inshell rework is selected as a remedy to meet the aflatoxin regulations of this part, then 100% of the product within that lot shall be removed from the bulk and/or retail packaging containers and reworked to remove the portion of the lot that caused the failure. Reworking shall consist of mechanical, electronic, or manual procedures normally used in the handling of pistachios. After the rework procedure has been completed, the total weight of the accepted product and the total weight of the rejected product shall be reported to the committee. The reworked lot shall be sampled and tested for aflatoxin as specified in § 983.150, except that the lot sample size and the test sample size shall be doubled. If, after the lot has been reworked and tested, it fails the aflatoxin test for a second time, the lot may be shelled and the kernels reworked, sampled, and tested in the manner specified for an original lot of kernels, or the failed lot may be used for non-human consumption or otherwise disposed of.
(b)
Kernel rework procedure for aflatoxin.
If pistachio kernel rework is selected as a remedy to meet the aflatoxin regulations in § 983.150, then 100% of the product within that lot shall be removed from the bulk and/or retail packaging containers and reworked to remove the portion of the lot that caused the failure. Reworking shall consist of mechanical, electronic, or manual procedures normally used in the handling of pistachios. After the rework procedure has been completed, the total weight of the accepted product and the total weight of the rejected product shall be reported to the committee. The reworked lot shall be sampled and tested for aflatoxin as specified in § 983.150.
[74 FR 56531, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.155
Reinspection.
(a) Any lot of inshell pistachios that is pin-picked, hand-sorted, color-sorted, and/or resized is considered to be “materially changed.” Pistachios which are roasted, salted, flavored, air-legged, dyed, color-coated, cleaned, and otherwise subjected to similar processes are not considered to be materially changed.
(b) Each handler who handles pistachios shall cause any lot or portion of a lot initially certified for aflatoxin, and subsequently materially changed, to be reinspected for aflatoxin and certified as a new lot or new lots:
Provided
, That, handlers exempted from order requirements under § 983.92 are exempt from all reinspection requirements.
[70 FR 61226, Oct. 21, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 51987, Sept. 1, 2006; 72 FR 69141, Dec. 7, 2007. Redesignated and amended at 74 FR 56530, Nov. 2, 2009]
§ 983.164
Reports.
(a)
ACP-2, Failed Lot Notification.
Each handler shall notify the Administrative Committee for Pistachios (committee) of all lots that fail to meet the order's maximum aflatoxin requirements by completing section A of this form. Handlers shall furnish this report to the committee no later than 10 days
after completion of the aflatoxin test. Each USDA-approved aflatoxin testing laboratory shall complete section C of this report, and forward this report and the failing aflatoxin test results to the committee and to the handler within 10 days of the test failure.
(b)
ACP-3, Failed Lot Disposition and Rework Report.
Each handler who reworks a failing lot of pistachios shall complete this report and shall forward it to the committee no later than 10 days after the rework is completed. If rework is not selected as a remedy, the handler shall submit the form to the committee office within 10 days of disposition of the lot.
(c)
ACP-4, Federal Marketing Order Exempt Handler Notification.
Each handler who handles less than 5,000 pounds of assessed weight pistachios in a production year shall complete and furnish this report to the committee no later than November 15 of each production year.
(d)
ACP-5, Minimal Testing Form.
Each handler who handles less than 1,000,000 pounds of dried weight pistachios in a production year and who wishes to request permission to handle under the minimal quantities provisions (§ 983.53) of the order shall furnish this report to the committee office no later than August 1 of each production year.
(e)
ACP-6, Inter-handler Transfer.
Each handler who transfers uninspected pistachios to another handler within the production area shall complete the ACP-6 and sign Part A. The transferring handler shall forward the original ACP-6 and one copy to the handler who receives the uninspected pistachios. The transferring handler shall furnish one copy of ACP-6 to the committee within 30 days of the transfer. The handler receiving the uninspected pistachios (receiving handler) shall sign Part B of the original ACP-6 and shall file it with the committee within 30 days of the transfer.
(f)
ACP-7 Monthly Report of Inventory/Shipments.
Each handler of pistachios shall file this report with the committee by the 10th day of each month for the previous month's inventory and shipment information.
(g)
ACP-8, Producer Delivery Report.
Each handler of pistachios shall file this report with the committee by the 15th day of December of each production year:
Provided,
That for the 2007-08 production year, handlers must file this report with the committee by April 17, 2008, to report his/her receipts of pistachios during the current production year, the names of the handlers' producing entities, business type, and the following information concerning each producing entity: Federal Tax Identification number; mailing and e-mail address; telephone and fax number; total bearing acres; county of production; and for the current production year, the total receipts of open inshell, closed shell, shelling stock of each producing entity; and total pounds of processed pistachios produced by each producing entity.
(h)
Exemptions.
Handlers who handle less than 5,000 pounds of assessed weight pistachios during any production year are exempt from filing all forms, with the exception of the ACP-4.
(i)
Records.
Each handler shall maintain all records of pistachios received, held, shipped, and disposed of for at least 3 years following each crop year to show compliance with the marketing order provisions.
[70 FR 39907, July 12, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 51987, Sept. 1, 2006; 72 FR 69141, Dec. 7, 2007; 73 FR 18705, Apr. 7, 2008. Redesignated and amended at 74 FR 56530, Nov. 2, 2009]

# Subpart C—Assessment Rate
§ 983.253
Assessment rate.
On and after September 1, 2021, an assessment rate of $0.0007 per pound is established for California, Arizona, and New Mexico pistachios.
[87 FR 22108, Apr. 14, 2022]
Pt. 984

# PART 984—WALNUTS GROWN IN CALIFORNIA

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Definitions
Sec.
984.1
Secretary.
984.2
Act.
984.3
Person.
984.4
Area of production.
984.5
Grower.
984.6
Board.
984.7
Marketing year.
984.8
Walnuts.
984.9
Inshell walnuts.
984.10
Shelled walnuts.
984.11
Merchantable walnuts.
984.12
Substandard walnuts.
984.13
To handle.
984.14
Handler.
984.15
Pack.
984.19
Manufacturer.
984.20
Kernelweight.
984.21
Handler inventory.
984.22
Trade demand..
984.23-984.26
[Reserved]
984.31
Part and subpart.
964.32
To certify.
984.33
[Reserved]

# Administrative Body
984.35
California Walnut Board.
984.36
Term of office.
984.37
Nominations.
984.38
Eligibility.
984.39
Qualify by acceptance.
984.40
Alternate.
984.41
Vacancy.
984.42
Expenses.
984.43
Powers.
984.44
Duties.
984.45
Procedure.
984.46
Research and development.

# Marketing Policy
984.48
Marketing estimates and recommendations.
984.49
[Reserved]

# Quality Control
984.50
Grade, quality and size regulations.
984.51—984.52
[Reserved]

# Reserve Walnuts
984.54—984.56
[Reserved]
984.59
Interhandler transfers.
984.64
Disposition of substandard walnuts.
984.65
Compliance.
984.66
[Reserved]
984.67
Exemptions.

# Expenses and Assessments
984.68
Expenses.
984.69
Assessments.

# Reports, Books and Other Records
984.70
Contributions.
984.71
Reports of handler carryover.
984.72
Reports of walnuts handled.
984.73
Reports of walnut receipts.
984.76
Other reports.
984.77
Verification of reports.
984.78
Certification of reports.
984.79
Confidential information.
984.80
Books and other records.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
984.83
Rights of the Secretary.
984.84
Personal liability.
984.85
Separability.
984.86
Derogation.
984.87
Duration of immunities.
984.88
Agents.
984.89
Effective time and termination.
984.90
Effect of termination or amendment.
984.91
Relationship with the California Walnut Commission.

# Subpart B—Assessment Rates
984.347
Assessment rate.

# Subpart C—Administrative Requirements
984.437
Method for proposing names of additional candidates to be included on walnut grower's nomination ballots.
984.445
Procedures for voting by mail, e-mail, telephone, videoconference, facsimile, or any other means of communication.
984.450—984.456
[Reserved]
984.459
Reports of interhandler transfers.
984.464
[Reserved]

# Reports
984.471
Reports of handler inventory.
984.472
Reports of merchantable walnuts, received, shipped, and committed.
984.473
Report of walnut receipts.
984.476
Report of walnut receipts from outside of the United States.
984.480
Books and other records.

# Subpart D—Research and Development Requirements
984.546
Credit for marketing promotion activities, including paid advertising.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 601-674.

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Source:
27 FR 9094, Sept. 13, 1962, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 984.1
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any other officer or employee of the United States Department of Agriculture who is, or who may be, authorized to perform the duties of the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States.
§ 984.2
Act.
Act
means Public Act No. 10, 73d Congress, as amended and as reenacted and
amended by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
).
§ 984.3
Person.
Person
means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other business unit.
§ 984.4
Area of production.
Area of production
means the State of California.
[41 FR 31542, July 29, 1976]
§ 984.5
Grower.
Grower
is synonymous with
producer
and means any person engaged in a proprietary capacity in the commercial production of walnuts.
§ 984.6
Board.
Board
means the California Walnut Board established pursuant to § 934.35.
[73 FR 11336, Mar. 3, 2008]
§ 984.7
Marketing year.
Marketing year
means the twelve months from September 1 to the following August 31, both inclusive, or any other such period deemed appropriate and recommended by the Board for approval by the Secretary.
[73 FR 11337, Mar. 3, 2008]
§ 984.8
Walnuts.
Walnuts
means only walnuts of the “English” (Juglans regia) varieties grown in California.
[41 FR 31542, July 29, 1976]
§ 984.9
Inshell walnuts.
Inshell walnuts
means walnuts the kernels of which are contained in the shell.
§ 984.10
Shelled walnuts.
Shelled walnuts
means walnut kernels after the shells are removed.
§ 984.11
Merchantable walnuts.
(a)
Inshell. Merchantable inshell walnuts
means all inshell walnuts meeting the minimum grade and size regulations effective pursuant to § 984.50.
(b)
Shelled. Merchantable shelled walnuts
means all shelled walnuts meeting the minimum grade and size regulations effective pursuant to § 984.50.
[27 FR 9094, Sept. 13, 1962, as amended at 39 FR 35328, Oct. 1, 1974]
§ 984.12
Substandard walnuts.
Substandard walnuts
means all walnuts (whether inshell or shelled) that do not meet the minimum standard prescribed for merchantable walnuts whenever regulations are in effect pursuant to § 984.50.
[88 FR 56748, Aug. 21, 2023]
§ 984.13
To handle.
To handle
means to receive, pack, sell, consign, transport, or ship (except as a common or contract carrier of walnuts owned by another person), or in any other way to put walnuts, inshell or shelled, into the current of commerce either within the area of production or from such area to any point outside thereof, or for a manufacturer or retailer within the area of production to purchase directly from a grower. However, sales and deliveries by a grower to handlers, hullers, or other processors within the area of production shall not, in itself, be considered as handling by a grower. The term “to handle” shall not include sales and deliveries within the area of production between handlers.
[88 FR 56748, Aug. 21, 2023]
§ 984.14
Handler.
Handler
means any person who handles inshell or shelled walnuts.
[73 FR 11337, Mar. 3, 2008]
§ 984.15
Pack.
Pack
means to bleach, clean, grade, shell or otherwise prepare walnuts for market as inshell or shelled walnuts.
[73 FR 11337, Mar. 3, 2008]
§ 984.19
Manufacturer.
Manufacturer
means any person who uses walnuts in the production of bakery goods, ice cream, candy, or other food products, except walnut oil.
§ 984.20
Kernelweight.
Kernelweight
means the determined weight of the kernels in a quantity of walnuts regardless of their quality.
[39 FR 35328, Oct. 1, 1974]
§ 984.21
Handler inventory.
Handler inventory as of any date
means all walnuts, inshell or shelled, wherever located, then held by a handler or for his or her account.
[85 FR 27108, May 7, 2020]
§ 984.22
Trade demand.
(a)
Inshell.
The quantity of inshell walnuts that the trade will acquire from all handlers during a marketing year for distribution in the United States and its territories.
(b)
Shelled.
The quantity of shelled walnuts that the trade will acquire from all handlers during a marketing year for distribution in the United States and its territories.
[73 FR 11337, Mar. 3, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 56748, Aug. 21, 2023]
§§ 984.23—984.26
[Reserved]
§ 984.31
Part and subpart.
Part
means the order regulating the handling of walnuts grown in California, and all rules, regulations, and supplementary orders issued thereunder. This order regulating the handling of walnuts grown in California shall be a
subpart
of such part.
[41 FR 31542, July 29, 1976]
§ 984.32
To certify.
To certify
means the issuance of a certification of inspection of walnuts in accordance with regulations issued pursuant to § 984.50.
[88 FR 56748, Aug. 21, 2023]
§ 984.33
[Reserved]

# Administrative Body
§ 984.35
California Walnut Board.
(a) A California Walnut Board is hereby established consisting of 10 members selected by the Secretary, each of whom shall have an alternate nominated and selected in the same way and with the same qualifications as the member. The members and their alternates shall be selected by the Secretary from nominees submitted by each of the following groups or from other eligible persons belonging to such groups:
(1) Two handler members from District 1;
(2) Two handler members from District 2;
(3) Two grower members from District 1;
(4) Two grower members from District 2;
(5) One grower member nominated at-large from the production area; and,
(6) One member and alternate who shall be selected after the selection of the nine handler and grower members and after the opportunity for such members to nominate the tenth member and alternate. The tenth member and his or her alternate shall be neither a walnut grower nor a handler.
(b) In the event that one handler handles 35% or more of the crop the membership of the Board shall be as follows:
(1) Two handler members to represent the handler that handles 35% or more of the crop;
(2) Two members to represent growers who market their walnuts through the handler that handles 35% or more of the crop;
(3) Two handler members to represent handlers that do not handle 35% or more of the crop;
(4) One member to represent growers from District 1 who market their walnuts through handlers that do not handle 35% or more of the crop;
(5) One member to represent growers from District 2 who market their walnuts through handlers that do not handle 35% or more of the crop;
(6) One member to represent growers who market their walnuts through handlers that do not handle 35% or more of the crop shall be nominated at large from the production area; and,
(7) One member and alternate who shall be selected after the selection of the nine handler and grower members and after the opportunity for such members to nominate the tenth member and alternate. The tenth member and his or her alternate shall be neither a walnut grower nor a handler.
(c) Grower Districts:
(1)
District 1.
District 1 encompasses the counties in the State of California that lie north of a line drawn on the south boundaries of San Mateo, Alameda, San Joaquin, Calaveras, and Alpine Counties.
(2)
District 2.
District 2 shall consist of all other walnut producing counties in the State of California south of the boundary line set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(d) The Secretary, upon recommendation of the Board, may reestablish districts, may reapportion members among districts, and may revise the groups eligible for representation on the Board as specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section: Provided, That any such recommendation shall require at least six concurring votes of the voting members of the Board. In recommending any such changes, the following shall be considered:
(1) Shifts in acreage within districts and within the production area during recent years;
(2) The importance of new production in its relation to existing districts;
(3) The equitable relationship between Board apportionment and districts;
(4) Changes in industry structure and/or the percentage of crop represented by various industry entities resulting in the existence of two or more major handlers;
(5) Other relevant factors.
[73 FR 11337, Mar. 3, 2008]
§ 984.36
Term of office.
The term of office for Board members and their alternates shall be for a period of two years ending on August 31 of odd-numbered years, but they shall serve until their respective successors are selected and have qualified.
[74 FR 18464, Apr. 23, 2009]
§ 984.37
Nominations.
(a) Nominations for all grower members shall be submitted by ballot pursuant to an announcement by press releases of the Board to the news media in the walnut producing areas. Such releases shall provide pertinent voting information, including the names of candidates and the location where ballots may be obtained. Ballots shall be accompanied by full instructions as to their markings and mailing and shall include the names of incumbents who are willing to continue serving on the Board and such other candidates as may be proposed pursuant to methods established by the Board with the approval of the Secretary. Each grower, regardless of the number and location of his or her walnut orchard(s), shall be entitled to cast only one ballot in the nomination and each vote shall be given equal weight. If the grower has orchards in both grower districts, he or she shall advise the Board of the district in which he/she desires to vote. The person receiving the highest number of votes for each grower position shall be the nominee.
(b) Nominations for handler members shall be submitted on ballots mailed by the Board to all handlers in their respective Districts. All handlers' votes shall be weighted by the weight of inshell walnuts handled by each handler during the preceding marketing year. Each handler in the production area may vote for handler member nominees and their alternates. However, no handler with less than 35% of the crop shall have more than one member and one alternate member. The person receiving the highest number of votes for each handler member position shall be the nominee for that position.
(c) A calculation to determine whether or not a handler who handles 35 percent or more of the crop shall be made prior to nominations. For the first nominations held upon implementation of this language, the 35 percent threshold shall be calculated using an average of crop handled for the year in which nominations are made and one year's handling prior. For all future nominations, the 35 percent handling calculation shall be based in the average of the two years prior to the year in which nominations are made. In the event that one handler handles 35% or more of the crop the membership of the Board, nominations shall be as follows:
(1) Nominations of growers who market their walnuts to the handler that handles 35% or more of the crop shall be conducted by that handler and the
names of the nominees shall be forwarded to the Board for approval and appointment by the Secretary.
(2) Nominations for the two handler members representing the major handler shall be conducted by the major handler and the names of the nominees shall be forwarded to the Board for approval and appointment by the Secretary.
(3) Nominations on behalf of all other grower members (Groups (b)(4), (5) and (6) of § 984.35) shall be submitted after ballot by such growers pursuant to an announcement by press releases of the Board to the news media in the walnut producing areas. Such releases shall provide pertinent voting information, including the names of candidates and the location where ballots may be obtained. Ballots shall be accompanied by full instructions as to their markings and mailing and shall include the names of incumbents who are willing to continue serving on the Board and such other candidates as may be proposed pursuant to methods established by the Board with the approval of the Secretary. Each grower in Groups (Groups (b)(4), (5) and (6) of § 984.35), regardless of the number and location of his or her walnut orchard(s), shall be entitled to cast only one ballot in the nomination and each vote shall be given equal weight. If the grower has orchard(s) in both grower districts he or she shall advise the Board of the district in which he or she desires to vote. The person receiving the highest number of votes for grower position shall be the nominee.
(4) Nominations for handler members representing handlers that do not handle 35% or more of the crop shall be submitted on ballots mailed by the Board to those handlers. The votes of these handlers shall be weighted by the weight of inshell walnuts handled by each handler during the preceding marketing year. Each handler in the production area may vote for handler member nominees and their alternates of this paragraph (c)(4). However, no handler shall have more than one person on the Board either as member or alternate member. The person receiving the highest number of votes for a handler member position of this paragraph (c)(4) shall be the nominee for that position.
(d) Each grower is entitled to participate in only one nomination process, regardless of the number of handler entities to whom he or she delivers walnuts. If a grower delivers walnuts to more than one handler entity, the grower must choose which nomination process he or she participates in.
(e) The nine members shall nominate one person as member and one person as alternate for the tenth member position. The tenth member and alternate shall be nominated by not less than 6 votes cast by the nine members of the Board.
(f) Nominations in the foregoing manner received by the Board shall be reported to the Secretary on or before June 15 of each odd-numbered year, together with a certified summary of the results of the nominations. If the Board fails to report nominations to the Secretary in the manner herein specified by June 15 of each odd-numbered year, the Secretary may select the members without nomination. If nominations for the tenth member are not submitted by September 1 of any such year, the Secretary may select such member without nomination.
(g) The Board may recommend, subject to the approval of the Secretary, a change to these nomination procedures should the Board determine that a revision is necessary.
[73 FR 11337, Mar. 3, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 56748, Aug. 21, 2023]
§ 984.38
Eligibility.
No person shall be selected or continue to serve as a member or alternate to represent one of the groups specified in § 984.35(a)(1) through (6) or § 984.38(b)(1) through (6), unless he or she is engaged in the business he or she is to represent, or represents, either in his or her own behalf or as an officer or employee if the business unit engaged in such business. Also, each member or alternate member representing growers in District 1 or District 2 shall be a grower, or officer or employee of the group he or she is to represent.
[73 FR 11338, Mar. 3, 2008]
§ 984.39
Qualify by acceptance.
Any person nominated to serve as a member or alternate member of the Board shall, prior to selection by USDA, qualify by filing a written qualification and acceptance statement indicating such person's willingness to serve in the position for which nominated.
[73 FR 11338, Mar. 3, 2008]
§ 984.40
Alternate.
(a) An alternate for a member of the Board shall act in the place and stead of such member in his or her absence or in the event of his or her death, removal, resignation, or disqualification, until a successor for his or her unexpired term has been selected and has qualified.
(b) In the event any member of the Board and his or her alternate are both unable to attend a meeting of the Board, any alternate for any other member representing the same group as the absent member may serve in the place of the absent member, or in the event such other alternate cannot attend, or there is no such other alternate, such member, or in the event of his disability or a vacancy, his or her alternate may designate, subject to the disapproval of the Secretary, a temporary substitute to attend such meeting. At such meeting such temporary substitute may act in the place of such member.
[73 FR 11338, Mar. 3, 2008]
§ 984.41
Vacancy.
Any vacancy occasioned by the removal, resignation, disqualification, or death of any member of alternate, or any need to select a successor through failure of any person selected as a member or alternate to qualify, shall be recognized by the Board causing a nomination to be made by the appropriate group and certifying to the Secretary a new nominee within 60 calendar days.
[39 FR 35330, Oct. 1, 1974, as amended at 41 FR 31543, July 29, 1976]
§ 984.42
Expenses.
The members and their alternates of the Board shall serve without compensation, but shall be allowed their necessary expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties under this part.
[73 FR 11338, Mar. 3, 2008]
§ 984.43
Powers.
The Board shall have the following powers:
(a) To administer the provisions of this part in accordance with its terms;
(b) To make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of this part;
(c) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of this part; and
(d) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this part.
§ 984.44
Duties.
The duties of the Board shall be as follows:
(a) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any handler or grower;
(b) To keep minute books and records which will clearly reflect all of its acts and transactions, and such minute books and records shall at any time be subject to the examination of the Secretary;
(c) To furnish to the Secretary a complete report of all meetings and such other available information as he may request;
(d) To appoint such employees as it may deem necessary and to determine the salaries, define the duties, and fix the bonds of such employees;
(e) To cause the books of the Board to be audited by one or more competent public accountants at least once for each marketing year and at such other times as the Board deems necessary or as the Secretary may request, and to file with the Secretary three copies of all audit reports made;
(f) To investigate the growing, shipping and marketing conditions with respect to walnuts and to assemble data in connection therewith;
(g) To investigate compliance with the provisions of this part; and
(h) To recommend rules and regulations for the purpose of administering this subpart.
§ 984.45
Procedure.
(a) The members of the Board shall select a chairman from their membership, and shall select such other officers and adopt such rules for the conduct of Board business as they deem advisable. The Board shall give the Secretary the same notice of its meetings as is given to members of the Board.
(b) All decisions of the Board, except where otherwise specifically provided (see § 984.35(d)), shall be by a sixty-percent (60%) super-majority vote of the members present. A quorum of six members, or the equivalent of sixty percent (60%) of the Board, shall be required for the conduct of Board business.
(c) The Board may vote by mail or telegram, or by any other means of communication, upon due notice to all members. The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, shall prescribe the minimum number of votes that must be cast when voting is by any of these methods, and any other procedures necessary to carry out the objectives of this paragraph.
(d) The Board may provide for meetings by telephone, or other means of communication and any vote cast at such a meeting shall be confirmed promptly in writing: Provided, That if any assembled meeting is held, all votes shall be cast in person.
[27 FR 9094, Sept. 13, 1962, as amended at 39 FR 35330, Oct. 1, 1974; 73 FR 11338, Mar. 3, 2008]
§ 984.46
Research and development.
(a)
Research and development authorities.
The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish or provide for the establishment of production research, marketing research and development projects, and marketing promotion, including paid advertising, designed to assist, improve, or promote the marketing, distribution, and consumption or efficient production of walnuts. The expenses of such projects shall be paid from funds collected pursuant to §§ 984.69 and 984.70 and may be credited back pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Credit-back for promotion expenses.
The Board may provide for crediting the pro rata expense assessment obligations of a handler with such portion of his or her direct expenditure for marketing promotion, including paid advertising, as may be authorized. The credit-back amount available to each handler shall be determined by that handler's percent of the industry's total volume of walnuts handled during the prior marketing year multiplied by the current marketing year's credit-back program budget. No handler shall receive credit-back for any creditable expenditures that would exceed the total amount of credit-back available to him or her for the applicable marketing year. Further, no handler shall receive credit-back in an amount that exceeds that handler's assessments paid in the applicable marketing year at the time the credit-back application is made. Marketing promotion expenses shall be credited at a rate recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary, where the credit rate is based on the amount per dollar of marketing promotion expenses for creditable expenditures paid by a handler during the applicable marketing year. Credit may be paid directly to the handler as a reimbursement of assessments paid or may be issued as recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary. The Board may also establish, subject to the approval of the Secretary, different credit rates for different products or different marketing promotion activities according to priorities determined by the Board and its marketing plan.
(c)
Creditable expenditures.
The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may credit-back all or any portion of a handler's direct expenditures for marketing promotion including paid advertising that promotes the sale of walnuts, walnut products or their uses. Such expenditures may include, but are not limited to, money spent for advertising space or time in newspapers, magazines, radio, television, transit, and outdoor media, including the actual standard agency commission costs not to exceed 15 percent, or as otherwise recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
[86 FR 16289, Mar. 29, 2021]

# Marketing Policy
§ 984.48
Marketing estimates and recommendations.
(a) Each marketing year the Board shall hold a meeting, prior to October 20, for the purpose of recommending to the Secretary a marketing policy for such year. Each year such recommendation shall be adopted by the affirmative vote of at least 60% of the Board and shall include the following:
(1) Its estimate of the orchard-run production in the area of production for the marketing year;
(2) The Board's estimate of the handler inventory on September 1 of inshell and shelled walnuts;
(3) Its estimate of the walnuts in the production;
(4) The Board's estimate of the trade demand for such marketing year for shelled and inshell walnuts, taking into consideration trade inventory, imports, prices, competing nut supplies, and other factors;
(5) The Board's recommendation for desirable handler inventory of inshell and shelled walnuts on August 31 of each marketing year;
(6) Its opinion as to whether grower prices are likely to exceed parity; and
(7) Its recommendation for change, if any, in grade and size regulations.
(b) [Reserved]
[39 FR 35330, Oct. 1, 1974; 39 FR 35999, Oct. 7, 1974, as amended at 41 FR 31543, July 29, 1976; 73 FR 11339, Mar. 3, 2008; 88 FR 56748, Aug. 21, 2023]
§ 984.49
[Reserved]

# Quality Control
§ 984.50
Grade, quality, and size regulations.
(a) The Board may recommend, subject to the approval of the Secretary, regulations that:
(1) Establish handling requirements for particular grades, sizes, or qualities, or any combination thereof, of any or all varieties or classifications of walnuts during any period;
(2) Establish different handling requirements and tolerance limits for particular grades, sizes, or qualities, or any combination thereof, for different market destinations;
(3) Establish different handling requirements for the processing of shelled walnuts and the handling thereof; and
(4) Establish inspection and certification requirements for the purposes of this paragraph (a) and paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) During any period, regulations issued under this section are in effect, no handler shall handle or process walnuts into manufactured items or products unless they meet the applicable requirements under this section as evidenced by certification acceptable to the Board.
(c) Regulations issued under this section may be amended, modified, suspended, or terminated whenever it is determined:
(1) That such action is warranted upon recommendation of the Board and approval by the Secretary, or other available information; or
(2) That regulations issued under this section no longer tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act.
[88 FR 56748, Aug. 21, 2023]
§§ 984.51—984.52
[Reserved]

# Reserve Walnuts
§§ 984.54—984.56
[Reserved]
§ 984.59
Interhandler transfers.
For the purposes of this part, transfer means the sale of inshell and shelled walnuts within the area of production by one handler to another. The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish methods and procedures, including necessary reports, for such transfers.
[73 FR 11339, Mar. 3, 2008]
§ 984.64
Disposition of substandard walnuts.
During any period when regulations are in effect pursuant to § 984.50, substandard walnuts may be disposed of only for manufacture into oil, livestock feed, or such other uses as the Board determines to be noncompetitive with existing domestic and export markets for merchantable walnuts and with proper safeguards to prevent such walnuts from thereafter entering channels of trade in such markets. Each
handler shall submit, in such form and at such intervals as the Board may determine, reports of his production and holdings of substandard walnuts and the disposition of all substandard walnuts to any other person, showing the quantity, lot, date, name and address of the person to whom delivered, the approved use and such other information pertaining thereto as the Board may specify.
[88 FR 56749, Aug. 21, 2023]
§ 984.65
Compliance.
Except as provided in this subpart, no person shall handle walnuts, inshell or shelled, during any marketing year in which this subpart and any regulations issued by the Secretary hereunder are in effect, unless such person has previously met the obligations imposed by each such regulation and the provisions of this subpart.
§ 984.66
[Reserved]
§ 984.67
Exemptions.
(a)
Exemptions from assessments and quality regulations
—(1)
Sales by growers direct to consumers.
Any walnut grower may handle walnuts of his production free of the regulatory and assessment provisions of this part if he sells such walnuts in the area of production directly to consumers under the following types of exemptions:
(i) At roadside stands and farmers' markets;
(ii) In quantities not exceeding an aggregate of 500 pounds of inshell walnuts or 200 pounds of shelled walnuts during any marketing year (at locations other than those specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section); and
(iii) If shipped by parcel post or express in quantities not exceeding 10 pounds of inshell walnuts or 4 pounds of shelled walnuts to any one consumer in any one calendar day.
(2)
Green walnuts.
Walnuts which are green and which are so immature that they cannot be used for drying and sale as dried walnuts may be handled without regard to the provisions of this part.
(3)
Noncompetitive outlets.
Any person may handle walnuts, free of the provisions of this part, for use by charitable institutions, relief agencies, governmental agencies for school lunch programs, and diversion to animal feed or oil manufacture pursuant to an authorized governmental diversion program.
(b)
Rules and modifications.
The Board may establish, with the approval of the Secretary, such rules, regulations and safeguards and such modifications as will promote the objectives of this subpart.
[27 FR 9094, Sept. 13, 1962, as amended at 41 FR 31544, July 29, 1976; 73 FR 11339, Mar. 3, 2008; 85 FR 27109, May 7, 2020; 88 FR 56749, Aug. 21, 2023]

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 984.68
Expenses.
The Board is authorized to incur such expenses as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by it during each marketing year for the maintenance and functioning of the Board, and for such other purposes as the Secretary may, pursuant to this part, determine to be appropriate. The Board shall file a proposed budget of expenses and a rate of assessment with the Secretary as soon as practicable after the beginning of each marketing year.
[41 FR 31544, July 29, 1976]
§ 984.69
Assessments.
(a)
Requirement for payment.
Each handler shall pay the Board, on demand, his or her pro rata share of the expenses authorized by the Secretary for each marketing year. Each handler's pro rata share shall be the rate of assessment per inshell pound of walnuts fixed by the Secretary times the pounds of walnuts received by him or her for his or her own account (except as to receipt from other handlers on which assessments have been paid). At any time during or after the marketing year the Secretary may increase the assessment rate as necessary to cover authorized expenses and each handler's pro rata share shall be adjusted accordingly.
(b)
Assessment rate.
The assessment rate set out may be modified by the Secretary, based upon a recommendation of the Board or other available data.
(c)
Late payment.
If a handler does not pay assessments within the time
prescribed by the Board, the assessment may be increased by a late payment charge and/or an interest rate charge at amounts prescribed by the Board with approval of the Secretary.
(d)
Accounting.
If at the end of a marketing year the assessments collected are in excess of expenses incurred, such excess shall be accounted for in accordance with one of the following:
(1) If such excess is not retained in a reserve, as provided in paragraph (d)(2) or (3) of this section, it shall be refunded to handlers from whom collected, and each handler's share of such excess funds shall be the amount of assessments he or she has paid in excess of his or her pro rata share of the actual expenses of the Board.
(2) Excess funds may be used temporarily by the Board to defray expenses of the subsequent marketing year provided each handler's share of such excess shall be made available to him or her by the Board within five months after the end of the year.
(3) The Board may carry over such excess into subsequent marketing years as a reserve: Provided, that funds already in reserve do not exceed approximately two years' budgeted expenses. In the event that funds exceed two marketing years' budgeted expenses, future assessments will be reduced to bring the reserves to an amount that is less than or equal to two marketing years' budgeted expenses. Such reserve funds may be used:
(i) To defray expenses, during any marketing year, prior to the time assessment income is sufficient to cover such expenses;
(ii) To cover deficits incurred during any year when assessment income is less than expenses;
(iii) To defray expenses incurred during any period when any or all provisions of this part are suspended; and
(iv) To meet any other such costs recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
(e)
Advanced assessments and commercial loans.
To provide funds for the administration of the provisions of this part during the part of a marketing year when neither sufficient operating reserve funds nor sufficient revenue from assessments for the current marketing year are available, the Board may accept payment of assessments in advance or may borrow money from a commercial lending institution for such purposes.
(f)
Termination.
Any money collected from assessments hereunder and remaining unexpended in the possession of the Board upon termination of this part shall be distributed in such manner as the Secretary may direct.
[88 FR 56749, Aug. 21, 2023]
§ 984.70
Contributions.
The Board may accept voluntary contributions but these shall only be used to pay expenses incurred pursuant to § 984.46, Research and development. Furthermore, such contributions shall be free from any encumbrances by the donor and the Board shall retain complete control of their use.
[73 FR 11339, Mar. 3, 2008]

# Reports, Books, and Other Records
§ 984.71
Reports of handler inventory.
Each handler shall submit to the Board in such form and on such dates as the Board may prescribe, reports showing his or her inventory of inshell and shelled walnuts.
[73 FR 11339, Mar. 3, 2008]
§ 984.72
Reports of walnuts handled.
Each handler who handles walnuts, inshell or shelled, at any time during a marketing year shall submit to the Board in such form and at such intervals as the Board may prescribe, reports showing the quantity so handled and such other information pertinent thereto as the Board may specify.
[88 FR 56750, Aug. 21, 2023]
§ 984.73
Reports of walnut receipts.
Each handler shall file such reports of his or her walnut receipts from growers, handlers, or others in such form and at such times as may be requested by the Board with the approval of the Secretary.
[73 FR 11339, Mar. 3, 2008]
§ 984.76
Other reports.
Upon request of the Board made with the approval of the Secretary each handler shall furnish such other reports and information as are needed to enable the Board to perform its duties and exercise its powers under this subpart.
§ 984.77
Verification of reports.
For the purpose of verifying and checking reports filed by handlers or the operations of handlers, the Secretary and the Board through its duly authorized representatives shall have access to any premises where walnuts and walnut records are held. Such access shall be available at any time during reasonable business hours. Authorized representatives shall be permitted to inspect any walnuts held and any and all records of the handler with respect to matters within the purview of this part. Each handler shall maintain complete records on the receiving, holding, and disposition of both inshell and shelled walnuts. Each handler shall furnish all labor necessary to facilitate such inspections at no expense to the Board or the Secretary. Each handler shall store all walnuts held by him or her in such manner as to facilitate inspection and shall maintain adequate storage records, which will permit accurate identification of respective lots and of all such walnuts held or disposed of theretofore. The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish any methods and procedures needed to verify reports.
[88 FR 56750, Aug. 21, 2023]
§ 984.78
Certification of reports.
All reports submitted to the Board as required in this part shall be certified to the Secretary and the Board as to the completeness and correctness of the information contained therein.
§ 984.79
Confidential information.
All reports and records submitted by handlers to the Board, which include data or information constituting a trade secret or disclosing the trade position, or financial condition or business operations of the handler shall be kept in custody of one or more employees of the Board and shall be disclosed to no person except the Secretary.
§ 984.80
Books and other records.
Each handler shall maintain such records of walnuts received, held and disposed of by him as may be prescribed by the Board for the purpose of performing its functions under this subpart. Such books and records shall be retained and be available for examination by authorized representatives of the Board and the Secretary for a period of two years after the end of the marketing year in which the recorded transactions are completed.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 984.83
Rights of the Secretary.
The members and alternates of the Board and any agent or employee appointed or employed by the Board, shall be subject to removal or suspension by the Secretary, at his discretion, at any time. Each and every decision, determination, or other act of the Board shall be subject to the continuing right of the Secretary to disapprove of the same at any time, and upon such disapproval, shall be deemed null and void.
§ 984.84
Personal liability.
No member or alternate of the Board, nor any employee or agent thereof shall be held personally responsible either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any handler or any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts either of commission or omission, as such member, alternate employee or agent, except for acts of dishonesty.
[39 FR 35332, Oct. 1, 1974, as amended at 41 FR 31545, July 29, 1976]
§ 984.85
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid, or the applicability thereof to any person, circumstance, or thing is held invalid, the validity of the remainder hereof or the applicability thereof to any other person, circumstance, or thing shall not be affected thereby.
§ 984.86
Derogation.
Nothing contained in this subpart is, or shall be construed to be, in derogation or in modification of the rights of the Secretary or of the United States to exercise any powers granted by the act or otherwise, or in accordance with such powers, to act in the premises whenever such action is deemed advisable.
§ 984.87
Duration of immunities.
The benefits, privileges, and immunities conferred upon any person by virtue of this subpart shall cease upon the termination hereof except with respect to acts done under and during the existence hereof.
§ 984.88
Agents.
The Secretary may, by a designation in writing, name any person, including any officer or employee of the Government, or name any subdivision of the United States Department of Agriculture, to act as his agent or representative in connection with any of the provisions of this subpart.
§ 984.89
Effective time and termination.
(a)
Effective time.
The provisions of this subpart shall become effective at such time as the Secretary may declare above his signature attached to this subpart, and shall continue in force until terminated in one of the ways hereinafter specified.
(b)
Termination.
(1) The Secretary may, at any time, terminate the provisions of this subpart by giving at least one day's notice by means of a press release or in any other manner which he may determine.
(2) The Secretary may terminate or suspend the operation of any or all of the provisions of this subpart, whenever he finds that such provisions do not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.
(3) The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this subpart at the end of any marketing year whenever he finds that such termination is favored by a majority of the producers of walnuts who during the preceding marketing year have been engaged in the production for market of walnuts in the State of California:
Provided,
That such majority have during such period produced for market more than 50 percent of the volume of such walnuts produced for market within said States, but such termination shall be effected only if announced on or before July 1 of the then current marketing year.
(4) Within six years of the effective date of this amendment the Secretary shall conduct a referendum to ascertain whether continuance of this part is favored by producers. Subsequent referenda to ascertain continuance shall be conducted every six years thereafter. The Secretary may terminate the provisions of this part at the end of any marketing year in which the Secretary has found that continuance of this part is not favored by a two-thirds (
2/3
) majority of voting producers, or a two-thirds (
2/3
) majority of volume represented thereby, who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production for market of walnuts in the production area. Such termination shall be announced on or before the end of the production year.
(5) The provisions of this subpart shall, in any event, terminate whenever the provisions of the act authorizing them cease to be in effect.
(c)
Proceedings after termination.
(1) Upon the termination of the provisions of this subpart, the members of the Board then functioning shall continue as joint trustees, for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Board, of all funds and property then in the possession or under the control of the Board, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered at the time of such termination. Action by said trusteeship shall require the concurrence of a majority of the said trustees.
(2) Said trustees shall continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary; shall from time to time, account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Board and the joint trustees to such person as the Secretary may direct; and shall, upon the request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such person full title and right to all of the funds, property,
and claims vested in the Board or the joint trustees pursuant hereto.
(3) Any person to whom funds, property or claims have been transferred or delivered by the Board or its members, pursuant to this section, shall be subject to the same obligation imposed upon the members of the said Board and upon said joint trustees.
[27 FR 9094, Sept. 13, 1962, as amended at 41 FR 31545, July 29, 1976; 73 FR 11340, Mar. 3, 2008; 88 FR 56750, Aug. 21, 2023]
§ 984.90
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any regulation issued pursuant to this subpart, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not (a) affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or any regulation issued under this subpart, or (b) release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or of any regulation issued under this subpart, or (c) affect or impair any rights or remedies of the Secretary or of any other person, with respect to any such violation.
§ 984.91
Relationship with the California Walnut Commission.
In conducting Board activities and other objectives under this part, the Board may deliberate, consult, cooperate and exchange information with the California Walnut Commission, whose activities compliment those of the Board. Any sharing of information gathered under this subpart shall be kept confidential in accordance with provisions under section 10(i) of the Act.
[73 FR 11340, Mar. 3, 2008]

# Subpart B—Assessment Rates
§ 984.347
Assessment rate.
On and after September 1, 2024, an assessment rate of $0.0125 per inshell pound is established for California walnuts.
[89 FR 93151, Nov. 26, 2024]

# Subpart C—Administrative Requirements
§ 984.437
Methods for proposing names of additional candidates to be included on walnut growers' nomination ballots.
(a) With regard to Board grower member positions specified in § 984.35(a)(5) and (b)(6), any ten or more such growers who marketed an aggregate of 500 or more tons of walnuts through handlers who did not handle 35% or more of the crop during the marketing year preceding the year in which Board nominations are held, may petition the Board to include on the nomination ballot the name of an eligible candidate for this position, and the name of an eligible candidate to serve as his or her alternate. The names of the eligible candidates proposed pursuant to this paragraph shall be included on the ballot together with the names of any incumbents who are willing to continue serving on the Board.
(b) Any ten or more growers eligible to serve in the grower member positions specified in § 984.35(a)(3) and (4) or § 984.35(b)(4) and (5) and who marketed an aggregate of 500 or more tons of walnuts through handlers who did not handle 35% or more of the crop during the marketing year preceding the year in which Board nominations are held, may petition the Board to include on the nomination ballot for a district the name of an eligible candidate for the applicable position, and the name of an eligible candidate to serve as his or her alternate. The names of the eligible candidates proposed pursuant to this paragraph shall be included on the ballot together with the names of any incumbents who are willing to continue serving on the Board.
(c) Petitions made pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be on forms supplied by the Board and filed no later than April 1 of the nomination year.
[41 FR 54476, Dec. 14, 1976, as amended at 73 FR 73997, Dec. 5, 2008; 74 FR 9047, Mar. 2, 2009]
§ 984.445
Procedures for voting by mail, e-mail, telephone, videoconference, facsimile, or any other means of communication.
(a) Whenever the Board votes upon any proposition by mail, e-mail, or facsimile, at least six members or alternates acting as members must vote and one dissenting vote shall prevent its adoption. Each proposition to be voted upon by mail, e-mail, or facsimile shall specify a time limit for members to vote, after which the alternates shall be given the opportunity to vote.
(b) Whenever the Board conducts meetings by telephone, videoconference, or any technology that enables member interaction, the vote shall be conducted by roll call.
[75 FR 1527, Jan. 12, 2010]
§§ 984.450—984.456
[Reserved]
§ 984.459
Reports of interhandler transfers.
(a) Any handler who transfers walnuts to another handler within the State of California shall submit to the Board, not later than 10 calendar days following such transfer, a report showing the following:
(1) The date of transfer;
(2) The net weight, in pounds, of the walnuts transferred;
(3) [Reserved]
(4) Whether such walnuts were inshell or shelled;
(5) The name and address of the transferring handler; and
(6) The name and address of the receiving handler.
(b) The transferring handler shall send two copies of the report to the receiving handler at the time the report is submitted to the Board. The receiving handler shall certify, on one copy of the report, to the receipt of such walnuts and submit it to the Board within 10 calendar days after the walnuts, or copies of such report, have been received, whichever is later.
[65 FR 39286, June 26, 2000, as amended at 88 FR 56750, Aug. 21, 2023]
§ 984.464
[Reserved]

# Reports
§ 984.471
Reports of handler inventory.
Reports of handler inventory as of September 1, January 1, and April 1 of each marketing year shall be submitted to the Board on CWB Form No. 4 for inshell walnuts and on CWB Form No. 5 for shelled walnuts, on or before September 15, January 15, and April 15 respectively, of that marketing year.
[74 FR 56696, Nov. 3, 2009]
§ 984.472
Reports of walnuts, received, shipped, and committed.
(a) Reports of walnuts shipped during a month shall be submitted to the Board on California Walnut Board (CWB) Form No. 6 not later than the 5th day of the following month. Such reports shall include all shipments during the preceding month and shall show for inshell and shelled walnuts: the quantity shipped; whether they were shipped into domestic or export channels; and for exports, the quantity by country of destination. If a handler makes no shipments during any month, he/she shall submit a report marked “None.” If a handler has completed his/her shipments for the season, he/she shall mark the report “Completed,” and he/she shall not be required to submit any additional CWB Form No. 6 reports during the remainder of that marketing year.
(b) Reports of walnuts purchased directly from growers by handlers who are manufacturers or retailers shall be submitted to the Board on CWB Form No. 6, not later than the 5th day of the month following the month in which the walnuts were purchased. Such reports shall show the quantity of walnuts purchased.
(c) Reports of walnuts on which handlers have made purchase commitments with buyers during the month, but which have not yet been shipped, shall be submitted to the Board on CWB Form No. 6, not later than the 5th day of the month following the month in which the walnuts were committed. Such reports shall show the quantity of walnuts committed in either inshell or shelled pounds. If the handler made no commitments during any month, he/
she shall mark “None” in the “Purchase Commitments” section of CWB Form No. 6.
[88 FR 56750, Aug. 21, 2023]
§ 984.473
Report of walnut receipts.
Each handler shall file a report of his walnut receipts from growers on or before January 15 of each marketing year on forms supplied by the Board.
[40 FR 22267, May 22, 1975]
§ 984.476
Report of walnut receipts produced outside California or the United States.
Each handler who receives walnuts from outside California or the United States shall file with the Board, on CWB Form No. 7, a report of the receipt of such walnuts. The report shall be filed as follows: On or before December 5 for such walnuts received during the period September 1 to November 30; on or before March 5 for such walnuts received during the period December 1 to February 28 (February 29 in a leap year); on or before June 5 for such walnuts received during the period March 1 to May 31; and on or before September 5 for such walnuts received during the period June 1 to August 31. The report shall include the quantity of such walnuts received, the country of origin for such walnuts, and whether such walnuts are inshell or shelled.
[88 FR 56750, Aug. 21, 2023]
§ 984.480
Books and other records.
Each handler shall maintain true and complete records of all inshell and shelled walnuts and walnut material, by categories, received, held, or disposed of by him. The records shall be maintained in such form as to permit verification of all transactions involved and shall be made available during normal business hours to authorized representatives of the Board or the Secretary of Agriculture. These records shall include the following:
(a) The names and addresses of the persons from whom received, and the quantities received from each such person;
(b) The names and addresses of the persons to whom disposal is made, and the quantities disposed of to each such person;
(c) The quantities used by the handler for such purposes as manufacturing, production of oil, and livestock feeding; and
(d) The quantities held on September 1, January 1, and April 1 of each marketing year.
[40 FR 22268, May 22, 1975, as amended at 74 FR 56697, Nov. 3, 2009]

# Subpart D—Research and Development Requirements
§ 984.546
Credit for marketing promotion activities, including paid advertising.
(a)
Timeliness of reimbursement claim and credit-back rate.
For a handler to receive credit-back for his or her own marketing promotional activities pursuant to § 984.46, the Board shall determine that such expenditures meet the applicable requirements of this section. Credit-back may be granted in the form of reimbursement for all creditable expenditures paid within the applicable marketing year subject to the effective credit-back rate;
Provided,
that such creditable expenditures are documented to the satisfaction of the Board within 15 days after the end of that marketing year. Credit may be granted for a handler's creditable expenditures in an amount not to exceed that handler's pro-rata share of the credit-back fund. No more than 70 cents ($0.70) shall be credited back to a handler for every dollar spent on qualified activities.
(b)
Assessment payments.
The handler assessment is due as defined in § 984.69. A handler shall be current on all assessment payments prior to receiving credit-back for creditable expenditures.
(c)
Handler eligibility for reimbursement.
The Board shall grant credit-back for qualified activities only to the handler who performed such activities and who filed a claim for credit-back in accordance with this section.
(d)
Applicability to marketing year.
Credit-back shall be granted only for creditable expenditures for qualified activities that are conducted and completed during the marketing year for which credit-back is requested.
(e)
Qualified activities.
The following requirements shall apply to all creditable expenditures resulting from qualified activities:
(1) Credit-back granted by the Board shall be that which is appropriate when compared to accepted professional practices and rates for the type of activity conducted. In the case of claims for credit-back activities not covered by specific and established criteria, the Board shall grant the claim if it is consistent with practices and rates for similar activities.
(2) The clear and evident purpose of each qualified activity shall be to promote the sale, consumption or use of California walnuts.
(3) No credit-back will be given for any activity that targets the farming or grower trade.
(4) Credit-back will not be allowed in any case for travel expenses, or for any promotional activities that result in price discounting.
(5) Credit-back shall be granted for those qualified activities specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section:
(i) Credit-back shall be granted for paid media directed to end-users, trade or industrial users, and for money spent on paid advertising space or time, including, but not limited to, newspapers, magazines, radio, television, online, transit and outdoor media, and including the standard agency commission costs not to exceed 15 percent of gross.
(ii) Credit-back shall be granted for market promotion other than paid advertising, for the following activities:
(A) Marketing research (except pre-testing and test-marketing of paid advertising);
(B) Trade and consumer product public relations: Provided, that no credit-back shall be given for related fees charged by an advertising or public relations agency;
(C) Sales promotion (in-store demonstrations, production of promotional materials, sales and marketing presentation kits, etc., excluding couponing); and
(D) Trade shows (booth rental, services, and promotional materials).
(iii) For any qualified activity involving a handler promoting branded products, a handler selling multiple complementary products, including other nuts, with such activity including the handler's name or brand, or joint participation by a handler and a manufacturer or seller of a complementary product(s), the amount allowed for credit-back shall reflect that portion of the activity represented by walnuts. If the product is owned or distributed by the handler, in order to receive any amount of credit-back, the product must list the ownership or distributorship on the package and display the handler's name and the handler's brand. The words “California Walnuts” must be included on the primary, face label. Such activities must also meet the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section.
(iv) If the handler is engaged in marketing promotion activities pursuant to a contract with the Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS), USDA, and/or the California Department of Food and Agriculture (CDFA), unless the Board is administering the foreign marketing program, such activities shall not be eligible for credit-back unless the handler certifies that he or she was not and will not be reimbursed by either FAS or CDFA for the amount claimed for credit-back, and has on record with the Board all claims for reimbursement made to FAS and/or the CDFA. Foreign market expenses paid by third parties as part of a handler's contract with FAS or CDFA shall not be eligible for credit-back.
(6) A handler must file claims with the Board to obtain credit-back for creditable expenditures, as follows:
(i) All claims submitted to the Board for any qualified activity must include:
(A) A description of the activity and when and where it was conducted;
(B) Copies of all invoices from suppliers or agencies;
(C) Copies of all canceled checks or other proof of payment issued by the handler in payment of these invoices; and
(D) An actual sample, picture or other physical evidence of the qualified activity.
(ii) Handlers may receive reimbursement of their paid assessments up to their pro-rata share of available dollars to be based on their percentage of the
prior marketing year crop total. In all instances, handlers must remit the assessment to the Board when billed, and reimbursement will be issued to the extent of proven, qualified activities.
(iii) Checks from the Board in payment of approved credit-back claims will be mailed to handlers within 30 days of receipt of eligible claims.
(iv) Final claims for the marketing year pertaining to such qualified activities must be submitted with all required elements within 15 days after the close of the Board's marketing year.
(f)
Appeals.
If a determination is made by the Board staff that a particular marketing promotional activity is not eligible for credit-back because it does not meet the criteria specified in this section, the affected handler may request the Executive Committee review the Board staff's decision. If the affected handler disagrees with the decision of the Executive Committee, the handler may request that the Board review the Executive Committee's decision. If the handler disagrees with the decision of the Board, the handler, through the Board, may request that the Secretary review the Board's decision. Handlers have the right to request anonymity in the review of their appeal. The Secretary maintains the right to review any decisions made by the aforementioned bodies at his or her discretion.
[86 FR 16289, Mar. 29, 2021]
Pt. 985

# PART 985—MARKETING ORDER REGULATING THE HANDLING OF SPEARMINT OIL PRODUCED IN THE FAR WEST

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Definitions
Sec.
985.1
Secretary.
985.2
Act.
985.3
Person.
985.4
Spearmint oil.
985.5
Production area.
985.6
Producer.
985.7
Handler.
985.8
Handle.
985.9
Marketing year.
985.10
Crop.
985.11
Salable oil.
985.12
Salable quantity.
985.13
Annual allotment.
985.14
Part and subpart.

# Administrative Committee
985.20
Establishment and membership.
985.21
Eligibility.
985.22
Term of office.
985.23
Nominations.
985.24
Selection.
985.25
Alternate members.
985.26
Vacancies.
985.27
Powers.
985.28
Duties.
985.29
Procedure.
985.30
Expenses and compensation.

# Research
985.31
Research and development projects.

# Expenses and Assessments
985.40
Expenses.
985.41
Assessments.
985.42
Accounting.

# Volume Limitations
985.50
Marketing policy.
985.51
Recommendations for volume regulation.
985.52
Issuance of volume regulation.
985.53
Allotment base.
985.54
Issuance of annual allotments.
985.55
Identification.
985.56
Excess oil.
985.57
Reserve pool requirements.
985.58
Exempt oil.
985.59
Transfers.

# Reports and Records
985.60
Reports.
985.61
Records.
985.62
Verification of reports and records.
985.63
Confidential information.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
985.64
Compliance.
985.65
Rights of the Secretary.
985.66
Derogation.
985.67
Agents.
985.68
Personal liability.
985.69
Duration of immunities.
985.70
Separability.
985.71
Effective time.
985.72
Termination.
985.73
Proceedings after termination.
985.74
Effect of termination or amendment.

# Subpart B—Administrative Requirements
985.104
Changed classes of spearmint oil.
985.141
Assessment rate.
985.152
Handling report.
985.153
Issuance of additional allotment base to new and existing producers.
985.154
Issuance of annual allotments.
985.155
Identification of oil by producer.
985.156
Transfer of excess oil by producers.
985.157
Reserve pool requirements.
985.233
Salable quantities and allotment percentages—2023-2024 marketing year.
985.234
Salable quantities and allotment percentages—2024-2025 marketing year.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 601-674.

# Source:
45 FR 25040, Apr. 14, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Definitions
§ 985.1
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any other officer or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture who is, or who may be, authorized to perform the duties of the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States.
§ 985.2
Act.
Act
means Public Act No. 10, 73d Congress, as amended, and reenacted and amended by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (sections 1-19, Stat. 31, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 601-674).
§ 985.3
Person.
Person
means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other business unit.
§ 985.4
Spearmint oil.
Spearmint oil,
hereinafter referred to as
oil,
means essential oil extracted by distillation from plants, grown in the production area, of the genus Mentha, species Cardiaca (commonly referred to as Scotch Spearmint), Spicata (commonly referred to as Native Spearmint), or such other species, grown in the production area, that produce a spearmint flavored oil. Oil shall be segregated into the following classes:
Class 1:
Oil extracted from the first cutting of Scotch Spearmint.
Class 2:
Oil extracted from the second cutting of Scotch Spearmint.
Class 3:
Oil extracted from Native Spearmint.
Class 4:
Oil which has a spearmint flavor, extracted from plants other than Scotch or Native Spearmint.
The Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may change these classes to recognize new, or delete obsolete, classes.
§ 985.5
Production area.
Production area
means all the area within the States of Washington, Idaho, Oregon, and that portion of Nevada north of the 37th parallel and that portion of Utah west of the 111th meridian. The area shall be divided into the following districts:
(a) District 1. State of Washington
(b) District 2. The State of Idaho and that portion of the States of Nevada and Utah included in the production area.
(c) District 3. The State of Oregon.
[61 FR 32924, June 26, 1996]
§ 985.6
Producer.
Producer
is synonymous with
grower
and means any person engaged in a proprietary capacity in the commercial production of oil or who causes it to be produced.
§ 985.7
Handler.
Handler
means any person who handles oil.
§ 985.8
Handle.
Handle
means to prepare oil for market, acquire oil from a producer, use oil commercially of own production, or sell, transport, or ship (except as a common or contract carrier of oil owned by another), or otherwise place oil into the current of commerce within the production area or from the area to points outside thereof:
Provided,
That:
(a) The preparation for market of salable oil by producers who are not dealers or users,
(b) The sale or transportation of salable oil by a producer to a handler of record within the production area, or
(c) The transfer of excess oil by the producer to another producer to enable that producer to fill a deficiency in an annual allotment, or
(d) The delivery of excess oil by the producer to the Committee or its designees, shall not be construed as handling.
§ 985.9
Marketing year.
Marketing year
means the 12 months from June 1 to the following May 31, inclusive, or such other period as the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish.
§ 985.10
Crop.
Crop
means that oil produced by a producer during the marketing year.
§ 985.11
Salable oil.
Salable oil
means that oil which is free to be handled.
§ 985.12
Salable quantity.
Salable quantity
means the total quantity of each class of oil which handlers may purchase from, or handle on behalf of, producers during a marketing year.
§ 985.13
Annual allotment.
Annual allotment
means that portion of the salable quantity prorated to a producer.
§ 985.14
Part and subpart.
Part
means the order regulating the handling of oil grown in the production area, and all rules and regulations issued thereunder. The order shall be a
subpart
of such part.

# Administrative Committee
§ 985.20
Establishment and membership.
A Spearmint Oil Administrative Committee is hereby established (hereinafter referred to as
Committee
) and shall consist of eight members, each of whom shall have an alternate, to administer the terms and provisions of this part. Four of the members and alternates shall be producers in District 1; two members and alternates shall be producers in District 2; and one member and alternate shall be a producer in District 3. One member and alternate shall represent the public.
§ 985.21
Eligibility.
Each member and alternate member of the Committee shall be, at the time of selection and during the term of office, a producer, or an officer or employee of a producer, in the district for which selected:
Provided,
That these requirements should not apply to the public member and alternate member.
§ 985.22
Term of office.
The term of office of each member and alternate member of the Committee shall be for two calendar years:
Provided,
That one-half of the initial members and alternates shall serve for terms ending December 31, 1980, and one-half of the initial members and alternates shall serve for terms ending December 31, 1981. Members and alternates shall serve in such capacity for the term of office for which they are selected and have qualified and until their respective successors are selected and have qualified. No member shall serve more than two consecutive terms as member and no alternate shall serve more than two consecutive terms as alternate.
§ 985.23
Nominations.
(a)
Procedure.
(1) Nominations for producer members of the Committee and their alternates shall be made at nomination meetings of producers in each District. Such meetings shall be held at such times (on or before November 1 of each year) and places as the Committee shall designate. One nominee shall be elected for each position to be filled. The names and addresses of each nominee shall be submitted to the Secretary not later than December 1 of each year.
(2) Only producers, including duly authorized officers or employees of producers present and eligible to serve as producer members of the Committee, shall participate in the nomination. If a producer produces oil in more than one district, the producer shall select the district in which that producer will participate and notify the Committee of the choice.
(3) Should the Committee find it impractical to hold nomination meetings, nominations may be submitted to the Secretary based on the results of balloting by mail. Ballots to be used may contain the names of candidates and a blank space for write-in candidates for each position, together with voting instructions. The eligible person receiving the highest number of votes for a
member or alternate position shall be the nominee for that position.
(4) The producer members of the Committee shall nominate the public member and alternate and member at the first meeting following the selection of members for a new term of office.
(b)
Initial members.
As soon as practicable following the effective date of this subpart, the Secretary shall hold, or cause to be held, nomination meetings of producers in each district to nominate the initial members of the Committee.
(c) The Committee with the approval of the Secretary shall issue rules and regulations necessary to carry out the provisions of this section or to change the procedures in this section in the event they are no longer practical.
§ 985.24
Selection.
Committee members shall be selected by the Secretary from nominees submitted by the Committee or from among other eligible persons. Each person so selected shall qualify by filing a written acceptance with the Secretary prior to assuming the duties of the position.
§ 985.25
Alternate members.
An alternate for a member shall act in the place of such member (a) in the member's absence, (b) in the event of the member's death, removal, resignation, or disqualification, until a successor for the member's unexpired term has been selected and has qualified, or (c) when requested and designated by the member.
§ 985.26
Vacancies.
To fill any vacancy occasioned by the failure of any person appointed as a member or as an alternate member of the Committee to qualify, or in the event of the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any member or alternate member of the Committee, a successor to fill the unexpired term shall be nominated and appointed in the manner specified in §§ 985.23 and 985.24. If the names of the nominees to fill any such vacancy are not made available to the Secretary within 30 days after such vacancy occurs, the Secretary may fill such vacancy without regard to nominations, which appointment shall be made on the basis of representation provided for in § 985.20.
§ 985.27
Powers.
The Committee shall have the following powers:
(a) To administer this subpart in accordance with its terms and provisions;
(b) To make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of this subpart;
(c) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of this part; and
(d) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this subpart.
§ 985.28
Duties.
The Committee shall have, among others, the following duties;
(a) To select from among its membership such officers and adopt such rules or by-laws for the conduct of its meetings as it deems necessary;
(b) To appoint such employees as it may deem necessary, and to determine the compensation and to define the duties of each employee;
(c) To appoint such subcommittees and consultants as it may deem necessary;
(d) To keep minutes, books, and records which will reflect all of the acts and transactions of the Committee and which shall be subject to examination by the Secretary;
(e) To prepare periodic statements of the financial operations of the Committee and to make copies of each such statement available to producers and handlers for examination at the office of the Committee;
(f) To cause the books of the Committee to be audited by a certified public accountant at such times as the Committee may deem necessary, or as the Secretary may request, to submit copies of each audit report to the Secretary, and to make available a copy which does not contain confidential data for inspection at the offices of the committee by producers and handlers;
(g) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any producer or handler;
(h) To investigate and assemble data on the growing, handling, and marketing conditions with respect to oil;
(i) To submit to the Secretary such available information as may be requested or that the Committee may deem desirable and pertinent;
(j) To notify producers and handlers of all meetings of the Committee to consider recommendations for regulations and of all regulatory actions taken affecting producers and handlers;
(k) To give the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the Committee and its subcommittees as is given to its members;
(l) To investigate compliance and use means available to prevent violations of the provisions of this part;
(m) With the approval of the Secretary, to redefine the districts into which the production area is divided and to reapportion the representation of any district on the Committee:
Provided,
That such changes shall reflect insofar as practical, shifts in oil production within the production area and numbers of producers; and
(n) To establish with the approval of the Secretary such rules and regulations as are necessary or incidental to administration of this subpart, as are consistent with its provisions, and as would tend to accomplish the purposes of this subpart and the act.
§ 985.29
Procedure.
(a) At an assembled meeting, all votes shall be cast in person and seven members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum. Decisions of the Committee shall require the concurring vote of at least six members. If both a Committee member and appropriate alternate are unable to attend a Committee meeting, the Committee may designate any other alternate from the same district who is present at the meeting to serve in the member's place.
(b) The Committee may vote by mail, telephone, telegraph, or other means of communication:
Provided,
That each proposition is explained accurately, fully, and identically to each member. All votes shall be confirmed promptly in writing. Seven concurring votes and no dissenting votes shall be required for approval of a Committee action by such method.
§ 985.30
Expenses and compensation.
Members of the Committee, their alternates, subcommittees including any special subcommittees, shall serve without compensation but shall receive such allowances for necessary expenses, incurred in performing their duties, as may be approved by the Committee.

# Research
§ 985.31
Research and development proj­ects.
The Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish or provide for the establishment of production research, marketing research and development projects designed to assist, improve, or promote the marketing, distribution and consumption or efficient production of oil. The Committee shall consider ongoing research, by industry and grower organizations, in making its recommendations. The expense of such projects shall be paid from funds collected pursuant to § 985.41.

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 985.40
Expenses.
The Committee is authorized to incur such expenses as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by it for such purposes as the Secretary may, pursuant to this subpart, determine to be appropriate, and for the maintenance and functioning of the Committee during each marketing year. The Committee shall submit to the Secretary a budget for each marketing year, including an explanation of the items appearing therein, and a recommendation as to the rate of assessment for such year.
§ 985.41
Assessments.
(a)
Requirements for payment.
Each person who first handles salable oil shall pay to the Committee, upon demand, that handler's pro rata share of the expenses authorized by the Secretary for each marketing year. Each handler's pro rata share shall be the rate of assessment fixed by the Secretary times the quantity of oil which
the handler handles as the first handler thereof. The payment of assessments for the maintenance and functioning of the Committee and for such purposes as the Secretary may, pursuant to this subpart, determine to be appropriate, may be required under this part throughout the period it is in effect, irrespective of whether particular provisions thereof are suspended or become inoperative.
(b)
Rate of assessment.
The Secretary shall fix the rate of assessment to be paid by each handler. At any time during or after the marketing year, the Secretary may increase the rate of assessment as necessary to cover authorized expenses. Such increase shall be applied to all oil handled during the applicable marketing year. In order to provide funds for the administration of this part before sufficient operating income is available from assessments, the Committee may accept advance assessments and may also borrow money for such purpose. Advance assessments received from a handler shall be credited toward assessments levied against the handler during the marketing year.
§ 985.42
Accounting.
(a)
Excess funds.
At the end of a marketing year, funds in excess of the year's expenses may be placed in an operating reserve not to exceed approximately one marketing year's operational expenses or such lower limits as the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish. Funds in such reserve shall be available for use by the Committee for expenses authorized pursuant to § 985.40. Funds in excess of those placed in the operating reserve shall be refunded to handlers:
Provided,
That any sum paid by a first handler in excess of that handler's pro rata share of the expenses during any marketing year may be applied by the Committee at the end of such marketing year to any outstanding obligations due the Committee from such person. Each handler's share of such excess funds shall be the amount of assessments paid in excess of that handler's pro rata share.
(b)
Disposition of funds upon termination of order.
Upon termination of this part, any funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be disposed of in such manner as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate:
Provided,
That to the extent practicable, such funds will be returned pro rata to the first handler from whom such funds were collected.

# Volume Limitations
§ 985.50
Marketing policy.
(a) The Committee shall meet on or before January 15 of each year to adopt a marketing policy for the ensuing marketing year or years. As soon as is practical following the meeting or meetings, the Committee shall submit to the Secretary recommendations for volume regulations deemed necessary to meet market requirements and establish orderly marketing conditions. Additional reports shall be submitted to the Secretary of the Committee subsequently adopts a new or revised policy because of changes in the demand and supply situation with respect to the various classes of oil.
(b) In determining such marketing policy, Committee consideration shall include but not be limited to:
(1) The estimated quantity of salable oil of each class held by producers and handlers;
(2) The estimated demand for each class of oil;
(3) Prospective production of each class of oil;
(4) Total of allotment bases of each class of oil for the current marketing year and the estimated total of allotment bases of each class for the ensuing marketing year;
(5) The quantity of reserve oil, by class, in storage;
(6) Producer prices of oil, including prices for each class of oil;
(7) General market conditions for each class of oil, including whether the estimated season average price to producers is likely to exceed parity.
(c) Notice of the marketing policy recommendations for a marketing year and any later changes shall be announced publicly by the Committee, and be submitted promptly to the Secretary and all producers and handlers. The Committee shall publicly announce its marketing policy or revision thereof and notice and contents thereof shall be submitted to producers and
handlers by bulletins or through appropriate media.
(d) As soon as practicable following the effective date of this subpart and the organization of the Committee, the Committee may adopt a marketing policy for the 1980-81 marketing year.
§ 985.51
Recommendations for volume regulation.
(a) If the Committee's marketing policy considerations indicate a need for limiting the quantity of oil of each class marketed, the Committee shall recommend to the Secretary a salable quantity and allotment percentage for the ensuing marketing year. Such recommendations shall be made prior to February 15, or such other date as the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish.
(b) At any time during the marketing year for which the Secretary, pursuant to § 985.52(a), has established a salable quantity and an allotment percentage for each class of oil, the Committee may recommend to the Secretary that such quantity be increased with an appropriate increase in the allotment percentage. Each such recommendation, together with the Committee's reason for such recommendation, shall be submitted promptly to the Secretary.
(c) As soon as practical following the effective date of this subpart and the organization of the Committee, the Committee may recommend a salable quantity for the 1980-81 marketing year.
§ 985.52
Issuance of volume regulation.
(a) Whenever the Secretary finds, on the basis of the Committee's recommendation or other information, that limiting the total quantity of a class of oil of any crop that handlers may purchase from or handle on behalf of producers during a marketing year, would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act, the Secretary shall establish the salable quantity for that oil.
The salable quantity shall be prorated among producers by applying an allotment percentage to each producer's allotment base for that class of oil. The allotment percentage shall be established for each class of oil by dividing the salable quantity by the total of all producers' allotment bases for the same class of oil.
(b) When an allotment percentage for a class of oil is established for any marketing year, no handler shall purchase from or handle on behalf of producers any oil of that class during such year unless:
(1) It is, at the time of handling, within the unused portion of a producer's annual allotment, and
(2) Such handler notifies the Committee of the handling in such manner as it may prescribe.
§ 985.53
Allotment base.
(a)
Initial issuance.
Each producer desiring an allotment base for one or more classes of oil shall register with the Committee and furnish to it, on forms provided by the Committee, a report of the number of pounds of each class of oil sold during each of the marketing years of 1977, of 1978, and of 1979, which is the representative base period, and the number of pounds of each class of oil currently available for sale and the location of such oil, the name and address of each handler, the quantity of oil by class sold to each handler, the acreage and location of each year's production of spearmint, and any additional information requested by the Committee. A producer who has changed or changes identity from an individual producer to a partnership or corporate producer, or from a partnership to a corporate or individual producer, or from a corporate to a partnership or individual producer, may for the purpose of establishing the initial and subsequent allotment base, register with the Committee as one and the same person.
(b)(1) Initially, the allotment base for each class of oil shall be established by the Committee for each registered producer, at the option of such producer, as follows:
(i) The average annual number of pounds of oil of that class sold during any two marketing years of the representative base period; or
(ii) The average annual number of pounds of that class of oil sold during the representative period plus 33
1/3
percent of oil of that class currently available for sale; or
(iii) The quantity of that class of oil sold during the 1979 marketing year, plus the quantity of that class of oil currently available for sale.
(2) If a producer has spearmint planted by February 27, 1979, but has no sales history during the representative period, the producer's allotment base shall be established by multiplying its acreage to be harvested for spearmint oil by the average amount of oil per acre sold in the allotment base of other producers in the state or area, whichever is more representative, in which the acreage is located:
Provided,
That, the Committee shall review and adjust these allotment bases in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section on the basis of the producer's sales of spearmint oil.
(c) Periodically, but at least once every five years, the Committee shall review and adjust each producer's allotment base to recognize changes and trends in production and demand. Any such adjustment shall be made in accordance with a formula prescribed by the Committee with the approval of the Secretary.
(d)(1) Beginning with the 1982-83 marketing year, the Committee annually shall make additional allotment bases available for each class of oil in the amount of no more than 1 percent of the total allotment base for that class of oil. Fifty percent of these additional allotment bases shall be made available for new producers and 50 percent made available for existing producers.
(2) Any person may apply for an additional allotment base for any class of oil by filing an application with the Committee on or before December 1 of the marketing year preceding the marketing year for which the additional allotment bases will be made available.
(3) The Committee shall, with the approval of the Secretary, establish rules and regulations to be used for determining the distribution of additional allotment bases. In establishing such rules, the Committee shall take into account, among other things, the minimum economic enterprise requirements for oil production, the applicant's ability to produce oil, the area where the oil will be produced and other economic and marketing factors.
(e) The right to each producer receiving an allotment base, or any legal successor in interest, to retain all or part of an allotment base, shall be dependent on continuance to make a bona fide effort to produce the annual allotment referable thereto and failing to do so, such allotment base shall be reduced by an amount equivalent to such unproduced portions.

# Effective Date Note:
At 50 FR 41480, Oct. 11, 1985, in § 985.53, paragraph (d)(2) was suspended indefinitely.
§ 985.54
Issuance of annual allotments.
(a) Whenever the Secretary establishes a salable quantity and allotment percentage for a class of oil that may be freely marketed during a marketing year, the Committee shall issue an annual allotment to each producer holding an allotment base for that class of oil. Each producer's annual allotment for a class of oil shall be determined by multiplying the producer's allotment base for that class of oil by the applicable allotment percentage.
(b) On or before December 1, the Committee shall furnish each registered holder of an allotment base a form for the producer to apply for an annual allotment for the ensuing marketing year. The Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, shall establish rules and regulations prescribing the information to be submitted on this form. The Committee shall notify each producer of the producer's annual allotment for each class of oil within 10 days after the Secretary establishes the salable quantity and allotment percentage.
(c) Through 1981, a handler may acquire oil of a producer's own production to fulfill a written contract entered into by these two persons prior to February 27, 1979. The terms of this contract shall require the producer to deliver to that handler a specified quantity of a class of oil from that producer's production at a specific price from a specified acreage and produced prior to 1982. The quantity of oil acquired by the handler pursuant to that contract during the 1980-81 or 1981-82 marketing year may exceed the producer's annual allotment for the applicable marketing year, but shall be
charged against the producer's annual allotment for that year.
§ 985.55
Identification.
(a) Each producer shall, under supervision of the Committee, identify each class of oil within 15 days following its production, or such other period of time as is recommended by the Committee with the approval of the Secretary. Identification of oil shall be accomplished before its delivery either to a handler for handling as salable oil, or to the Committee or its designees for storage as excess oil.
(b) Identification shall indicate whether the oil is salable or excess oil and include the name of the producer, the class of oil, the net weight, the container number and such other information as may be required by the Committee.
(c) Identification shall be accomplished in accordance with rules and regulations established by the Committee with the approval of the Secretary.
(d) No handler shall handle as salable oil, and the Committee shall not receive as excess oil, any oil that has not been identified as provided in this section, and no person shall alter or remove any identification except when incidental to final disposition.
§ 985.56
Excess oil.
Oil of any class in excess of a producer's applicable annual allotment shall be identified as excess oil and shall be disposed of as follows:
(a) Before October 15, or such date as the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish, a producer, following notification of the Committee, may transfer excess oil to another producer to enable that producer to fill a deficiency in that producer's annual allotment, or
(b) Before November 1, or such other date as the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish, excess oil, not used to fill another producer's deficiency, shall be delivered to the Committee or its designees for storage. Such oil shall be stored for the account of the producer. All costs of storage including identification and insurance shall be paid by the producer of excess oil. No handler shall handle excess oil and no producer shall deliver excess oil to other than the Committee or its designees.
(c) The Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish such rules and regulations as it deems necessary for the transfer or storage of excess oil.
§ 985.57
Reserve pool requirements.
(a) On November 1, or such other date as the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary may establish, the Committee shall pool identified excess oil as reserve oil in such manner as to accurately account for its receipt, storage, and disposition. The Committee shall store reserve oil for the account of the producer and maintain the identity of the reserve oil by producer's name, the year produced, the class of oil, and such other identification as may be used in normal commercial trade practices. The Committee shall designate a Committee employee as reserve pool manager.
(b)
Disposition.
(1) When, in any marketing year, a producer has produced less than the annual allotment of a class of oil, the producer may, upon notification of the Committee, fill the deficiency with the same class of reserve oil from the producer's prior production.
(2) Prior to March 15 of any year, or such other date as recommended by the Committee and approved by the Secretary, a producer may notify the Committee of a possible deficiency in the producer's ensuing year's production of oil and wishes to use reserve oil from own production to fill the ensuing year's annual allotment. The Committee shall approve the producer's request if the oil is still available at the time of the request.
(3) Under supervision of the Committee, a producer may exchange salable oil for the same class and quantity of reserve oil from own production so long as the oil is properly identified.
(4) When the Committee finds that additional oil is needed to fill the normal market demand, it shall offer all or a portion of the reserve oil for sale to handlers. Offers to sell, extension of offers and withdrawal of offers shall be subject to disapproval by the Secretary. The Committee may establish
rules and regulations governing the offers and sale to handlers.
(5) The Committee may use reserve oil for market development projects approved by the Secretary. Such projects may be conducted by the Committee or in conjunction with or through handlers.
(c)
Pool expenses and proceeds.
Expenses incurred by the Committee in handling and storing reserve oil shall be paid by the equity holders. The proceeds from the disposition of reserve oil shall be distributed, after deduction of any expenses incurred by the Committee in receiving, handling, storing, and disposing thereof, to the equity holders or their successors in interest, on the basis of the number of pounds, class of oil and quality credited to each equity holder's account in the pool. A full accounting to each equity holder, or successor in interest, in each reserve pool shall be made by the Committee annually.
§ 985.58
Exempt oil.
Oil held by a producer or handler on the effective date of this subpart shall not be regulated under this subpart if reported and identified to the Committee not later than 60 days after that date. Any such oil not reported and identified to the Committee shall be subject to all regulation under this subpart.
§ 985.59
Transfers.
(a) Nothing contained in this part shall prevent a producer from transferring the location where that producer's annual allotment is produced to another location except that the producer shall report the transfer to the Committee within 30 days after the transfer.
(b) A producer may transfer all or part of an allotment base to another producer under rules and regulations established by the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary:
Provided,
That the allotment base obtained by transfer from another producer or issued pursuant to § 985.53(d)(1) shall not be transferred for at least 2 years following transfer or issuance, and that the person receiving the allotment base submit to the Committee, evidence of an ability to produce and sell oil from such allotment base in the first marketing year following the transfer or issuance of the allotment base.

# Reports and Records
§ 985.60
Reports.
(a)
Inventory.
Each handler shall file with the Committee a certified report showing such information as the Committee may specify with respect to any oil which was held by the handler at such times as the Committee may designate.
(b)
Receipts.
Each handler shall, upon request of the Committee, file with the Committee a certified report showing for each lot of oil received, the identifying marks, class of oil, weight, place of production, and the producer's name and address at such times as the Committee may designate.
(c)
Other reports.
Upon the request of the Committee, each handler shall furnish such other information as may be necessary to enable the Committee to exercise its powers and perform its duties under this part.
§ 985.61
Records.
Each handler shall maintain such records pertaining to all oil handled as will substantiate the required reports. All such records shall be maintained for not less than 2 years after the termination of the marketing year to which such records relate.
§ 985.62
Verification of reports and records.
For the purpose of assuring compliance with record keeping requirements and verifying reports filed by producers and handlers, the Secretary and the Committee, through its duly authorized employees, shall have access to any premises where applicable records are maintained, where oil is received or held, and at any time during reasonable business hours, shall be permitted to inspect such handlers' premises, and any and all records of such handlers with respect to matters within the purview of this part.
§ 985.63
Confidential information.
All reports and records furnished or submitted by handlers to, or obtained by the employees of the Committee,
which contain data or information constituting a trade secret or disclosing the trade position, financial condition, or business operations of the particular handler from whom received, shall be treated as confidential and the reports and all information obtained from records shall, at all times, be kept in the custody and under the control of one or more employees of the Committee who shall disclose such information to no person other than the Secretary.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 985.64
Compliance.
No person shall handle oil except in conformity with the provisions of this part.
§ 985.65
Rights of the Secretary.
Members of the Committee and subcommittees, and any agents, employees or representatives thereof, shall be subject to removal or suspension by the Secretary at any time. Each and every decision, determination, and other act of the Committee shall be subject to the continuing right of disapproval by the Secretary at any time. Upon such disapproval, the disapproved action of the Committee shall be deemed null and void, except as to acts done in reliance thereon or in accordance therewith prior to such disapproval by the Secretary.
§ 985.66
Derogation.
Nothing contained in this part is, or shall be construed to be, in derogation or in modification of the rights of the Secretary or of the United States (a) to exercise any powers granted by the act or otherwise, or (b) in accordance with such powers, to act in the premises whenever such action is deemed advisable.
§ 985.67
Agents.
The Secretary may, by designation in writing, name any officer or employee of the United States or name any agency or division in the U.S. Department of Agriculture, to act as the Secretary's agent or representative in connection with any of the provisions of this part.
§ 985.68
Personal liability.
No member or alternative member of the Committee and no employee or agent of the Committee shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member, alternate, employee, or agent, except for acts of dishonesty, willful misconduct, or gross negligence.
§ 985.69
Duration of immunities.
The benefits, privileges, and immunities conferred upon any person by virtue of this part shall cease upon its termination, except with respect to acts done under and during the existence of this part.
§ 985.70
Separability.
If any provision of this part is declared invalid or the applicability thereof to any person, circumstance or thing is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this part or the applicability thereof to any other person, circumstance, or thing shall not be affected thereby.
§ 985.71
Effective time.
The provisions of this subpart, and of any amendment thereto, shall become effective at such time as the Secretary may declare and shall continue in force until terminated or suspended in one of the ways specified in § 985.72.
§ 985.72
Termination.
(a)
Failure to effectuate.
The Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operation of any or all of the provisions of this part upon a finding that such provisions obstruct or do not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.
(b)
Referendum.
The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this subpart at the end of any marketing year upon a finding that such termination is favored by a majority of the producers who, during the preceding marketing year, produced for market more than 50 percent of the volume of oil so produced:
Provided,
That termination shall be effective only if announced before
May 31 of the then current marketing year.
(c)
Termination of act.
The provisions of this subpart shall, in any event, terminate whenever the provisions of the act authorizing them cease to be in effect.
§ 985.73
Proceedings after termination.
Upon termination of the provisions of this part, the Committee shall, for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Committee, continue as trustees of all the funds and property then in its possession or under its control, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered at the time of such termination. The said trustees shall (a) continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary; (b) from time to time account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Committee and of the trustees, to such persons as the Secretary may direct; and (c) upon the request of the Secretary execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such person full title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims vested in the Committee or the trustees pursuant thereto. Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered, pursuant to this section, shall be subject to the same obligation imposed upon the Committee and upon trustees.
§ 985.74
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any regulation issued pursuant to this subpart, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not (a) affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have risen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or any regulation issued hereunder, or (b) release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or any regulation issued hereunder, or (c) affect or impair any rights or remedies of the Secretary or any other person with respect to any such violation.

# Subpart B—Administrative Requirements
§ 985.104
Changed classes of spearmint oil.
Pursuant to § 985.4, the classes of spearmint oil contained in that section are changed by deleting the term and definition
Class 2
Oil and changing the definition of
Class 1
Oil. The changed classes are as follows:
Class 1:
Oil extracted from Scotch Spearmint.
Class 3:
Oil extracted from Native Spearmint.
Class 4:
Oil which has a spearmint flavor, extracted from plants other than Scotch or Native Spearmint.
[48 FR 53400, Nov. 28, 1983]
§ 985.141
Assessment rate.
On and after June 1, 2020, an assessment rate of $0.14 per pound is established for Far West spearmint oil. Unexpended funds may be carried over as a reserve.
[85 FR 41328, July 10, 2020]
§ 985.152
Handling report.
Whenever an allotment percentage has been established for a class of oil, each handler shall furnish to the Committee at least the following information for each lot of that class of oil acquired by the handler from a producer: (a) Name of producer; (b) name of handler; (c) class of oil acquired; (d) date of acquisition; (e) date when oil was produced; (f) net weight of oil in the lot; (g) quantity of that class of oil in the producer's annual allotment available for handler before this acquisition; and (h) quantity of oil remaining in the producer's annual allotment after this acquisition. This information shall be furnished in such manner as the Committee may prescribe. Upon acquisition the handler or the handler's agent also shall include the applicable information on the back of the producer's Annual Allotment Certificate, showing that the acquired oil was within the unused portion of the producer's annual allotment.
[46 FR 43130, Aug. 27, 1981]
§ 985.153
Issuance of additional allotment base to new and existing producers.
(a)
Definitions.
(1)
New producer
means any person who never was issued an allotment base by the Committee for a class of oil in any capacity either as an individual, or as a member of a partnership, corporation, or any other business unit.
(2)
Existing producer
means any person who was issued an allotment based by the Committee for a class of oil in any capacity either as an individual, or as a member of a partnership, corporation, or any other business unit. Any person who was initially issued an allotment base for a class of oil and changed identity of operation, as set forth in § 985.53(a), since April 14, 1980, and requests additional allotment base for that class of oil pursuant to this section, shall be deemed to be an existing producer.
(b)
Requests.
Any new or existing producer desiring additional allotment base for any class of oil made available by the Committee pursuant to § 985.53(d)(1) shall request such base by a date specified by the Committee prior to the marketing year for which such base will be made available.
(c)
Issuance
—(1)
New producers
—(i)
Regions:
For the purpose of issuing additional allotment base to new producers, the production area is divided into the following regions:
(A)
Region A.
The State of Washington.
(B)
Region B.
All areas of the production area outside the State of Washington.
(ii) The Committee shall review all requests from new producers for additional allotment base made available pursuant to § 985.53(d)(1).
(iii) Each year, the Committee shall determine the size of the minimum economic enterprise required to produce each class of oil. The Committee shall thereafter calculate the number of new producers who will receive allotment base under this section for each class of oil. The Committee shall include that information in its announcements to new producers in each region informing them when to submit requests for allotment base. The Committee shall determine whether the new producers requesting additional base have the ability to produce spearmint oil. The names of all eligible new producers from each region shall be placed in separate lots per class of oil. For each class of oil, separate drawings shall be held from a list of all applicants from Region A and from a list of all applicants from Region B. If, in any marketing year, there are no requests for additional base in a class of oil from eligible new producers in a region, such unallocated additional allotment base shall be issued to an eligible new producer whose name is selected by drawing from a list containing the names of all remaining eligible new producers from the other region for that class of oil. The Committee shall immediately notify each new producer whose name was drawn and issue that producer an allotment base in the appropriate amount. Allotment base issued to new producers under this section shall not be transferred for at least five years following issuance.
(2)
Existing producers.
(i) The Committee shall review all requests from existing producers for additional allotment base.
(ii)
Class 1 base.
With respect to the issuance of additional Class 1 allotment base to existing producers for the 2014-2015 through the 2016-2017 marketing years, existing producers with less than 5,121 pounds of allotment base as of October 17, 2012, who request additional allotment base and who have the ability to produce additional quantities of Class 1 spearmint oil, shall be issued additional allotment base sufficient to bring them up to a level not to exceed 5,121 pounds:
Provided,
That such additional Class 1 allotment base shall be allocated to eligible producers on a pro-rata basis from available additional Class 1 allotment base:
Provided further,
That additional allotment base shall not be issued to any person if such additional allotment base would replace all or part of an allotment base that such person has previously transferred to another producer. Additional allotment base in excess of the amount needed to bring eligible producers up to 5,121 pounds of Class 1 allotment base shall be distributed on a prorated basis among all existing producers who apply
and who have the ability to produce additional quantities of spearmint oil.
(iii)
Class 3 base.
With respect to the issuance of additional Class 3 allotment base for existing producers for the 2014-2015 through the 2017-2018 marketing years, existing producers with less than 5,812 pounds of allotment base as of October 17, 2012, who request additional allotment base and who have the ability to produce additional quantities of Class 3 spearmint oil, shall be issued additional allotment base sufficient to bring them up to a level not to exceed 5,812 pounds:
Provided,
That such additional Class 3 allotment base shall be allocated to eligible producers on a pro-rata basis from available additional Class 3 allotment base:
Provided further,
That additional allotment base shall not be issued to any person if such additional allotment base would replace all or part of an allotment base that such person has previously transferred to another producer. Additional allotment base in excess of the amount needed to bring eligible producers up to 5,812 pounds of Class 3 allotment base shall be distributed on a prorated basis among all existing producers who apply and who have the ability to produce additional quantities of spearmint oil.
(iv) For each marketing year after 2016-2017 for Class 1 oil and 2017-2018 for Class 3 oil, each existing producer of a class of spearmint oil who requests additional allotment base, and who has the ability to produce additional quantities of that class of spearmint oil, shall be eligible to receive a share of the additional allotment base issued for that class of oil. Additional allotment base issued by the Committee for a class of oil shall be distributed on a prorated basis among the eligible producers for that class of oil. The Committee shall immediately notify each producer who is to receive additional allotment base by issuing that producer an allotment base in the appropriate amount. Allotment base issued to existing producers under this section shall not be transferred for at least two years following issuance, except that additional allotment base allocated pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) and (c)(2)(iii) of this section shall not be transferred for at least five years following issuance.
(d) The person receiving additional allotment base pursuant to this section shall submit to the Committee evidence of an ability to produce and sell oil from such allotment base in the first marketing year following issuance of such base.
[47 FR 41332, Sept. 20, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 41480, Oct. 11, 1985; 51 FR 45450, Dec. 19, 1986; 56 FR 51829, Oct. 16, 1991; 57 FR 28595, June 26, 1992; 62 FR 43465, Aug. 14, 1997; 65 FR 30344, May 11, 2000; 68 FR 25486, May 13, 2003; 79 FR 37936, July 3, 2014]
§ 985.154
Issuance of annual allotments.
(a) Each producer who is a registered holder of an allotment base, and desiring an annual allotment for the ensuing marketing year, shall apply to the Committee for that allotment. The registered holder shall furnish at least the following information:
(1) The number of acres of each species (Scotch or Native) of spearmint planted, or intended to be planted for harvest in the ensuing marketing year;
(2) Whether the spearmint to be harvested in the ensuing marketing year is baby mint (first year harvest) or mature mint (second year or older harvest); and
(3) Any changes in location or production as reported for the preceding year.
(b) In order to enable the Committee to ensure compliance and verify furnished information, each producer requesting an annual allotment shall permit the Committee or its representatives, whenever necessary, to measure the producer's spearmint acreage.
[46 FR 43130, Aug. 27, 1981, as amended at 88 FR 82235, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 985.155
Identification of oil by producer.
Following the distillation of oil and prior to delivery either to a handler for handling as salable oil or to the Committee or its designee for storage as excess oil, each producer shall furnish the following information to the Committee:
Provided,
That any class of oil retained by a producer shall be reported to the Committee within 15 days following the completion of its distillation.
(a) Producer's name and address;
(b) Date the oil was put into the drum;
(c) Class of oil in the drum;
(d) Drum identification number;
(e) Approximate net weight of the oil;
(f) Handler's pickup receipt number, when applicable;
(g) Destination of oil for storage;
(h) Name of the firm where the oil was distilled; and
(i) Name of the person submitting the information.
[46 FR 43130, Aug. 27, 1981]
§ 985.156
Transfer of excess oil by producers.
(a) Pursuant to § 985.56(a), before December 1 of each marketing year, a producer, following notification of the Committee, may transfer excess oil to another producer to enable that producer to fill a deficiency in that producer's annual allotment.
(b) Pursuant to § 985.56(b), before December 1 of each marketing year, excess oil not used to fill another producer's deficiency shall be delivered to the Committee or its designees for storage.
[78 FR 9577, Feb. 11, 2013]
§ 985.157
Reserve pool requirements.
Pursuant to § 985.57(a), on December 1, the Committee shall pool identified excess oil as reserve oil in such manner as to accurately account for its receipt, storage, and disposition.
[78 FR 9577, Feb. 11, 2013]
§ 985.233
Salable quantities and allotment percentages—2023-2024 marketing year.
The salable quantity and allotment percentage for each class of spearmint oil during the marketing year beginning on June 1, 2023, shall be as follows:
(a) Class 1 (Scotch) oil—a salable quantity of 772,704 pounds and an allotment percentage of 34 percent.
(b) Class 3 (Native) oil—a salable quantity of 1,034,492 pounds and an allotment percentage of 40 percent.
[89 FR 45563, May 23, 2024]
§ 985.234
Salable quantities and allotment percentages—2024-2025 marketing year.
The salable quantity and allotment percentage for each class of spearmint oil during the marketing year beginning on June 1, 2024, shall be as follows:
(a) Class 1 (Scotch) oil—a salable quantity of 663,648 pounds and an allotment percentage of 29 percent.
(b) Class 3 (Native) oil—a salable quantity of 678,980 pounds and an allotment percentage of 26 percent.
[89 FR 45563, May 23, 2024]
Pt. 986

# PART 986—PECANS GROWN IN THE STATES OF ALABAMA, ARKANSAS, ARIZONA, CALIFORNIA, FLORIDA, GEORGIA, KANSAS, LOUISIANA, MISSOURI, MISSISSIPPI, NORTH CAROLINA, NEW MEXICO, OKLAHOMA, SOUTH CAROLINA, AND TEXAS

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling of Pecans

# Definitions
Sec.
986.1
Accumulator.
986.2
Act.
986.3
Affiliation.
986.4
Blowouts.
986.5
To certify.
986.6
Confidential data or information.
986.7
Container.
986.8
Council.
986.9
Crack.
986.10
Cracks.
986.11
Custom harvester.
986.12
Department or USDA.
986.13
Disappearance.
986.14
Farm Service Agency.
986.15
Fiscal year.
986.16
Grade and size.
986.17
Grower.
986.18
Grower-cleaned production.
986.19
Handler.
986.20
To handle.
986.21
Handler inventory.
986.22
Handler-cleaned production.
986.23
Hican.
986.24
Inshell pecans.
986.25
Inspection service.
986.26
Inter-handler transfer.
986.27
Merchantable pecans.
986.28
Pack.
986.29
Pecans.
986.30
Person.
986.31
Production area.
986.32
Proprietary capacity.
986.33
Regions.
986.34
Representative period.
986.35
Secretary.
986.36
Sheller.
986.37
Shelled pecans.
986.38
Stick-tights.
986.39
Trade supply.
986.40
Unassessed inventory.
986.41
Varieties.
986.42
Warehousing.
986.43
Weight.

# Administrative Body
986.45
American Pecan Council.
986.46
Council nominations and voting.
986.47
Alternate members.
986.48
Eligibility.
986.49
Acceptance.
986.50
Term of office.
986.51
Vacancy.
986.52
Council expenses.
986.53
Powers.
986.54
Duties.
986.55
Procedure.
986.56
Right of the Secretary.
986.57
Funds and other property.
986.58
Reapportionment and reestablishment of regions.

# Expenses, Assessments, and Marketing Policy
986.60
Budget.
986.61
Assessments.
986.62
Inter-handler transfers.
986.63
Contributions.
986.64
Accounting.
986.65
Marketing policy.

# Authorities Relating to Research, Promotion, Data Gathering, Packaging, Grading, Compliance, and Reporting
986.67
Recommendations for regulations.
986.68
Authority for research and promotion activities.
986.69
Authorities regulating handling.
986.70
Handling for special purposes.
986.71
Safeguards.
986.72
Notification of regulation.

# Reports, Books, and Other Records
986.75
Reports of handler inventory.
986.76
Reports of merchantable pecans handled.
986.77
Reports of pecans received by handlers.
986.78
Other handler reports.
986.79
Verification of reports.
986.80
Certification of reports.
986.81
Confidential information.
986.82
Books and other records.

# Administrative Provisions
986.86
Exemptions.
986.87
Compliance.
986.88
Duration of immunities.
986.89
Separability.
986.90
Derogation.
986.91
Liability.
986.92
Agents.
986.93
Effective time.
986.94
Termination.
986.95
Proceedings after termination.
986.96
Amendments.
986.97
Counterparts.
986.98
Additional parties.
986.99
Order with marketing agreement.

# Subpart B—Administrative Provisions
986.161
Assessment rate.
986.162
Inter-handler transfers.
986.175
Handler inventory.
986.177
Reports of pecans received by handlers.
986.178
Other reports.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 601-674.

# Source:
81 FR 51302, Aug. 4, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling of Pecans

# Definitions
§ 986.1
Accumulator.
Accumulator
means a person who compiles inshell pecans from other persons for the purpose of resale or transfer.
§ 986.2
Act.
Act
means Public Act No. 10, 73d Congress, as amended and as reenacted and amended by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
).
§ 986.3
Affiliation.
Affiliation.
This term normally appears as “affiliate of” or “affiliated with,” and means a person such as a grower or sheller who is: A grower or handler that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, owns or controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with the grower or handler specified; or a grower or handler that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, is connected in a proprietary capacity, or shares the ownership or control of the specified grower or handler with one or more other growers or handlers. As used in this part, the term “control” (including the terms “controlling,” “controlled by,” and “under the common control with”)
means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a handler or a grower, whether through voting securities, membership in a cooperative, by contract or otherwise.
§ 986.4
Blowouts.
Blowouts
mean lightweight or underdeveloped inshell pecan nuts that are considered of lesser quality and market value.
§ 986.5
To certify.
To certify
means the issuance of a certification of inspection of pecans by the inspection service.
§ 986.6
Confidential data or information.
Confidential data or information
submitted to the Council consists of data or information constituting a trade secret or disclosure of the trade position, financial condition, or business operations of a particular entity or its customers.
§ 986.7
Container.
Container
means a box, bag, crate, carton, package (including retail packaging), or any other type of receptacle used in the packaging or handling of pecans.
§ 986.8
Council.
Council
means the American Pecan Council established pursuant to § 986.45, American Pecan Council.
§ 986.9
Crack.
Crack
means to break, crack, or otherwise compromise the outer shell of a pecan so as to expose the kernel inside to air outside the shell.
§ 986.10
Cracks.
Cracks
refer to an accumulated group or container of pecans that have been cracked in harvesting or handling.
§ 986.11
Custom harvester.
Custom harvester
means a person who harvests inshell pecans for a fee.
§ 986.12
Department or USDA.
Department
or
USDA
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
§ 986.13
Disappearance.
Disappearance
means the difference between the sum of grower-cleaned production and handler-cleaned production (whether from improved orchards or native and seedling groves) and the sum of inshell and shelled merchantable pecans reported on an inshell weight basis.
§ 986.14
Farm Service Agency.
Farm Service Agency
or FSA means that agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
§ 986.15
Fiscal year.
Fiscal year
means the twelve months from October 1 to September 30, both inclusive, or any other such period deemed appropriate by the Council and approved by the Secretary.
§ 986.16
Grade and size.
Grade and size
means any of the officially established grades of pecans and any of the officially established sizes of pecans as set forth in the United States standards for inshell and shelled pecans or amendments thereto, or modifications thereof, or other variations of grade and size based thereon recommended by the Council and approved by the Secretary.
§ 986.17
Grower.
(a)
Grower
is synonymous with producer and means any person engaged within the production area in a proprietary capacity in the production of pecans if such person:
(1) Owns an orchard and harvests its pecans for sale (even if a custom harvester is used); or
(2) Is a lessee of a pecan orchard and has the right to sell the harvest (even if the lessee must remit a percentage of the crop or rent to a lessor).
(b) The term “grower” shall only include those who produce a minimum of 50,000 pounds of inshell pecans during a representative period (average of four years) or who own a minimum of 30
pecan acres according to the FSA, including acres calculated by the FSA based on pecan tree density. In the absence of any FSA delineation of pecan acreage, the regular definition of an acre will apply. The Council may recommend changes to this definition subject to the approval of the Secretary.
§ 986.18
Grower-cleaned production.
Grower-cleaned production
means production harvested and processed through a cleaning plant to determine volumes of improved pecans, native and seedling pecans, and substandard pecans to transfer to a handler for sale.
§ 986.19
Handler.
Handler
means any person who handles inshell or shelled pecans in any manner described in § 986.20.
§ 986.20
To handle.
To handle
means to receive, shell, crack, accumulate, warehouse, roast, pack, sell, consign, transport, export, or ship (except as a common or contract carrier of pecans owned by another person), or in any other way to put inshell or shelled pecans into any and all markets in the stream of commerce either within the area of production or from such area to any point outside thereof. The term “to handle” shall not include: sales and deliveries within the area of production by growers to handlers; grower warehousing; custom handling (except for selling, consigning or exporting) or other similar activities paid for on a fee-for-service basis by a grower who retains the ownership of the pecans; or transfers between handlers.
§ 986.21
Handler inventory.
Handler inventory
means all pecans, shelled or inshell, as of any date and wherever located within the production area, then held by a handler for their account.
§ 986.22
Handler-cleaned production.
Handler-cleaned production
is production that is received, purchased or consigned from the grower by a handler prior to processing through a cleaning plant, and then subsequently processed through a cleaning plant so as to determine volumes of improved pecans, native and seedling pecans, and substandard pecans.
§ 986.23
Hican.
Hican
means a tree resulting from a cross between a pecan and some other type of hickory (members of the genus
Carya
) or the nut from such a hybrid tree.
§ 986.24
Inshell pecans.
Inshell pecans
are nuts whose kernel is maintained inside the shell.
§ 986.25
Inspection Service.
Inspection service
means the Federal-State Inspection Service or any other inspection service authorized by the Secretary.
§ 986.26
Inter-handler transfer.
Inter-handler transfer
means the movement of inshell pecans from one handler to another inside the production area for the purposes of additional handling. Any assessments or requirements under this part with respect to inshell pecans so transferred may be assumed by the receiving handler.
§ 986.27
Merchantable pecans.
(a)
Inshell. Merchantable inshell
pecans mean all inshell pecans meeting the minimum grade regulations that may be effective pursuant to § 986.69, Authorities regulating handling.
(b)
Shelled. Merchantable shelled
pecans means all shelled pecans meeting the minimum grade regulations that may be effective pursuant to § 986.69, Authorities regulating handling.
§ 986.28
Pack.
Pack
means to clean, grade, or otherwise prepare pecans for market as inshell or shelled pecans.
§ 986.29
Pecans.
(a)
Pecans
means and includes any and all varieties or subvarieties of Genus:
Carya,
Species:
illinoensis,
expressed also as
Carya illinoinensis (syn. C. illinoenses)
including all varieties thereof, excluding hicans, that are produced in the production area and are classified as:
(1)
Native or seedling
pecans harvested from non-grafted or naturally propagated tree varieties;
(2)
Improved pecans
harvested from grafted tree varieties bred or selected for superior traits of nut size, ease of shelling, production characteristics, and resistance to certain insects and diseases, including but not limited to: Desirable, Elliot, Forkert, Sumner, Creek, Excel, Gracross, Gratex, Gloria Grande, Kiowa, Moreland, Sioux, Mahan, Mandan, Moneymaker, Morrill, Cunard, Zinner, Byrd, McMillan, Stuart, Pawnee, Eastern and Western Schley, Wichita, Success, Cape Fear, Choctaw, Cheyenne, Lakota, Kanza, Caddo, and Oconee; and
(3)
Substandard pecans
that are blowouts, cracks, stick-tights, and other inferior quality pecans, whether native or improved, that, with further handling, can be cleaned and eventually sold into the stream of commerce.
(b) The Council, with the approval of the Secretary, may recognize new or delete obsolete varieties or sub-varieties for each category.
§ 986.30
Person.
Person
means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other business unit.
§ 986.31
Production area.
Production area
means the following fifteen pecan-producing states within the United States: Alabama, Arkansas, Arizona, California, Florida, Georgia, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, New Mexico, Oklahoma, South Carolina, and Texas.
§ 986.32
Proprietary capacity.
Proprietary capacity
means the capacity or interest of a grower or handler that, either directly or through one or more intermediaries or affiliates, is a property owner together with all the appurtenant rights of an owner, including the right to vote the interest in that capacity as an individual, a shareholder, member of a cooperative, partner, trustee or in any other capacity with respect to any other business unit.
§ 986.33
Regions.
(a)
Regions
within the production area shall consist of the following:
(1)
Eastern Region,
consisting of: Alabama, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina
(2)
Central Region,
consisting of: Arkansas, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Oklahoma, Texas
(3)
Western Region,
consisting of: Arizona, California, New Mexico
(b) With the approval of the Secretary, the boundaries of any region may be changed pursuant to § 986.58, Reapportionment and reestablishment of regions.
§ 986.34
Representative period.
Representative period
is the previous four fiscal years for which a grower's annual average production is calculated, or any other period recommended by the Council and approved by the Secretary.
§ 986.35
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any other officer or employee of the United States Department of Agriculture who is, or who may be, authorized to perform the duties of the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States.
§ 986.36
Sheller.
Sheller
refers to any person who converts inshell pecans to shelled pecans and sells the output in any and all markets in the stream of commerce, both within and outside of the production area;
Provided,
That the term “sheller” shall only include those who shell more than 1 million pounds of inshell pecans in a fiscal year. The Council may recommend changes to this definition subject to the approval of the Secretary.
§ 986.37
Shelled pecans.
Shelled pecans
are pecans whose shells have been removed leaving only edible kernels, kernel pieces or pecan meal.
Shelled pecans
are synonymous with
pecan meats.
§ 986.38
Stick-tights.
Stick-tights
means pecans whose outer shuck has adhered to the shell causing
their value to decrease or be discounted.
§ 986.39
Trade supply.
Trade supply
means the quantity of merchantable inshell or shelled pecans that growers will supply to handlers during a fiscal year for sale in the United States and abroad or, in the absence of handler regulations § 986.69 setting forth minimum grade regulations for merchantable pecans, the sum of handler-cleaned and grower-cleaned production.
§ 986.40
Unassessed inventory.
Unassessed inventory
means inshell pecans held by growers or handlers for which no assessment has been paid to the Council.
§ 986.41
Varieties.
Varieties
mean and include all cultivars, classifications, or subdivisions of pecans.
§ 986.42
Warehousing.
Warehousing
means to hold assessed or unassessed inventory.
§ 986.43
Weight.
Weight
means pounds of inshell pecans, received by handler within each fiscal year;
Provided,
That for shelled pecans the actual weight shall be multiplied by two to obtain an inshell weight.

# Administrative Body
§ 986.45
American Pecan Council.
The American Pecan Council is hereby established consisting of 17 members selected by the Secretary, each of whom shall have an alternate member nominated with the same qualifications as the member. The 17 members shall include nine (9) grower seats, six (6) sheller seats, and two (2) at-large seats allocated to one accumulator and one public member. The grower and sheller nominees and their alternates shall be growers and shellers at the time of their nomination and for the duration of their tenure. Grower and sheller members and their alternates shall be selected by the Secretary from nominees submitted by the Council. The two at-large seats shall be nominated by the Council and appointed by the Secretary.
(a) Each region shall be allocated the following member seats:
(1)
Eastern Region:
Three (3) growers and two (2) shellers;
(2)
Central Region:
Three (3) growers and two (2) shellers;
(3)
Western Region:
Three (3) growers and two (2) shellers.
(b) Within each region, the grower and sheller seats shall be defined as follows:
(1)
Grower seats:
Each region shall have a grower Seat 1 and Seat 2 allocated to growers whose acreage is equal to or exceeds 176 pecan acres. Each region shall also have a grower Seat 3 allocated to a grower whose acreage is less than 176 pecan acres.
(2)
Sheller seats:
Each region shall have a sheller Seat 1 allocated to a sheller who handles more than 12.5 million pounds of inshell pecans in the fiscal year preceding nomination, and a sheller Seat 2 allocated to a sheller who handles less than or equal to 12.5 million pounds of inshell pecans in the fiscal year preceding nomination.
(c) The Council may recommend, subject to the approval of the Secretary, revisions to the above requirements for grower and sheller seats to accommodate changes within the industry.
§ 986.46
Council nominations and voting.
Nomination of Council members and alternate members shall follow the procedure set forth in this section, or as may be changed as recommended by the Council and approved by the Secretary. All nominees must meet the requirements set forth in §§ 986.45, American Pecan Council, and 986.48, Eligibility, or as otherwise identified by the Secretary, to serve on the Council.
(a)
Initial members.
Nominations for initial Council members and alternate members shall be conducted by the Secretary by either holding meetings of shellers and growers, by mail, or by email, and shall be submitted on approved nomination forms. Eligibility to cast votes on nomination ballots, accounting of nomination ballot results, and identification of member and alternate nominees shall follow the procedures set forth in this section, or
by any other criteria deemed necessary by the Secretary. The Secretary shall select and appoint the initial members and alternate members of the Council.
(b)
Successor members.
Subsequent nominations of Council members and alternate members shall be conducted as follows:
(1)
Call for nominations.
(i) Nominations for the grower member seats for each region shall be received from growers in that region on approved forms containing the information stipulated in this section.
(ii) If a grower is engaged in producing pecans in more than one region, such grower shall nominate in the region in which they grow the largest volume of their production.
(iii) Nominations for the sheller member seats for each region shall be received from shellers in that region on approved forms containing the information stipulated in this section.
(iv) If a sheller is engaged in handling in more than one region, such sheller shall nominate in the region in which they shelled the largest volume in the preceding fiscal year.
(2)
Voting for nominees.
(i) Only growers, through duly authorized officers or employees of growers, if applicable, may participate in the nomination of grower member nominees and their alternates. Each grower shall be entitled to cast only one nomination ballot for each of the three grower seats in their region.
(ii) If a grower is engaged in producing pecans in more than one region, such grower shall cast their nomination ballot in the region in which they grow the largest volume of their production. Notwithstanding this stipulation, such grower may vote their volume produced in any or all of the three regions.
(iii) Only shellers, through duly authorized officers or employees of shellers, if applicable, may participate in the nomination of the sheller member nominees and their alternates. Each sheller shall be entitled to cast only one nomination ballot for each of the two sheller seats in their region.
(iv) If a sheller is engaged in handling in more than one region, such sheller shall cast their nomination ballot in the region in which they shelled the largest volume in the preceding fiscal year. Notwithstanding this stipulation, such sheller may vote their volume handled in all three regions.
(v) If a person is both a grower and a sheller of pecans, such person may not participate in both grower and sheller nominations. Such person must elect to participate either as a grower or a sheller.
(3)
Nomination procedure for grower seats.
(i) The Council shall mail to all growers who are on record with the Council within the respective regions a grower nomination ballot indicating the nominees for each of the three grower member seats, along with voting instructions. Growers may cast ballots on the proper ballot form either at meetings of growers, by mail, or by email as designated by the Council. For ballots to be considered, they must be submitted on the proper forms with all required information, including signatures.
(ii) On the ballot, growers shall indicate their vote for the grower nominee candidates for the grower seats and also indicate their average annual volume of inshell pecan production for the preceding four fiscal years.
(iii)
Seat 1
(growers with equal to or more than 176 acres of pecans). The nominee for this seat in each region shall be the grower receiving the highest volume of production (pounds of inshell pecans) votes from the respective region, and the grower receiving the second highest volume of production votes shall be the alternate member nominee for this seat. In case of a tie vote, the nominee shall be selected by a drawing.
(iv)
Seat 2
(growers with equal to or more than 176 acres of pecans). The nominee for this seat in each region shall be the grower receiving the highest number of votes from their respective region, and the grower receiving the second highest number of votes shall be the alternate member nominee for this seat. In case of a tie vote, the nominee shall be selected by a drawing.
(v)
Seat 3
(grower with less than 176 acres of pecans). The nominee for this seat in each region shall be the grower receiving the highest number of votes from the respective region, and the grower receiving the second highest
number of votes shall be the alternate member nominee for this seat. In case of a tie vote, the nominee shall be selected by a drawing.
(4)
Nomination procedure for sheller seats.
(i) The Council shall mail to all shellers who are on record with the Council within the respective regions the sheller ballot indicating the nominees for each of the two sheller member seats in their respective regions, along with voting instructions. Shellers may cast ballots on approved ballot forms either at meetings of shellers, by mail, or by email as designated by the Council. For ballots to be considered, they must be submitted on the approved forms with all required information, including signatures.
(ii)
Seat 1
(shellers handling more than 12.5 million lbs. of inshell pecans in the preceding fiscal year). The nominee for this seat in each region shall be assigned to the sheller receiving the highest number of votes from the respective region, and the sheller receiving the second highest number of votes shall be the alternate member nominee for this seat. In case of a tie vote, the nominee shall be selected by a drawing.
(iii)
Seat 2
(shellers handling equal to or less than 12.5 million lbs. of inshell pecans in the preceding fiscal year). The nominee for this seat in each region shall be assigned to the sheller receiving the highest number of votes from the respective region, and the sheller receiving the second highest number of votes shall be the alternate member nominee for this seat. In case of a tie vote, the nominee shall be selected by a drawing.
(5)
Reports to the Secretary.
Nominations in the foregoing manner received by the Council shall be reported to the Secretary on or before 15 of each July of any year in which nominations are held, together with a certified summary of the results of the nominations and other information deemed by the Council to be pertinent or requested by the Secretary. From those nominations, the Secretary shall select the fifteen grower and sheller members of the Council and an alternate for each member, unless the Secretary rejects any nomination submitted. In the event the Secretary rejects a nomination, a second nomination process may be conducted to identify other nominee candidates, the resulting nominee information may be reported to the Secretary after July 15 and before September 15. If the Council fails to report nominations to the Secretary in the manner herein specified, the Secretary may select the members without nomination. If nominations for the public and accumulator at-large members are not submitted by September 15 of any year in which their nomination is due, the Secretary may select such members without nomination.
(6)
At-large members.
The grower and sheller members of the Council shall select one public member and one accumulator member and respective alternates for consideration, selection and appointment by the Secretary. The public member and alternate public member may not have any financial interest, individually or corporately, or affiliation with persons vested in the pecan industry. The accumulator member and alternate accumulator member must meet the criteria set forth in § 986.1, Accumulator, and may reside or maintain a place of business in any region.
(7)
Nomination forms.
The Council may distribute nomination forms at meetings, by mail, by email, or by any other form of distribution recommended by the Council and approved by the Secretary.
(i)
Grower nomination forms.
Each nomination form submitted by a grower shall include the following information:
(A) The name of the nominated grower;
(B) The name and signature of the nominating grower;
(C) Two additional names and respective signatures of growers in support of the nomination;
(D) Any other such information recommended by the Council and approved by the Secretary.
(ii)
Sheller nomination forms.
Each nomination form submitted by a sheller shall include the following:
(A) The name of the nominated sheller;
(B) The name and signature of the nominating sheller;
(C) One additional name and signature of a sheller in support of the nomination;
(D) Any other such information recommended by the Council and approved by the Secretary.
(8)
Changes to the nomination and voting procedures.
The Council may recommend, subject to the approval of the Secretary, a change to these procedures should the Council determine that a revision is necessary.
§ 986.47
Alternate members.
(a) Each member of the Council shall have an alternate member to be nominated in the same manner as the member.
(b) An alternate for a member of the Council shall act in the place and stead of such member in their absence or in the event of their death, removal, resignation, or disqualification, until the next nomination and elections take place for the Council or the vacancy has been filled pursuant to § 986.48, Eligibility.
(c) In the event any member of the Council and their alternate are both unable to attend a meeting of the Council, any alternate for any other member representing the same group as the absent member may serve in the place of the absent member.
§ 986.48
Eligibility.
(a) Each grower member and alternate shall be, at the time of selection and during the term of office, a grower or an officer, or employee, of a grower in the region and in the classification for which nominated.
(b) Each sheller member and alternate shall be, at the time of selection and during the term of office, a sheller or an officer or employee of a sheller in the region and in the classification for which nominated.
(c) A grower can be a nominee for only one grower member seat. If a grower is nominated for two grower member seats, he or she shall select the seat in which he or she desires to run, and the grower ballot shall reflect that selection.
(d) Any member or alternate member who at the time of selection was employed by or affiliated with the person who is nominated shall, upon termination of that relationship, become disqualified to serve further as a member and that position shall be deemed vacant.
(e) No person nominated to serve as a public member or alternate public member shall have a financial interest in any pecan grower or handling operation.
§ 986.49
Acceptance.
Each person to be selected by the Secretary as a member or as an alternate member of the Council shall, prior to such selection, qualify by advising the Secretary that if selected, such person agrees to serve in the position for which that nomination has been made.
§ 986.50
Term of office.
(a) Selected members and alternate members of the Council shall serve for terms of four years:
Provided
, That at the end of the first four (4) year term and in the nomination and selection of the second Council only, four of the grower member and alternate seats and three of the sheller member and alternate seats shall be seated for terms of two years so that approximately half of the memberships' and alternates' terms expire every two years thereafter. Member and alternate seats assigned two-year terms for the seating of the second Council only shall be as follows:
(1) Grower member Seat 2 in all regions shall be assigned a two-year term;
(2) Grower member Seat 3 in all regions shall, by drawing, identify one member seat to be assigned a two-year term; and,
(3) Sheller Seat 2 in all regions shall be assigned a two-year term.
(b) Council members and alternates may serve up to two consecutive, four-year terms of office. Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, in no event shall any member or alternate serve more than eight consecutive years on the Council as either a member or an alternate. However, if selected, an alternate having served up to two consecutive terms may immediately serve as a member for two consecutive terms without any interruption in service. The same is true for a member who,
after serving for up to two consecutive terms, may serve as an alternate if nominated without any interruption in service. A person having served the maximum number of terms as set forth above may not serve again as a member or an alternate for at least twelve consecutive months. For purposes of determining when a member or alternate has served two consecutive terms, the accrual of terms shall begin following any period of at least twelve consecutive months out of office.
(c) Each member and alternate member shall continue to serve until a successor is selected and has qualified.
(d) A term of office shall begin as set forth in the by-laws or as directed by the Secretary each year for all members.
(e) The Council may recommend, subject to approval of the Secretary, revisions to the start day for the term of office, the number of years in a term, and the number of terms a member or an alternate can serve.
§ 986.51
Vacancy.
Any vacancy on the Council occurring by the failure of any person selected to the Council to qualify as a member or alternate member due to a change in status making the member ineligible to serve, or due to death, removal, or resignation, shall be filled, by a majority vote of the Council for the unexpired portion of the term. However, that person shall fulfill all the qualifications set forth in this part as required for the member whose office that person is to fill. The qualifications of any person to fill a vacancy on the Council shall be certified in writing to the Secretary. The Secretary shall notify the Council if the Secretary determines that any such person is not qualified.
§ 986.52
Council expenses.
The members and their alternates of the Council shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for the reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties under this part.
§ 986.53
Powers.
The Council shall have the following powers:
(a) To administer the provisions of this part in accordance with its terms;
(b) To make bylaws, rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of this part;
(c) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of this part; and
(d) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this part.
§ 986.54
Duties.
The duties of the Council shall be as follows:
(a) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any handler or grower;
(b) To keep minute books and records which will clearly reflect all of its acts and transactions, and such minute books and records shall at any time be subject to the examination of the Secretary;
(c) To furnish to the Secretary a complete report of all meetings and such other available information as he or she may request;
(d) To appoint such employees as it may deem necessary and to determine the salaries, define the duties, and fix the bonds of such employees;
(e) To cause the books of the Council to be audited by one or more certified public accountants at least once for each fiscal year and at such other times as the Council deems necessary or as the Secretary may request, and to file with the Secretary three copies of all audit reports made;
(f) To investigate the growing, shipping and marketing conditions with respect to pecans and to assemble data in connection therewith;
(g) To investigate compliance with the provisions of this part; and,
(h) To recommend by-laws, rules and regulations for the purpose of administering this part.
§ 986.55
Procedure.
(a) The members of the Council shall select a chairman from their membership, and shall select such other officers and adopt such rules for the conduct of Council business as they deem advisable.
(b) The Council may provide for meetings by telephone, or other means of communication, and any vote cast
at such a meeting shall be confirmed promptly in writing. The Council shall give the Secretary the same notice of its meetings as is given to members of the Council.
(c)
Quorum.
A quorum of the Council shall be any twelve voting Council members. The vote of a majority of members present at a meeting at which there is a quorum shall constitute the act of the Council;
Provided
, That:
(1) Actions of the Council with respect to the following issues shall require a two-thirds (12 members) concurring vote of the Council:
(i) Establishment of or changes to by-laws;
(ii) Appointment or administrative issues relating to the program's manager or chief executive officer;
(iii) Budget;
(iv) Assessments;
(v) Compliance and audits;
(vi) Reestablishment of regions and reapportionment or reallocation of Council membership;
(vii) Modifying definitions of grower and sheller;
(viii) Research or promotion activities under § 986.68;
(ix) Grade, quality and size regulation under § 986.69(a)(1) and (2);
(x) Pack and container regulation under § 986.69(a)(3); and,
(2) Actions of the Council with respect to the securing of commercial bank loans for the purpose of financing start-up costs of the Council and its activities or securing financial assistance in emergency situations shall require a unanimous vote of all members present at an in-person meeting;
Provided
, That in the event of an emergency that warrants immediate attention sooner than a face-to-face meeting is possible, a vote for financing may be taken. In such event, the Council's first preference is a videoconference and second preference is phone conference, both followed by written confirmation of the members attending the meeting.
§ 986.56
Right of the Secretary.
The members and alternates for members and any agent or employee appointed or employed by the Council shall be subject to removal or suspension by the Secretary at any time. Each and every regulation, decision, determination, or other act shall be subject to the continuing right of the Secretary to disapprove of the same at any time, and, upon such disapproval, shall be deemed null and void, except as to acts done in reliance thereon or in compliance therewith prior to such disapproval by the Secretary.
§ 986.57
Funds and other property.
(a) All funds received pursuant to any of the provisions of this part shall be used solely for the purposes specified in this part, and the Secretary may require the Council and its members to account for all receipts and disbursements.
(b) Upon the death, resignation, removal, disqualification, or expiration of the term of office of any member or employee, all books, records, funds, and other property in their possession belonging to the Council shall be delivered to their successor in office or to the Council, and such assignments and other instruments shall be executed as may be necessary to vest in such successor or in the Council full title to all the books, records, funds, and other property in the possession or under the control of such member or employee pursuant to this subpart.
§ 986.58
Reapportionment and reestablishment of regions.
The Council may recommend, subject to approval of the Secretary, reestablishment of regions, reapportionment of members among regions, and may revise the groups eligible for representation on the Council. In recommending any such changes, the following shall be considered:
(a) Shifts in acreage within regions and within the production area during recent years;
(b) The importance of new production in its relation to existing regions;
(c) The equitable relationship between Council apportionment and regions;
(d) Changes in industry structure and/or the percentage of crop represented by various industry entities; and
(e) Other relevant factors.

# Expenses, Assessments, and Marketing Policy
§ 986.60
Budget.
As soon as practicable before the beginning of each fiscal year, and as may be necessary thereafter, the Council shall prepare a budget of income and expenditures necessary for the administration of this part. The Council may recommend a rate of assessment calculated to provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures. The Council shall present such budget to the Secretary with an accompanying report showing the basis for its calculations, and all shall be subject to Secretary approval.
§ 986.61
Assessments.
(a) Each handler who first handles inshell pecans shall pay assessments to the Council. Assessments collected each fiscal year shall defray expenses which the Secretary finds reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Council during that fiscal year. Each handler's share of assessments paid to the Council shall be equal to the ratio between the total quantity of inshell pecans handled by them as the first handler thereof during the applicable fiscal year, and the total quantity of inshell pecans handled by all regulated handlers in the production area during the same fiscal year. The payment of assessments for the maintenance and functioning of the Council may be required under this part throughout the period it is in effect irrespective of whether particular provisions thereof are suspended or become inoperative. Handlers may avail themselves of an inter-handler transfer, as provided for in § 986.62, Inter-handler transfers.
(b) Based upon a recommendation of the Council or other available data, the Secretary shall fix three base rates of assessment for inshell pecans handled during each fiscal year. Such base rates shall include one rate of assessment for any or all varieties of pecans classified as native and seedling; one rate of assessment for any or all varieties of pecans classified as improved; and one rate of assessment for any pecans classified as substandard.
(c) Upon implementation of this part and subject to the approval of the Secretary, initial assessment rates per classification shall be set within the following prescribed ranges: Native and seedling classified pecans shall be assessed at one-cent to two-cents per pound; improved classified pecans shall be assessed at two-cents to three-cents per pound; and, substandard classified pecans shall be assessed at one-cent to two-cents per pound. These assessment ranges shall be in effect for the initial four years of the order.
(d) Subsequent assessment rates shall not exceed two percent of the aggregate of all prices in each classification across the production area based on Council data, or the average of USDA reported average price received by growers for each classification, in the preceding fiscal year as recommended by the Council and approved by the Secretary. After four years from the implementation of this part, the Council may recommend, subject to the approval of the Secretary, revisions to this calculation or assessment ranges.
(e) The Council, with the approval of the Secretary, may revise the assessment rates if it determines, based on information including crop size and value, that the action is necessary, and if the revision does not exceed the assessment limitation specified in this section and is made prior to the final billing of the assessment.
(f) In order to provide funds for the administration of the provisions of this part during the first part of a fiscal year, before sufficient operating income is available from assessments, the Council may accept the payment of assessments in advance and may also borrow money for such purposes;
Provided
, That no loan may amount to more than 50 percent of projected assessment revenue projected for the year in which the loan is secured, and the loan must be repaid within five years.
(g) If a handler does not pay assessments within the time prescribed by the Council, the assessment may be increased by a late payment charge and/or an interest rate charge at amounts prescribed by the Council with approval of the Secretary.
(h) On August 31 of each year, every handler warehousing inshell pecans shall be identified as the first handler
of those pecans and shall be required to pay the assessed rate on the category of pecans in their possession on that date. The terms of this paragraph may be revised subject to the recommendation of the Council and approval by the Secretary.
(i) On August 31 of each year, all inventories warehoused by growers from the current fiscal year shall cease to be eligible for inter-handler transfer treatment. Instead, such inventory will require the first handler that handles such inventory to pay the assessment thereon in accordance with the prevailing assessment rates at the time of transfer from the grower to the said handler. The terms of this paragraph may be revised subject to the recommendation of the Council and approval by the Secretary.
§ 986.62
Inter-handler transfers.
Any handler inside the production area, except as provided for in § 986.61(h) and (i), Assessments, may transfer inshell pecans to another handler inside the production area for additional handling, and any assessments or other marketing order requirements with respect to pecans so transferred may be assumed by the receiving handler. The Council, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish methods and procedures, including necessary reports, to maintain accurate records for such transfers. All inter-handler transfers will be documented by forms or electronic transfer receipts approved by the Council, and all forms or electronic transfer receipts used for inter-handler transfers shall require that copies be sent to the selling party, the receiving party, and the Council. Such forms must state which handler has the assessment responsibilities.
§ 986.63
Contributions.
The Council may accept voluntary contributions. Such contributions may only be accepted if they are free from any encumbrances or restrictions on their use and the Council shall retain complete control of their use. The Council may receive contributions from both within and outside of the production area.
§ 986.64
Accounting.
(a) Assessments collected in excess of expenses incurred shall be accounted for in accordance with one of the following:
(1) Excess funds not retained in a reserve, as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be refunded proportionately to the persons from whom they were collected; or
(2) The Council, with the approval of the Secretary, may carry over excess funds into subsequent fiscal periods as reserves:
Provided
, That funds already in reserves do not equal approximately three fiscal years' expenses. Such reserve funds may be used:
(i) To defray expenses during any fiscal period prior to the time assessment income is sufficient to cover such expenses;
(ii) To cover deficits incurred during any fiscal period when assessment income is less than expenses;
(iii) To defray expenses incurred during any period when any or all provisions of this part are suspended or are inoperative; and
(iv) To cover necessary expenses of liquidation in the event of termination of this part.
(b) Upon such termination, any funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be disposed of in such manner as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate. To the extent practical, such funds shall be returned pro rata to the persons from whom such funds were collected.
(c) All funds received by the Council pursuant to the provisions of this part shall be used solely for the purposes specified in this part and shall be accounted for in the manner provided for in this part. The Secretary may at any time require the Council and its members to account for all receipts and disbursements.
(d) Upon the removal or expiration of the term of office of any member of the Council, such member shall account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property and funds in their possession to the Council, and shall execute such assignments and other instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to vest in the Council full title to all of the property, funds, and
claims vested in such member pursuant to this part.
(e) The Council may make recommendations to the Secretary for one or more of the members thereof, or any other person, to act as a trustee for holding records, funds, or any other Council property during periods of suspension of this subpart, or during any period or periods when regulations are not in effect and if the Secretary determines such action appropriate, he or she may direct that such person or persons shall act as trustee or trustees for the Council.
§ 986.65
Marketing policy.
By the end of each fiscal year, the Council shall make a report and recommendation to the Secretary on the Council's proposed marketing policy for the next fiscal year. Each year such report and recommendation shall be adopted by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds (
2/3
) of the members of the Council and shall include the following and, where applicable, on an inshell basis:
(a) Estimate of the grower-cleaned production and handler-cleaned production in the area of production for the fiscal year;
(b) Estimate of disappearance;
(c) Estimate of the improved, native, and substandard pecans;
(d) Estimate of the handler inventory on August 31, of inshell and shelled pecans;
(e) Estimate of unassessed inventory;
(f) Estimate of the trade supply, taking into consideration imports, and other factors;
(g) Preferable handler inventory of inshell and shelled pecans on August 31 of the following year;
(h) Projected prices in the new fiscal year;
(i) Competing nut supplies; and
(j) Any other relevant factors.

# Authorities Relating to Research, Promotion, Data Gathering, Packaging, Grading, Compliance, and Reporting
§ 986.67
Recommendations for regulations.
Upon complying with § 986.65, Marketing policy, the Council may propose regulations to the Secretary whenever it finds that such proposed regulations may assist in effectuating the declared policy of the Act.
§ 986.68
Authority for research and promotion activities.
The Council, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish or provide for the establishment of production research, marketing research and development projects, and marketing promotion, including paid generic advertising, designed to assist, improve, or promote the marketing, distribution, and consumption or efficient production of pecans including product development, nutritional research, and container development. The expenses of such projects shall be paid from funds collected pursuant to this part.
§ 986.69
Authorities regulating handling.
(a) The Council may recommend, subject to the approval of the Secretary, regulations that:
(1) Establish handling requirements or minimum tolerances for particular grades, sizes, or qualities, or any combination thereof, of any or all varieties or classifications of pecans during any period;
(2) Establish different handling requirements or minimum tolerances for particular grades, sizes, or qualities, or any combination thereof for different varieties or classifications, for different containers, for different portions of the production area, or any combination of the foregoing, during any period;
(3) Fix the size, capacity, weight, dimensions, or pack of the container or containers, which may be used in the packaging, transportation, sale, preparation for market, shipment, or other handling of pecans; and
(4) Establish inspection and certification requirements for the purposes of (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(b) Regulations issued hereunder may be amended, modified, suspended, or terminated whenever it is determined:
(1) That such action is warranted upon recommendation of the Council and approval by the Secretary, or other available information; or
(2) That regulations issued hereunder no longer tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act.
(c) The authority to regulate as put forward in this subsection shall not in any way constitute authority for the Council to recommend volume regulation, such as reserve pools, producer allotments, or handler withholding requirements which limit the flow of product to market for the purpose of reducing market supply.
(d) The Council may recommend, subject to the approval of the Secretary, rules and regulations to effectuate this subpart.
§ 986.70
Handling for special purposes.
Regulations in effect pursuant to § 986.69, Authorities regulating handling, may be modified, suspended, or terminated to facilitate handling of pecans for:
(a) Relief or charity;
(b) Experimental purposes; and
(c) Other purposes which may be recommended by the Council and approved by the Secretary.
§ 986.71
Safeguards.
The Council, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish through rules such requirements as may be necessary to establish that shipments made pursuant to § 986.70, Handling for special purposes, were handled and used for the purpose stated.
§ 986.72
Notification of regulation.
The Secretary shall promptly notify the Council of regulations issued or of any modification, suspension, or termination thereof. The Council shall give reasonable notice thereof to industry participants.

# Reports, Books, and Other Records
§ 986.75
Reports of handler inventory.
Each handler shall submit to the Council in such form and on such dates as the Council may prescribe, reports showing their inventory of inshell and shelled pecans.
§ 986.76
Reports of merchantable pecans handled.
Each handler who handles merchantable pecans at any time during a fiscal year shall submit to the Council in such form and at such intervals as the Council may prescribe, reports showing the quantity so handled and such other information pertinent thereto as the Council may specify.
§ 986.77
Reports of pecans received by handlers.
Each handler shall file such reports of their pecan receipts from growers, handlers, or others in such form and at such times as may be required by the Council with the approval of the Secretary.
§ 986.78
Other handler reports.
Upon request of the Council made with the approval of the Secretary each handler shall furnish such other reports and information as are needed to enable the Council to perform its duties and exercise its powers under this part.
§ 986.79
Verification of reports.
For the purpose of verifying and checking reports filed by handlers on their operations, the Secretary and the Council, through their duly authorized representatives, shall have access to any premises where pecans and pecan records are held. Such access shall be available at any time during reasonable business hours. Authorized representatives of the Council or the Secretary shall be permitted to inspect any pecans held and any and all records of the handler with respect to matters within the purview of this part. Each handler shall maintain complete records on the receiving, holding, and disposition of all pecans. Each handler shall furnish all labor necessary to facilitate such inspections at no expense to the Council or the Secretary. Each handler shall store all pecans held by him in such manner as to facilitate inspection and shall maintain adequate storage records which will permit accurate identification with respect to inspection certificates of respective lots and of all such pecans held or disposed of theretofore. The Council, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish any methods and procedures needed to verify reports.
§ 986.80
Certification of reports.
All reports submitted to the Council as required in this part shall be certified to the Secretary and the Council as to the completeness and correctness of the information contained therein.
§ 986.81
Confidential information.
All reports and records submitted by handlers to the Council, which include data or information constituting a trade secret or disclosing the trade position, or financial condition or business operations of the handler shall be kept in the custody of one or more employees of the Council and shall be disclosed to no person except the Secretary.
§ 986.82
Books and other records.
Each handler shall maintain such records of pecans received, held and disposed of by them as may be prescribed by the Council for the purpose of performing its duties under this part. Such books and records shall be retained and be available for examination by authorized representatives of the Council and the Secretary for the current fiscal year and the preceding three (3) fiscal years.

# Additional Provisions
§ 986.86
Exemptions.
(a) Any handler may handle inshell pecans within the production area free of the requirements of this part if such pecans are handled in quantities not exceeding 1,000 inshell pounds during any fiscal year.
(b) Any handler may handle shelled pecans within the production area free of the requirements of this part if such pecans are handled in quantities not exceeding 500 shelled pounds during any fiscal year.
(c) Mail order sales are not exempt sales under this part.
(d) The Council, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish such rules, regulations, and safeguards, and require such reports, certifications, and other conditions, as are necessary to ensure compliance with this part.
§ 986.87
Compliance.
Except as provided in this subpart, no handler shall handle pecans, the handling of which has been prohibited by the Secretary in accordance with provisions of this part, or the rules and regulations thereunder.
§ 986.88
Duration of immunities.
The benefits, privileges, and immunities conferred by virtue of this part shall cease upon termination hereof, except with respect to acts done under and during the existence of this part.
§ 986.89
Separability.
If any provision of this part is declared invalid, or the applicability thereof to any person, circumstance, or thing is held invalid, the validity of the remaining provisions and the applicability thereof to any other person, circumstance, or thing shall not be affected thereby.
§ 986.90
Derogation.
Nothing contained in this part is or shall be construed to be in derogation of, or in modification of, the rights of the Secretary or of the United States to exercise any powers granted by the Act or otherwise, or, in accordance with such powers, to act in the premises whenever such action is deemed advisable.
§ 986.91
Liability.
No member or alternate of the Council nor any employee or agent thereof, shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any party under this part or to any other person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member, alternate, agent or employee, except for acts of dishonesty, willful misconduct, or gross negligence. The Council may purchase liability insurance for its members and officers.
§ 986.92
Agents.
The Secretary may name, by designation in writing, any person, including any officer or employee of the USDA or the United States to act as their agent or representative in connection with any of the provisions of this part.
§ 986.93
Effective time.
The provisions of this part and of any amendment thereto shall become effective at such time as the Secretary may declare, and shall continue in force until terminated in one of the ways specified in § 986.94.
§ 986.94
Termination.
(a) The Secretary may at any time terminate this part.
(b) The Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operation of any or all of the provisions of this part whenever he or she finds that such operation obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act.
(c) The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this part applicable to pecans for market or pecans for handling at the end of any fiscal year whenever the Secretary finds, by referendum or otherwise, that such termination is favored by a majority of growers;
Provided
, That such majority of growers has produced more than 50 percent of the volume of pecans in the production area during such fiscal year. Such termination shall be effective only if announced on or before the last day of the then current fiscal year.
(d) The Secretary shall conduct a referendum within every five-year period beginning from the implementation of this part, to ascertain whether continuance of the provisions of this part applicable to pecans are favored by two-thirds by number or volume of growers voting in the referendum. The Secretary may terminate the provisions of this part at the end of any fiscal year in which the Secretary has found that continuance of this part is not favored by growers who, during an appropriate period of time determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production of pecans in the production area:
Provided
, That termination of this part shall be effective only if announced on or before the last day of the then current fiscal year.
(e) The provisions of this part shall, in any event, terminate whenever the provisions of the Act authorizing them cease to be in effect.
§ 986.95
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of this part, the Council members serving shall continue as joint trustees for the purpose of liquidating all funds and property then in the possession or under the control of the Council, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered at the time of such termination.
(b) The joint trustees shall continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary; from time to time accounting for all receipts and disbursements; delivering all funds and property on hand, together with all books and records of the Council and of the joint trustees to such person as the Secretary shall direct; and, upon the request of the Secretary, executing such assignments or other instruments necessary and appropriate to vest in such person full title and right to all of the funds, property, or claims vested in the Council or in said joint trustees.
(c) Any funds collected pursuant to this part and held by such joint trustees or such person over and above the amounts necessary to meet outstanding obligations and the expenses necessarily incurred by the joint trustees or such other person in the performance of their duties under this subpart, as soon as practicable after the termination hereof, shall be returned to the handlers pro rata in proportion to their contributions thereto.
(d) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered by the Council, upon direction of the Secretary, as provided in this part, shall be subject to the same obligations and duties with respect to said funds, property, or claims as are imposed upon said joint trustees.
§ 986.96
Amendments.
Amendments to this part may be proposed from time to time by the Council or by the Secretary.
§ 986.97
Counterparts.
Handlers may sign an agreement with the Secretary indicating their support for this marketing order. This agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts by each handler. If more than fifty percent of the handlers, weighted by the volume of pecans handled during an appropriate period of time determined by the Secretary, enter into such an agreement, then a
marketing agreement shall exist for the pecans marketing order. This marketing agreement shall not alter the terms of this part. Upon the termination of this part, the marketing agreement has no further force or effect.
§ 986.98
Additional parties.
After this part becomes effective, any handler may become a party to the marketing agreement if a counterpart is executed by the handler and delivered to the Secretary.
§ 986.99
Order with marketing agreement.
Each signatory handler hereby requests the Secretary to issue, pursuant to the Act, an order for regulating the handling of pecans in the same manner as is provided for in this agreement.

# Subpart B—Administrative Provisions
§ 986.161
Assessment rate.
On and after October 1, 2021, assessment rates of $0.01 per pound for pecans classified as improved, $0.00 per pound for pecans classified as native and seedling, and $0.00 per pound for pecans classified as substandard pecans are established.
[87 FR 22110, Apr. 14, 2022]
§ 986.162
Inter-handler transfers.
(a) Inter-handler transfers of inshell pecans, pursuant to § 986.62, shall be reported to the Council on APC Form 4. Handlers shall file reports by the tenth day of the month following the first transfer between two handlers. Should the tenth day of the month fall on a weekend or holiday, reports are due by the first business day following the tenth day of the month. This report must be renewed each fiscal year. The report shall contain the following information:
(1) The fiscal year covered by the report;
(2) The names and signatures for both the transferring and receiving handler; and
(3) Handler assuming the reporting and assessment obligations on the pecans transferred.
(b) [Reserved]
[85 FR 19654, Apr. 8, 2020]
§ 986.175
Handler inventory.
(a) Handlers shall submit to the Council a year-end inventory report following August 31 each fiscal year. Handlers shall file such reports by September 10. Should September 10 fall on a weekend, reports are due by the first business day following September 10. Such reports shall be reported to the Council on APC Form 5 and include:
(1) The name and address of the handler;
(2) The total weight and type of inshell pecans in inventory, regardless of country of origin;
(3) The total weight and type of shelled pecans in inventory, regardless of country of origin;
(4) The total weight and type of inshell pecans committed, not shipped, for export and domestic shipments, and any uncommitted inventory, regardless of country of origin;
(5) The total weight and type of shelled pecans committed, not shipped, for export and domestic shipments, and any uncommitted inventory, regardless of country of origin;
(6) The combined total inventory for inshell and shelled pecans calculated on an inshell basis, and combined weight committed, not shipped, for exports and domestic shipments, and any uncommitted inventory;
(7) Total weight and type of domestic pecans handled for the fiscal year;
(8) Total assessments owed, assessments paid to date, and remaining assessments due to be paid by the due date of the year-end inventory report for the fiscal year;
(9) The average price paid for all inshell pecans purchased during the fiscal year regardless of how the pecans are handled, including pecans from outside the production area; and
(10) The average yield of shelled pecans per pound of inshell pecans shelled during the fiscal year.
(b) [Reserved]
[82 FR 56155, Nov. 28, 2017, as amended at 84 FR 8411, Mar. 8, 2019; 85 FR 19654, Apr. 8, 2020]
§ 986.177
Reports of pecans received by handlers.
(a)
Summary report.
Handlers shall submit to the Council, by the tenth day of the month, a summary report of inshell domestic pecans received, and all shipments, inventory, and committed inventory for pecans following the month of activity. Should the tenth day of the month fall on a weekend or holiday, reports are due by the first business day following the tenth day of the month. The report shall be submitted to the Council on APC Form 1 and contain the following information:
(1) The name and address of the handler;
(2) The month covered by the report;
(3) The total weight and type of inshell pecans received during the reporting period;
(4) The total weight and type of inshell pecans received year to date;
(5) Assessments due on pecans received during the reporting period to be paid by the due date of the report;
(6) The weight of all shipments of pecans, inshell and shelled, and inter-handler transfers shipped and received during the reporting period;
(7) The weight of all shipments of pecans, inshell and shelled, and inter-handler transfers shipped and received in the previous month and year to date;
(8) Total inventory held by handler;
(9) All the inventory committed (pecans not shipped, but sold or otherwise obligated) whether for domestic sale or export; and,
(10) The weight of all shelled or inshell pecans under contract for purchase from other handlers.
(b)
Pecans purchased outside the United States and inshell pecans exported to Mexico for shelling and returned to the United States as shelled meats.
Handlers shall submit to the Council, by the tenth day of the month following the month of activity, a summary report of shelled and inshell pecans imported during the preceding month. Should the tenth day of the month fall on a weekend or holiday, reports are due by the first business day following the tenth day of the month. The report shall be submitted to the Council on APC Form 2 and contain the following information:
(1) The name and address of the handler;
(2) The month covered by the report;
(3) The date the pecans were imported;
(4) The country of origin;
(5) The total weight of shelled and inshell pecans received, and the weight by variety for improved pecans received;
(6) The weight of inshell pecans exported to Mexico for shelling;
(7) The date shelled pecans returned to the United States after shelling in Mexico;
(8) The weight of shelled pecans returned to the United States after shelling in Mexico; and
(9) The total weight of inshell pecans exported to Mexico for shelling, and shelled pecans returned from Mexico, year to date.
[83 FR 7361, Feb. 21, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 19654, Apr. 8, 2020]
§ 986.178
Other reports.
(a)
Exports by country of destination.
Handlers shall submit to the Council, by the tenth day of the month following the month of shipment, a report of exports. Should the tenth day of the month fall on a weekend or holiday, reports are due by the first business day following the tenth day of the month. The report shall be reported to the Council on APC Form 3 and contain the following information:
(1) The name and address of the handler;
(2) The month covered by the report;
(3) The total weight of pecans shipped for export, whether inshell, shelled, or substandard during the reporting period;
(4) The total weight of pecans shipped for export, whether inshell, shelled, or substandard during the previous period and year to date; and,
(5) The destination(s) of such exports.
(b)
Exports by country of destination.
Handlers shall submit to the Council, by the tenth day of the month following the month of shipment, a report of exports. Should the tenth day of the month fall on a weekend or holiday, reports are due by the first business day following the tenth day of the month.
The report shall be reported to the Council on APC Form 3 and contain the following information:
(1) The name and address of the handler;
(2) The month covered by the report;
(3) The total weight of pecans shipped for export, whether inshell, shelled, or substandard during the reporting period;
(4) The total weight of pecans shipped for export, whether inshell, shelled, or substandard during the previous period and year to date; and,
(5) The destination(s) of such exports.
(c)
Inshell pecans exported to Mexico for shelling and returned to the United States as shelled meats.
Handlers shall submit to the Council, by the tenth day of the month following the month of shipment, a report of all inshell pecans exported to Mexico for shelling and returned to the United States as shelled pecans. Should the tenth day of the month fall on a weekend or holiday, reports are due by the first business day following the tenth day of the month. The report shall be submitted to the Council on APC Form 5 and contain the following information:
(1) The name and address of the handler;
(2) The month covered by the report;
(3) The date of inshell shipment(s);
(4) The weight of pecans exported for shelling;
(5) The date shelled pecans returned to the United States after shelling;
(6) The weight of shelled pecans returned to the United States after shelling; and
(7) The total weight of inshell pecans exported to Mexico for shelling, and shelled pecans returned from Mexico, year to date.
[83 FR 7361, Feb. 21, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 19655, Apr. 8, 2020]
Pt. 987

# PART 987—DOMESTIC DATES PRODUCED OR PACKED IN RIVERSIDE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Definitions
Sec.
987.1
Secretary.
987.2
Act.
987.3
Person.
987.4
Area of production.
987.5
Dates.
987.6
Crop year.
987.7
Producer.
987.8
Handler.
987.8a
Repacker.
987.9
Handle.
987.10
Handler carry-over.
987.11
Trade demand.
987.12
Marketable dates.
987.13
Free dates.
987.14
Restricted dates.
987.15
Substandard dates.
987.16
Cull dates.
987.17
Graded dates.
987.18
Committee.
987.20
Part and subpart.

# California Date Administrative Committee
987.21
Establishment and membership.
987.23
Term of office.
987.24
Nomination and selection.
987.25
Qualification.
987.26
Vacancies.
987.27
Alternates.
987.28
Expenses.
987.29
Powers.
987.30
Duties.
987.31
Procedure.

# Market Development
987.33
Research and promotion.

# Marketing Policy
987.34
Development.
987.35
Modifications.
987.36
Notice.
987.38
Handlers of record.

# Grade Regulation
987.39
The establishment of minimum standards.
987.40
Additional grade or size regulations.
987.41
Inspection.

# Volume Regulation
987.43
Outlets and specifications for marketable dates.
987.44
Free and restricted percentages.
987.45
Withholding restricted dates.
987.46
Revisions of percentages.
987.47
Surplus.

# Container Regulation
987.48
Container regulation.

# Qualifications to Regulation
987.50
Application after end of crop year.
987.51
Interhandler transfers.
987.52
Exemption.
987.53
Application of regulations to repackers.

# Disposition of Other Than Free Dates
987.55
Outlets for restricted dates.
987.56
Outlets for utility and cull dates.
987.57
Approved manufacturers or feeders.
987.58
Terminal date.
987.59
Safeguards.

# Reports and Records
987.61
Reports of handler carryover.
987.62
Reports of dates shipped.
987.63
Reports on restricted dates withheld.
987.64
Reports on disposition of restricted, other marketable, utility, and cull dates.
987.65
Other reports.
987.66
Certification of reports.
987.67
Confidential information.
987.68
Verification of reports and records.

# Expenses and Assessments
987.71
Expenses.
987.72
Assessments.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
987.76
Compliance.
987.77
Personal liability.
987.78
Separability.
987.79
Derogation.
987.80
Duration of immunities.
987.81
Agents.
987.82
Effective time, suspension, or termination.
987.83
Effect of termination or amendment.
987.84
Amendments.

# Subpart B—Administrative Requirements

# Definitions
987.101
Lot.
987.102
Lot number.
987.104
Major marketing promotion.
987.105
Whole equivalent of pitted dates.

# Identification and Outlet Specifications
987.112
Identification of dates.
987.112a
Grade, size, and container requirements for each outlet category.

# Nominations
987.124
Nomination and polling.
987.138
Handlers of record.

# Inspection
987.141
Inspection and certification.

# Volume Regulation
987.145
Withholding obligation.

# Surplus
987.147
Surplus.

# Qualification to Regulation
987.151
Interhandler transfers.
987.152
Exemption from regulations.
987.157
Approved date product manufacturers.

# Reports and Records
987.161
Handler carryover.
987.162
Handler acquisition and disposition.
987.164
Shipments of product dates and disposition of restricted dates in approved product outlets.
987.165
Other reports.
987.168
Handler records.
987.172
Adjustment of assessment obligation, and late payment and interest charges.

# Subpart C—Assessment Rates
987.339
Assessment rate.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 601-674.

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Source:
27 FR 6818, July 19, 1962, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 987.1
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in his stead.
§ 987.2
Act.
Act
means Public Act No. 10, 73d Congress, as amended and as reenacted and amended by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (sections 1-19, 48 Stat. 31, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
).
§ 987.3
Person.
Person
means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other business unit.
§ 987.4
Area of production.
Area of production
means Riverside County, Calif.
[36 FR 15037, Aug. 12, 1971]
§ 987.5
Dates.
Dates
means the Deglet Noor, Zahidi, Halawy, and Khadrawy varieties of domestic dates produced or packed in the area of production.
§ 987.6
Crop year.
Crop year
means the 12-month period beginning October 1 of each year and ending September 30 of the following year.
[43 FR 4250, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.7
Producer.
Producer
is synonymous with grower and means any person engaged in a proprietary capacity in the production of dates for sale.
§ 987.8
Handler.
Handler
means any person handling dates which have not been inspected and certified for handling in the hands of a previous holder and any repacker:
Provided,
That for the purposes of §§ 987.21 and 987.24 a person shall qualify as a handler only if he has acquired the dates directly from producers.
[32 FR 12595, Aug. 31, 1967, as amended at 43 FR 4250, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.8a
Repacker.
Repacker
means any wholesaler or jobber who receives packed dates certified for handling pursuant to § 987.41(a), repackages them in containers other than those in which received, and handles such repackaged dates.
[32 FR 12595, Aug. 31, 1967]
§ 987.9
Handle.
Handle
means to sell, consign, transport, or ship (except as a common or contract carrier of dates owned by another person) or in any way to put dates into the current of commerce including the shipment or delivery of utility dates or cull dates into nonhuman consumption outlets, except that sales or deliveries, by producers, of other than cull dates, to a handler within the area of production, or the movement of dates by a handler to storage for his account within the area of production, or counties adjoining the area of production, shall not be considered handling. The Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish monitoring procedures for storage of dates in Orange, San Diego, and Yuma Counties.
[36 FR 15037, Aug. 12, 1971, as amended at 43 FR 4250, 4251, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.10
Handler carry-over.
Handler carry-over
means, as of any date, all marketable dates then held by a handler or for his account (whether or not sold), plus the estimated quantity of marketable dates in ungraded or unprocessed lots then held by said handler.
§ 987.11
Trade demand.
Trade demand
means those quantities of marketable dates which the Committee finds are required to satisfy the need for dates in specific outlets in which marketable dates are handled.
[43 FR 4250, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.12
Marketable dates.
Marketable dates
means those dates which are certified as equal to or higher than the applicable minimum grade and size requirements in effect pursuant to § 987.39, and any additional applicable requirements in effect pursuant to § 987.40. Marketable dates shall include but not be limited to the following:
(a)
DAC dates.
DAC dates are marketable whole or pitted dates that are inspected and certified as meeting the grade, size, container, and identification requirements established by the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, for a specific variety for handling in the United States and Canada.
(b)
Dates for further processing.
Dates for further processing (FP) are marketable whole dates acquired by one handler from another handler that are certified as meeting the same grade and size requirements for DAC dates, with the exception of moisture requirements, and such identification requirements applicable to FP dates that are established by the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, for any specific variety.
(c)
Export dates.
Export dates are marketable whole or pitted dates that are inspected and certified as meeting the grade, size, container, and identification requirements established by
the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, for a specific variety, to be handled in export to any country or group of countries with the exception of Canada. The Committee may establish different requirements for different countries.
(d)
Product dates.
Product dates are marketable dates that are inspected and certified as meeting the applicable grade and size requirements for dates to be handled in such forms as rings, chunks, pieces, butter, macerate, paste, or any other forms which the Committee deems appropriate and which will result in dates moving into consumption in a form other than that of whole or pitted dates.
[43 FR 4250, Feb. 1, 1978, as amended at 88 FR 82235, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 987.13
Free dates.
Free dates
means dates of any variety that are at the time of certification destined for consumption in whole or pitted form in the United States and Canada (and such other countries as the Committee determines are likely to acquire them at prices reasonably comparable with prices received domestically) and which are free to be handled pursuant to any free percentage established by the Secretary in accordance with § 987.44.
[43 FR 4251, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.14
Restricted dates.
Restricted dates
means those dates which must be withheld by handlers pursuant to any restricted percentage established by the Secretary in accordance with § 987.44.
§ 987.15
Substandard dates.
Utility dates
means those dates which fail to meet the requirements for marketable dates but are not cull dates.
[27 FR 6818, July 19, 1962, as amended at 43 FR 4251, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.16
Cull dates.
Cull dates
means dates which fail to meet the requirements (with respect to freedom from defects) prescribed in title 3, group 4, article 24, section 24, section 1434 of the Food and Agricultural Code of California for dates for use in products or by-products other than alcohol, brandy, and products not intended for human consumption and any dates residual from field or packinghouse grading operations.
[27 FR 6818, July 19, 1962, as amended at 43 FR 4251, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.17
Graded dates.
Graded dates
means those dates which are eligible for certification as marketable dates.
§ 987.18
Committee.
Committee
means the California Date Administrative Committee established pursuant to § 987.21.
[36 FR 15037, Aug. 12, 1971]
§ 987.20
Part and subpart.
Part
means the order regulating the handling of domestic dates produced or packed in Riverside County, Calif., and all rules, regulations, and supplementary orders issued thereunder. The aforesaid order shall be a
subpart
of such part.
[36 FR 15037, Aug. 12, 1971]

# California Date Administrative Committee
§ 987.21
Establishment and membership.
A California Date Administrative Committee consisting of nine members is hereby established to administer the terms and conditions of this part. For each member there shall be an alternate member, and the provisions of this part applicable to the number, nomination, qualification and selection of members shall apply in like manner to alternate members. Three of the members, referred to in this part as “producer members”, shall be producers or officers or employees of producers, and shall not be handlers, or directors, officers, or employees exercising a supervisory or managerial function of a handler. The six remaining members, referred to in this part as “producer-handlers”, shall be selected from (a) handlers, or directors, officers or employees of a handler, or (b) producers who are also handlers or directors, officers or employees exercising a supervisory or managerial function of a
handler. The Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may issue rules and regulations covering matters of eligibility for producer members, or revising the composition of the Committee prescribed in this section if it no longer is representative following a substantial change in the industry.
[43 FR 4251, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.23
Term of office.
The term of office for members and alternate members shall be three years beginning August 1, except that such term may be shorter if the Committee composition is changed in the interim pursuant to § 987.21.
Provided,
That the terms of office of all members and alternates currently serving at the time of the amendment will end on July 31, 2014. Each member and alternate member shall, unless otherwise ordered by the Secretary, continue to serve until his or her successor has been selected and has qualified.
[77 FR 37765, June 25, 2012]
§ 987.24
Nomination and selection.
(a) Nomination for members and alternate members of the Committee shall be made not later than June 15 of every third year.
(b) Opportunity shall be provided producers and handlers to nominate individuals to serve on the Committee by establishing a day for polling and also for casting absentee ballots. Persons will only be able to vote in nominations for the group in which they would be qualified to serve on the Committee, and shall nominate the applicable number of individuals for the positions prescribed pursuant to § 987.21. Each producer, regardless of the number and locations of his date gardens, voting in the nominations for producer members and producer alternate members, shall be entitled to one vote for each member and alternate member position to be filled. The individual receiving the highest number of votes for a position shall be the nominee. Each person voting in the nominations for producer-handler members and producer-handler alternate members, shall be given the opportunity to vote for one member and one alternate member position. His ballot shall be weighted by the pounds of dates he had certified as marketable dates, from the beginning of the then current crop year through April which he produced in his own gardens or acquired from other producers. The individual receiving the highest weighted vote for a producer-handler position shall be the nominee. The Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may issue rules and regulations on the manner in which nominees for a position may be obtained, polling, balloting, absentee ballots, and the weighting of votes for producer-handler positions when the Committee is restructured during a term of office.
[43 FR 4251, Feb. 1, 1978, as amended at 77 FR 37765, June 25, 2012]
§ 987.25
Qualification.
Each person selected as a member or alternate member of the Committee shall, prior to serving on the Committee, qualify by filing with the Secretary a written acceptance after receiving notice of his selection. Any member or alternate who, at the time of his selection, was a member of or employed by a member of the group which nominated him shall, upon ceasing to be such member or employee, become disqualified to serve further and his position on the Committee shall be deemed vacant.
§ 987.26
Vacancies.
In the event of any vacancy occasioned by the failure to qualify, declination to serve, removal, resignation, disqualification, or death of any person nominated to serve on the Committee, or any member or alternate member selected by the Secretary, the Committee shall promptly submit its recommendation to the Secretary of a nominee eligible to serve in accordance with the requirements specified for the group in § 987.21. If the vacancy is for a member position, the Committee shall recommend appointment of the alternate member if that person is willing to serve in that position. If the Committee's recommendation is not submitted within 30 calendar days after such vacancy occurs, the Secretary may fill such vacancy without regard to nominations, and the selection shall
be made on the basis of representation provided in § 987.21.
[43 FR 4251, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.27
Alternates.
An alternate for a member of the Committee shall act in the place and stead of such member during his absence or in the event of his removal, resignation, disqualification, or death, until a successor for such member's unexpired term has been selected and has qualified. In the event a member and his alternate are unable to attend a meeting of the Committee, such member or alternate, in that order, may designate an alternate from the group he represents to act in his place. If neither a member nor his alternate has designated an alternate as his replacement, or such designated alternate is unable to serve as the replacement, the chairman may, with the concurrence of a majority of the members including alternates acting as members, representing such group, designate an alternate from such group who is present at the meeting and is not acting as a member to act in the place and stead of the absent member.
[27 FR 6818, July 19, 1962, as amended at 36 FR 15038, Aug. 12, 1971; 43 FR 4251, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.28
Expenses.
The members of the Committee shall serve without compensation but shall be allowed their necessary expenses.
§ 987.29
Powers.
The Committee shall have the following powers:
(a) To administer the terms and provisions of this subpart.
(b) To make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of this subpart.
(c) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of this subpart, and
(d) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this subpart.
§ 987.30
Duties.
The Committee shall have, among other things, the following duties:
(a) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any producer or handler.
(b) To keep minutes, books, and records which will clearly reflect all of its transactions and such minutes, books, and other records shall be subject to examination by the Secretary at any time.
(c) To investigate the growing, handling, and marketing conditions with respect to dates, to assemble data in connection therewith.
(d) To furnish to the Secretary such available information as may be deemed pertinent to the administration of this subpart or as he may request and to give to the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the Committee as is given to the members of the Committee.
(e) To appoint such employees as it may deem necessary and to determine the salaries, define the duties and where desirable fix the bonds of such employees.
(f) To cause the books of the Committee to be audited by a certified public accountant at least once each crop year and at such other times as the Committee may deem necessary or the Secretary may request. The report of each such audit shall show among other things the receipt and expenditure of funds pursuant hereto. Two copies of such audit shall be submitted to the Secretary.
(g) To investigate compliance and to use means available to the Committee to prevent violations of this part.
(h) To furnish the Committee viewpoints of the consumer, the Committee may utilize a consumer consultant. The consumer consultant shall have no financial interest in the date industry and shall receive no compensation, however, such person shall be reimbursed for necessary expenses attendant to those assignments that the Committee has given prior support and approval.
[27 FR 6818, July 19, 1962, as amended at 43 FR 4252, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.31
Procedure.
(a) A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum.
(b) The Committee shall, from among its members, select a chairman and
such other officers and adopt such rules for the conduct of its business as it may deem advisable.
(c) For any decision of the Committee to be valid, a concurring vote of at least five members is required, except as follows:
(1) In matters relating to restructuring Committee composition pursuant to § 987.21, concurrence by at least eight members is required;
(2) In matters relating to establishment, modification and application of free and restricted percentages pursuant to §§ 987.44 and 987.46, concurrence by at least seven members is required; and
(3) In matters relating to recommendation of any program of paid advertising or major program of market promotion pursuant to § 987.33, concurrence by at least six members is required.
(d) At the discretion of the chairperson, Committee meetings may be assembled or conducted by means of teleconference, video conference, or other means of communication that may be developed. Assembled meetings may also allow for participation by means of teleconference or video conference or other communication methods, at the discretion of the chair. Members participating in meetings via any of these alternative means retain the same voting privileges that they would otherwise have.
(e) The Committee may vote upon any proposition by mail, or by telephone when confirmed in writing within two weeks, upon due notice and full and identical explanation to all members, including alternates acting as members, but any such action shall not be considered valid unless unanimously approved.
(f) If the total number of members of the Committee is changed pursuant to § 987.21, the minimum voting requirements shall be in the same ratio to the revised total number of members, as nearly as practicable, as the minimum voting requirements prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section are to nine.
[36 FR 15038, Aug. 12, 1971, as amended at 43 FR 4252, Feb. 1, 1978; 77 FR 37765, June 25, 2012]

# Market Development
§ 987.33
Research and promotion.
(a) The Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish or provide for the establishment of marketing research and development projects, including marketing promotion and paid advertising, designed to assist, improve, or promote the marketing, distribution, and consumption of dates. The expenses of such projects shall be paid from funds collected pursuant to § 987.72. Upon conclusion of each program, but at least annually, the Committee shall summarize and report on the program status and accomplishments, to its members and the Secretary. A similar report to the Committee shall be required of any contracting party on any paid advertising or major program. Also, for each advertising or major program the contracting party shall be required to maintain records of money received and expenditures and such shall be available to the Committee and the Secretary. The Committee shall, with the approval of the Secretary, establish criteria which will determine such major program.
(b) [Reserved]
[32 FR 12595, Aug. 31, 1967, as amended at 36 FR 15038, Aug. 12, 1971; 43 FR 4252, Feb. 1, 1978]

# Marketing Policy
§ 987.34
Development.
As early as practicable, but no later than October 31, the Committee shall prepare and submit to the Secretary, a report setting forth its marketing policy, including data on which it is based, by variety, for regulation of dates in the crop year.
(a) The committee shall consider such factors as:
(1) The estimated production of dates during the crop year;
(2) The estimated production of DAC dates, export dates, and product dates;
(3) The handler carryin on October 1 of dates of those qualities;
(4) The estimated trade demand in each outlet during the crop year; and
(5) The desirable carryout, by outlet.
(b) If dates to be handled as free dates are not synonymous with those
to be handled in DAC outlets, the Committee shall consider such additional factors as:
(1) The supply of marketable dates that will be available from the estimated production, and from the October 1 carryin, that could be used as free dates, and
(2) The estimated trade demand for free dates during the current crop year, and the desirable carryout for free dates.
(c) The Committee shall submit its recommendation as to grade, size, and container regulations and its recommendation whether free and restricted percentages should be established and if so, the free and restricted percentages and the appropriate withholding factor.
[43 FR 4252, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.35
Modifications.
In the event the Committee subsequently determines that the marketing policy should be modified due to changing supply or demand conditions, it shall formulate and submit to the Secretary its modified marketing policy along with the data which it considered in connection with such modification.
§ 987.36
Notice.
The Committee shall give notice through newspapers having general circulation in the area of production or by other means of communication to producers and handlers of the contents of each marketing policy report submitted to the Secretary and of each report modifying such marketing policy. Copies of all such reports shall be maintained in the office of the Committee where they shall be available for examination by producers and handlers.
§ 987.38
Handlers of record.
Each crop year but no later than October 10 for continuing handlers and prior to handling dates in the case of new handlers, any person desiring to handle dates shall submit a report to the Committee on a form prescribed by it containing the following information with respect to all dates which such person expects to handle:
(a) The name and address of each producer;
(b) The location of each date garden; and
(c) The acreage and estimated current season's production thereon.
Those reports required to be filed by October 10 shall reflect producers who are signed up with the handlers as of October 1 of the then current crop year. The Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may issue rules and regulations to carry out the provisions of this section.
[43 FR 4252, Feb. 1, 1978]

# Grade Regulation
§ 987.39
The establishment of minimum standards.
In order to effectuate the declared policy of the act, all dates handled as marketable dates shall meet the requirements of U.S. Grade C, or if for further processing, U.S. Grade C (Dry) of the effective U.S. Standards for Grades of Dates, 7 CFR 52.1001:
Provided,
That the Secretary, may upon recommendation of the Committee, prescribe other minimum standards of grades and sizes for marketable dates of any variety to be handled in any designated outlet. To aid the Secretary in prescribing such other minimum standards, the Committee shall furnish to the Secretary the data upon which it acted in recommending such standards. The provisions hereof relating to minimum standards of grades and sizes for marketable dates and inspection requirements, within the meaning of section 2(3) of the act, and any other provisions relating to the administration and enforcement thereof shall continue in effect irrespective of whether the season average price to producers for dates is or is not in excess of the parity level specified in section 2(1) of the act. Notice of the minimum standard regulation shall be sent by the Committee to all handlers of record. On and after the effective date of such regulations no handler shall handle dates except in accordance with such minimum standard.
[32 FR 12596, Aug. 31, 1967, as amended at 43 FR 4252, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.40
Additional grade or size regulations.
Whenever the Committee deems it advisable to establish grade or size requirements for any variety of dates, in addition to the minimum standard provided pursuant to § 987.39, to govern dates of such variety to be handled in any designated outlet or to be withheld to meet withholding obligation, or both, it shall recommend to the Secretary requirements as to grade based on the effective United States Standards for Grades of Dates or any modification thereof, and such size requirements as it may deem appropriate. If the Secretary finds, upon the basis of such recommendation or other information available to him, that such additional grade or size regulation, or both such regulations, will tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act, he shall establish such regulations. Notice thereof, showing the effective date, shall be sent by the Committee to all handlers of record. On and after the effective date no handler shall handle dates of such variety in any designated outlet or withhold such dates to meet withholding obligation except in accordance with such regulations.
[27 FR 6818, July 19, 1962, as amended at 43 FR 4252, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.41
Inspection.
(a)
Packed dates.
Prior to handling any dates packed for handling each handler shall, at his own expense, cause:
(1) An inspection to be made of such dates in order to ascertain if such dates meet the applicable grade and size regulations prescribed or provided for in this part; and
(2) A certification for handling to be made of all such dates as meet such grade and size regulations.
(b)
Dates for further processing.
Prior to handling any dates for further processing each handler shall, at his own expense, cause: (1) An inspection to be made to ascertain if such dates meet the applicable grade and size requirements effective pursuant to § 987.39 or § 987.40, except for character associated with moisture; and (2) a certification for further processing to be made of all such dates as meet such grade and size requirements:
Provided,
That such inspection and certification requirements shall not apply to inter-handler transfers within the area of production of field-run dates or graded dates.
(c)
Identification and service.
All dates handled shall be identified by seals, stamps, or other means prescribed by the Committee and affixed to the containers by the handlers under the supervision of the Committee or the designated inspectors. Inspection shall be performed by inspectors of the United States Department of Agriculture's Specialty Crop Inspection Division or such other inspection service as may be recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary. Handlers shall cause a copy of each inspection certificate to be furnished to the Committee.
[27 FR 6818, July 19, 1962, as amended at 88 FR 82235, Nov. 24, 2023]

# Volume Regulation
§ 987.43
Outlets and specifications for marketable dates.
Marketable dates shall not be handled or otherwise disposed of except as provided in this subpart. This shall not preclude dates of better grades or sizes being handled or otherwise disposed of in any outlet established for dates of lesser grades or sizes. The Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may modify the designations specified in § 987.12 to reflect new major outlets and regulatory requirements needed because of changes in marketing conditions. Marketable dates shall include but not be limited to the following: DAC dates, Dates for further processing, Export dates, and Product dates.
[43 FR 4252, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.44
Free and restricted percentages.
(a) Whenever the Committee finds that the available supply of marketable dates of applicable grade and size available to supply the trade demand for free dates of any variety is likely to be excessive, and that limiting the volume of marketable dates to be handled as free dates through establishment of free and restricted percentages applicable to such variety of such dates would
tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act, it shall recommend such percentages to the Secretary. If the Secretary finds, upon the basis of the Committee's recommendation and supporting data or other information available to him, that the establishment of such percentages would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act, he shall establish such percentages. The sum of the free and restricted percentages for any crop year shall equal 100 percent.
(b) The dates handled by any handler in accordance with the provisions hereof shall be determined to be that handler's quota fixed by the Secretary within the meaning of section 8a(5) of the act.
[27 FR 6818, July 19, 1962, as amended at 43 FR 4252, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.45
Withholding restricted dates.
(a) Whenever free and restricted percentages for any variety of dates have been established for a crop year by the Secretary in accordance with § 987.44, each handler shall, at the time of having dates of such variety certified for handling as free dates (including those for further processing that are to be handled as free dates), withhold from handling a quantity of marketable dates of such variety having a weight equal to the restricted percentage for such variety referrable to the dates so far certified. The withholding requirement shall not apply to dates certified for delivery directly to an excess supply removal program of the Secretary. The weight required to be withheld shall be determined by dividing the restricted percentage by the free percentage and applying the resultant withholding factor, rounded to the nearest one-tenth of one percent, to the weight of dates so certified. The withholding factor, computed as aforesaid, shall be established by the Secretary. When pitted dates are certified, the weight to be withheld shall be determined by dividing the weight of the pitted dates certified for handling or further processing by a divisor established by the Committee with the approval of the Secretary and applying the withholding factor.
(b) Compliance by any handler with the withholding of restricted dates may be deferred to any date not later than January 31 of any crop year, upon request to the Committee and when accompanied by a written undertaking that on or prior to such date, he will have fully satisfied his withholding obligation. Such undertaking shall be secured by a bond or bonds to be filed with, and acceptable to, the Committee and with a surety or sureties acceptable to the Committee, running in favor of the Committee and the Secretary in an amount conditioned upon full compliance with such undertaking. The amount shall be determined by multiplying the poundage of the deferred restricted obligation by a bonding rate per pound which would provide funds estimated to be sufficient for the Committee to purchase on the open market a volume of dates equivalent to the deferred obligation. Such bonding rate shall be established annually, and modified as necessary, by the Committee. Any sums collected through default by a handler on his bond shall be used by the Committee to purchase dates to meet the violated restricted obligation, reimburse the Committee for expenses relative to the default, and any excess money remaining shall be refunded to the defaulting handler. The dates so purchased by the Committee shall be turned over to the defaulting handler for disposition as restricted dates. In the event the Committee is unable to purchase a poundage of dates equal to the defaulted volume, the sums collected shall, after reimbursement of Committee expenses in connection with the default, be distributed among all handlers other than the defaulting handler in proportion to the volume of certified dates handled as free dates (including those for further processing that were handled as free dates), during the crop year in which the default occurred.
(c) At any time during the crop year free dates may be inspected and certified for handling or for further processing as provided in § 987.41. Dates so certified shall, at the time of certification, be identified by appropriate seals, stamps, or tags to be furnished by the Committee and to be affixed to the containers by the handler under the direction and supervision of the
Committee or its designated inspectors. The assessment requirements in § 987.72 as well as the withholding obligation prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section shall be met at the time of certification. However, a handler who has had more free dates certified for handling or further processing than he subsequently shipped or otherwise handled may, upon request to the Committee and with its approval, have any of such excess quantity of the certified dates suspended from certification of record or, if damaged or the outlet changed, removed from certification, and his withholding and assessment obligations adjusted accordingly. A handler, who has had dates certified for handling or further processing and has not had them so suspended from certification of record or removed from certification, may carry such certified free dates over into the new crop year and need not pay the assessment nor meet the requirements of any withholding percentages established for such year.
(d) Dates withheld to meet the withholding obligation shall be stored at the expense of the handler, in storage of his own choosing and disposed of in accordance with § 987.55. All such dates shall be inspected and identified by appropriate seals, stamps, or tags to be furnished by the Committee and to be affixed to the containers by the handler under the direction and supervision of the Committee or its designated inspectors. All withholding and movement of restricted dates, shall be subject to the supervision and accounting control of the Committee and reports shall be filed as required by this part. Any handler who during a crop year disposes in restricted outlets of a quantity of marketable dates in excess of his withholding obligation of such year may: (1) On written request delivered to the Committee not later than September 30 of such crop year have a part or all of such excess transferred, by the Committee, to such other handler or handlers as he may name, for crediting such other handlers' withholding obligations incurred in that crop year; and in addition (2) have a part or all of the remainder of such excess credited to his restricted obligation of the subsequent crop year:
Provided,
That the amount of any such credit shall not exceed that established by the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, as the percentage of such withholding obligation.
(e) On request to the Committee and with its approval, a handler may, in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph and any applicable rules and regulations which the Committee may prescribe with the approval of the Secretary, defer until any date not later than September 30 of the crop year the meeting of any portion of his obligation to withhold restricted dates by setting aside such amount of graded dates as will assure a quantity of marketable dates equal at least to the quantity needed to be withheld to meet his withholding obligation. With respect to any such dates the handler may set aside in connection with such a deferment, the Committee may require, if it deems it necessary, the handler to have made, at his own expense, such inspection as may be necessary for a determination as to whether such dates conform to the applicable requirements for dates that may be set aside under this paragraph. As a condition to the Committee approving the deferment, the handler shall agree in writing that:
(1) He will adequately mark and identify the set-aside graded dates as such and hold them separate and apart from other dates;
(2) The graded dates will not be removed from the stacks in which so set aside without the prior written permission of the Committee;
(3) Inspection of the dates by the Committee will be permitted at any reasonable time; and
(4) If the quantity, quality, or size of the set-aside dates is found by the Committee at any time to be deficient, the handler will promptly set aside such additional or substitute quantity of graded dates as is necessary to correct the deficiency.
(f) Upon the Committee prescribing, with the approval of the Secretary, minimum standards for inspection of field-run dates and appropriate administrative rules and regulations, a handler may, in accordance therewith and the provisions of this paragraph, satisfy all or any part of his obligation to
withhold restricted dates by setting aside field-run dates or by disposing of field-run dates in outlets prescribed in, or pursuant to, § 987.56. The field-run dates shall be of such quality or size as shall be prescribed in such rules and regulations. The setting aside, direct disposal, and disposal of any field-run dates set aside shall occur prior to September 30 of the crop year in which the withholding obligation occurs. Prior to the disposal or setting aside of the field run dates, the handler shall have had them inspected to determine the weight of dates eligible to satisfy withholding obligation. Upon such disposal or setting aside of the field-run dates, the handler shall be credited with satisfaction of his restricted obligation to the extent of the eligible weight of dates. In permitting the handler to so satisfy his withholding obligation the Committee shall require the handler to agree in writing that:
(1) Any field-run dates set aside will be held separate and apart from other dates and appropriately marked;
(2) Such dates will not be removed from the stacks in which so set aside for substitution of other dates, disposition, or for any other reason without prior written permission of the Committee; and
(3) Inspection of said dates by the Committee will be permitted at any reasonable time. In order to satisfy a withholding obligation by direct disposal of field-run dates into cull outlets, the disposal shall be under the supervision of the Committee and through persons on a Committee approved list of feeders and manufacturers. The handler may, upon giving prior notice to the Committee of any of the following proposed actions with respect to field-run dates withheld and obtaining its approval, (i) dispose of any such set-aside, field-run dates in the same manner as provided for direct disposal (ii) grade such dates and have the graded dates certified as marketable dates and withhold or dispose of such marketable dates as restricted dates, or (iii) substitute for the set-aside, field-run dates an equivalent quantity of marketable dates which he shall withhold or dispose of as restricted dates.
[27 FR 6818, July 19, 1962, as amended at 29 FR 9707, July 18, 1964; 36 FR 15039, Aug. 12, 1971; 43 FR 4253, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.46
Revisions of percentages.
The Secretary may, on recommendation of the Committee submitted prior to January 31 of the crop year, or on the basis of other information available to him, increase the free percentage to conform with such new relation as may be found to exist between trade demand for free dates and available supply of marketable dates of applicable grade and size. Upon any revision in the free and restricted percentages the control obligation of each handler with respect to free dates handled or certified for handling or for further processing by him for the entire crop year shall be recomputed in accordance with such revised control percentages. The handler shall be permitted to select, insofar as practicable, under the supervision and direction of the Committee, the particular dates to be removed from any dates withheld.
[27 FR 6818, July 19, 1962, as amended at 43 FR 4253, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.47
Surplus.
All cull dates and all substandard dates, including such dates blended with varieties within the generic term
dates
not regulated by this part, except any utility dates released to human consumption outlets pursuant to § 987.56, are surplus dates of any crop year. No handler shall ship or deliver such surplus dates to other than the Committee or its designee(s) for disposition in eligible outlets for such dates, except that any producer or handler may dispose of any such surplus dates of his own production within his own livestock feeding operations. Surplus dates delivered to the Committee shall be disposed of by it, in those outlets specified in § 987.56, at the best prices attainable and the proceeds returned pro rata, after deduction of Committee costs, to equity holders. The Committee may assist handlers with the cleaning, storage, or delivery of surplus dates and may, with the approval of the Secretary, establish rules
and regulations necessary and incidental to administration of this regulation.
[27 FR 6818, July 19, 1962, as amended at 43 FR 4251, Feb. 1, 1978]

# Container Regulation
§ 987.48
Container regulation.
Whenever the Committee deems it advisable to establish a container regulation for any variety of dates, it shall recommend to the Secretary the size, capacity, weight, or pack of the container, or containers, which may be used in the handling or packaging of dates, or both. If the Secretary finds upon the basis of such recommendation or other information available to him that such container regulation would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act he shall establish such regulation and notice thereof showing the effective date shall be sent by the Committee to all handlers of record. After the effective date of such regulation, no handler shall handle dates of such variety except in accordance with such regulation and all other applicable requirements in effect pursuant to this part.

# Qualifications to Regulation
§ 987.50
Application after end of crop year.
Unless otherwise specified the regulations and the bonding rates established for any crop year shall continue in effect with respect to all free dates for which control obligations have not been previously met, until regulations and bonding rates are established for the new crop year. Thereupon the withholding obligations for all free dates handled or certified for handling or for further processing during such crop year shall be adjusted to the newly established percentages and a similar adjustment shall be made in any bond or bonds already given for that crop year.
[27 FR 6818, July 19, 1962, as amended at 43 FR 4253, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.51
Interhandler transfers.
Transfers of dates may be made from one handler to another, and each handler who so transfers any such dates shall immediately upon the completion of the particular transfer notify the Committee of the transfer, specifying the date of the transfer, the quantity and variety of dates involved, and the name of the receiving handler. If such transfer is wholly within the area of production, the assessment and withholding obligations shall be placed on the handler agreeing to assume them:
Provided,
That in the absence of the Committee receiving notice of a specific agreement on such obligations, the buying handler shall be held accountable. If such transfer is from within the area of production to any point outside thereof, the assessment and withholding obligations shall be met by the handler within the area of production. Except for packed dates inspected and certified for handling prior to transfer and which are not repacked, any receiving handler (other than a repacker not otherwise a handler, who shall comply with § 987.53) shall comply with the requirements of § 987.41 on all dates, but this shall apply to repacked dates previously inspected and certified for handling only if the handler also packs dates received as field-run dates.
[32 FR 12596, Aug. 31, 1967]
§ 987.52
Exemption.
(a) The Committee may exempt from regulation, upon written request of any producer or handler, the dates he sells to consumers through roadside stands, local date shops, mail order or specialty outlets, if it determines that the particular request is not likely to materially interfere with the objectives of this part. All dates handled pursuant to exemptions under this section shall be reported to the Committee in such manner and in such form as the Committee may prescribe. The Committee shall issue, with the approval of the Secretary, appropriate rules and regulations establishing the bases on which exemptions may be granted.
(b) The Committee may, with the approval of the Secretary, recommend that the handling of any date variety be exempted from regulations established pursuant to §§ 987.39 through 987.51 and §§ 987.61 through 987.72.
[27 FR 6818, July 19, 1962, as amended at 77 FR 37765, June 25, 2012]
§ 987.53
Application of regulations to repackers.
Repackers shall be exempt from those requirements of this part, including reporting requirements, with respect to packed dates which had been certified for handling, pursuant to § 987.41(a), prior to receipt, except that: (a) A repacker who processes such dates by machine pitting shall comply with the grade, size, inspection, certification, and identification requirements, and (b) a repacker who repackages such dates in containers other than those in which received, shall comply with the then effective container regulations established pursuant to § 987.48.
[32 FR 12596, Aug. 31, 1967]

# Disposition of Other Than Free Dates
§ 987.55
Outlets for restricted dates.
Restricted dates may be disposed of only through exportation to such countries as the Committee may approve or by diversion in product outlets described in § 987.43 which the Committee concludes to be appropriate and which will result in dates moving into consumption in a form other than that of whole or pitted dates. To facilitate sales and promote orderly marketing of any variety of restricted dates handled in export, the Committee may participate in or negotiate for handlers, the sale of such dates to meet all or a substantial part of the needs of the particular country, and, in connection with each such sale, the Committee shall extend to all handlers an opportunity to participate therein and shall distribute the returns therefrom to participating handlers according to their respective contributions of dates. The Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may prescribe rules and regulations governing the opportunity to participate in such sales. The provisions of this section shall not preclude restricted dates being disposed of in outlets for utility and cull dates prescribed in § 987.56.
[43 FR 4253, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.56
Outlets for utility and cull dates.
Subject to the provisions of § 987.47, utility dates and cull dates may be disposed of without inspection, but only in feed, non-table syrup, alcohol, or brandy outlets, or in such other outlets for non-human food products as the Committee with the approval of the Secretary, may specify:
Provided,
That whenever the Committee concludes and the Secretary finds that the use of utility dates of any variety in certain products for human consumption would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act, the Secretary shall specify such products, and dates of such variety that are inspected and certified as utility dates may be disposed of for use, or used, in such products:
And provided further,
That whenever the Committee concludes and the Secretary finds that the disposition of utility dates of any variety through any export outlet would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act, the Secretary shall specify such export outlet, and dates of such variety that are inspected and certified as meeting such grade, size, container, and identification requirements as may be prescribed by the Committee with the approval of the Secretary for such outlet may be so exported.
[29 FR 9707, July 18, 1964, as amended at 43 FR 4251, 4253, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.57
Approved manufacturers or feeders.
(a) Diversion of dates, pursuant to § 987.55 or § 987.56, shall be accomplished only by such persons (which may include handlers) as are approved manufacturers or feeders. Any person may become an approved manufacturer or feeder if he (1) submits an application to the Committee in which he agrees, as a condition to approval of his application, to furnish to the Committee such information as it may require and to comply with the requirements and restrictions relative to the use and disposition of such dates, as set forth in this part, and (2) receives from the Committee written approval of his application. The application and approval shall be in accordance with such rules, regulations and safeguards as may be prescribed pursuant to § 987.59.
(b) [Reserved]
[27 FR 6818, July 9, 1962, as amended at 43 FR 4251, 4253, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.58
Terminal date.
Dates covered by §§ 987.55 and 987.56 shall, by September 30 of the subsequent crop year (a) in accordance with the applicable requirements of such sections, be disposed of, or be converted from their whole or pitted form; or (b) be set aside and marked for disposition pursuant to the applicable requirements of such sections. The Committee may prescribe, with the approval of the Secretary, such rules, regulations and safeguards, pursuant to § 987.59, as may be necessary to prevent dates covered by §§ 987.55 and 987.56 from interfering with the objectives of this part.
§ 987.59
Safeguards.
The Committee may prescribe, with the approval of the Secretary, such rules, regulations and safeguards as are necessary to prevent dates covered by §§ 987.55 and 987.56 from interfering with the objectives of this part.

# Reports and Records
§ 987.61
Reports of handler carryover.
Each handler shall file each year with the Committee written reports of his carryover of dates as of March 1, October 1, and at such other times as the Committee may prescribe:
Provided,
That during those seasons when volume regulations are established by the Secretary, the handler shall file an additional report on his January 1 carryover. Such reports shall be filed within 10 days of the date of the carryover. These reporting dates specified may be changed, upon recommendation of the Committee, together with substantiation of the need therefore, with the approval of the Secretary.
[43 FR 4253, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.62
Reports of dates shipped.
Each handler who ships dates during a crop year shall submit to the Committee, in such form and at such intervals as the Committee may prescribe, reports showing the net weight of dates shipped by him and such other information pertinent thereto as the Committee may specify.
§ 987.63
Reports on restricted dates withheld.
Each handler from time to time, on demand of the Committee, shall file with it a report of the restricted dates withheld by him in satisfaction of his withholding obligation. Such reports shall show such information as the Committee may require and may be in such form as the Committee may prescribe.
§ 987.64
Reports on disposition of restricted, other marketable, utility, and cull dates.
Each handler disposing of any dates pursuant to §§ 987.55 and 987.56 shall promptly thereafter report such disposition to the Committee in such form as the Committee may prescribe.
[43 FR 4253, Feb. 1, 1978]
§ 987.65
Other reports.
Upon request of the Committee each handler shall furnish to it in such manner and at such times as it prescribes, such other information as will enable the Committee to perform its duties and exercise its powers hereunder.
§ 987.66
Certification of reports.
All reports submitted to the Committee as required in this part shall be certified to the United States Department of Agriculture and to the Committee as to the completeness and correctness of the information therein.
§ 987.67
Confidential information.
All data or other information constituting a trade secret or disclosing a trade position or business condition shall be received by, and kept in the custody of, one or more designated employees of the Committee and information which would reveal the circumstances of a single handler shall be disclosed to no person other than the Secretary.
§ 987.68
Verification of reports and records.
For the purpose of checking compliance with record keeping requirements and verifying reports filed by handlers, the Secretary and the Committee,
through its duly authorized employees, shall have access to any premises where dates are held and, at any time during reasonable business hours, shall be permitted to examine any dates held and any and all records with respect to matters within the purview of this part. Handlers shall furnish labor necessary to facilitate such examinations at no expense to the Committee. All handlers shall maintain complete records establish and which accurately show the quantity of dates handled, disposed of, and withheld. The Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish the type of records to be maintained. Such records shall be retained by handlers for not less than two years subsequent to the termination of each crop year.
[27 FR 6818, July 19, 1962, as amended at 36 FR 15039, Aug. 12, 1971; 43 FR 4253, Feb. 1, 1978]

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 987.71
Expenses.
The Committee is authorized to incur such expenses, including maintenance of an operating reserve fund, as the Secretary may find are reasonable and are likely to be incurred by it during each crop year for the maintenance and functioning of the Committee and for such other purposes as he determines to be appropriate. The recommendation of the Committee as to total expenses and allocation thereof for each crop year, together with all data supporting such recommendation, shall be submitted to the Secretary within a reasonable time after the marketing policy for each crop year is recommended.
§ 987.72
Assessments.
(a)
Requirement for payment.
Each handler shall pay to the Committee upon demand, on all dates he has certified as meeting the requirements for marketable dates and utility dates utilized in product outlets including the eligible portion of any field-run dates certified and set aside or disposed of pursuant to § 987.45(f), his pro rata share of all expenses which the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Committee during each crop year. Should the condition arise wherein the utility portion of dates handled in certain other outlets should not be, in the opinion of the Committee, subject to the payment of assessments on that portion, the Committee may recommend and the Secretary approve by rulemaking, such exclusion. Each handler's pro rata share shall be the rate of assessment per hundredweight fixed by the Secretary. At any time during or after a crop year the Secretary may increase such assessment rate to secure sufficient funds to cover unanticipated expenses or a deficit in assessable poundage. Any such increase shall apply to all assessable poundage of the crop year. The Committee may accept payments of assessments in advance and may borrow money in any amount not to exceed 10 percent of the estimated expenses set forth in its budget for the then crop year. The assessment weight of pitted dates shall be determined by dividing the weight of such dates by a divisor established by the Committee with the approval of the Secretary.
(b)
Delinquent payments.
Any assessment not paid by a handler within a period of time prescribed by the Committee may be subject to an interest or late payment charge, or both. The period of time, rate of interest, and late payment charge shall be as recommended by the Committee and approved by the Secretary.
(c)
Surplus expenses.
The Committee is authorized to use temporarily funds derived from assessments collected pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section to defray expenses incurred in disposing of surplus dates. All such expenses shall be deducted from the proceeds obtained by the Committee from such disposal.
(d)
Operating reserve.
The Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish and maintain during one or more crop years an operating monetary reserve in an amount not to exceed the average of one year's expenses incurred during the most recent five preceding crop years, except that an established reserve need not be reduced to conform to any recomputed average. Funds in reserve shall be available for use by the Committee for expenses authorized pursuant to § 987.71.
(e)
Refunds.
Funds held by the Committee at the conclusion of the crop
year in excess of the crop year's expenses, including reserve requirements, may be used to defray expenses for no more than the ensuing four months, and thereafter within a reasonable time the Committee shall credit, or upon demand, refund the aforesaid excess to handlers who contributed to such excess:
Provided,
That the excess due any handler may be applied, in whole or in part, by the Committee to any outstanding obligation due the Committee from such handler. A handler's share of the excess funds shall be the amount of assessments he paid in excess of his actual pro rata share of the expenses, including reserve requirements, of the Committee for the preceding crop year. Upon termination of this subpart any money in possession of the Committee shall be distributed in such manner as the Secretary may direct:
Provided,
That, to the extent practicable, such funds shall be returned pro rata to the persons from whom such funds were collected.
[27 FR 6818, July 19, 1962, as amended at 29 FR 9707, July 18, 1964; 43 FR 4253, Feb. 1, 1978; 77 FR 37765, June 25, 2012]

# Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 987.76
Compliance.
No handler shall handle any dates (including dates for further processing) except in conformity with, and as authorized by or pursuant to, the applicable provisions of this part, including but not being limited to the regulations relating to grade, size, and volume; and no handler shall use or otherwise dispose of restricted dates or any other dates which have not been certified for handling or for further processing except in conformity with, and as authorized by or pursuant to, the applicable provisions of this part.
§ 987.77
Personal liability.
No member or alternate member of the committee, or any employee or agent thereof, shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any handler or any other person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts either of commission or omission, as such member, alternate member, agent, or employee, except for acts of dishonesty, willful misconduct or gross negligence.
§ 987.78
Separability.
If any provision of this part is declared invalid, or the applicability thereof to any person, circumstance, or thing is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this part or the applicability of this part to any other person, circumstance, or thing shall not be affected thereby.
§ 987.79
Derogation.
Nothing contained in this part is, or shall be construed to be, in derogation or in modification of the rights of the Secretary or of the United States to exercise any powers granted by the act or otherwise, or, in accordance with such powers, to act in the premises whenever such action is deemed advisable.
§ 987.80
Duration of immunities.
The benefits, privileges, and immunities conferred upon any person by virtue of this subpart shall cease upon its termination except with respect to acts done under and during its existence.
§ 987.81
Agents.
The Secretary may, by a designation in writing, name any person, including any officer or employee of the United States Government, or name any bureau or division of the United States Department of Agriculture, to act as his agent or representative in connection with any of the provisions of this part.
§ 987.82
Effective time, suspension, or termination.
(a)
Effective time.
The provisions of this part, as well as any amendments hereto, shall become effective at such time as the Secretary may declare, and shall continue in force until terminated or suspended in one of the ways hereinafter specified in this section.
(b)
Suspension or termination
—(1)
Failure to effectuate policy of act.
The Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operation of any or all of the provisions of this part, whenever he finds that such provisions do not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.
(2)
When favored by growers.
The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this part at the end of any crop year whenever he finds that such termination is favored by a majority of the growers of dates who, during that crop year, have been engaged in the production for market of dates in the area of production:
Provided,
That such majority have, during such period, produced for market more than 50 percent of the volume of such dates produced for market within said area; but such termination shall be effective only if announced on or before August 1 of the then current crop year.
(3)
If enabling legislation is terminated.
The provisions of this part shall, in any event, terminate whenever the provisions of the act authorizing them cease to be in effect.
(c)
Proceedings after termination
—(1)
Designation of trustees.
Upon the termination of the provisions hereof, the members of the Committee then functioning shall continue as joint trustees, for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Committee, of all funds and property then in the possession or under the control of the Committee, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered at the time of such termination. Action by said trusteeship shall require the concurrence of a majority of the said trustees.
(2)
Duties of trustees.
Said trustees shall continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary; shall, from time to time, account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Committee and the joint trustees, to such person as the Secretary may direct; and shall, upon request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such persons full title and right to all funds, property, and claims vested in the Committee or the joint trustees pursuant hereto.
(3)
Obligations of persons other than Committee members and trustees.
Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered by the Committee or its members, pursuant to this section, shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the members of the said Committee and upon the said joint trustees.
[27 FR 6818, July 19, 1962, as amended at 36 FR 15039, Aug. 12, 1971]
§ 987.83
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination hereof or of any regulation issued pursuant to this part, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not—
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this part or any regulation issued hereunder, or
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this part or of any regulation issued hereunder, or
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the Secretary or of any other person, with respect to any such violation.
§ 987.84
Amendments.
Amendments hereto may be proposed, from time to time by any person or by the Committee.

# Subpart B—Administrative Requirements

# Source:
37 FR 23325, Nov. 2, 1972, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 987.101
Lot.
Lot
means the aggregate quantity of dates of the same variety, style, type and grade in like containers with like identification either (a) packed as a continuous production segment, or (b) offered for inspection as a shipping, storage, or other unit.
§ 987.102
Lot number.
Lot number
is synonymous with code and means a combination of letters or numbers, or both, acceptable to the Committee, showing at least the date of packing, the variety, and the outlet category of the dates. The combination of letters or numbers, or both, imprinted on the containers shall differ
from those of any other lot coded within a 3-year period.
§ 987.104
Major marketing promotion.
A major marketing promotion program is one requiring the expenditure of more than $500 of Committee funds.
[43 FR 28435, June 30, 1978]
§ 987.105
Whole equivalent of pitted dates.
For the purposes of this part, the whole date equivalent weight of pitted dates shall be determined by dividing the weight of the pitted dates by 0.83.
[53 FR 39226, Oct. 6, 1988]

# Identification and Outlet Specifications
§ 987.112
Identification of dates.
(a)
General.
Prior to applying the markings required by this section, each handler shall remove or delete from each container all former identifying marks which conflict with those applicable to the dates currently in the container. Dates of each outlet category shall be held, stored, or shipped in a manner to preserve their identity. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the markings on the containers shall be not less than five-sixteenths (
5/16
) inch in height on containers exceeding 5 pounds net weight and not less than one-eighth (
1/8
) inch in height on smaller containers. All markings shall be legible.
(b)
DAC dates.
Each handler shall mark every shipping or storage container (excluding subcontainers) of DAC dates with his name or that of the distributor for whom the handler is packing, and the lot number. Under the supervision of the inspection service every container shall be marked with the date of inspection, the name or insignia of the inspection service, and the letters “DAC”.
(c)
FP dates.
Each handler shall mark every shipping or storage container (excluding subcontainers) of FP dates with his name or that of the distributor for whom the handler is packing, and the lot number. Under the supervision of the inspection service every container shall be marked with the date of inspection, the name or insignia of the inspection service, and the letters “FP”.
(d)
Export dates.
Each handler shall mark every shipping or storage container (excluding subcontainers) of Export dates with his name or that of the exporting firm, and the lot number. If the dates, including field-run dates with cull dates removed, are certified as meeting the grade and size requirements for export to approved countries other than Mexico, the containers shall be marked “Export”. Dry dates for processing packed for shipment to approved countries shall be marked “Export Dry”. Dates packed for export to Mexico shall be marked “Export Mexico”. However, “Export Mexico” shall be in letters not less than three-fourths (
3/4
) inch in height on containers exceeding 5 pounds net weight, and not less than one-eighth (
1/8
) inch in height on smaller containers. DAC dates and FP dates, marked pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c), respectively, of this section, may be exported without change of marking.
(e)
Product and utility dates.
Each handler shall mark every shipping or storage container (excluding subcontainers) of Product dates, or Utility dates when approved for use in products, with the lot number and, if for shipment outside the area of production, with the word
Product
or
Utility,
as applicable. Whenever a handler, or an approved date product manufacturer, utilizes a procedure that maintains the identity of the lot and assures that the dates will be used in products or exported, the Committee may waive the requirements of this paragraph for that lot.
(f)
Unidentified dates.
If a handler loses the identity of any lot of dates previously inspected and certified as marketable dates, the certification as to such lot shall be void.
[43 FR 28436, June 30, 1978, as amended at 88 FR 82236, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 987.112a
Grade, size, and container requirements for each outlet category.
(a) In lieu of the minimum standards prescribed in § 987.39, the following standards are prescribed as the minimum grades and sizes for marketable dates to be handled in the applicable
outlets. These standards shall continue in effect irrespective of whether the season average price to producers for dates is or is not in excess of the parity level specified in section 2(1) of the act.
(b)
DAC dates.
(1) All varieties of DAC dates may be handled in the United States, Canada, or any other outlet established for dates of lesser grades or sizes.
(2) DAC dates of any variety shall at least meet the requirements of U.S. Grade B, except that up to 25 percent, by weight, of the dates may possess semi-dry or dry calyx ends, but not more than 5 percent, by weight, of the dates may possess dry calyx ends. Also, with respect to whole dates of the Deglet Noor variety, the individual dates in the sample from the lot shall weigh at least 6.5 grams, but up to 10 percent, by weight, may weigh less than 6.5 grams. These size requirements are in addition to, and do not supersede, the requirements as to uniformity of size prescribed in the grade standards.
(3) DAC dates of any variety, when packed in plastic containers, other than bags and master shipping containers, shall contain a net weight (i) for whole dates, of either eight ounces, twelve ounces, 1 pound 8 ounces, or two pounds or more, and (ii) for pitted dates, of either seven ounces, ten ounces, one pound, one pound eight ounces, or two pounds or more. DAC dates packed in other than plastic containers may be handled without regard to the net weight content. For the purpose of this subparagraph,
plastic container
means any containers of any shape made from plastic and in which dates are packed without the use of cardboard boats, trays, or other like stiffening material:
Provided,
That DAC dates shipped for sale in Canada in plastic containers are exempt from the net weight requirements of this subparagraph.
(4) The California Date Administrative Committee may designate with the approval of the Secretary such other types and sizes of containers for testing in connection with a research project conducted by or in cooperation with the Committee. The time period and the quantity of dates which may be marketed by handlers during that period shall be designated by the Committee for each market research project. The handling of each lot of dates in such test containers shall be subject to the prior approval, and under the supervision, of the Committee.
(c)
Dates for further processing.
(1) Except as provided in § 987.152(b)(1), all varieties of FP dates may be disposed of only (i) to persons in the United States capable of processing and packing the dates and having them certified as DAC dates, or (ii) exported to the countries designated in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2) FP dates of any variety shall at least meet the requirements of U.S. Grade B (dry). Also, with respect to whole dates of the Deglet Noor variety, the individual dates in the sample from the lot shall weigh at least 6.5 grams, but up to 10 percent, by weight, may weigh less than 6.5 grams. These size requirements are in addition to, and do not supersede, the requirements as to uniformity of size prescribed in the grade standards.
(d)
Export dates.
(1) Dates of any variety identified as “Export” dates and inspected and certified as meeting the requirements of this subparagraph may only be exported to any country except Canada. Such dates shall at least meet the requirements of U.S. Grade C:
Provided,
That Deglet Noor dates shall score not less than 31 points for character and 24 points for absence of defects but up to 40 percent, by weight, of the dates may be damaged by broken skin.
(2)
Export of dry dates.
Dates of any variety identified and certified as meeting the requirements of this subparagraph only may be exported to the following designated date producing and processing countries in North Africa: Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya,
1
Egypt, and Sudan; the following date processing and consuming countries north of the Mediterranean Sea: Spain, France, Belgium, West Germany, Italy, France, Greece, and the Netherlands; and the following date processing and consuming country in Asia: Japan. Such dates shall at least meet U.S. Grade C (dry) except for defects removable by washing:
Provided,
That Deglet Noor dates shall score not less than 31 points for character and 24 points for absence of defects but up to 40 percent, by weight, of the dates may be damaged by broken skin.
1
Executive Order 12543 of January 7, 1986 (51 FR 875), prohibits trade and certain transactions involving Libya, and is applicable to exports of dates under this marketing order as long as the executive order is in effect. That order, among other things, prohibits the exports to Libya of any goods, technology (including technical data or other information) or services from the United States, except publications and donations of articles intended to relieve human
suffering, such as food, clothing, medicine and medical supplies intended strictly for medical purposes.
(3) Dates of any variety identified as “Export—Mexico” and inspected and certified as at least meeting the requirements of U.S. Grade C may be exported only to Mexico. No dates shall be exported to Mexico unless the handler certifies to the Committee and the U.S. Department of Agriculture, on CDAC Form No. 11(a), which shall be submitted to the Committee, that the importing buyer has agreed that such dates will not reenter the United States or be shipped to Canada. The form shall show the identity of the handler, the trucker, the importer, the destination of the dates, the location of the border-crossing station, and such other information as the Committee deems appropriate to perform its duties and exercise its powers under this part.
(4) Whenever field-run dates of any variety are authorized for export to any country, each lot shall consist of at least 85 percent, by weight, of sound dates.
Sound dates
means individual dates which are at least U.S. Grade C in character and are free of the defects—other than those removable by washing—scored to determine the point requirement applicable to their intended destination.
(5) Dates meeting the grade and size requirements of this paragraph may be disposed of in outlet categories established for dates of lesser grades and sizes.
(e)
Product dates.
(1) Dates of any variety identified as “Product” dates and inspected and certified as at least meeting the requirements of this paragraph may be disposed of by handlers for use or used by them in the production of table syrup, rings, chunks, pieces, butter, paste, and macerated dates or other products approved by the Committee. If the handler does not use the dates in products, he may sell them to: (i) Other handlers within the area of production for conversion into products, or (ii) to date product manufacturers approved by the Committee regardless of their location. Once the dates have been converted from their whole or pitted form, they may be shipped to any market in the United States, Canada, or foreign country.
(2) Product dates of any variety and identified as “Product” shall meet the requirements of U.S. Grade C, except that mashing and mechanical injury not affecting eating quality shall not be considered in determining the defect factor.
(f)
Change of outlet.
A handler may change the outlet category for any lot of dates:
Provided,
That prior to such change, the handler files a completed CDAC Form No. 1(a) and a new inspection certificate with the Committee. If the grade and size requirements of the new outlet category are the same as or less than the requirements of the outlet category previously intended, only a condition inspection is required. If the grade and size requirements of the new outlet category are greater, a complete inspection is required. The handler shall change the marking on the containers to conform with the identification requirements prescribed in § 987.112 for the new outlet.
(g)
Deteriorated dates.
Any marketable dates which deteriorated in quality so that they are either utility or cull dates may be disposed of only in the applicable outlets for such dates or they may be reconditioned and upon reconditioning, the modified lot may be reinspected and recertified, as applicable.
[43 FR 28436, June 30, 1978, as amended at 47 FR 4489, Feb. 1, 1982; 47 FR 23417, May 28, 1982; 48 FR 176, Jan. 11, 1983; 51 FR 4478, Feb. 5, 1986; 52 FR 35530, Sept. 22, 1987; 53 FR 35994, Sept. 16, 1988; 56 FR 778, Jan. 9, 1991; 57 FR 61779, Dec. 29, 1992; 62 FR 7663, Feb. 20, 1997; 88 FR 82236, Nov. 24, 2023]

# Nominations
§ 987.124
Nomination and polling.
(a) Date producers and producer-handlers shall be provided an opportunity to nominate and vote for individuals to serve on the Committee. For this purpose, the Committee shall, no later than June 15 of every third year, provide date producers and producer-handlers nomination and balloting material by mail or equivalent electronic means, upon which producers and producer-handlers may nominate candidates and cast their votes for members and alternate members of the Committee in accordance with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, respectively. All ballots are subject to verification. Balloting material should be provided to voters at least two weeks before the due date and should contain, at least, the following information:
(1) The names of incumbents who are willing and eligible to continue to serve on the Committee;
(2) The names of other persons willing and eligible to serve;
(3) Instructions on how voters may add write-in candidates;
(4) The date on which the ballot is due to the Committee or its agent; and
(5) How and where to return ballots.
(b)(1)
Producers.
Each producer may vote for three producer members and three producer alternate members. No producer may vote more than once for any one person. The three individuals receiving the highest number of votes for the producer member positions shall be the producer member nominees. Individuals nominated for producer member and failing to receive enough votes to become a producer member nominee shall have their names listed with those nominated for producer alternate members and the votes cast for them as member shall be counted with any votes they received for producer alternate member. The three individuals receiving the highest number of votes for the producer alternate member positions shall be the producer alternate member nominees.
(2)
Producer-handlers.
Each producer-handler may vote for one producer-handler member and one producer-handler alternate member, and these votes shall be weighted as provided in § 987.24. No producer-handler may vote more than once for any one person. The six individuals receiving the highest weighted votes for the producer-handler member positions shall be the producer-handler member nominees. Individuals nominated for producer-handler member and failing to receive enough votes to become a producer-handler member nominee shall have their names listed with those nominated for producer-handler alternate members and the votes cast for them as member shall be counted with any votes they received for producer-handler alternate member. The six individuals receiving the highest weighted vote for producer-handler alternate member positions shall be the alternate member nominees.
[43 FR 28437, June 30, 1978, as amended at 74 FR 61267, Nov. 24, 2009; 77 FR 37766, June 25, 2012]
§ 987.138
Handlers of record.
Prior to handling dates, each person shall file CDAC Form No. 18 with the Committee at the times, and containing the information, prescribed in § 987.38.
[43 FR 28437, June 30, 1978]

# Inspection
§ 987.141
Inspection and certification.
Each handler shall furnish, or cause the inspection service to furnish, to the Committee a copy of the inspection certificate issued to him on each lot of dates, and such certificate shall contain at least the following information: (a) The date of inspection; (b) the name of the handler; (c) the lot number and the applicable outlet category set forth in § 987.112a; (d) the variety of dates and weight of the lot; (e) the number and type of containers in the lot; and (f) if the dates (1) are other than field-run dates, a certification as to the grade of the dates and whether or not they meet the applicable grade, size, container, and identification requirements, or (2) are field-run dates, a certification showing the percentage by weight, of sound dates in the lot, and whether or
not they meet the identification requirements for such dates.
[43 FR 28437, June 30, 1978]

# Volume Regulation
§ 987.145
Withholding obligation.
(a)
Satisfying the withholding obligation.
Any handler may satisfy all or part of his withholding obligation for any variety of dates for which free and restricted percentages have been established by having an adequate quantity of that variety inspected and certified as meeting the applicable grade, size, and container requirements prescribed by the Committee for any approved restricted date outlet.
(b)
Credit for excess disposition in restricted outlets.
Disposition of marketable dates in restricted outlets in excess of a handler's withholding obligation may be: (1) Transferred pursuant to § 987.45 upon such handler filing a completed CDAC Form No. 14 with the Committee, or (2) Credited to the handler's withholding obligation of the following crop year so long as the excess disposition exceeds 199 pounds. However, the quantity so credited shall never exceed 40 percent of the handler's withholding obligation of the crop year in which the excess disposition occurred and 100 percent of the withholding obligation incurred by him during October through December of the crop year following the crop year in which such excess disposition occurred. All such crediting or accumulation shall be contingent upon the Committee receiving, in due course, confirmation that the dates were disposed of in eligible restricted outlets. With respect to exports, the withholding credit shall be granted upon the Committee receiving notification from the inspection service, and in due course a copy of the on board bill of lading or other documentary evidence satisfactory to the Committee.
(c)
FP dates.
Withholding obligations on FP dates shall be based on the weight of such dates when they are inspected and certified. However, if such dates are subsequently processed and packed within the area of production, the withholding obligation shall be adjusted to reflect any increase in weight.
(d)
Dates for deferment of withholding.
Any handler may defer his certification and withholding or disposition of restricted dates by pledging a comparable volume of graded or field-run dates as a surety that he will meet his withholding obligation at a later date. Such deferment shall not be effective until: (1) The handler files with the Committee a CDAC Form No. 12 to set aside graded dates or CDAC Form No. 13 to set aside field-run dates; and (2) the pledged dates are set aside as a lot and identified by the handler as “Restricted” and as “Graded” or “Field-Run”, as appropriate, and as to the number of containers, the date of set-aside and whether or not the dates have been inspected. If the handler sets aside field-run dates or disposes of field-run dates in outlets prescribed in or pursuant to § 987.56 to obtain withholding credit for the sound date portion in the lot, the field-run dates shall meet the requirements prescribed in paragraph (f) of this section for eligible field-run dates, as determined by the inspection service.
(e)
Identification of restricted dates.
Any lot of restricted dates not immediately disposed of through exportation to countries approved by the Committee or directed to approved product outlets shall be stored as a lot separate from all other dates and in a specified location with a USDA inspection service tag marked “Restricted”.
(f)
Field-run dates.
Field-run dates set aside for the purpose of deferring or meeting any part or all of a withholding obligation shall consist of at least 70 percent, by weight, of sound dates but may contain 10 percent, by weight, of cull dates of which not more than 5 percent may be hidden culls—i.e., dates with internal defects including souring, mold, fermentation, insect infestation, or foreign material.
(g)
Substitution.
Any handler may, under the direction and supervision of the Committee or the inspection service, substitute for any quantity of restricted dates held by him a like quantity of dates of the same variety and of the same or more recent year's production which have been certified and
identified as meeting the requirements for restricted dates.
[43 FR 28437, June 30, 1978, as amended at 88 FR 82236, Nov. 24, 2023]

# Surplus
§ 987.147
Surplus.
(a)
General.
Surplus dates delivered to the Committee pursuant to § 987.47 shall be pooled for sale to livestock feeders, distillers, or manufacturers of inedible products:
Provided,
That if any portion of the deliveries differs sufficiently to require separate handling, and earn a different average return, such portion shall be handled as a separate pool. The income from sale of surplus, after deduction of committee expenses, shall be paid to the respective equity holders in the pool or pools, or to their assignees, on the basis of the weight of dates each delivered.
(b)
Delivery.
The Committee may refuse delivery of any surplus dates which it determines are excessively soured, fermented, or adulterated by palm debris, rocks, paper, wood, plastic liners, or other foreign material. If the Committee refuses delivery, the deliverer shall be permitted to clean such dates sufficiently to make them acceptable to the Committee. The weight of each accepted delivery shall be that determined by a public weightmaster or, in the absence of such weight, that determined by the Committee on the basis of the number and size of the containers used in the delivery. Upon delivery of surplus dates to the Committee, the deliverer, or a designee of the Committee shall execute CDAC Form SP-1, Delivery Manifest, showing:
(1) The person to receive payment of the net proceeds for the surplus,
(2) The date and place of loading,
(3) If field surplus, the location and owner of the garden,
(4) The type and number of containers loaded or dumped,
(5) The net weight of the load, and
(6) If the delivery is directly to a buyer's truck, the driver, truck and buyer.

# Qualification to Regulation
§ 987.151
Interhandler transfers.
When any handler transfers dates, other than product dates, to another handler, the selling handler shall promptly notify the Committee by filing with it a completed CDAC Form No. 1 and shall show the name and address of the transferring or selling handler and of the receiving or buying handler, the variety and processed category or classification of the dates, the lot number and inspection certificate number on any lot of packed and certified dates, the number and type of containers, the net weight of the transferred dates, and if applicable, the transferring handler's statement on assuming the withholding and assessment obligation. A transfer of products dates between handlers shall be reported as a disposition by the selling handler filing with the Committee a completed CDAC Form No. 8.
[37 FR 23325, Nov. 2, 1972, as amended at 43 FR 28438, June 30, 1978]
§ 987.152
Exemption from regulations.
(a)
Producer exemption.
The Committee may permit any producer to sell dates from such producer's own production free of the requirements of §§ 987.41, 987.45, 987.48, and 987.72 when sold directly to consumers through a roadside stand or date shop owned or operated by the producer within 25 miles of the city limits of Indio, California, through shipments by parcel post or express, or by certified producers at certified farmers' markets, as these terms are defined by the State of California. Permission to so sell dates shall be granted only upon the producer filing with the Committee a completed CDAC Form No. 9 wherein the producer describes how the producer plans to sell such dates and agrees to sell only dates of DAC date quality of the producer's own production in direct sales; and to report such sales to the Committee. If the producer fails to comply with this agreement, the Committee may revoke any or all exemptions granted the producer.
(b)
Handler exemptions
—(1)
Specialty sales.
The Committee may permit any handler to sell to health food stores or health food outlets, dates which at
least meet the requirements for FP dates. It may permit any handler to sell to a candy manufacturer hand-pitted dates which meet the grade requirements for DAC dates except for size, or damage due to cutting and pitting. Also, it may permit any handler to sell hand-layered dates in tin, wood, plastic, or other type of container exempt from §§ 987.41(a) and 987.48, or to make shipments by common carrier of up to 150 pounds to any one purchaser in any one day exempt from the provisions of § 987.41(a):
Provided,
That the hand-layered dates or the shipment to a single purchaser in any 1 day have been packed from dates certified as meeting the grade requirements for DAC dates and have not been commingled with other dates. Permission to use these exemptions shall be granted only upon the handler filing with the Committee its CDAC Form No. 10 wherein he describes how he plans to sell, and agrees to sell only specific dates and to report such sales.
(2)
Donations.
The Committee may permit any handler to donate marketable dates other than DAC dates to needy persons, prisoners, or Indians on reservations. Before such donation is made, such handler shall file a request for donation with the Committee detailing the quantity and grade of dates involved and the name and address of the intended donee. The donation may be subject to Committee surveillance, verification by written documentation of receipt by the donee, and any other safeguards necessary to assure consumption in these outlets.
[37 FR 23325, Nov. 2, 1972, as amended at 43 FR 28438, June 30, 1978; 53 FR 35994, Sept. 16, 1988; 57 FR 39112, Aug. 28, 1992]
§ 987.157
Approved date product manufacturers.
Any person, including date handlers, with facilities for converting dates into products may apply to the committee, by filing CDAC Form No. 3, for listing as an approved date product manufacturer.
(a) The applicant shall indicate on such form: The products he/she intends to make; the quantity of dates he/she may use; the location of his/her facilities; and agree that all dates obtained for manufacturing into products shall be used for that purpose, none shall be resold or disposed of as whole or pitted dates.
(b) As a condition to become an approved date product manufacturer: Each applicant is subject to an inspection of his/her manufacturing plant to verify that proper equipment to convert dates into products is in place and that the plant meets appropriate sanitation requirements; the applicant also shall agree to file a report of the disposition of each lot of dates on the Committee's CDAC Form No. 8 within 24 hours of the transaction, and to file an annual usage and inventory report on CDAC Form No. 4 by October 10 of each year; and an applicant who is also a handler under the order shall be in compliance with the order, including the assessment payment and reporting requirements.
(c) The committee shall approve each such application on the basis of information furnished or its own investigation, and may revoke any approval for cause. The name and address of all approved manufacturers shall be placed on a list and made available to each date handler in Riverside County.
(d) If an application is disapproved, the committee shall notify the applicant in writing of the reasons for disapproval, and allow the applicant an opportunity to respond to the disapproval. When the applicant has complied with all the qualification requirements to become an approved manufacturer, the committee shall notify the applicant in writing of such approval. The applicant's name shall be added to the list of approved manufacturers, which shall be made available to each date handler in Riverside County.
(e) Each approved manufacturer of date products is required to renew their approved manufacturer status with the committee by submitting an updated CDAC Form No. 3 at the end of a crop year, but no later than October 10 of the new crop year. In addition, the approved manufacturer must continue to meet the other approved manufacturer qualification requirements.
(f) In the event an approved date product manufacturer who is also a regulated date handler within the area
of production does not remain in compliance with the order, or fails or refuses to submit reports or to pay assessments required by the committee, such date product manufacturer shall become ineligible to continue as an approved date product manufacturer. Prior to making a determination to remove a date product manufacturer from the approved date product manufacturer list, the committee shall notify such manufacturer in writing of its intention and the reasons for removal. The committee shall allow the date product manufacturer an opportunity to respond. In the event that a date product manufacturer's name has been removed from the list of approved date product manufacturers, a new application must be submitted to the committee and the applicant must await approval.
[70 FR 11119, Mar. 8, 2005]

# Reports and Records
§ 987.161
Handler carryover.
Each handler shall file with the Committee, a report of his carryover of dates as of March 1 and October 1 and, when volume regulation is established, as of January 1. This report shall be on CDAC Form No. 5 and shall show, by variety, at least:
(a) The quantity of DAC dates held within and outside the area,
(b) The quantity of FP dates held within the area,
(c) The quantity of export dates, and
(d) The quantity of dates held graded but not certified, and as field-run, segregated as to outlet category.
[43 FR 28438, June 30, 1978, as amended at 53 FR 35995, Sept. 16, 1988]
§ 987.162
Handler acquisition and disposition.
(a) Handlers shall file CDAC Form No. 6 with the committee by the 16th of each month or such other date as the committee may prescribe, reporting at least the following for the preceding month:
(1) Their acquisitions of field run dates;
(2) Their shipments of marketable dates in each outlet category;
(3) Their shipments of free dates and disposition of restricted dates, whenever applicable; and
(4) Their purchases from other handlers of DAC, export, product, graded, and field run dates.
(b) In addition, this report shall include the names and addresses of any producers not previously identified pursuant to § 987.38, the quantity of dates acquired from each producer, the location of such producer's date garden, the acreage of that garden, and the estimated current season's production from that garden.
[74 FR 61267, Nov. 24, 2009]
§ 987.164
Shipments of product dates and disposition of restricted dates in approved product outlets.
Each handler shall file with the Committee a completed CDAC Form No. 8 showing the shipment of each lot of product dates or the disposition of restricted dates in approved product outlets. This report shall be filed promptly after shipment or disposition of those dates and shall identify the lot, the outlet, the number of containers, and the net weight of the dates. If such dates are sold to an approved date product manufacturer, a copy of the completed form shall be signed and dated by the manufacturer and returned to the Committee. If the lot was certified as product dates and is exported to Mexico, the handler shall submit completed CDAC Form No. 8 together with completed CDAC Form No. 11(a) to the Committee.
[43 FR 28439, June 30, 1978, as amended at 53 FR 35995, Sept. 16, 1988]
§ 987.165
Other reports.
(a)
Exempt sales.
Each handler shall file with the Committee, a completed CDAC Form No. 2 showing the quantity and variety of dates sold under exemption during the crop year. The report shall be filed upon the completion of such sales or promptly after the end of the crop year.
(b)
Products.
Each approved date product manufacturer shall file with the Committee a completed CDAC Form No. 4 showing his beginning and ending inventories of product dates, the quantity received during the crop
year, the quantity used, the type and quantity of products manufactured, and his year-end inventory of products. This report shall be filed promptly after the end of each crop year.
[37 FR 23325, Nov. 2, 1972, as amended at 43 FR 28439, June 30, 1978]
§ 987.168
Handler records.
Each handler shall establish complete records which accurately show the quantity of dates handled, disposed of, and withheld. These records shall be maintained for at least 2 years after the end of the crop year of record. Records shall show:
(a) For grower deliveries of dates, the name of each grower, the varieties delivered and the net weight of each variety;
(b) For shipments of dates, the variety, type of pack, net weight and destination or name and address of the person to whom each shipment was sent;
(c) If different from shipments, the variety, type of pack, net weight and purchaser of each quantity of dates sold; and
(d) Manifests, invoices, weight certificates, inventory tabulations, or any other documents necessary to prepare, file, or substantiate the reports required to be filed with the Committee.
[37 FR 23325, Nov. 2, 1972, as amended at 43 FR 28439, June 30, 1978]
§ 987.172
Adjustment of assessment obligation, and late payment and interest charges.
(a) In accordance with §§ 987.45 and 987.72, the assessment obligation of FP dates shall be based on the weight of the dates at the time of inspection and certification. However, if such dates are subsequently processed and packed within the area of production, the assessment obligation shall be adjusted to reflect any increase in weight and the obligation shall be placed on the handler agreeing to assume it.
(b) Pursuant to § 987.72, the committee shall impose an interest charge on any handler whose assessment payment has not been received in the committee's office, or the envelope containing the payment legibly postmarked by the U.S. Postal Service, within 60 days of the invoice date shown on the handler's statement. The interest charge shall be a rate of one and one-half percent per month, and shall be applied to the unpaid assessment balance for the number of days all or any part of the unpaid balance is delinquent beyond the 60-day payment period.
(c) In addition to the interest charge specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the committee shall impose a late payment charge on any handler whose payment has not been received in the committee's office, or the envelope containing the payment legibly postmarked by the U.S. Postal Service, within 60 days of the invoice date. The late payment charge shall be 10 percent of the unpaid balance.
[43 FR 28439, June 30, 1978, as amended at 79 FR 41417, July 16, 2014; 88 FR 82236, Nov. 24, 2023]

# Subpart C—Assessment Rates
§ 987.339
Assessment rate.
On and after October 1, 2023, an assessment rate of $0.15 per hundredweight is established for dates produced or packed in Riverside County, California.
[89 FR 25780, Apr. 12, 2024]
Pt. 989

# PART 989—RAISINS PRODUCED FROM GRAPES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Definitions
Sec.
989.1
Secretary.
989.2
Act.
989.3
Person.
989.4
Area.
989.5
Raisins.
989.7
Golden Seedless raisins.
989.8
Natural condition raisins.
989.9
Packed raisins.
989.10
Varietal types.
989.11
Producer.
989.12
Dehydrator.
989.12a
Cooperative bargaining association.
989.13
Processor.
989.14
Packer.
989.15
Handler.
989.16
Blend.
989.17
Acquire.
989.18
Committee.
989.20
Ton.
989.21
Crop year.
989.22
District.
989.23
File.
989.24
Standard raisins, off-grade raisins, other failing raisins, and raisin residual material.
989.24a
Non-normal outlets.
989.25
Part and subpart.

# Raisin Administrative Committee
989.26
Establishment and membership.
989.27
Eligibility.
989.28
Term of office.
989.29
Initial members and nomination of successor members.
989.30
Selection.
989.31
Failure to nominate.
989.32
Acceptance.
989.33
Alternate members.
989.34
Vacancies.
989.35
Powers.
989.36
Duties.
989.37
Obligation.
989.38
Procedure.
989.39
Compensation and expenses.

# Research and Development
989.53
Research and development.

# Marketing Policy
989.54
Marketing policy.
989.55—989.56
[Reserved]

# Grade, Quality, and Condition Standards
989.58
Natural condition raisins.
989.59
Regulation of the handling of raisins subsequent to their acquisition by handlers.
989.60
Exemption.
989.61
Above-parity situations.

# Trade Practices
989.62
Authorization for prohibition of trade practices.
989.65—989.72
[Reserved]

# Reports and Records
989.73
Reports.
989.75
Confidential information.
989.76
Records.
989.77
Verification of reports and records.

# Expenses and Assessments
989.79
Expenses.
989.80
Assessments.
989.81
Accounting.
989.82
[Reserved]
989.83
Funds.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
989.84
Disposition limitation.
989.85
Personal liability.
989.86
Separability.
989.87
Derogation.
989.88
Duration of immunities.
989.89
Agents.
989.90
Effective time.
989.91
Suspension or termination.
989.92
Proceedings after termination.
989.93
Effect of termination or amendment.
989.94
Amendments.
989.95
Right of Secretary.
989.96
Storage of raisins held on memorandum receipt and of packer-owned tonnage.

# Subpart B—Administrative Requirements

# Definitions
989.102
Inspection service.
989.104
Lot.
989.105
Inspection point.
989.106
Ship.
989.107
Inspection certificate.
989.110
Varietal types.
989.111
Independent producer and small cooperative producer.
989.115
Independent handler, major cooperative marketing association handler, and small cooperative marketing association handler.

# Raisin Administrative Committee
989.122
Districts for independent and small cooperative producer representation on the Committee.
989.126
Representation of the Committee.
989.129
Voting at nomination meetings.
989.139
Compensation for attendance of alternates at Committee meetings.
989.154—989.156
[Reserved]

# Quality Control
989.157
Raisins produced from grapes grown outside of California.
989.158
Natural condition raisins.
989.159
Regulation of the handling of raisins subsequent to their acquisition.
989.160
Exemptions.
989.166—989.167
[Reserved]

# Reports and Records
989.173
Reports.
989.176
Records.

# Subpart—Supplementary Requirements
989.210
Handling of varietal types of raisins acquired pursuant to a weight dockage system.
989.212
Substandard dockage.
989.213
Maturity dockage.
989.221—989.257
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Assessment Rates
989.347
Assessment rate.

# Subpart E—Conversion Factors
989.601
Conversion factors for raisin weight.

# Subpart F—Quality Control
989.701
Minimum grade and condition standards for natural condition raisins.
989.702
Minimum grade standards for packed raisins.

# Subpart G—Antitrust Immunity and Liability
989.801
Restrictions applicable to Committee personnel.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 601-674.

# Subpart A—Order Regulating Handling

# Source:
25 FR 12813, Dec. 14, 1960; 27 FR 2506, Mar. 16, 1962, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 989 appear at 83 FR 53973, Oct. 26, 2018.

# Definitions
§ 989.1
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or any officer or employee of the United States Department of Agriculture to whom authority has heretofore been delegated or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in his stead.
§ 989.2
Act.
Act
means Public Act No. 10, 73d Congress, as amended, and as re-enacted and amended by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (sections 1-19, 48 Stat. 31, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 601-674).
[42 FR 37201, July 20, 1977]
§ 989.3
Person.
Person
means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other business unit.
§ 989.4
Area.
Area
means the State of California.
§ 989.5
Raisins.
Raisins
means grapes of any variety grown in the area, from which a significant part of the natural moisture has been removed by sun-drying or artificial dehydration, either prior to or after such grapes have been removed from the vines. Removal of a significant part of the natural moisture means removal which has progressed to the point where the grape skin develops wrinkles characteristic of wrinkles in fully formed raisins.
[37 FR 19622, Sept. 21, 1972]
§ 989.7
Golden Seedless raisins.
Golden Seedless raisins
means raisins, the production of which includes soda dipping, sulfuring, and artificial dehydration.
§ 989.8
Natural condition raisins.
Natural condition raisins
means raisins the production of which includes sun-drying or artificial dehydration but which have not been further processed to a point where they meet any of the conditions for “packed raisins”, as defined in § 989.9.
[25 FR 12813, Dec. 14, 1960, as amended at 42 FR 37201, July 20, 1977]
§ 989.9
Packed raisins.
Packed raisins
means raisins which have been stemmed, graded, sorted, cleaned, or seeded, and placed in any container customarily used in the marketing of raisins or in any container suitable or usable for such marketing. Raisins in the process of being packed or raisins which are partially packed shall be subject to the same requirements as packed raisins.
§ 989.10
Varietal types.
Varietal types
means raisins generally recognized as possessing characteristics differing from other raisins in a degree sufficient to make necessary or desirable separate identification and classification. Varietal types are the following: Natural (sun-dried) Seedless, Dipped Seedless, Golden Seedless, Muscats (including other raisins with seeds), Sultana, Zante Currant, Monukka, and Oleate and Related Seedless:
Provided,
That the Committee may, subject to approval of the Secretary, change this list of varietal types.
[48 FR 32974, July 20, 1983]
§ 989.11
Producer.
Producer
means any person engaged in a proprietary capacity in the production of grapes which are sun-dried
or dehydrated by artificial means until they become raisins.
[83 FR 53968, Oct. 26, 2018]
§ 989.12
Dehydrator.
Dehydrator
means any person who produces raisins by dehydrating grapes by artificial means.
§ 989.12a
Cooperative bargaining association.
Cooperative bargaining association
means a nonprofit cooperative association of raisin producers engaged within the area in bargaining with handlers as to price and otherwise arranging for the sale of natural condition raisin of its members.
[32 FR 12158, Aug. 24, 1967]
§ 989.13
Processor.
Processor
means any person who receives or acquires natural condition raisins, off-grade raisins, other failing raisins or raisin residual material and uses them or it within the area, with or without other ingredients, in the production of a product other than raisins, for market or distribution.
[32 FR 12158, Aug. 24, 1967; 33 FR 2983, Feb. 15, 1968, as amended at 42 FR 37201, July 20, 1977]
§ 989.14
Packer.
Packer
means any person who, within the area, stems, sorts, cleans, or seeds raisins, grades stemmed raisins, or packages raisins for market as raisins:
Provided,
That:
(a) No producer with respect to the raisins produced by him, and no group of producers with respect to raisins produced by the producers comprising the group, and not otherwise a packer, shall be deemed a packer if he or it sorts or cleans (with or without water) such raisins in their unstemmed form;
(b) Any dehydrator shall be deemed to be a packer, with respect to raisins dehydrated by him, only if he stems, cleans with water subsequent to such dehydration, seeds or packages them for market as raisin;
(c) The Committee may, with the approval of the Secretary restrict the exceptions as to permitted cleaning if necessary to cause delivery of sound raisins; and
(d) No person shall be deemed a packer by reason of the fact he repackages for market (with or without additional preparation) packed raisins which, in the hands of a previous holder, have been inspected and certified as meeting the applicable minimum grade standards for packed raisins.
[32 FR 12158, Aug. 24, 1967]
§ 989.15
Handler.
Handler
means: (a) Any processor or packer; (b) any person who places, ships, or continues natural condition raisins in the current of commerce from within the area to any point outside thereof; (c) any person who delivers off-grade raisins, other failing raisins or raisin residual material to other than a packer or other than into any eligible non-normal outlet; or (d) any person who blends raisins:
Provided,
That blending shall not cause a person not otherwise a handler to be a handler on account of such blending if he is either: (1) A producer who, in his capacity as a producer, blends raisins entirely of his own production in the course of his usual and customary practices of preparing raisins for delivery to processors, packers, or dehydrators; (2) a person who blends raisins after they have been placed in trade channels by a packer with other such raisins in trade channels; or (3) a dehydrator who, in his capacity as a dehydrator, blends raisins entirely of his own manufacture.
[37 FR 19622, Sept. 21, 1972]
§ 989.16
Blend.
Blend
means to mix or commingle raisins.
§ 989.17
Acquire.
Acquire
means to have or obtain physical possession of raisins by a handler at his packing or processing plant or at any other established receiving station operated by him:
Provided,
That a handler shall not be deemed to acquire any raisins (including raisins produced or dehydrated by him) while:
(a) He stores them for another person or as handler-produced tonnage in compliance with the provisions of §§ 989.58 and 989.70;
(b) He reconditions them, or;
(c) He has them in his possession for the purpose of inspection; and
Provided further,
That the term shall apply only to the handler who first acquires the raisins.
§ 989.18
Committee.
Committee
means the Raisin Administrative Committee established under § 989.26.
[41 FR 32412, Aug. 3, 1976]
§ 989.20
Ton.
Ton
means a short ton of 2,000 pounds.
§ 989.21
Crop year.
Crop year
means the 12-month period beginning with August 1 of any year and ending with July 31 of the following year.
[41 FR 32412, Aug. 3, 1976]
§ 989.22
District.
District
means any one of the geographical areas referred to in § 989.26, and designated in the rules and regulations.
[48 FR 32974, July 20, 1983]
§ 989.23
File.
File
means transmit or deliver to the Secretary or Committee, as the case may be, and such act shall be deemed to have been accomplished at the time:
(a) Of actual receipt by the Secretary or Committee in the event of personal delivery;
(b) Of receipt at the office of the telegraph company, in case submission is by telegram; or
(c) Shown by the postmark, in case submission is by mail.
§ 989.24
Standard raisins, off-grade raisins, other failing raisins, and raisin residual material.
(a)
Standard raisins
means raisins which meet the then effective minimum grade and condition standards for natural condition raisins.
(b)
Off-grade raisins
means raisins which do not meet the then effective minimum grade and condition standards for natural condition raisins:
Provided,
That raisins which are certified as off-grade raisins shall continue to be such until successfully reconditioned or become “other failing raisins.”
(c)
Other failing raisins
means any raisins received or acquired by a handler, either as standard raisins or off-grade raisins, which are processed to a point where they qualify as packed raisins but fail to meet the applicable minimum grade standards for packed raisins.
(d)
Raisin residual material
means defective raisins, stemmer waste, sweepings, and other residue accumulated by a handler from reconditioning raisins or from processing standard raisins and other failing raisins.
[25 FR 12813, Dec. 14, 1960, as amended at 42 FR 37201, July 20, 1977]
§ 989.24a
Non-normal outlets.
Non-normal outlets
means outlets other than those customarily used for commercial disposition of raisins meeting the then applicable minimum standards for natural condition raisins or packed raisins.
[29 FR 9483, July 11, 1964]
§ 989.25
Part and subpart.
Part
means the order regulating the handling of raisins produced from grapes grown in California, and all rules, regulations, and supplementary orders issued thereunder. This order regulating the handling of raisins produced from grapes grown in California shall be a
subpart
of such part.

# Raisin Administrative Committee
§ 989.26
Establishment and membership.
A Raisin Administrative Committee is hereby established consisting of 47 members of whom 35 shall represent producers, 10 shall represent handlers, 1 shall represent the cooperative bargaining association(s) and 1 shall be a public member. The producer members shall be selected as follows:
(a) Producer members representing the cooperative marketing association(s) shall be members of such association(s) engaged in the handling of raisins, each of which acquired not less than 10 percent of the total raisin acquisitions during the preceding crop year, and those members shall be equal
to the product, rounded to the nearest whole number, obtained by multiplying 35 by the ratio the cooperative marketing association(s) raisin acquisitions are to the acquisitions of all handlers during the preceding crop year.
(b) Producer members representing cooperative bargaining association(s) shall be members of such associations, and the number of those members shall be equal to the product, rounded to the nearest whole number, obtained by multiplying 35 by the ratio the raisins acquired by handlers from bargaining association members are to the total acquisitions of all handlers during the preceding crop year.
(c) All other producer members who shall not be members of a cooperative bargaining association(s), cooperative marketing association(s) engaged in the handling of raisins which acquired 10 percent or more of the total acquisitions during the preceding crop year, nor sold for cash to cooperative marketing association(s), shall represent all producers not defined in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section and shall be selected in the number and, when appropriate, for the districts as designated in the rules and regulations.
(d) The handler members shall be divided into two groups and include the following:
(1) Handler members shall be selected from and represent cooperative marketing association(s) engaged in the handling of raisins each of which acquired not less than 10 percent of the total raisin acquisitions during the preceding crop year, and the number of those members shall be equal to the product, rounded to the nearest whole number, obtained by multiplying 10 by the ratio of the cooperative marketing association(s) raisin acquisitions are to the total acquisitions of all handlers during the preceding crop year.
(2) The remaining handler members shall be selected from and represent all other handlers, which would include all independent handlers and small cooperative marketing association(s) who acquired less than 10 percent of the total raisin acquisitions during the preceding crop year. Handler nominees for this group shall be nominated by all handlers in the group in a manner determined by the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, and specified in the rules and regulations.
(e) The “cooperative” bargaining association'(s) member shall be selected from the cooperative bargaining association(s). The public member shall be nominated by the Committee and selected by the Secretary as public member.
(f) For each member of the Committee there shall be an alternate member who shall have the same qualifications as the member for whom he is an alternate.
[48 FR 32974, July 20, 1983]
§ 989.27
Eligibility.
No person shall be selected or continue to serve as a member or alternate member of the Committee who is not actively engaged in the business of the group which he represents either in his own behalf, or as an officer, agent, or employee of a business unit engaged in such business:
Provided,
That only producers, as defined in § 989.11, engaged as such with respect to the most recent grape crop, are eligible to serve on the Committee. Only handlers who packed or processed raisins during the then current crop year shall be eligible to represent handlers on the Committee. Any handler eligible to represent a particular group shall continue to represent handlers for the entire term for which he was selected.
[48 FR 32974, July 20, 1983]
§ 989.28
Term of office.
The term of office of all representatives serving on the Committee shall be for two years and shall end on April 30 of even numbered calendar years, but each such member and alternate member shall continue to serve until their successor is selected and has qualified.
[48 FR 32975, July 20, 1983]
§ 989.29
Initial members and nomination of successor members.
(a)
Initial members.
Members and alternate members of the Committee serving immediately prior to the effective date of this amended subpart shall, if thereafter they are eligible, serve on the Committee until April 30, 1984, and
until their respective successors have been selected and qualified.
(b)
Nominations for successor members.
Nominations for successor
members and alternate members of the Committee shall be made as follows:
(1) The Committee shall notify the cooperative marketing association(s) engaged in handling not less than 10 percent of the total raisin acquisitions during the preceding crop year, and cooperative bargaining association(s), of the date by which nominations to fill member and alternate member positions shall be made. The Committee shall give reasonable publicity of a meeting or meetings of producers who are not members of cooperative bargaining association(s), or cooperative marketing association(s) which handled 10 percent or more of the total raisin acquisitions during the preceding crop year, and of independent handlers and cooperative marketing association(s) who handled less than 10 percent of the total raisin acquisitions during the preceding crop year, for the purpose of making nominations to fill the member and alternate member positions prescribed in § 989.26 (c) and (d):
Provided,
That member and alternate member nominations by independent handlers and cooperative marketing association(s) who acquired less than 10 percent of the total raisin acquisitions during the preceding crop year may be made to the Committee by mail in lieu of meetings.
(2)(i) Any producer representing independent producer and producers who are affiliated with cooperative marketing association(s) handling less than 10 percent of the total raisin acquisitions during the preceding crop year must have produced grapes which were made into raisins in the particular district for which they are nominated to represent said district as a producer member or alternate producer member on the Committee. In the event any such nominee is engaged as a producer in more than one district, such producer may be a nominee for only one district. One or more producers may be nominated for each such producer member or alternate member position.
(ii) Each such producer whose name is offered in nomination for producer member positions to represent on the Committee independent producers or producers who are affiliated with cooperative marketing association(s) handling less than 10 percent of the total raisin acquisitions during the preceding crop year shall be given the opportunity to provide the Committee a short statement outlining qualifications and desire to serve if selected. Similarly, each such producer whose name is offered in nomination for producer alternate member positions to represent on the Committee independent producers or producers who are affiliated with cooperative marketing association(s) handling less than 10 percent of the total raisin acquisitions during the preceding crop year shall be given the opportunity to provide the Committee a short statement outlining qualifications and desire to serve if selected. These brief statements, together with a ballot and voting instructions, shall be mailed to all independent producers and producers who are affiliated with cooperative marketing associations handling less than 10 percent of the total raisin acquisitions during the preceding crop year of record with the Committee in each district. The producer member candidate receiving the highest number of votes shall be designated as the first member nominee, the second highest shall be designated as the second member nominee until nominees for all producer member positions have been filled. Similarly, the producer alternate member candidate receiving the highest number of votes shall be designated as the first alternate member nominee, the second highest shall be designated as the second alternate member nominee until nominees for all member positions have been filled.
(iii) In the event that there are more producer member nominees than positions to be filled and not enough producer alternate member nominees to fill all positions, producer member nominees not nominated for a member seat may be nominated to fill vacant alternate member seats. Member seat nominees shall indicate, prior to the nomination vote, whether they are willing to accept nomination for an alternate seat in the event they are not nominated for a member seat and there
are vacant alternate member seats. Member seat nominees that do not indicate willingness to be considered for vacant alternate member seats shall not be considered.
(iv) Each independent producer or producer affiliated with cooperative marketing association(s) handling less than 10 percent of the total raisin acquisitions during the preceding crop year shall cast only one vote with respect to each position for which nominations are to be made. Write-in candidates shall be accepted. The person receiving the most votes with respect to each position to be filled, in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, shall be the person to be certified to the Secretary as the nominee. The Committee may, subject to the approval of the Secretary, establish rules and regulations to effectuate this section.
(3) One or more eligible handlers for each handler position to be filled may be proposed for nomination to represent independent handlers and cooperative marketing association(s) which acquired less than 10 percent of the total raisin acquisitions during the preceding crop year on the Committee. Nominations shall be made by and from handlers, or employees, representatives or agents of handlers falling within such groups. Each handler shall cast only one vote with respect to each position for which nomination is to be made. The person receiving the most votes with respect to each handler member of handler alternate member position shall be the person to be certified to the Secretary as the nominee for each such position.
(4) Each vote cast shall be on behalf of the person voting, the person's agent, subsidiaries, affiliates, and representatives. Voting at each handler meeting shall be in person. The results of each ballot at each handler meeting shall be announced at that meeting.
(5) Each nomination shall be certified by the Committee to the Secretary on or before April 5 immediately preceding the commencement of the term of office of the member or alternate member position for which the nomination is certified.
[48 FR 32975, July 20, 1983, as amended at 54 FR 34137, Aug. 18, 1989; 83 FR 53968, Oct. 26, 2018]
§ 989.30
Selection.
The Secretary shall select producer, handler, cooperative bargaining association(s), and public members and alternate members in the number specified in 989.26, as applicable, and with the qualifications specified in § 989.27. Such selections may be made from nominations certified pursuant to § 989.29 or from other eligible producers, handlers, or cooperative bargaining association(s) officers or employees.
[48 FR 32975, July 20, 1983]
§ 989.31
Failure to nominate.
In the event nomination for a member or alternate member position on the Committee is not certified pursuant to and within the time specified in § 989.29, the Secretary may select an eligible person to fill such position without regard to nomination.
[41 FR 32412, Aug. 3, 1976]
§ 989.32
Acceptance.
Each person to be selected by the Secretary as a member or as an alternate member of the Committee shall, prior to such selection, qualify by advising the Secretary that he/she agrees to serve in the position for which nominated for selection.
[48 FR 32975, July 20, 1983]
§ 989.33
Alternate members.
The alternate for a member of the Committee shall act in the place and stead of such member (a) during his absence, and (b) in the event of his removal, resignation, disqualification, or death, until a successor for such member's unexpired term has been selected and has qualified.
[41 FR 32412, Aug. 3, 1976]
§ 989.34
Vacancies.
To fill any vacancy occasioned by the failure of any person selected as a member or as an alternate member of the Committee to qualify, or in the
event of the removal, resignation, disqualification, or death of any member or alternate member, a successor for such person's unexpired term shall be nominated and selected in the manner set forth in §§ 989.29 and 989.30, insofar as such provisions are applicable. If nomination to fill any vacancy is not filed within 40 calendar days after such vacancy occurs, the Secretary may select an eligible person to fill such vacancy without regard to nomination.
[41 FR 32412, Aug. 3, 1976]
§ 989.35
Powers.
The Committee shall have the following powers:
(a) To administer the terms and provisions of this part;
(b) To make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of this part;
(c) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this part; and
(d) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of this part.
[41 FR 32412, Aug. 3, 1976, as amended at 48 FR 32975, July 20, 1983]
§ 989.36
Duties.
The Committee shall have, among others, the following duties:
(a) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any producer, packer, dehydrator, processor or cooperative bargaining association;
(b) To investigate compliance and to use means available to it to prevent violations of this part;
(c) To keep minutes, books, and other records, which shall clearly reflect all of its acts and transactions, and such minutes, books, and other records shall be subject to examination by the Secretary at any time;
(d) To investigate and assemble data on the production, handling and market conditions with respect to raisins;
(e) To submit to the Secretary such available information with respect to raisins and grapes as he may request, and such other information as the Committee may deem desirable and pertinent;
(f) To select from among its members a chairman and other officers, and to adopt such rules and regulations for the conduct of its business as it may deem advisable;
(g) To appoint or employ such other persons as it may deem necessary, and to determine the salaries and define the duties of each such person;
(h) To cause the books of the Committee to be audited by certified public accountants at least once each year, or at such other times as the Committee may deem necessary or as the Secretary may request, and the report of each such audit shall show, among other things, the receipts and expenditures of funds, and at least two copies of each such audit shall be submitted to the Secretary;
(i) To prepare quarterly statements of its financial operations and make such statements, together with the minutes of its meetings, available at the office of the Committee for inspection by producers, handlers and dehydrators;
(j) To give reasonable advance notice of the times, places, and purposes of its meetings by mail or other appropriate means to each member and alternate member and such notice shall be given as widespread publicity as is practicable;
(k) To conduct meetings for the purpose of making nominations for membership on the Committee and the certifying of nominations made for such purposes to the Secretary;
(l) To establish, with the approval of the Secretary, such rules and procedures relative to administration of this subpart as may be consistent with the provisions contained in this subpart and as may be necessary to accomplish the purposes of the act and the efficient administration of this subpart.
[41 FR 32412, Aug. 3, 1976, as amended at 48 FR 32975, July 20, 1983]
§ 989.37
Obligation.
Upon the removal, resignation, disqualification, or expiration of the term of office of any member or alternate member, such member or alternate member shall account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver to his successor, to the Committee, or to a designee of the Secretary all property (including, but not limited to, all books and records) in his possession or
under his control as member or alternate member, and he shall execute such assignments and other instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to vest in such successor, Committee, or designee full title to such property and funds, and all claims vested in such member or alternate member. Upon the death of any member or alternate member of the Committee, full title to such property, funds, and claims vested in such member or alternate member shall be vested in his successor or, until such successor has been selected and has qualified, in the Committee.
[41 FR 32412, Aug. 3, 1976]
§ 989.38
Procedure.
The Committee shall meet at the call of the chairman, or vice-chairman when acting as chairman, or at the call of any three members. All decisions of the Committee reached shall be by majority vote of the members present. All votes shall be cast in person and a quorum must be present. The presence of 25 members shall be required to constitute a quorum. The Committee shall give to the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the Committee as it gives to its members.
[48 FR 32976, July 20, 1983]
§ 989.39
Compensation and expenses.
The members and alternate members of the Committee shall serve without compensation, but shall be allowed their necessary expenses as approved by the Committee.
[54 FR 34137, Aug. 18, 1989]

# Research and Development
§ 989.53
Research and development.
(a)
General.
The Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish or provide for the establishment of projects involving production research, market research and development, marketing promotion including paid advertising, designed to assist, improve, or promote the production, marketing, distribution, and consumption of raisins in domestic and foreign markets. These projects may include, but need not be limited to those designed to:
(1) Improve through research the accuracy of raisin production estimates;
(2) Improve through research the preparation for market, sanitation, quality, condition, storability, processing, or packaging of raisins;
(3) Ascertain through research the factors affecting acceptance of raisins by manufacturers or consumers;
(4) Promote the marketing, distribution, or consumption of raisins in domestic and foreign markets by collecting data thereon, consulting with members of the trade, and making the information available to producers, handlers, and exporters; and
(5) Promote the marketing, distribution, or consumption of raisins in foreign markets through the use of merchandising programs.
(b)
Creditable expenditures.
The Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may provide for crediting all or any portion of a handler's direct expenditures for marketing promotion, including paid advertising, that promotes the sale of raisins, raisin products, or their use. No handler shall receive credit for any allowable direct expenditures that would exceed the total of his assessment obligation which is attributable to that portion of his assessment designated for marketing promotion including paid advertising.
(c)
Criteria.
Before any project involving marketing promotion, including paid advertising, and the
crediting of the handler's pro rata expense assessment obligation of handlers is undertaken pursuant to this section, the Secretary after recommendation by the Committee, shall approve appropriate criteria to effectively regulate such activity.
[48 FR 32976, July 20, 1983, as amended at 83 FR 53969, Oct. 26, 2018]

# Marketing Policy
§ 989.54
Marketing policy.
(a)
Marketing policy.
Each crop year, the Committee shall prepare and submit to the Secretary a report setting forth its recommended marketing policy, including quality regulations for the pending crop. In developing the marketing policy, the Committee may give consideration to the production,
harvesting, processing, and storage conditions of that crop, as well as the following factors:
(1) The estimated tonnage held by producers and handlers at the beginning of the crop year;
(2) The expected general quality and any modifications of the minimum grade standards;
(3) The estimated tonnage of standard and off-grade raisins which will be produced;
(4) An estimated desirable carryout at the end of the crop year;
(5) The estimated market demand for raisins, considering the estimated world raisin supply and demand situation;
(6) Current prices being received and the probable general level of prices to be received for raisins by producers and handlers;
(7) The trend and level of consumer income;
(8) Any prohibition of trade practices, pursuant to § 989.62 intended for the crop year; and
(9) Any other pertinent factors bearing on the marketing of raisins including the estimated supply of and demand for other varietal types and regulations applicable thereto.
(b)
Modification.
In the event the Committee subsequently deems it advisable to modify its marketing policy on any crop, because of national emergency, crop failure, or other major change in economic conditions, it shall hold a meeting for that purpose, and file a report thereof with the Secretary within 5 days (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays) after the holding of such meeting, which report shall show such modification and the basis therefor.
(c)
Publicity.
The Committee shall promptly give reasonable publicity to producers, dehydrators, handlers, and the cooperative bargaining association(s) of each meeting to consider a marketing policy or any modification thereof, and each such meeting shall be open to them. Similar publicity shall be given to producers, dehydrators, handlers, and the cooperative bargaining association(s) of each marketing policy report or modification thereof, filed with the Secretary and of the Secretary's action thereon. Copies of all marketing policy reports shall be maintained in the office of the Committee, where they shall be made available for examination by any producer, dehydrator, handler, or cooperative bargaining association representative. The Committee shall notify handlers, dehydrators and the cooperative bargaining association(s), and give reasonable publicity to producers of its computation.
[48 FR 32976, July 20, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 1831, Jan. 14, 1985; 54 FR 24670, June 9, 1989; 83 FR 53969, Oct. 26, 2018]
§§ 989.55-989.56
[Reserved]

# Grade, Quality, and Condition Standards
§ 989.58
Natural condition raisins.
(a)
Regulation.
No handler shall acquire or receive natural condition raisins which fail to meet such minimum grade, quality, and condition standards as the Committee may establish, with the approval of the Secretary, in applicable rules and regulations:
Provided,
That a handler may receive raisins for inspection, may receive off-grade raisins for reconditioning and may receive or acquire off-grade raisins for use in eligible non-normal outlets:
And provided further,
That a handler may acquire natural condition raisins which exceed the tolerance established for maturity under a weight dockage system established pursuant to rules and regulations recommended by the Committee and approved by the Secretary. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall apply to the acquisition or receipt of natural condition raisins of a particular varietal type for which minimum grade, quality, and condition standards are not applicable or then in effect pursuant to this part.
(b)
Changes in minimum grade, quality, and condition standards for natural condition raisins.
The Committee may recommend to the Secretary changes in the minimum grade, quality, and condition standards for natural condition raisins of any varietal type and may recommend to the Secretary that minimum grade, quality, and condition standards for any varietal type be added to or deleted. The Committee shall submit with its recommendation
all data and information upon which it acted in making its recommendation, and such other information as the Secretary may request. The Secretary shall approve any such change if he finds, upon the basis of data submitted to him by the Committee or from other pertinent information available to him, that to do so would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act.
(c)
Publicity and notice.
The Committee shall give prompt and reasonable publicity to producer, dehydrators, and handlers of each recommendation submitted by it to the Secretary and of each regulation issued by the Secretary. Notice of such regulation shall be given to all handlers by registered or certified mail.
(d)
Inspection and certification.
(1) Each handler shall cause an inspection and certification to be made of all natural condition raisins acquired or received by him, except with respect to:
(i) An inter-plant or inter-handler transfer of off-grade raisins as described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, unless such inspection and certification are required by rules and procedures made effective pursuant to this amended subpart;
(ii) An inter-plant or inter-handler transfer of standard raisins as described in § 989.59(e);
(iii) Raisins received from a dehydrator which have been previously inspected pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section;
(iv) Any raisins for which minimum grade, quality, and condition standards are not then in effect;
(v) Raisins received from a cooperative bargaining association which have been inspected and are in compliance with requirements established pursuant to paragraph (d)(3) of this section; and
(vi) Any raisins, if permitted in accordance with such rules and procedures as the Committee may establish with the approval of the Secretary, acquired or received for disposition in eligible non-normal outlets. Except as otherwise provided in this section, prior to blending raisins, acquiring raisins, storing raisins, reconditioning raisins, or acquiring raisins which have been reconditioned, each handler shall obtain an inspection certification showing whether or not the raisins meet the applicable grade, quality, and condition standards:
Provided,
That the initial inspection for infestation shall not be required if the raisins are fumigated in accordance with such rules and procedures as the Committee shall establish with the approval of the Secretary. The handler shall submit or cause to be submitted to the Committee a copy of such certification, together with such other documents or records as the Committee may require. Such certification shall be issued by inspectors of the Specialty Crops Inspection Division of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, unless the Committee determines, and the Secretary concurs in such determination, that inspection by another agency would improve the administration of this amended subpart. The Committee may require that raisins held on memorandum receipt be re-inspected and certified as a condition for their acquisition by a handler.
(2) The Committee may, in accordance with rules and procedures established with the approval of the Secretary, authorize handlers to receive or acquire natural condition raisins which have been produced by any dehydrator by dehydrating grapes by artificial means and have been inspected and certified on his premises. In the event there shall have been compliance with Committee requirements, any handler who receives or acquires such inspected and certificated raisins shall be deemed to have satisfied the requirements contained in paragraph (d)(1) of this section with respect to inspection and certification of natural condition raisins received or acquired by him.
(3) The Committee may, in accordance with rules and the procedures established with the approval of the Secretary, authorize handlers to receive or acquire without further inspection and certification, natural condition raisins, standard or off-grade, which have been inspected, certified and held, in compliance with Committee requirements, at a receiving station of a cooperative bargaining association.
(e)
Off-grade raisins.
(1) Any natural condition raisins tendered to a handler
which fail to meet the applicable minimum grade, quality, and condition standards may:
(i) Be received or acquired by the handler for disposition, without further inspection, in eligible non-normal outlets;
(ii) Be returned unstemmed to the person tendering the raisins; or
(iii) Be received by the handler for reconditioning. Off-grade raisins received by a handler under any one of the three described categories may be changed to any other of the categories under such rules and procedures as the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, shall establish. No handler shall ship or otherwise dispose of off-grade raisins which he does not return to the tenderer, transfer to another handler as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, or recondition so that they at least meet the minimum standards prescribed in or pursuant to this amended subpart, except into eligible non-normal outlets.
(2) Off-grade raisins may be transferred from the plant of the handler where received to another plant of his or to that of another handler within the State of California under such rules and procedures as the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, shall establish to safeguard the objectives of this part.
(3) Each handler shall, while holding any off-grade raisins, store them separate and apart from other raisins and the off-grade raisins shall be stored in accordance with disposition and reconditioning categories. The Committee with the approval of the Secretary may prescribe rules and procedures for the storage of the raisins.
(4) If the handler is to acquire the raisins after they are reconditioned, his obligation with respect to such raisins shall be based on the weight of the raisins (if stemmed, adjusted to natural condition weight) after they have been reconditioned.
(5) The Committee shall establish, with the approval of the Secretary, such additional rules and procedures as may be necessary to ensure adequate control of off-grade raisins, including, but not limited to, the reconditioning of off-grade raisins, the disposition and use of unsuccessfully reconditioned raisins, and the disposition and use of residual matter from reconditioning operations.
(f)
Blending.
No handler shall blend raisins except: (1) Incidental to reconditioning raisins as permitted under rules and procedures established by the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary; (2) blending standard raisins with standard raisins; or (3) blending raisins which meet the minimum grade standards for packed raisins with other raisins which meet such standards.
[25 FR 12813, Dec. 14, 1960, as amended at 29 FR 9483, July 11, 1964; 32 FR 12161, Aug. 24, 1967; 32 FR 18086, Dec. 19, 1967; 42 FR 37201, July 20, 1977; 83 FR 53969, 53973, Oct. 26, 2018; 88 FR 82236, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 989.59
Regulation of the handling of raisins subsequent to their acquisition by handlers.
(a)
Regulation.
Unless otherwise provided in this part, no handler shall:
(1) Ship or otherwise make final disposition of natural condition raisins unless they at least meet the effective and applicable minimum grade, quality, and condition standards for natural condition raisins; or
(2) Ship or otherwise make final disposition of packed raisins unless they at least meet such minimum grade quality, and condition standards established by the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, in applicable rules and regulations or as later changed or prescribed pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section:
Provided,
That nothing contained in this paragraph shall prohibit the shipment or final disposition of any raisins of a particular varietal type for which minimum standards are not applicable or then in effect pursuant to this part.
And provided further,
That a handler may grind raisins, which do not meet the minimum grade, quality, and condition standards for packed raisins because of mechanical damage or sugaring, into a raisin paste. The Committee may establish, with approval of the Secretary, different grade, quality, and condition regulations for different markets.
(b)
Changes to minimum grade, quality, or condition standards.
The Committee may recommend changes in the minimum grade, quality, or condition
standards for packed raisins of any varietal type and may recommend to the Secretary that minimum grade, quality, or condition standards for any varietal type be added or deleted. The Committee shall submit with its recommendation all data and information upon which it acted in making its recommendation, and such other information as the Secretary may request. The Secretary shall approve any such change if he finds, upon the basis of data submitted to him by the Committee or from other pertinent information available to him, that to do so would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act.
(c)
Publicity and notice.
The Committee shall give prompt and reasonable notice to producers, dehydrators, handlers, and the cooperative bargaining association(s) of each recommendation submitted by it to the Secretary and of each regulation issued by the Secretary. Notice of such regulation shall be given to all handlers of record by registered or certified mail.
(d)
Inspection and certification.
Unless otherwise provided in this section, each handler shall, at his own expense, before shipping or otherwise making final disposition of raisins, cause an inspection to be made of such raisins to determine whether they meet the then applicable minimum grade, quality, and condition standards for natural condition raisins or the then applicable minimum standards for packed raisins. Such handler shall obtain a certificate that such raisins meet the aforementioned applicable minimum standards and shall submit or cause to be submitted to the Committee a copy of such certificate together with such other documents or records as the Committee may require. The certificate shall be issued by the Specialty Crops Inspection Division of the United States Department of Agriculture, unless the Committee determines, and the Secretary concurs in such determination, that inspection by another agency will improve the administration of this amended subpart. Any certificate issued pursuant to this paragraph shall be valid only for such period of time as the Committee may specify, with the approval of the Secretary, in appropriate rules and regulations.
(e)
Inter-plant and inter-handler transfers.
Any handler may transfer from his plant to his own or another handler's plant within the State of California any raisins without having had such raisins inspected as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. The transferring handler shall transmit promptly to the Committee a report of such transfer, except that transfers between plants owned or operated by the same handler need not be reported. Before shipping or otherwise making final disposition of such raisins, the receiving handler shall comply with the requirements of this section.
(f)
Disposition of off-grade raisins, other failing raisins, and raisin residual material in eligible non-normal outlets.
Any off-grade raisins, except those returned unstemmed to the tenderer or successfully reconditioned, and any raisin residual material which may be received or acquired by a handler or accumulated by a handler from reconditioning raisins or from processing standard raisins and other failing raisins, shall be disposed of or marketed by the handler, without further inspection, in eligible non-normal outlets:
Provided,
That no packer shall be precluded from recovering raisins from such accumulations or acquisitions:
Provided further,
That whenever the Secretary concludes, on the basis of a recommendation of the Committee, that to specify one or more non-normal outlets as ineligible for any class of such receipts, acquisitions, or accumulations will tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act, he shall specify such ineligible outlets and prohibit the shipment thereto or final disposition therein of such class by handlers as well as the receipt and use thereof by processors:
And provided further,
That no processor who is a distiller shall be precluded from receiving or using for distillation (1) the standard raisins which subsequently fail to meet the said applicable standards, (2) the raisin residual material accumulated from processing standard raisins, or (3) the raisin residual material referable to the standard raisin equivalent recovered in reconditioning; and any
handler may ship such raisins and raisin residual material to such processor. The Committee shall establish, with the approval of the Secretary, such rules and procedures as may be necessary to insure adequate control over the off-grade raisins, other failing raisins, and raisin residual material subject to this paragraph. Such rules may include a requirement that the disposition and use of all or any class of off-grade raisins, other failing raisins, or raisin residual material be confined to the area. The provisions of this paragraph are not intended to excuse any failure to comply with all applicable food and sanitary rules and regulations of city, county, State, Federal, or other agencies having jurisdiction.
(g)
Exemption of experimental and specialty packs.
The Committee may establish, with the approval of the Secretary, rules and procedures providing for the exemption of raisins in experimental and specialty packs from one or more of the requirements of the minimum grade, quality, or condition standards of this section, together with the inspection and certification requirements if applicable.
[25 FR 12813, Dec. 14, 1960, as amended at 32 FR 12161, Aug. 24, 1967; 37 FR 19622, Sept. 21, 1972; 42 FR 37202, July 20, 1977; 83 FR 53970, 53973, Oct. 26, 2018]
§ 989.60
Exemption.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this amended subpart, the Committee may establish, with the approval of the Secretary, such rules and procedures as may be necessary to permit the acquisition and disposition of any off-grade raisins, free from any or all regulations, for uses in non-normal outlets.
(b) The Committee may establish, with the approval of the Secretary, such rules and procedures as may be necessary to exempt from any or all regulations raisins produced in southern California (i.e., the counties of Riverside, Imperial, San Bernardino, Ventura, Orange, Los Angeles, and San Diego) and disposed of for distillation, livestock feed, or by export in natural condition to Mexico.
(c) The Committee may designate such raisins as it deems appropriate for production, processing, and marketing research and development. The period of such designation shall be for not more than five years unless extended by the Committee. The volume which may be acquired by all handlers shall not exceed 500 natural condition tons annually for each designated project, unless increased by the Secretary upon a recommendation of the Committee. Such designated raisins may be acquired and disposed of free from those regulations specified by the Committee. In any crop year, when the total industry acquisitions of the designated raisins exceed 500 natural condition tons or a larger quantity approved by the Secretary upon a recommendation of the Committee, the exemption shall not apply.
[29 FR 9484, July 11, 1964, as amended at 32 FR 18086, Dec. 19, 1967; 37 FR 19623, Sept. 21, 1972; 42 FR 37202, July 20, 1977; 83 FR 53971, Oct. 26, 2018]
§ 989.61
Above parity situations.
The provisions of this part relating to minimum grade, quality, and condition standards and inspection requirements, within the meaning of section 2(3) of the Act, and any other provisions pertaining to the administration and enforcement of the Order, shall continue in effect irrespective of whether the estimated season average price to producers for raisins is in excess of the parity level specified in section 2(1) of the Act.
[83 FR 53971, Oct. 26, 2018]

# Trade Practices
§ 989.62
Authorization for prohibition of trade practices.
Whenever the Secretary finds, upon recommendation of the Committee or other information, that continuance of certain practices in trade channels would tend to interfere with the achieving of the objectives of this part, he may prohibit handlers from using such practices, for any crop year or portion thereof, in selling raisins in containers exceeding four pounds net weight. The prohibited practices may include:
(a) Any provision within or added to a sales contract, or action or agreement outside such contract, whereby
the handler is obligated to reflect declines in market prices of raisins by charging the buyer a subsequent market price in lieu of the sales price specified in the contract.
(b)(1) Any agreement in an undertaking to hold raisins in reserve for possible future delivery to a buyer, or action or agreement outside such undertaking, whereby the handler is obligated to not reflect increases in market prices by charging the buyer a price specified in the agreement.
(2) Prior to any such practices being prohibited in any crop year, the Committee shall recommend, for the approval of the Secretary, such rules and procedures and such record keeping requirements as are necessary to administer these prohibitions and obtain compliance therewith.
25 FR 12813, Dec. 14, 1960; 27 FR 2506, Mar. 16, 1962, as amended at 84 FR 30863, June 28, 2019]
§§ 989.65-989.72
[Reserved]

# Reports and Records
§ 989.73
Reports.
(a)
Inventory reports.
Each handler shall, upon request of the Committee, file promptly with the Committee a certified report, showing such information as the Committee shall specify with respect to any raisins which were held by him on a date designated by the Committee, which information as specified may include, but not be limited to:
(1) The quantity of any raisins so held, segregated as to varietal type, natural condition, packed, standard quality or off-grade quality; and
(2) The locations of the raisins.
(b)
Acquisition reports.
Each handler shall submit to the Committee in accordance with such rules and procedures as are prescribed by the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, certified reports, for such periods as the Committee may require, with respect to his acquisitions of each varietal type of raisins during the particular period covered by such report, which report shall include, but not be limited to:
(1) The total quantity of standard raisins acquired;
(2) The total quantity of off-grade raisins acquired pursuant to § 989.58(e)(1)(i); and
(3) Cumulative totals of such acquisitions from the beginning of the then current crop year to and including the end of the period for which the report is made. Upon written application made to the Committee, a handler may be relieved of submitting such reports after completing his packing operations for the season. Upon request of the Committee, each handler shall furnish to the Committee, in such manner and at such times as it may require, the name and address of each person from whom he acquired raisins and the quantity of each varietal type of raisins acquired from each such person.
(c) Each handler shall file such reports of creditable promotion including paid advertising as recommended by the Committee and approved by the Secretary.
(d)
Other reports.
Upon the request of the Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, each handler shall furnish to the Committee such other information as may be necessary to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties under this amended part.
[25 FR 12813, Dec. 14, 1960, as amended at 32 FR 12164, Aug. 24, 1967; 32 FR 18086, Dec. 19, 1967; 48 FR 32978, July 20, 1983; 83 FR 53971, Oct. 26, 2018]
§ 989.75
Confidential information.
All reports and records furnished or submitted by a handler to the Committee shall be received by, and at all times kept under the custody or control of, one or more employees of the Committee, who shall disclose to no person, except the Secretary upon request therefor, data or information obtained or extracted therefrom which would constitute a trade secret or the disclosure of which might affect the trade position, financial condition, or business operations of the particular handler from whom received:
Provided,
That the Committee may require such an employee to disclose to it, or to any person designated by it or by the Secretary, information and data of a general nature, compilations of data affecting handlers as a group, and any data affecting one or more handlers, so
long as the identity of the individual handlers involved is not disclosed.
§ 989.76
Records.
Each handler shall maintain such records of all raisins received, and of all raisins acquired, by him as prescribed by the Committee. Such records shall include, but not be limited to, the quantity of raisins of each varietal type acquired from each person and the name and address of each such person, total acquisitions, total sales, and total other disposition of each varietal type which he handles, and each handler shall maintain such records for at least two years after the termination of the crop year in which the transactions occurred. The Committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may prescribe rules and regulations to include under this section handler records that detail promotion and advertising activities which the Committee may need to perform its functions under § 989.53.
[25 FR 12813, Dec. 14, 1960, as amended at 48 FR 32978, July 20, 1983]
§ 989.77
Verification of reports and rec­ords.
For the purpose of checking and verifying reports filed by handlers and records prescribed in or pursuant to this amended subpart, the Committee, through its duly authorized representatives, shall have access to any handler's premises during regular business hours and shall be permitted at any such times to inspect such premises and any raisins held by such handler, and any and all records of the handler with respect to the holding or disposition of raisins by him and promotion and advertising activities conducted by handlers under § 989.53. Each handler shall furnish all labor and equipment necessary to make such inspections. Each handler shall store raisins in a manner which will facilitate inspection, and shall maintain storage records which will permit accurate identification of raisins held by him or theretofore disposed of. Insofar as is practicable and consistent with the carrying out of the provisions of this amended subpart, all data and information obtained or received through checking and verification of reports and records shall be treated as confidential information.
[25 FR 12813, Dec. 14, 1960, as amended at 48 FR 32978, July 20, 1983]

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 989.79
Expenses.
The Committee is authorized to incur such expenses as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by it during each crop year, for the maintenance and functioning of the Committee and for such purposes as he may, pursuant to this subpart, determine to be appropriate. The funds to cover such expenses shall be obtained levying assessments as provided in § 989.80. The Committee shall file with the Secretary for each crop year a proposed budget of these expenses and a proposal as to the assessment rate to be fixed pursuant to § 989.80, together with a report thereon. Such filing shall be not later than October 5 of the crop year, but this date may be extended by the Committee not more than 5 days if warranted by a late crop.
[83 FR 53971, Oct. 26, 2018]
§ 989.80
Assessments.
(a) Each handler shall pay to the Committee, upon demand, his pro rata share of the expenses which the Secretary finds will be incurred, as aforesaid, by the Committee during each crop year less any amounts credited pursuant to § 989.53. Such handler's pro rata share of such expenses shall be equal to the ratio between the total raisin tonnage acquired by such handler during the applicable crop year and the total raisin tonnage acquired by all handlers during the same crop year.
(b) Each handler who reconditions off-grade raisins but does not acquire the standard raisins recovered therefrom shall, with respect to his assessable portion of all such standard raisins, pay to the Committee, upon demand, his pro rata share of the expenses which the Secretary finds will be incurred by the Committee each crop year. Such handler's pro rata share of such expenses shall be equal to the ratio between the handler's assessable portion (which shall be a quantity
equal to such handler's standard raisins which are acquired by some other handler or handlers) during the applicable crop year and the total raisin tonnage acquired by all handlers.
(c) The Secretary shall fix the rate of assessment to be paid by all handlers on the basis of a specified rate per ton. At any time during or after a crop year, the Secretary may increase the rate of assessment to obtain sufficient funds to cover any later finding by the Secretary relative to the expenses of the committee. Each handler shall pay such additional assessment to the committee upon demand. In order to provide funds to carry out the functions of the committee, the committee may accept advance payments from any handler to be credited toward such assessments as may be levied pursuant to this section against such handler during the crop year. In the event cash flow needs of the committee are above cash available generated by handler assessments, the committee may borrow from a commercial lending institution. The payment of assessments for the maintenance and functioning of the committee, and for such purposes as the Secretary may pursuant to this subpart determine to be appropriate, may be required under this part throughout the period it is in effect, irrespective of whether particular provisions thereof are suspended or become inoperative.
(d) Each handler shall, with respect to administrative assessments not paid within 30 calendar days of the date of the Committee's invoice, pay to the Committee interest on the unpaid assessment at the rate of the prime rate established by the bank in which the Committee has its administrative assessment funds deposited, on the day that the administrative assessment becomes delinquent plus 2 percent; and further, that such rate of interest be added to the bill monthly until the delinquent handler's assessment plus applicable interest has been paid:
Provided,
That the Committee may, with the approval of the Secretary, modify the interest rate applicable to delinquent handler's assessment through the establishment of applicable rules and regulations.
[29 FR 9484, July 11, 1964, as amended at 32 FR 12165, Aug. 24, 1967; 42 FR 37202, July 20, 1977; 48 FR 32978, July 20, 1983; 81 FR 44764, July 11, 2016; 83 FR 53971, Oct. 26, 2018; 86 FR 26438, May 14, 2021]
§ 989.81
Accounting.
(a) If, at the end of the crop year, the assessments collected are in excess of expenses incurred, such excess shall be accounted for in accordance with one of the following:
(1) If such excess is not retained in a reserve, as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, it shall be refunded proportionately to the persons from whom collected in accordance with § 989.80;
Provided,
That any sum paid by a person in excess of his or her pro rata share of expenses during any crop year may be applied by the Committee at the end of such crop year as credit for such person, toward the Committee's administrative operations for the following crop year;
Provided further,
That the Committee may credit the excess to any outstanding obligations due the Committee from such person.
(2) The Committee may carry over such excess funds into subsequent crop years as a reserve;
Provided,
That funds already in the reserve do not exceed one crop year's budgeted expenses as averaged over the past six years. In the event that funds exceed one crop year's expenses, funds in excess of one crop year's budgeted expenses shall be distributed in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Such funds may be used:
(i) To defray essential administrative expenses (
i.e.,
staff wages/salaries and related benefits, office rent, utilities, postage, insurance, legal expenses, audit costs, consulting, Web site operation and maintenance, office supplies, repairs and maintenance, equipment leases, domestic staff travel and Committee mileage reimbursement, international Committee travel, international staff travel, bank charges, computer software and programming, costs of compliance activities, and other similar essential administrative expenses) exclusive of promotional expenses during any crop year, prior to
the time assessment income is sufficient to cover such expenses;
(ii) To cover deficits incurred during any period when assessment income is less than expenses;
(iii) To defray expenses incurred during any period when any or all provisions of this part are suspended;
(iv) To meet any other such expenses recommended by the Committee and approved by the Secretary; and
(v) To cover the necessary expenses of liquidation in the event of termination of this part. Upon such termination, any funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be disposed of in such manner as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate; Provided, That to the extent practicable, such funds shall be returned pro rata to the persons from whom such funds were collected.
(b) The Committee may, with the approval of the Secretary, maintain in its own name or in the name of its members, a suit against any handler for the collection of such handler's pro rata share of the expenses.
[25 FR 12813, Dec. 14, 1960; 27 FR 2506, Mar. 16, 1962, as amended at 81 FR 44764, July 11, 2016]
§ 989.82
[Reserved]
§ 989.83
Funds.
All funds received by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of this part, shall be used solely for the purposes authorized, and shall be accounted for in the manner provided, in this part. The Secretary may, at any time, require the Committee and its members and alternate members to account for all receipts and disbursements.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 989.84
Disposition limitation.
No handler shall dispose of standard raisins, off-grade raisins, or other failing raisins, except in accordance with the provisions of this subpart or pursuant to regulations issued by the Committee.
[83 FR 53972, Oct. 26, 2018]
§ 989.85
Personal liability.
No member or alternate member of the Committee or any employee or agent thereof shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any handler or any person, for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts either of commission or omission, as such member, alternate member, employee, or agent, except for acts of dishonesty.
[41 FR 32417, Aug. 3, 1976, as amended at 48 FR 32978, July 20, 1983]
§ 989.86
Separability.
If any provision of this amended subpart is declared invalid, or the applicability thereof to any person, circumstance, or thing is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this amended subpart or the applicability thereof to any other person, circumstance, or thing shall not be affected thereby.
§ 989.87
Derogation.
Nothing contained in this amended subpart is, or shall be construed to be, in derogation or in modification of the rights of the Secretary or of the United States to exercise any powers granted by the act or otherwise, or, in accordance with such powers, to act in the premises whenever such action is deemed advisable.
§ 989.88
Duration of immunities.
The benefits, privileges, and immunities conferred upon any person by virtue of this amended subpart shall cease upon the termination of this amended subpart, except with respect to acts done under and during the existence of this subpart.
§ 989.89
Agents.
The Secretary may, by a designation in writing, name any person, including any officer or employee of the United States Government, or name any bureau or division in the United States Department of Agriculture, to act as his agent or representative in connection with any of the provisions of this amended subpart.
§ 989.90
Effective time.
The provisions of this amended subpart, as well as any amendments to this amended subpart shall become effective at such time as the Secretary
may declare, and shall continue in force until terminated, or during suspension, in one of the ways specified in § 989.91.
§ 989.91
Suspension or termination.
(a) The Secretary may, at any time, terminate the provisions of this amended subpart by giving at least one day's notice by means of a press release or in any other manner which he may determine.
(b) The Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operation of any or all of the provisions of this amended subpart, whenever he finds that such provisions do not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.
(c) No less than five crop years and no later than six crop years after the effective date of this amendment, the Secretary shall conduct a referendum to ascertain whether continuance of this part is favored by producers. Subsequent referenda to ascertain continuance shall be conducted every six crop years thereafter. The Secretary may terminate the provisions of this part at the end of any crop year in which the Secretary has found that continuance of this part is not favored by a two-thirds majority of voting producers, or a two-thirds majority of volume represented thereby, who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production for market of grapes used in the production of raisins in the State of California. Such termination shall be announced on or before the end of the crop year.
(d) The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this amended subpart at the end of any crop year whenever he finds that such termination is favored by a majority of the producers who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production for market of grapes used in the production of raisins in the State of California:
Provided,
That such majority have, during such representative period, produced for market more than 50 percent of the volume of such grapes produced for market within said State; but such termination shall be effective only if announced before July 31 of the then current crop year.
(e) The provisions of this amended subpart shall, in any event, terminate whenever the provisions of the act authorizing them cease to be in effect.
[25 FR 12813, Dec. 14, 1960, as amended at 41 FR 32417, Aug. 3, 1976; 83 FR 53972, Oct. 26, 2018]

# Effective Date Note:
At 88 FR 71275, Oct. 16, 2023, paragraph (c) in § 989.91 was stayed effective Oct. 16, 2023 through Nov. 26, 2029.
§ 989.92
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of the provisions of this amended subpart, the members of the Committee then functioning shall continue as joint trustees for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Committee, of all funds and property then in the possession or under the control of the Committee, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered at the time of such termination. Action by said trusteeship shall require the concurrence of a majority of the said trustees.
(b) Said trustees shall continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary; shall, from time to time, account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Committee and the joint trustees, to such person as the Secretary may direct; and shall, upon the request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such person full title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims vested in the Committee or the joint trustees pursuant to this subpart.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property or claims have been transferred or delivered by the Committee or its members, pursuant to this section, shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the members of the said Committee and upon said joint trustees.
§ 989.93
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this amended subpart or any regulation
issued pursuant to this amended subpart, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not (a) affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this amended subpart or any regulation issued under this amended subpart, (b) release or extinguish any violation of this amended subpart, or of any regulation issued under this amended subpart, or (c) affect or impair any rights or remedies of the Secretary or of any other person, with respect to any such violation.
§ 989.94
Amendments.
Amendments to this amended subpart may be proposed from time to time, by any person or by the Committee.
§ 989.95
Right of Secretary.
The members of the Committee (including alternates and successors) and any agent or employee appointed or employed by the Committee, shall be subject to removal or suspension by the Secretary, in his discretion, at any time. Every decision, determination, or other act of the Committee shall be subject to the continuing right of the Secretary to disapprove of the same at any time. Upon such disapproval, the disapproved action of the Committee shall be deemed null and void.
[41 FR 32417, Aug. 3, 1976, as amended at 48 FR 32978, July 20, 1983]
§ 989.96
Storage of raisins held on memorandum receipt and of packer-owned tonnage.
All raisins stored by a handler for another person on memorandum or warehouse receipt, or raisins produced and stored by a handler, shall be stored separate and apart from other raisins and shall be clearly marked or tagged as raisins stored on memorandum or warehouse receipt or as raisins produced by the handler but not acquired by him in his capacity as a handler.
[25 FR 12813, Dec. 14, 1960. Redesignated at 83 FR 53971, Oct. 26, 2018]

# Subpart B—Administrative Requirements

# Source:
27 FR 3112, Mar. 31, 1962, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 989.102
Inspection service.
Inspection service
means the Specialty Crops Inspection Division, Agricultural Marketing Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.
[49 FR 18730, May 2, 1984, as amended at 83 FR 53973, Oct. 26, 2018]
§ 989.104
Lot.
(a)
Natural condition raisins
—(1)
Basic definition.
For the purpose of incoming and outgoing inspection of natural condition raisins,
lot
means, except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the quantity of such raisins of the same varietal type or of differing varietal types when commingled within their containers (including sweat and picking boxes and bins), which does not exceed a car, truck, or truck-trailer load, and which is submitted for inspection at one time and in the same place.
(2)
Separation of large units.
If a quantity of raisins in excess of a car, truck, or truck-trailer load is submitted for inspection, the total quantity may, at the discretion of the inspector, be separated into such readily identifiable portions, either prior to or in the course of inspection, as can be conveniently and properly inspected, and each such portion shall constitute a lot.
(3)
Resubmission after reconditioning.
Raisins which are submitted for inspection after reconditioning (such as sorting or drying) and whose original lot identity is no longer applicable, shall be a new lot.
(4)
Meeting and failing portions.
Where a portion of a quantity of raisins submitted for inspection meets the minimum grade and condition standards and has been separated from the remainder of the raisins failing to meet such standards:
(i) The meeting portion shall be one lot; and
(ii) The remainder shall be one or more lots as necessary to cause each lot to contain either (
a
) a single defect
in excess of tolerance or (
b
) two or more of the same defects in excess of tolerance occurring together within each of the individual containers.
(5)
Entire quantity failing.
Where the entire quantity of raisins submitted for inspection fails to meet such standards, then, whether such quantity shall be one or more lots shall be determined in the same manner as for the failing remainder referred to in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(6)
Special condition.
Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, any quantity of raisins failing to meet such standards and which are not to be reconditioned may be a single lot.
(b)
Packed raisins.
For the purpose of outgoing inspection of packed raisins, lot means: (1) For in-line inspection (i.e., where samples are drawn from a flow of raisins prior to packaging), the aggregate quantity of raisins of the same varietal type, subtype, or size (or in their mixed form), processed in any continuous production of one calendar day and packaged in one size and style of package but excluding those rejected by inspection; and (2) for floor inspection (i.e., where samples are drawn from containers of raisins), the aggregate quantity of such raisins in like containers but not necessarily processed in one continuous production or during one calendar day, identifiable and offered for inspection as a lot.
§ 989.105
Inspection point.
Inspection point
means any plant or receiving station of a handler, or any other place where raisins are received by a handler, and which is so designated by the Committee. The inspection point(s) of the handler shall include any area(s) in which he receives grapes or raisins for dehydration unless he keeps his raisin dehydration business separate, physically and by records, from his business of handling raisins.
[31 FR 16305, Dec. 21, 1966]
§ 989.106
Ship.
Ship
means the physical movement of raisins other than to storage for the handler's account within the general locality of the packing plant.
§ 989.107
Inspection certificate.
Inspection certificate
means any written certification, finding, or attestation as to the quality or condition of any lot or lots issued by an authorized member of the inspection service.
§ 989.110
Varietal types.
Pursuant to § 989.10, specific definitions for each varietal type of raisins contained in that section are as follows:
(a) Natural (sun-dried) Seedless includes all sun-dried seedless raisins possessing similar identifiable characteristics as raisins produced from Thompson Seedless grapes or similar grape varieties, whether dried on trays or on the vine, with or without the application of a drying agent that is a food-grade additive such as, soda, oil, Ethyl Oleate, or Methyl Oleate prior to, during, or after the drying process.
(b) Dipped Seedless includes all raisins produced by artificial dehydration of seedless grapes that possess the characteristics similar to Thompson Seedless grapes which, in order to expedite drying, have been dipped in or sprayed with water only after such grapes have been removed from the vine.
(c) Golden Seedless includes all seedless raisins whose color generally varies from golden yellow to dark amber.
(d) Muscats (including other raisins with seeds) include all raisins which usually contain seeds and possess characteristics similar to Muscat raisins.
(e) Sultana includes all raisins which usually contain an undeveloped (vestigial) seed and possess characteristics similar to Sultana raisins.
(f) Zante Currant includes all raisins that possess characteristics similar to those produced from Black Corinth or White Corinth grapes.
(g) Monukka includes all raisins produced from Monukka grapes.
(h) Other Seedless includes all raisins produced from Ruby Seedless, Kings Ruby Seedless, Flame Seedless and other seedless grapes not included in any of the varietal categories for Seedless raisins defined in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) or (h) above.
(i) Other Seedless-Sulfured includes all raisins produced from Ruby Seedless, Kings Ruby Seedless, Flame Seedless and other seedless grapes not included in any of the varietal categories for Seedless raisins defined in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (h), or (i) of this section which have been artificially dehydrated and sulfured.
[49 FR 18730, May 2, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 34714, Sept. 8, 1988; 55 FR 32598, Aug. 10, 1990; 67 FR 36792, May 28, 2002; 68 FR 42947, July 21, 2003]
§ 989.111
Independent producer and small cooperative producer.
(a)
Independent producer
means any producer who is not a member of a cooperative bargaining association or a cooperative marketing association, nor has sold for cash to a cooperative marketing association.
(b)
Small cooperative producer
means any producer who is a member of a cooperative marketing association which acquired less than 10 percent of total raisin acquisitions during the crop year preceding the year in which nominations are held.
[49 FR 18730, May 2, 1984]
§ 989.115
Independent handler, major cooperative marketing association handler, and small cooperative marketing association handler.
(a)
Independent handler
means any handler who is not a cooperative marketing association of producers.
(b)
Major cooperative marketing association handler
means any handler who is a cooperative marketing association of producers which acquired not less than 10 percent of the total raisin acquisitions during the crop year preceding nominations.
(c)
Small cooperative marketing association handler
means any handler who is a cooperative marketing association of producers which acquired less than 10 percent of the total raisin acquisitions during the crop year preceding nominations.
[49 FR 18730, May 2, 1984]

# Raisin Administrative Committee
§ 989.122
Districts for independent and small cooperative producer representation on the Committee.
For the purposes of § 989.26(c) and commencing with the term of office beginning May 1, 1984, independent and small cooperative producer districts are as follows:
(a)
District No. 1.
All of the counties north of Fresno County.
(b)
District No. 2.
All of the counties south of Fresno County.
(c)
District No. 3
All of Fresno County.
[49 FR 18730, May 2, 1984]
§ 989.126
Representation of the Committee.
(a) To provide independent and small cooperative producers equitable representation throughout the production area commencing with the term of office beginning May 1, 1984, representation shall be apportioned among the three districts specified in § 989.122. Districts 1 and 2 shall each have one producer member, and District 3 shall have the remaining producer members to which independent and small cooperative producers are entitled pursuant to § 989.26(c).
(b) Pursuant to section 989.26(d) and commencing with the term of office beginning May 1, 1994, apportionment of the independent and small cooperative marketing association handlers shall be:
(1) Two members selected from and representing the four handler(s) other than major cooperative marketing association handler(s) who acquired the largest percentage of the total raisin acquisitions during the preceding crop year;
(2) Three members selected from and representing the six handlers other than major cooperative marketing association handler(s) who acquired the next largest percentage of the total raisin acquisitions during the preceding crop year; and
(3) The remaining member(s) selected from and representing all other handlers, including small cooperative marketing association handler(s) and all processors.
[49 FR 18730, May 2, 1984, as amended at 59 FR 27226, May 26, 1994]
§ 989.129
Voting at nomination meetings.
Any person (defined in § 989.3 as an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other business unit) who is engaged, in a proprietary capacity, in the production of grapes which are sun-dried or dehydrated by artificial means to produce raisins and who qualifies under the provisions of § 989.29(b)(2) shall be eligible to cast one ballot for a nominee for each producer member position and one ballot for a nominee for each producer alternate member position on the committee which is to be filled for his district. Such person must be the one who or which: Owns and farms land resulting in his or its ownership of such grapes produced thereon; rents and farms land, resulting in his or its ownership of all or a portion of such grapes produced thereon; or owns land which he or it does not farm and, as rental for such land, obtains the ownership of a portion of such grapes or the raisins. In this connection, a partnership shall be deemed to include two or more persons (including a husband and wife) with respect to land the title to which, or leasehold interest in which, is vested in them as tenants in common, joint tenants, or under community property laws, as community property. In a landlord-tenant relationship, wherein each of the parties is a producer, each such producer shall be entitled to one vote for a nominee for each producer member position and one vote for each producer alternate member position. Hence, where two persons operate land as landlord and tenant on a share-crop basis, each person is entitled to one vote for each such position to be filled. Where land is leased on a cash rental basis, only the person who is the tenant or cash renter (producer) is entitled to vote. A partnership or corporation, when eligible, is entitled to cast only one vote for a nominee for each producer position to be filled in its district.
[83 FR 53972, Oct. 26, 2018]
§ 989.139
Compensation for attendance of alternates at Committee meetings.
Whenever a member of the Raisin Administrative Committee has reason to believe that he will be unable to attend a Committee meeting and has so notified his alternate or the Committee manager, such notification or a request from the manager shall be held to be a request for the alternate to attend and he shall be reimbursed for reasonable expenses subject to the limitations contained in § 989.39.
[42 FR 52376, Sept. 30, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 18731, May 2, 1984]
§§ 989.154-989.156
[Reserved]

# Quality Control
§ 989.157
Raisins produced from grapes grown outside of California.
(a) Any raisins produced from grapes grown outside the State of California that are received by a handler shall be observed and marked for identification by an inspector. As provided in § 989.173(b)(7), the inspection service may request information needed to properly mark such raisins for identification; it shall be the handler's responsibility to arrange for such identification and furnish required documentation promptly.
(b) In the absence of an inspector to observe and mark such raisins for identification, the handler shall not permit the unloading to occur unless the handler has a written statement from the inspection service that an inspector cannot be furnished within a reasonable time:
Provided,
That raisins so unloaded shall be observed and marked properly upon an inspector being available.
(c) The handler shall notify the inspection service in writing at least one business day in advance of the time such handler plans to begin receiving raisins produced from grapes grown outside the State of California, unless a shorter period is acceptable to the inspection service.
(d) Raisins produced from grapes grown outside of the State of California and received by a handler shall be marked for identification by the inspector affixing to one container on each pallet or to each bin in each lot a prenumbered RAC control card (to be furnished by the Committee) which shall remain affixed until the raisins
are processed and disposed of or disposed of as natural condition raisins. The cards shall be removed only by an inspector of the inspection service or authorized Committee personnel.
(e) Each handler shall store raisins produced from grapes grown outside the State of California separate and apart from all other raisins held by such handler to the satisfaction of the Committee. Storage of such raisins shall be deemed “separate and apart” if the containers are marked as raisins produced from grapes grown outside the State of California and placed so as to be readily and clearly identified.
(f) Any raisins received by a handler produced from grapes grown outside the State of California shall be processed and/or disposed of under the surveillance of the inspection service. The handler shall notify the inspection service in writing at least one business day in advance of the time such processing and/or disposition will occur, unless a shorter period is acceptable to the inspection service.
(g) The handler receiving raisins produced from grapes grown outside of California shall pay fees assessed by the inspection service to identify and maintain surveillance of such raisins.
[55 FR 28019, July 9, 1990]
§ 989.158
Natural condition raisins.
(a)
Incoming inspection.
(1)(i) The Committee shall, upon request of a handler who complies with the requirements of this part with respect to inspection points, designate as his inspection point any place (including his plant or receiving station) where the handler receives raisins.
(ii) Each handler shall, at his expense, provide at each of his inspection points reasonably safe and adequate facilities for receiving raisins, drawing samples, and efficient inspection of natural condition raisins. At the time of inspection of any lot, the handler shall, at his expense, provide the inspector with any assistance necessary in the inspection of the raisins, including the movement of individual containers. Each handler, other than a processor, shall maintain with the Committee a current written description, defining the boundaries and other pertinent details, of each of his inspection points. In the event the Committee determines that any inspection point, or any modification thereof, does not comply with the definition or the requirements of this part, it shall notify the handler of the changes necessary for compliance. The handler shall make such changes promptly. In the event any of his inspection points is the same as that of another handler or person receiving raisins or grapes in any form, the handler shall maintain his raisins separate and apart from any other raisins.
(iii) The weight of each lot of raisins tendered for receiving, storage, reconditioning, acquisition, or disposition shall be substantiated by an official “State Certificate of Weights and Measures” issued by a public weighmaster, whether located at the inspection point or otherwise, or such other document approved by the Committee which accurately reflects the weight of each lot tendered. The net weight of such raisins for the purposes of this part, shall be determined by deducting the sand tare and box tare from the gross weight of the raisins. The sand tare shall be the weight of the sand and other foreign material removed from the raisins by passing the raisins over a screen (of a type commonly used by the industry for such purpose) having 36 square openings to the square inch, with each opening being one-eighth of an inch square.
(2) No handler, other than a processor, shall receive at points other than at an inspection point, natural condition raisins from a tenderer, either for acquisition, storage, reconditioning, inspection, or for disposition in eligible non-normal outlets:
Provided,
That this requirement shall not preclude a handler from dehydrating, free from the provisions of this part, at separate dehydrating facilities recognized in § 989.105 and located in California, raisins not delivered to an inspection point. Any handler who accepts raisins at an inspection point for drying or other reconditioning shall be deemed to have received the raisins for reconditioning and shall be subject to the provisions of this part with respect to such raisins.
(3) For each lot of natural condition raisins received by a handler for acquisition, reconditioning, storage, inspection, or for disposition in eligible non-normal outlets, the handler shall, immediately upon physical receipt and tentative acceptance thereof, issue a prenumbered (numbered serially in advance) door receipt or weight certificate showing the name and address of the tenderer, the weight of the lot, the number and type of containers in the lot, and any other information necessary to identify the lot. For the purposes of identifying incoming lots of raisins, other than dehydrated raisins covered by paragraph (e) of this section, a handler, if it is impracticable for him to issue immediately a door receipt or weight certificate, may issue for temporary use only a prenumbered “Request for USDA Inspection” on a form furnished by the Committee. Any such raisins so received by a handler shall, prior to their acceptance, be inspected at an inspection point during the unloading process, and if certified as standard raisins shall be, unless returned to the tenderer, either promptly acquired by the handler or received for storage on memorandum receipt:
Provided,
That in the absence of an inspector to perform inspection during unloading, the handler shall not permit unloading to occur unless such absence is during normal business hours and the handler has a written statement from the inspection service to the effect that inspection cannot be furnished within a reasonable time:
And provided further,
That the raisins so unloaded shall be inspected promptly upon an inspector being available. It shall be the handler's responsibility in any case to arrange for the inspection, other than with respect to dehydrated raisins covered by paragraph (e) of this section, and furnish weight certificates promptly. Any raisins received by a handler as off-grade for disposition in eligible non-normal outlets or for reconditioning may be accepted uninspected:
Provided,
That an application for receiving such uninspected raisins shall be submitted by the handler, on a form furnished by the Committee, to the Inspection Service prior to, or upon physical receipt of, such off-grade raisins. Such form shall provide for at least the name and address of the tenderer (equity holder), date, number, and type of containers, net weight of the raisins, and the particular defect(s) the handler indicates would cause the raisins to be off-grade. Handlers shall complete and sign the form. The application for such uninspected raisins shall not be acceptable unless signed by the tenderer. The uninspected raisins shall be subject to surveillance by the Inspection Service. Each lot of raisins accepted by a handler for reconditioning shall be reconditioned separately from any other lot.
(4) If any lot of natural condition raisins tendered to a handler is separated into two or more lots because a portion of the original lot failed to meet minimum grade and condition standards, or because the entire lot failed due to more than one defect, the handler shall issue a prenumbered weight certificate for each such new lot not returned to the tenderer, showing the name and address of the tenderer, the weight of the lot, and the number and type of containers in the lot. The weight of any meeting lot shall be determined by weighing it, or by weighing the failing portion of the incoming lot and deducting the weight thereof from the weight of the incoming lot. The weight of each failing lot shall be determined by weighing it, or by deriving such weight by applying the original average container weight to the number of containers.
(5) Any financially interested party may, upon the payment of any fees assessed by the inspection service, obtain an appeal inspection. An appeal inspection shall be applicable only to raisins which have not been removed from their containers, with pallet control cards still affixed, are readily identifiable, and have not been removed from the original inspection point:
Provided,
That when the condition of a lot of such raisins may have changed subsequent to the original inspection, an additional inspection, rather than an appeal inspection, may be obtained.
(6) Raisins produced by a handler shall be subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) (3) and (4) of this section upon delivery to an inspection point. Raisins produced by a handler by dehydration within an inspection point
shall be subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) (3) and (4) of this section immediately upon completion of said dehydration.
(7) The inspection certificate for a mixed lot of natural condition raisins (raisins of different varietal types commingled within their containers) shall show the percentage which the raisins of each varietal type is of the total raisins contained in the lot.
(8) With respect to any lot of natural condition raisins being received and inspected at a handler's inspection point pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the handler shall notify the inspection service if he elects to have the raisins inspected for infestation. If the handler elects not to have the raisins inspected for infestation, he shall: (i) Fumigate promptly all raisins he receives; (ii) notify the inspection service in advance of the time he plans to fumigate such raisins; (iii) permit the inspection service to monitor the fumigation; and (iv) permit the inspection service to make periodic incubation checks of his packed raisins. The inspection service shall certify the raisins received as standard raisins if they meet all other grade and condition standards. If the handler elects to have the raisins inspected for infestation, the inspector shall afford such handler the opportunity to fumigate such raisins during the inspection and certification process. Such raisins shall remain under the supervision of the inspector during the fumigation. The inspection certificate shall not be issued until the fumigation is completed:
Provided,
That the inspection certificate shall be issued, whether or not the fumigation is completed, not later than five business days after the date the inspection and certification process is suspended by the inspector to permit fumigation.
(9) With respect to any lot (as defined in § 989.104(a)(1)) of natural condition raisins being received and inspected at a handler's inspection point pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section and notwithstanding separation of the meeting portion of the original lot from the failing portions thereof for the purposes on § 989.104 and paragraph (a)(4) of this section, any tenderer may, when permitted by the handler and when notified by the inspector of defects during the inspection and certification process, and in accordance with the provisions of this subparagraph, perform any one or more of the following on an individual box basis: (i) Mix raisins within boxes containing raisins that are wet, or of high moisture content in some areas of the box; (ii) dump raisins from wet boxes into dry boxes; (iii) remove wet raisins; or (iv) remove foreign material such as sandburs, puncture vine seed, Eucalyptus pods or leaves, rocks, and sticks. This authorization to the tenderer shall not extend to raisins in containers larger than sweat boxes; and the number of boxes in the original lot on which the aforesaid actions may be performed during such process shall not exceed ten, or five percent of the total number of containers in the lot, whichever is less. Where the percentage computation results in a fraction of a box and is less than ten boxes, it shall be rounded upward to the next number. The entire lot of raisins shall remain under surveillance of the inspector during such process. The actions of the tenderer shall be done without delay, take place at the unloading dock in the inspection point, or in the immediate area thereof, and be under observation of the inspector.
(b)
Submission of inspection certificates to the Committee.
A copy of each inspection certificate which a handler is required to submit to the Committee pursuant to § 989.58(d) shall be submitted not later than Wednesday of the week following the week for which such certificate was issued. This may be accomplished by authorizing the inspection service to submit a copy of each such inspection certificate directly to the Committee. A copy of such authorization shall be furnished to the Committee.
(c)
Off-grade raisins
—(1)
Holding and identification.
The inspection certificates covering any lot of off-grade raisins shall state whether or not such off-grade raisins are storable. Any raisins which do not meet the applicable grade and condition standards shall be classified in one of the three categories specified in § 989.58(e)(1) within 5 business days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays) after inspection or
3 such business days after issuance of the inspection certificate, whichever is later:
Provided,
That these time limits may be extended by the Committee under such conditions as it may deem necessary in the circumstances. The handler shall report to the Committee the information as required and specified in § 989.173(b)(5). Any such lot of off-grade raisins shall be identified immediately following inspection by fixing to a container on each pallet a prenumbered RAC control card (to be furnished by the Committee), and kept separate and apart from any other raisins in the handler's possession. In the event the handler does not normally use pallets in his operation the RAC control card shall be affixed to one or more of the containers in each lot. The RAC control cards shall remain fixed to the containers until the raisins are (i) disposed of by the handler in eligible non-normal outlets, (ii) returned unstemmed to the tenderer, or (iii) submitted for reconditioning. The cards shall be removed only by an inspector of the inspection service or authorized Committee personnel, except control cards designating lots held only for fumigation may be removed by the handler after the completion of fumigation to the satisfaction of the inspection service. Each lot of off-grade raisins not returned to the tenderer shall be stored by the handler separate and apart by varietal types from all other raisins and by disposition and conditioning categories which preserve the lot identity and, if for reconditioning, the defect identity. Off-grade raisins shall be stored in such a manner as to be accessible to the Committee.
(2)
Change in off-grade categories.
After raisins have been classified as to the categories in § 989.58(e)(1), any lot of natural condition off-grade raisins held by a handler under paragraph (i) or (iii) of § 989.58(e)(1), may be changed to the other category, or to paragraph (ii). Prior to making such change, the handler shall notify the inspection service at least one business day in advance of the time such handler plans to begin such change. Such notification shall be provided verbally or by other means of communication, including e-mail. Any off-grade lot under paragraph (ii) of § 989.58(e)(1) which has not been removed from the handler premises and is identifiable with the original inspection, may be tendered to the handler for the purposes of paragraph (i) or (iii) of § 989.58(e)(1) and, if accepted, the handler shall so report to the Committee. It shall be the responsibility of the handler to establish and maintain the identity of the raisins in the changed categories in accordance with the applicable provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Where the tenderer has a financial interest in the raisins the handler shall, before making any change in category, submit to the Committee evidence of the tenderer's permission to make any such change, except for changes from paragraph (i) or paragraph (iii) to paragraph (ii) of § 989.58(e)(1).
(3)
Inter-plant and inter-packer transfer of off-grade raisins.
Any packer may, pursuant to § 989.58(e)(2) and under the surveillance of the inspection service, transfer to or from another packer's plant in California, any off-grade raisins for reconditioning. Such transfer may be for the packer's convenience or that of a financially interested person. Where a tenderer or other person has a financial interest in the raisins, the handler shall first obtain the tenderer's or other interested person's written agreement to the transfer. The handler shall notify the inspection service in advance of the time such handler plans to transfer each lot. Such notification shall be provided verbally or by other means of communication, including e-mail. The notification shall be at least 1 business day in advance of the transfer unless a shorter period is acceptable to the inspection service. In the same manner except for the tenderer's or other person's written agreement, any packer may transfer off-grade raisins from one of his plants or inspection points to another of his plants in California. In both cases such raisins may be removed directly to the premises of the receiving packer or another plant of the packer under the surveillance of the inspection service. Upon completion of the transfer all applicable provisions of this part shall apply with respect to such raisins and the packer receiving them.
(4)
Reconditioning off-grade raisins—reconditioning requirements.
(i) The handler shall notify the inspection service at least one business day in advance of the time such handler plans to begin reconditioning each lot of raisins, unless a shorter period is acceptable to the inspection service. Such notification shall be provided verbally or by other means of communication, including email. Natural condition raisins which have been reconditioned shall continue to be considered natural condition raisins for purposes of reinspection (inspection pursuant to § 989.58(d)) after such reconditioning has been completed, if no water or moisture has been added; otherwise, such raisins shall be considered as packed raisins. The weight of the raisins reconditioned successfully shall be determined by reweighing, except where a lot, before reconditioning, failed due to excess moisture only. The weight of such raisins resulting from reconditioning a lot failing account excess moisture may be determined by deducting 1.2 percent of the weight for each percent of moisture in excess of the allowable tolerance. When necessary due to the presence of sand, as determined by the inspection service, the requirement for deducting sand tare and the manner of its determination, as prescribed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, shall apply in computing the net weight of any such successfully reconditioned natural condition raisins. The weight of the reconditioned raisins acquired as packed raisins shall be adjusted to natural condition weight by the use of factors applicable to the various degrees of processing accomplished. The applicable factor shall be that selected by the inspector of the reconditioned raisins from among factors established by the Committee with the approval of the Secretary.
(ii) In reconditioning off-grade raisins, a handler shall use methods designed to remove the defects whereby the lot fails to qualify as standard raisins. Lots with identical defects may be reconditioned simultaneously (commingled basis) but lots with differing defects shall be reconditioned as separate lots.
(5)
General.
Reconditioning of off-grade raisins by a handler shall be done in accordance with such procedure as will enable the inspector to observe the off-grade raisins at any time and to make a proper inspection. A packer may recover raisins from residual raisin material obtained from his reconditioning operations in conformity with the applicable provisions of § 989.159(g)(1).
(6)
Off-grade raisins which are not reconditioned successfully.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section, no handler shall return to the tenderer any off-grade raisins received for reconditioning which, after his reconditioning of them is complete, have been stemmed and which then fail to meet the applicable minimum grade standards. Any raisins which fail to meet the applicable minimum grade and condition standards or minimum grade standards after reconditioning and all residual material from reconditioning, held by the handler, shall be identified promptly by affixing to one or more containers in each lot, or to a container in each pallet if pallets are used, a prenumbered RAC control card as prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section:
Provided,
That such failing raisins and residual material which are placed directly into trucks or trailers for immediate disposition need not be identified by affixing thereto a RAC control card. The handler shall hold the failing raisins and the residual material separate and apart from all other raisins. The control cards shall be removed from the containers only by an inspector of the inspection service or authorized Committee personnel. The handler shall physically dispose of the residual material, and any failing raisins which he does not return unstemmed to the tenderer, only in eligible non-normal outlets as provided in § 989.159(g)(2).
(ii) Any packer may arrange for or permit the tenderer to remove the stemmed raisins (described in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section), but not the residual, directly to the premises, within California, of another packer for further reconditioning of the raisins at the latter's premises. Such removal and transfer shall be made under the surveillance of the inspection service. The packer shall notify the inspection service as required in paragraph (c)(3)
of this section. Such raisins may be received by the other packer without inspection. On and after such receipt of the raisins for further reconditioning, all applicable provisions of this part shall apply with respect to such raisins and the packer so receiving them.
(7)
Return of off-grade raisins to tenderer.
Any off-grade raisins which are to be returned unstemmed to the tenderer pursuant to § 989.58(e)(1)(ii), shall be physically returned within five business days after the issuance of the inspection certificate:
Provided,
That such time limit may be extended by the Committee as it may deem justified by extenuating circumstances. The handler shall file with the Committee a report of the returned raisins as required in § 989.173(b)(4).
(i)
Unstemmed and stemmed raisins.
For the purpose of determining whether or not off-grade raisins may be returned to the person tendering such raisins, “unstemmed” raisins shall be defined as lots of raisins that contain 150 or more capstems per pound. “Stemmed” raisins means lots of raisins that contain less than 150 capstems per pound.
(d)
Reinspection of raisins held more than one hundred and twenty days on memorandum receipt.
No handler shall acquire raisins held on memorandum receipt for a period longer than one hundred and twenty (120) days unless such raisins have been reinspected and certified immediately prior to acquisition as meeting the minimum requirements for standard raisins:
Provided,
That the Committee at any other time may require such reinspection and certification of raisins held on memorandum receipt as a prerequisite to acquisition if it has reason to believe that the raisins do not then meet such requirements.
(e)
Inspection of raisins on dehydrator's premises
—(1)
Application and agreement.
(i) Any dehydrator may submit to the Committee for approval, and the Committee may approve, in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph an application and agreement, on a form furnished by the Committee, providing for dehydrator on-premise inspection of natural condition raisins produced by the dehydrator by subjecting grapes to artificial heat. Raisins so produced are referred to in paragraph (a)(3) of this section and in this paragraph as “dehydrated raisins.”
(ii) The provisions of such application and agreement shall include at least the following:
(
a
) The dehydrator shall request the inspection service to inspect all dehydrated raisins which the dehydrator produces and to issue a related memorandum report of inspection at the time of loading any quantity of such raisins for delivery to a packer's inspection point;
(
b
) The dehydrator will arrange with the inspection service for the necessary inspection service to be performed by the service, and the dehydrator will submit to the Committee a statement from the inspection service that the dehydrator has adequate facilities for the inspection and that such arrangements have been made;
(
c
) All necessary reconditioning of dehydrated raisins, identification and segregation of raisins, and movement of inspected dehydrated raisins on or from the dehydrator's premises shall be done in such manner and under such conditions as the inspection service may require;
(
d
) The dehydrator shall, at the time of the packer's receipt of such raisins, furnish to the packer to whose inspection point the inspected raisins are delivered the original and one copy of the memorandum report of inspection covering such raisins;
(
e
) The dehydrator shall maintain such records and furnish such reports and permit access to such records and the dehydrator's premises as required in the application and agreement or as the Committee may subsequently request; and
(
f
) The application and agreement may be suspended or terminated as provided therein.
(iii) The Committee will notify raisin packers of each dehydrator whose application and agreement has been approved by the Committee (such dehydrator is referred to in this subpart as “authorized dehydrator”); similarly, the Committee will notify packers of each suspension or termination of a previously approved application and agreement.
(2)
Delivery of inspected dehydrated raisins.
Any dehydrated raisins which (i) are inspected on an authorized dehydrator's premises where produced; (ii) are moved promptly and directly to a packer's inspection point from the premises of the authorized dehydrator; (iii) are accompanied by an applicable memorandum report of inspection to be furnished to the packer; and (iv) are otherwise in compliance with the provisions of such approved application and agreement and this paragraph may be received by the packer without the inspection at time of receipt required by § 989.58(d). With respect to such dehydrated raisins, the packer shall comply with all applicable requirements and procedures of this part, including, but not limited to, inspection after any necessary reconditioning and the inspection prescribed in § 989.59.
(3)
Packer's obligations.
Immediately upon a packer's receiving any such already inspected dehydrated raisins accompanied by the applicable memorandum report of inspection, the packer shall give to the inspector at the packer's inspection point where the dehydrated raisins were received, the original and one copy of such memorandum report so that the inspector may enter the net weight and scale ticket number on such memorandum report of inspection and copy thereof. Whenever a packer receives off-grade raisins from an authorized dehydrator he shall so advise the inspector at the packer's inspection point at the time of such receipt; and such raisins shall not be unloaded except in the presence of the inspector or in accordance with such prior arrangements as may have been made between the packer and the inspection service.
(f)
Inspection of raisins at cooperative bargaining association's receiving station
—(1)
Application and agreement.
(i) In accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, any cooperative bargaining association may submit to the Committee for approval, and the Committee may approve, an application and agreement, on a form furnished by the Committee, providing that where the association receives from individual producers lots of natural condition raisins at any of its receiving points and the raisins are inspected and stored consistent with such application and agreement, such lots shall be eligible for delivery to handlers, pursuant to paragraph (f)(3) of this section, without reinspection. Any raisins which upon inspection by the inspection service do not meet the applicable grade and condition standards shall be identified immediately following inspection and kept separate and apart from any other raisins in the association's possession.
(2)
Terms and conditions.
The provisions of such application and agreement shall include at least the following terms and conditions:
(i) That the association shall, prior to delivery of any raisins to handlers, arrange for inspection services at the association's receiving station(s), and cause to be submitted to the Committee a statement by the inspection service of such arrangement and of the association's having adequate laboratory and other facilities for such services available at the association's receiving station(s).
(ii) That the association shall maintain such facilities satisfactory to the inspection service.
(iii) That the association shall request inspection of each lot of raisins immediately upon physical arrival thereof at the association's receiving station(s), and shall provide the inspector with any assistance necessary in the inspection of such raisins, including the movement of individual containers.
(iv) That the association shall fumigate all raisins received at the association's receiving station(s) as necessary to assure that the raisins are free from active infestation and maintain them as such while on such premises, and that fumigation shall be performed to the satisfaction of the inspection service.
(v) That the association shall, with respect to all raisins entering its premises which are not returned to the producer as provided in paragraph (f)(2)(vi) of this section, promptly affix to one or more containers in each lot, or to a container in each pallet if pallets are used, a Committee control card showing thereon such information as the Committee requires to maintain the
producer identity of each lot and prevent commingling with any other lot. The association shall not move all or any portion of a lot of raisins on the premises of the association's receiving station(s) or load any such raisins for shipment, except in the presence of an inspector of the inspection service.
(vi) That the association shall store any standard raisins and any off-grade raisins which are held by it after receipt and inspection on the premises of its receiving station(s) under conditions which protect the raisins from rain, infestation and contamination, and which can be expected to maintain their respective conditions except for normal and natural deterioration and shrinkage. Any raisins which after receipt and inspection are not accepted and held by the association shall be returned to the producer within 5 business days after the issuance of the inspection certificate.
(vii) That the association shall furnish the inspection service with a completed Committee form requesting issuance, at the time of loading any lot of inspected raisins for delivery to any handler's inspection point, of a memorandum report of inspection covering such lot.
(viii) That the association shall deliver to the handler at the time of receipt of any such lot of eligible raisins at the handler's inspection point the original and one copy of the inspection service's related memorandum report of inspection; and such original and copy shall accompany the shipment of such lot from the premises of the association's receiving station(s) to the handler's inspection point.
(ix) That the association shall maintain complete records of the receipt, holding and disposition of each lot of raisins and retain such records for at least 2 years after the crop year in which such transactions occurred.
(x) That the association shall file promptly with the Committee certified reports showing such information as the Committee may request relative to the association's receipts, holdings, and dispositions of raisins.
(xi) That the association shall permit the Committee, the inspection service, and the Secretary of Agriculture, through their duly authorized representatives, to have access to the premises of the association's receiving station(s) to inspect such premises and any raisins thereon and any and all records with respect to the association's receipts, holdings and dispositions of raisins.
(xii) That upon approval of the application and agreement the Committee will notify handlers of such approval and that eligible lots of inspected raisins will not require incoming inspection at handler inspection points; will notify the interested handlers of any suspension or revocation, for good cause, of the eligibility of a particular lot of raisins; and will notify handlers of any suspension or termination of the application and agreement.
(xiii) That the Committee will request the inspection service to establish a fee to the association for the services to be rendered at the same rate as is charged handlers.
(xiv) That the application and agreement may be suspended or terminated as provided therein.
(3)
Waiver of requirement for incoming inspection at handler inspection point.
Any lot of raisins which (i) is inspected on the premises of the association's receiving station(s) pursuant to an approved application and agreement, (ii) is in compliance with the provisions of such application and agreement and this paragraph, (iii) is moved under the surveillance of the inspection service to a handler's inspection point from the association's receiving station(s) after issuance of the related memorandum report of inspection, and (iv) is accompanied by such memorandum report to be furnished to the handler may be received by the handler without the inspection as required by § 989.58(d) at time of receipt.
(4)
Handler's obligations.
With respect to such raisins received by the handler, the handler shall comply with all applicable requirements and procedures of this part, including, but not limited to, the inspection prescribed in § 989.59 and that required, as prescribed in § 989.58(d), prior to the handler acquiring reconditioned raisins. Immediately upon a handler receiving any such raisins accompanied by the applicable memorandum report of inspection, the handler shall give to the inspector at
the handler's inspection point where such raisins are received, the original and one copy of the memorandum report so that the inspector may enter the net weight and scale ticket number on such memorandum report of inspection and copy thereof.
[27 FR 3112, Mar. 31, 1962, as amended at 27 FR 10249, Oct. 19, 1962; 27 FR 10409, Oct. 25, 1962; 28 FR 13544, Dec. 14, 1963; 31 FR 16305, Dec. 21, 1966; 32 FR 15915, Nov. 21, 1967; 32 FR 17467, Dec. 6, 1967; 35 FR 16037, Oct. 13, 1970; 38 FR 20237, July 30, 1973; 42 FR 52377, Sept. 30, 1977; 49 FR 18731, May 2, 1984; 49 FR 33994, Aug. 28, 1984; 55 FR 2226, Jan. 23, 1990; 55 FR 36608, Sept. 6, 1990; 73 FR 42259, July 21, 2008; 83 FR 53972, Oct. 26, 2018; 84 FR 30863, June 28, 2019]
§ 989.159
Regulation of the handling of raisins subsequent to their acquisition.
(a)
Inspection facilities.
At each of the premises where packed raisins are to be inspected each handler shall, at his expense provide reasonably safe and adequate space and other facilities necessary for the proper and efficient inspection of such raisins.
(b)
Identification of inspected raisins.
(1) Each handler shall mark each shipping container with legible code or other identification, satisfactory to the Committee and the inspection service which shall indicate with respect to packed raisins, the date that the raisins in such shipping containers were packed, and with respect to shipments of natural condition raisins, the date on which such raisins were inspected.
(2) Each handler shall furnish promptly to the Committee, through the inspection service, a certified report on a form furnished by the Committee showing the handler's count and weight of the raisins of each pack and varietal type packed each day.
(c)
Outgoing inspection.
(1) Outgoing inspection and certification of raisins as required by § 989.59(d) shall be made as set forth in this paragraph.
(2) Such inspection of natural condition raisins (which is subject to exceptions and exemptions provided in this part) shall be made of each individual lot and in each case not more than five days before the date of shipment or other final disposition of the lot. The certificate that the raisins meet the applicable minimum grade and condition standards for natural condition raisins, which the handler is required to obtain and submit to the Committee pursuant to § 989.59(d), shall be on Form SC-146 labeled “Certificate of Quality and Condition (Processed Foods).” If shipment involves exportation to a foreign country, the handler shall surrender to the United States Customs Service at the port of exit two copies of such inspection certificate. Such an inspection and certification (on Form SC-146) may, if requested by the handler, be made at the time of his receipt or acquisition of the raisins. In such an event, no additional inspection shall be required if the lot remains intact and identifiable, and shipment or other final disposition takes place within five days after the date of the inspection.
(3) Such inspection of packed raisins shall be made prior to shipment or other final disposition, and unless made during the final processing or packing operations so as to facilitate proper sampling, the inspector shall perform the inspection on the basis of representative samples drawn from shipping containers of the packed raisins.
(4) Except as otherwise provided in this part, where there is presented for inspection a lot of packed raisins consisting of raisins of different varietal types or sub-types commingled within their containers, each such type and sub-type shall be inspected separately, except that inspection for moisture shall be performed on the lot as a whole. The inspection certificate shall show the respective percentages which the raisins of the various types and sub-types are of the lot and whether each meets the applicable minimum grade standards. In the event the raisins of any such varietal type or sub-type contained in the lot fail to meet the applicable requirements, other than for moisture, none of the lot shall be certified as meeting minimum grade standards unless it is found to be practicable to separate the raisins into two new lots, one which meets and the other which fails to meet all of the applicable minimum standards, respectively. Any lot of mixed types or sub-types of packed raisins for which minimum grade standards are prescribed
for each type or sub-type pursuant to § 989.59 (a) and (b) but which in their commingled form cannot be inspected against the standards for the respective varietal types or sub-types and hence are excluded from the category of “Mixed types” as defined in the then effective United States Standards for Grades of Processed Raisins, or any raisins which as a mixed lot contain moisture in excess of 18 percent, shall not be certified as meeting the minimum grade standard for packed raisins.
(d)
Submission of inspection certificates to the Committee.
A copy of each inspection certificate which a handler is required to submit to the Committee pursuant to § 989.59(d) shall be submitted not later than Wednesday of the week following the week in which the certificate was issued. This may be accomplished by authorizing the inspection service in writing to submit a copy of each such inspection certificate directly to the Committee. A copy of such authorization shall be furnished to the Committee.
(e)
Term of inspection certificate.
Any handler who:
(1) Fails to ship or make other final disposition for human consumption of any lot of packed raisins within 90 calendar days, or of any lot of natural condition raisins within 5 calendar days, after the date of the last inspection of the lot; or
(2) Has any shipment or portion of a shipment returned to his inspection point or storage premises within the area, shall, before any such shipment or final disposition, or before blending with other raisins, have such raisins inspected for condition and shall furnish promptly to the Committee (which may be through the inspection service as provided in § 989.158(b)) a copy of the inspection certificate showing that the raisins meet the respective requirements of this part for shipment, final disposition or blending.
(f)
Exemption of experimental and specialty packs
—(1)
Shipment under exemption.
Upon obtaining approval of the Committee as provided in this paragraph, any handler may ship or dispose of raisins in experimental or specialty packs without regard to one or more of the requirements of the minimum grade standards for packed raisins and inspection and certification requirements, prescribed pursuant to § 989.59. For the purpose of this exemption, experimental and specialty packs means raisins processed using methods, materials, or techniques that are not normally employed in packing raisins.
(2)
Application for exemption.
Each application for exemption shall be filed with the Committee in triplicate. The application shall at least contain information as to:
(i) The name and address of the handler;
(ii) The estimated quantity of each varietal type of raisins for which the exemption is requested;
(iii) The specific requirements in the minimum grade standards from which exemption is requested;
(iv) The special processing involved;
(v) The net weight of each type of container;
(vi) Whether disposition will be made direct to consumers, wholesalers, retailers, persons, or organizations, and any special uses to be made of such raisins; and
(vii) The general quality, style, and condition of the raisins for which the exemption is requested.
(3)
Committee action on application.
The Committee in its discretion shall approve each application for exemption of raisins, if it concludes that such exemption shall not jeopardize the objectives of the marketing order program. The Committee shall notify the handler promptly in writing of its approval or disapproval of his application and, if the application is approved, the maximum quantity for which approval is granted. If the application is disapproved, the Committee shall inform the handler of the reasons therefor.
(4)
Reports.
The handler shall report shipments or other dispositions under an approved exemption as required pursuant to § 989.173(e).
(g)
Off-grade raisins, other failing raisins, and raisin residual material
—(1)
Recovery of raisins.
(i) For the purposes of §§ 989.59(f) and 989.158(c)(4), a packer may recover raisins from:
(A) Residual raisins from his or her processing of standard raisins;
(B) Any raisins acquired as standard raisins which fail to meet the applicable outgoing grade and condition standards;
(C) Any raisins rejected on a condition inspection; and
(D) Residual raisins from reconditioning of off-grade raisins.
(ii)
Provided,
That such recovery under paragraphs (g)(1)(i)(B) and (C) of this section must occur without blending, if the failure to meet the minimum grade standards for packed raisins is due to a defect or defects affecting the wholesomeness of the raisins:
And provided further,
That such recovery under paragraph (g)(1)(i)(D) of this section must occur without blending, except as permitted in § 989.158(c)(4)(ii), and the weight of standard raisins in residual from off-grade raisins shall be credited equitably to the same lot or lots from which the residual was obtained. The provisions of this paragraph (g)(1) are not intended to excuse any failure to comply with all applicable food and sanitary rules and regulations of city, county, state, federal, or other agencies having jurisdiction.
(2)
Disposition.
(i) Except as authorized in this part, no handler shall ship or otherwise dispose of any off-grade raisins, other failing raisins, or raisin residual material. Any handler may ship, transfer, or otherwise dispose of off-grade raisins, other failing raisins, and raisin residual material to or at points within the continental United States (other than Alaska) for use in eligible non-normal outlets only after filing with the Committee a written application to make such shipment, transfer, or other disposition and receiving its written approval thereof. However, the requirements of prior filing and approval of any such application shall not apply to:
(A) The transfer of any such raisins or residual material by a handler from one of his plants to another of his plants in the State of California, except any transfer of raisins which are for reconditioning shall be in accordance with § 989.158(c)(3);
(B) Any inter-packer transfer or removal of off-grade raisins made in accordance with § 989.158(c)(3) and of unsuccessfully reconditioned off-grade raisins which have been stemmed (other failing raisins) made in accordance with § 989.158(c)(6)(ii);
(C) Any return by a handler of unstemmed off-grade raisins to the tenderer in accordance with § 989.158(c)(7);
(D) Any shipment or transfer of off-grade raisins, other failing raisins, or raisin residual material by any handler to a processor within the State of California for use, within the State, in eligible non-normal outlets;
(E) Any shipment or transfer of off-grade raisins, other failing raisins, or raisin residual material by a handler to any person with an effective agreement with the Committee, in which he agrees to use such raisins and raisin residual material only in eligible non-normal outlets, if not so used, to pay to the Committee liquidated damages in the amount and under the conditions specified in paragraph (g)(2)(iii) of this section, and to maintain complete, accurate, and current records regarding his dealings in raisins and raisin residual material, retain the records for at least 2 years, and permit representatives of the Committee and Secretary of Agriculture to examine all of his books and records relating to raisins and residual material; and
(F) Any direct use by the handler of such raisins or material in eligible non-normal outlets within the State of California.
(ii) Each such application shall, in addition to the agreement specified in paragraph (g)(2)(iii) of this section, include as a minimum:
(A) The names and addresses of the handler, the buyer, the consignee, and the user;
(B) The quantity of off-grade and other failing raisins and the quantity of raisins residual material to be shipped or otherwise disposed of;
(C) A description of such off-grade raisins and other failing raisins and raisin residual material, as to type or origin;
(D) The present location of such raisins and raisin residual material;
(E) The particular use to be made of the raisins; and
(F) A copy of the sales contract, which may be on a form furnished by the Committee, wherein the buyer agrees:
(
1
) Not to ship such raisins or raisin residual material to points outside the continental United States or to Alaska;
(
2
) To dispose of the raisins or raisin residual material only for uses in eligible non-normal outlet(s); and
(
3
) To maintain complete, accurate, and current records regarding his or her dealings in raisins, retain the records for at least 2 years, and permit representatives of the Committee and of the Secretary of Agriculture to examine all of his or her books and records relating to raisins and residual material.
(iii) Each such application shall also include a provision for liquidated damages wherein the handler, in consideration of the Committee approving his application, agrees that in the event any raisins or raisin residual material covered by the approved application should be shipped to points outside of the continental United States or to Alaska, or disposed of in other than eligible non-normal outlets, by any person, it will cause serious and substantial damage to the Committee, to producers, and to handlers of raisins and will be difficult, if not impossible, to prove the extent of such damage. Therefore, the handler shall pay to the Committee a sum equal to the established field price as liquidated damages for each ton so shipped or disposed of, such sum being a fair measure of damages and not a penalty.
(iv) The Committee shall notify the applicant in writing of its approval action. In acting on an application, the Committee may disapprove the application when: The application is incomplete, or any required information has not been submitted; the Committee has cause to believe that the raisins or raisin residual material covered by the application will not be shipped or disposed of in accordance with the application; or the handler, or any of the parties involved in the proposed shipment or disposition, had shipped or made disposition or use of raisins or raisin residual material covered by a previously approved application inconsistent with that application. When the use or the name and address of the user or consignee are not known to the handler, the Committee shall not approve the application until it has been informed as to such use and user and consignee of the raisins or residual material.
(v) The Committee may, for cause, revoke any previously approved application of a handler if the handler, buyer, consignee or user covered by the application has shipped or made disposition inconsistent with any approved application. The Committee shall notify the handler in writing of such revocation.
(vi) The handler shall furnish the Committee with a copy of the shipping document or other documentary evidence of the disposition as may be satisfactory to the Committee and at such times as the Committee may direct.
(h)
Appeal inspection.
An appeal inspection on an original inspection may be obtained from the inspection service upon the request of any financially interested party and upon the payment of any fees assessed by the inspection service for such appeal inspection.
[27 FR 3112, Mar. 31, 1962, as amended at 30 FR 6906, May 21, 1965; 31 FR 16306, Dec. 21, 1966; 36 FR 13980, July 29, 1971; 38 FR 13012, May 18, 1973; 38 FR 20237, July 30, 1973; 42 FR 52377, Sept. 30, 1977; 49 FR 18731, May 2, 1984; 84 FR 30863, June 28, 2019; 88 FR 82236, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 989.160
Exemptions.
(a) Any processor may receive or acquire any raisins for use in eligible non-normal outlets, and dispose of them for such use, without having them inspected and certified. Processors receiving or acquiring raisins under such exemption, or otherwise receiving or acquiring raisins which do not meet the applicable minimum grade and condition standards, shall not ship or otherwise dispose of any such raisins except in conformity with the provisions of § 989.159(g)(2). Processors shall report receipts and acquisitions and make such other reports as are or may be required pursuant to §§ 989.73 and 989.173.
(b)
Disposition of raisins produced in Southern California.
Raisins produced from grapes dried on the vine in the counties of Riverside, Imperial, San
Bernardino, Ventura, Orange, Los Angeles, and San Diego, which are disposed of for use in distillation or livestock feed, shall be exempt from the provisions of this part.
[30 FR 6906, May 21, 1965, as amended at 38 FR 13013, May 18, 1973; 59 FR 44031, Aug. 26, 1994]
§§ 989.166-989.167
[Reserved]

# Reports and Records
§ 989.173
Reports.
(a)
Inventory reports.
Each handler shall submit to the Committee as of the close of business on July 31 of each crop year, and not later than the following August 6, an inventory report which shall show, with respect to each varietal type of raisins held by such handler, the quantity of off-grade raisins segregated as to those for reconditioning and those for disposition as such.
Provided,
That, for the Other Seedless varietal type, handlers shall report the information required in this paragraph separately for the different types of Other Seedless raisins. Upon request by the Committee, each handler shall file at other times, and as of other dates, any of the said information which may reasonably be necessary and which the Committee shall specify in its request.
(b)
Reports of raisins received or acquired
—(1)
General.
(i) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (i) of this section, each handler shall submit to the Committee (on forms furnished by it) for each week (Sunday through Saturday or such other 7-day period for which the handler has submitted a proposal to and received approval from the Committee) and not later than the following Wednesday, the reports specified in paragraphs (b)(2), (3), (4), and (5) of this section.
(ii) For each report required to be submitted pursuant to this paragraph, the required information shall be shown separately for each varietal type:
Provided
, That, for the Other Seedless varietal type, the required information shall be shown separately for the different types of Other Seedless raisins. With each report, other than that specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the handler shall submit a copy of the door receipt, weight certificate or such other document approved by the Committee that accurately reflects the weight of each lot tendered, for each lot of raisins received or acquired by him during the reporting period and for each lot of raisins stored on memorandum or warehouse receipt which was returned to the tenderer during such period, which shall show the information to be contained on such receipts or weight certificates as specified in § 989.158(a)(3). At the time he submits the reports specified in paragraphs (b) (2) and (3) of this section to the Committee, each handler shall submit a copy of each such report to the Inspection Service.
(2)
Acquisition of standard raisins.
Each handler shall report:
(i) The total net weight of the standard raisins acquired during the reporting period; and
(ii) The cumulative totals of such acquisitions from the beginning of the then current crop year.
(3)
Standard raisins received for memorandum storage.
Each handler shall, with respect to all standard raisins held for memorandum receipt, storage, bailment, or warehousing (raisins received other than by acquisition or inter-handler transfer), report:
(i) The net weight of such standard raisins held at the start of the reporting period;
(ii) The net weight of such standard raisins received during the reporting period;
(iii) The net weight of such standard raisins acquired during such period and included with the acquisitions required to be reported pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section;
(iv) The net weight of such raisins returned during such period to the persons from whom they were received; and
(v) The net weight(s) and location(s) of such raisins held at the end of such period.
(4)
Off-grade raisins returned to tenderers.
Each handler shall report with respect to each lot of off-grade raisins which the handler returned during the reporting period to the tenderer pursuant to paragraph (1) of § 989.58(e):
(i) The inspection certificate number;
(ii) The net weight;
(iii) The name of the tenderer; and
(iv) The date the lot was returned to the tenderer.
(5)
Off-grade raisins received for reconditioning or disposition in eligible non-food channels.
Each handler who is not a processor shall, with respect to all off-grade raisins received by the handler and retained by him for reconditioning or for disposition or use in eligible non-normal outlets, report for each category received or reconditioned during the reporting period:
(i) The name of each tenderer;
(ii) The net weight of such raisins;
(iii) The locations where received;
(iv) The inspection certificate number covering each receipt;
(v) The name and address of each person to whom residual or off-grade lots were delivered for disposition, and the respective net weight delivered; and
(vi)(A) The total net weight (according to location) of each category of off-grade raisins held by him at the end of the reporting period.
(B) Each non-acquiring handler shall report also the weight of standard raisins recovered from reconditioning, their inspection certificate number(s) and the handler or other person to whom the standard raisins were delivered.
(6)
Monthly report of raisins received or acquired by processors.
Each processor who receives or acquires off-grade raisins, or who avail himself of the exemptions from the grade and inspection requirements provided in §§ 989.58, 989.59(f), and 989.160 and receives or acquires raisins or raisin residual material, shall submit to the Committee on or before the 7th day of each month a report of such raisins, raisin residual material, and off-grade raisins received or acquired during the preceding month. Each report shall show for each varietal type:
(i) The name and address of each handler, producer, or other person from whom such raisins or raisin residual material was received or acquired; and
(ii) The net weight of such raisins and raisin residual material.
(7)
Receipt of raisins produced from grapes grown outside the State of California.
Each handler who receives raisins produced from grapes grown outside the State of California shall submit to the Committee, on an appropriate form provided by the Committee so that it is received by the Committee not later than the eighth day of each month, a report of the receipt of such raisins. This report shall include: The varietal type of raisins received; the net weight (pounds) of raisins received for the current month as well as a cumulative quantity from August 1; and the state or country where the raisins were produced. With each report, the handler shall submit a copy of the door receipt, weight certificate, or such other document as required by the Committee that includes, but is not limited to, the name of the tenderer (equity holder) from whom such raisins were received, the varietal type(s) of raisins, the net fruit weight, the number and type of containers in the lot, the date of delivery, and the address including State or country where such raisins were produced.
(c)
Reports of disposition
—(1) Each month each handler who is not a processor shall furnish to the Committee, on an appropriate form provided by the Committee and so that it is received by the Committee not later than the seventh day of the month, a report showing the aggregate quantity of each varietal type of packed raisins and standard natural condition raisins which were shipped or otherwise disposed of by such handler during the preceding month (exclusive of transfers within the State of California between plants of any such handler and from such handler to other handlers):
Provided,
That, for the Other Seedless varietal type, handlers shall report such information for the different types of Other Seedless raisins. Such required information shall be segregated as to:
(i) Domestic outlets (exclusive of Federal Government purchases) according to the quantity shipped in consumer cartons, the quantity shipped in bags having a net weight content of four pounds or less, and the quantity shipped in bulk packs (including, but not limited to those in bags having a net weight content of more than four pounds);
(ii) Federal Government purchases;
(iii) The varietal type of raisin, with organically-produced raisins as specified in paragraph (g) of this section
separated out, net weight, and condition of the raisins transferred:
Provided
, That, for the Other Seedless varietal type, handlers shall report such information for the different types of Other Seedless raisins; and
(iv) Export outlets, by countries of destination; and
(v) Each of any other outlets in which the handler has made disposition of such raisins other than by any transfer which is excluded by the preceding sentence.
(2)
Disposition by handlers (other than processors) of off-grade raisins, other failing raisins, and raisin residual material.
Each handler who is not a processor shall submit to the Committee on or before the seventh day of each month a report of all shipments and other dispositions made during the preceding month of off-grade raisins, other failing raisins, and raisin residual material. Such report shall be submitted on a form furnished by the Committee and shall include the following information:
(i) Date of each shipment and other disposition;
(ii) Name and address of each buyer and receiver; and
(iii) Description and net weight of the raisins and raisin residual material in each shipment or other disposition.
(3)
Disposition by handlers of raisins produced from grapes grown outside the State of California.
Each handler who receives raisins produced from grapes grown outside the State of California shall submit to the Committee, on or before the eighth day of each month, a report, on the appropriate form provided by the Committee, of all shipments of such raisins made during the preceding month. This report shall include:
(i) The varietal type(s) of raisins shipped;
(ii) The net weight (pounds) of raisins shipped;
(iii) The destination (domestic, export, and other disposition such as distilleries, livestock feeders, or concentrate) of such shipments; and
(iv) The area of origin (state or country) of the raisins shipped.
(4)
Disposition reports by processors.
Each processor shall submit to the Committee, upon its request, such of the following information and for such period as the Committee shall specify;
(i) The quantity of raisins and raisin material sold or otherwise disposed of by processing operations, segregated as to the processing outlets and the kinds of raisins or raisin material which the Committee shall specify; and
(ii) The quantity of raisins or raisin material sold or otherwise disposed of by the processor, segregated as to specified outlets and kinds of raisins or raisin material.
(d)
Reports of inter-handler transfers.
(1) Any handler who transfers raisins to another handler within the State of California shall submit to the Committee not later than five calendar days following such transfer a report showing:
(i) The date of transfer;
(ii) The name(s) and address(es) of the handler or handlers and the locations of the plants;
(iii) The varietal type of raisin, with organically-produced raisins as specified in paragraph (g) of this section separated out, net weight, and condition of the raisins transferred: Provided, That, for the Other Seedless varietal type, handlers shall report such information for the different types of Other Seedless raisins;
(iv) If packed, the inspection certificate number in the event such raisins have been inspected prior to such transfer and a certificate issued. Two copies of such report shall be forwarded to the receiving handler at the time the report is submitted to the Committee, on one of which the receiving handler shall certify to the receipt of such raisins and submit it to the Committee within five calendar days after the raisins or the copies of such report have been received by him, whichever is later; and
(v) If packed, the transferring handler shall certify that such handler is transferring only acquired raisins that meet all applicable marketing order requirements, including reporting, incoming inspection, and assessments.
(2) [Reserved]
(e)
Report of shipments of experimental or specialty packs under exemption.
Each handler who obtains an exemption pursuant to § 989.59(g) for the shipment of
